great course if youre willing to put the time in to do all the readings
Lectures were a little disjointed at times - it could be hard to draw out key points from the great deal of information that was given. It's a useful introduction to early French lit. Gives you a general idea of what was going on.
Keeping up with reading (and being prepared to do a lot) is a must.
Make sure that you can read effectively in French or else you will not make it through the semester. Thre is a lot of reading that you have to do.
it's small, which is great, the books are great, the professor is a very good lecturer
The readings are very interesting, though long, and some of them are downright scandalous! "La Princesse de Cleves" and "Les Liaisons dangereuses" were my particular favorites, though "Aucassin et Nicolette" was also a fun, easy read.
It's a great class.
Great overview of French literature.
If you have an interest in pre-modern and modern (up to 1800) French literatureor in that time period in generalyou will definitely find this class interesting and stimulating.
You are responsible for doing the readings. You won't get as much out of the course if you don't do the readings. It's an amazing introduction to western thought as well as french literature.
It's a great introductory literature class, with Tom Conley, a professor that everybody should experience at least once if they are interested in RLL studies.
Be prepared for something you've never seen before.
This course deals with a lot of important material from the last 1000 years of French literature, some of the texts more interesting than others. The lectures are often hard to follow but the workload is reasonable and the professor is very approachable.
Great reading list, excellent TF, entertaining and knowledgeable professor. My advice to future students would be to have patience with the professor and to be flexible and open to changes in the curriculum.
Professor and TF both nice. Section is good, lecture is not.
You really need to be up for serious literature analysis for this course - it isn't just another language class.
Tom Conley is stupendous!
This course is an entertaining and creative introduction to French literature.  That said, it is taught at a high level, and I would only recommend it to students with a strong background in literary analysis in French.  Also, the section leader, Lauren Fortner, truly makes the course special, and I would advise taking it only if she'll be teaching.
such a wonderful reading list!
Stay up with the reading.  Even though lectures seem crazy, go.  They will help you.
It's a great way to learn about french literature in an entertaining, rather chill manner, especially if you don't have background in what's considered the "classics" of the medival age onwards.
Make sure you do all the readings and come prepared for class otherwise for the midterm you will have to scramble getting everything together and reading it. Also, must love poetry.
The lectures are interminably boring and almost completely irrelevant to the course.  They are, however, on occasion funny because Professor Conley has some interesting stories.  I would say that the success of the course depends on the TF.  Also, I read maybe 1/3 of the material and still got an A on the midterm (and will probably get an A or A- for the semester).
Professor Conley is pretty much the coolest man alive.
I would recommend this course - it was a great overview of early French literature.  Conley is fun and the course requires not that much work.  Overall, I had a great time.
You will get as much out of the class as you put in. Professor Conley is amazing and clearly very enthusiastic about the material, which makes all the students enthusiastic to learn the material.
You will get as much out of the class as you put in. Grading is not harsh, but if you don't do the readings you just won't get much out of lecture or section. Also, Conley really likes maps, so if he's teaching the class again, brace yourself for a lot of looking at maps!
Students considering this course should make sure they are genuinely interested in French literature, and wouldn't be tempted to skate by in this course without trying their best to do and think through all of the readings (which is possible to do, but would be a waste of time). If that's the case, then this is a relatively laid-back, low-pressure, supportive and interesting course that exposes you to important foundations of French literature and pushes you to practice and develop your reading and writing skills in French.
Take this class if you're interested at all in French literature. This course teaches you how to analyze French texts and how to compose cogent essays and arguments. The reading is very manageable and rewarding.
The readings are dense, but rewarding.
This can be a wonderful course if you know how to make use of it. You'll read great literature, learn from a Professor as crazy (in the best way) as he is erudite, and get to look through books that are over four hundred years old. But watch your step: everything is a little disorganized, and if you don't make the effort to put things together, you'll end this course knowing nothing but puns and poets' names. A good course for good students; a bad course for bad students. Within it, I have been both.
A good introductory survey course. this is great introduction to the study of French literature. Be very aware that this is a literature class and not a language class.
This class is a great introduction to the highlights of French literature, although you basically skim the surface of a number of texts.  If you want to analyze texts in depth, this probably isn't the best course for you.  That being said, you come out of the class with a good sense of the great French writers from the middle ages to the revolution. Readings aren't "required" in that there aren't pop quizes or exams, but you won't get anything out of the class if you don't do them. Also, Sanam is a great TF and very willing to meet to discuss ideas for papers!  Your main assignments are 3 response papers and 3 longer papers (3-8 pages).
The reading material is excellent, and Prof. Conley's lectures are extremely good at teasing out little things that I would never have noticed on my own. The course definitely made me more confident in my French overall. However, it wasn't perfect. The course is definitely on the disorganized side--while Sanam was excellent and ran a tight ship in terms of our sections, the lectures were prone to drifting off-topic and off schedule. I can handle interesting digressions, but what I did find frustrating was how we spent so long on the first few works, devoting at least a week to each, and then crammed so much dense reading into the end of the course. Better spacing would have been very helpful. Liking French puns and cartography is a MUST for this class.
This course was very good. Prof Conley and Sanam are both very enthusiastic, nice, knowledgeable, and genuinely want to see you succeed! You should be interested in very early French texts (from Middle Ages to 18th cent). Strong reading knowledge of French is helpful. There were 3 literary analysis papers, which take some time but overall it is very manageable.
Take this class. Professor Conley and Sanam take a rather intimidating canon and make it relatively easy for a beginner to delve into. If you are at all interested in French literature, early modern literature, or even literature in general and have near fluency in French, take this class.
Take the class if you have at least a general understanding of French, Italian, and Spanish literature and histories because that way you will appreciate it so much more. Otherwise, you will miss out on the fabulousness of the class.
It's a great intro to early French lit. Tom Conley is a highly interesting lecturer and individual.
Potential for the course to feel a little like a superficial overview- to avoid this be prepared to read a lot by different authors in a relatively small amount of time, and to do so fairly thoroughly.
Just know there is a good amount of reading and writing but you can read more selectively than the syllabus suggests.
I would be cautious in signing up for this course. Throughout the semester, the class was off-syllabus, and section/weekly reading assignments were often mailed out the night before lecture (except one notable exception when they were mailed out the night or two nights after the first lecture of the week). Pr. Conley is very enthusiastic about everything covered in this course and he makes lecture interesting and engaging. However, I think that the new TF (Jeremie) isn't used to this course, so organization wasn't the best part of this class.
Be prepared to read a lot. Lectures are enjoyable but lack structure. The professor is very knowledgeable and enthusiastic about teaching and the material he teaches.
This class is great.  It is an interesting exploration of the literature of the Middle Ages.  People enjoy this class, the workload is manageable and assignments aren't overly burdensome.  I would recommend it.
So much fun!!!!  Don't take it if you're one of those stick-in-the-mud, "everything must conform to my academic standards" types.  Otherwise - and hopefully you're still with me - you'll have tons of fun with Tom's wild lectures.  They get you super excited about the reading, which is already fairly good in its own right.  A word of warning, however:  It's pretty disorganized, so be prepared for a large TF-professor disconnect.
Take this course only if you're really interested in literature, not just half way or because you want to practice your French. Tom is wonderful, wonderful, wonderful and brings a lot of energy to class, but students also have to do their part and read the texts carefully to make this class worthwhile.
Be forewarned that unless the structure of the class has been changed, it will be extremely disorganized and you will have little clue as to what assignments you should be completing and when.
The readings are interesting and really are part of the national French canon. Tom Conley is hilarious and very engaging - he pulls intriguing patterns out of the texts, but sometimes I felt like a broader context or perspective to give me a better sense of the work as a whole was lacking.
I had heard great things about this class in the past, but this year something went awry in the planning/organization aspect. The professor is very laid-back and fairly lenient, but that translated into a lack of clarity between TF and professor over what was going on. The literature we read was some of the best in the French canon, but unfortunately the class turned me off of French literature.
This class taught me a lot about medieval French literature, and I felt that it was a good class to take to practice writing analytic essays in French. Professor Conley generated a lot of enthusiasm for the topic, and Jrmie was very helpful with the essays and books.
70a is a weird course but pretty good. Conley is sorta crazy, or rather, very crazy. He often randomly breaks into dramatic medieval french scenes from the plays we are reading, crawling through desks and falling onto the floor. However, the class is really unfocused and the TF is maybe too chill, so it can be easy to not do any of the reading (you really don't need to honestly) and not go to class, so if you are like me, you may not get the most out of the course.
I recommended with reservations because I think only someone who would really like an excuse to read some classic French literature should take this course.  And the lectures are fun -- if you just like hearing French spoken, this is good.  Be warned that some of the early readings are in weird medieval French, which is frustrating, but you can usually find translations.  I struggled a bit with the essays since although I can read and understand French well, I'm not great at expressing my ideas.  That said, I still got B+'s/A-'s/A's on everything.  There aren't many assignments, so take your time on the ones that are there.
This was the most unorganized class I've taken at Harvard. I got back half of my assignments, and the comments on them weren't particularly helpful. Assingments seemed to be made up as the course went along, and we veered offtrack of the syllabus about halfway during the course. The books we read are great, but you'll find you won't read them as thoroughly as you should since there's not much holding you accountable to the information in the books. Lecture is really entertaining, but gets sidetracked really easily. We sometimes went an entire lecture only talking a cumulative 10 minutes about whatever book we were discussing for that day.
I enjoyed the readings, and the professor is certainly knowledgeable and enthusiastic, but his lectures were a bit all over the place, and sections could have been better.
It's a good survey course, and Professor Conley's lectures are AMAZING, inspiring, even. But it's a survey course, you won't get many chances to go very in depth about things.
This course is extremely unorganized. The professor does not follow the syllabus, and what is required of you is not very clear.
This course can be challenging, but it will provide you with the analytical tools necessary to pursue almost any piece of French literature imaginable. Though it may be tempting to skip the reading, if you actually take the time to do it, you will have an extremely fulfilling experience in this course.
great class. tom is awesome and so passionate. there is a lot of readings but they are all very interesting. be prepared for spontaneous assignments tho.
Tom Conley is a fantastic professor, though his style is somewhat disorganized and you never know exactly what to expect from a lecture.
Tom Conley is the man.
This is not an easy course, nor is it one that you would be thrilled to take, unless French literature from hundreds of years ago is truly something you're passionate about. There will be students enraptured with the lecture during class, diligently taking notes, and thoroughly enjoying the class. But then you might find yourself as the kind of student who really has little idea of what is going on during the lectures (if you fall behind in the readings, which are tough if you don't have a solid vocabulary that includes words not used as much today; read with a dictionary by your side if necessary). It's easy to be swept away by the torrent of material and find yourself utterly confused as to what's happening.
An easy class if you already know French.
This class was amazing because of Tom and Lauren. They cared about the course so much you couldn't help but love everything about it as well. They really cared about getting to know their students. This class had fascinating material and it was a delight to be a part of. Highlights include Tom acting out all the characters while reading aloud medieval poetry in class, and Lauren organizing outdoor reading sessions of Moliere.
The professor is hilarious and really brings life into the class.
Wonderful reading list - the French canon that I would not want to leave Harvard without reading, Prof. Conley is an inspiring professor and anyone who is interested in French or Francophone culture should learn from him while at Harvard.  Lauren Fortner is one of the best TF's I've had in four years at Harvard.
You need to know French, like old literature, and be ok with a meandering, loosey-goosey lecture style. Prof. Conley is really cool.
I liked the readings, and the professor is really nice, but sometimes I wasn't sure what I got out of the lectures.
Lauren won't be teaching it again. She makes the class, so you might not want to take it if you don't like the TF from the jump.
This is an outstanding French literature class. Prof. Conley is really invested in his students and conveys so much enthusiasm for the material. It'll improve your knowledge of literature and your writing skills, with interesting assignments and great readings.
It's a fun and relatively undemanding course with an excellent reading list and nice opportunities for creative work.
This class is engaging and involves fascinating material, but french ability is absolutely assumed. For someone with weaker french, I would hesitate before taking this class.
This course if absolutely fantastic. Tom Conley is a GENIUS. You will more about the course by listening to him than be reading any of the material you are assigned. Make sure to be on top of your readings and keep an open mind.
This is a great class for those specifically interested in the literature of this time period.
It is impossible to do all of the many readings thoroughly, so sometimes the class feels rushed.
The readings are interesting, and the workload is not too overwhelming. It is a good course for an introductory look at french literature
Tom Conley is one of the most entertaining, interesting professors I've ever had. As long as you're okay with tangential comments during a lecture, this class is great.
Tom Conley is so encouraging and a joy to be in class with. The readings can be really challenging but just keep going and with the support of Prof Conley you will really get a lot out of this course.
You should speak French fluently, and be very, VERY interested in French literature. I thought that since I love Les Mis and other French lit/pop culture that I would love this class. This class offers a very academic, rigorous look at French medieval lit that, quite honestly, took all the fun out of it for me. This class is definitely not for people who are not highly interested in the subject matter. I would not take this as an elective again. Unless you are getting a citation, I wouldn't take this course. I thought "this will be a fun elective" and it ended up being much more hardcore than planned.
Tom Conley's lectures shoot out in all directions and constantly keep you on your toes/appreciative of the work in focus.  The assignments aren't bad (this year, two long papers (or one long paper, one skit, and one medium-length paper) + three short response papers, as well as some preparation for section discussion question).  The advising and attention you get from both Prof. Conley and Jrmie is excellent and flexible to your needs.  The texts we read were interesting, and Conley's dramatics were fun to witness.
This class covers French literature from the 12th century to 18th. The professor and TF are both really chill and understanding. For example, our professor pushed back our midterm paper and cancelled the written final. Great class if you're looking to get a taste on a wide range of French literature for your secondary or citation.
This course is very disorganized and a poor introduction to French literature.  Only in section are you able to really engage with what the authors and texts are saying.  Class felt like a waste of time - often went through history/author biographies/geography/etc. and very little time was spent understanding the actual texts themselves.
If you have even the vaguest interest in the history of French literature, the French language, or just reading good books in a low-pressure yet thoroughly edifying environment, you should take this class. The readings are carefully selected with the intention of showcasing the moral, intellectual, and social currents that shaped some of France's greatest literature and providing a broad overview of its evolution. Tom Conley is an excellent person, a great teacher, an incorrigible jokester, and, above all, a scholar. Beyond the reading, he and his personality make the class what it is. Gregoire Menu is one of the most committed TFs I've had; his sections were thought-provoking and indispensable.
If your high school's french department was weak and you have little practice writing academic papers in french, as I did, you may struggle initially with the written assignments. That said, the workload is pretty manageable (though readings are difficult if the vocabulary is unfamiliar) and the comments for improvements of your work are very helpful. The Romance Language Department offers tutoring as well, which you should definitely take advantage of if you feel you would benefit from it.
If you love French literature, there is no better person to learn from than Tom Conley. Even if you don't love French literature, his kindness and excitement make the class a lot of fun. Definitely take a 60 level class first, though. I jumped a few levels and found the class pretty difficult.
French 70a presents a fantastic and comprehensive survey of early French Literature from the rise of the Medieval canon with La Chanson de Roland to the fall of the Ancien Rgime in 1789, though what era you end with may vary depending on time considerations. Although there are a few minor organization quirks (the syllabus is difficult to decipher and isn't completely adhered to, what each assignment will entail and what each lecture will cover can be confusing, etc.), the course, on balance, is well taught. The lectures, all presented via powerpoints, are engagingProfessor Conley often acts out dramatic scenes from the textsand the sections, which allow for more intimate discussion and close-reading of specific passages, provide critical balance necessary to any literature course taught in this manner. 

Professor Conley also integrates his extra-literary interests, for example, cartographyand led a special session at the Pusey Library. He and Grgoire are very accessibleit's easy to meet with him almost any day in Kirkland, where he is one of the House Masters, and he is willing to work individually with students on specific assignments. In terms of workload and grading, this past year the graded assignments comprised only two short papers and an optional creative final piece, which differs from what was outlined in the syllabus. The weekly assignments simply involve reading the texts. 

On balance, this is a fantastic introductory French literature courseregardless of whether you wish to pursue this field as a concentration. Assignments and grading are on the lighter side, so if you have any interest in French literature, I recommend this course. Because of the nature of the course structure, however, what you get out of the class depends heavily on what you put in (whether you complete the readings and engage in section and lecture), and although you can conceivably earn decent grades without putting in much effort, you would be doing yourself and the instructors a disservice. Therefore, take this course if you truly want to learn about French literature and are willing to put in a very reasonable amount of effort.
You can get away with not doing the readings, but it's so much more rewarding to actually do them!
Be ready for not really knowing what's required, but it's minimal. also Conley loves looking at maps..
This class is a great introduction to French Literature, but the readings at times can take a while to fully understand. It's important to weigh your French background and the time that could be required to understand the texts. That said, the readings are all very interesting and make you really feel like you've explored several important texts.
This class was one of the most frustrating classes I have been in at Harvard.  Although it was a small class, students rarely had the opportunity to speak.  Professor Conley, although clearly extremely knowledgable, tended to get off track, and went on tangents that only confused us.  The literature was extremely difficult to understand because of the fact that it is all written in Old French.  The assignments were unclear (for example, our 2nd paper had 20 prompts to choose from, and our final paper involves creating a dialogue between authors we have read, but there is no page limit).  Unless you are very, very, interested in the subject, I would not recommend this class.  Be aware that it is a literature class, not a French language class.
This course is what you make of it. It has the potential to expose you to the greatest hits of French literature. If you do all the readings and go to office hours and pay attention in class, you will have one experience. If you do half the readings and zone out during lectures, you will have another experience. Either way, this class is not super stressful and Conley is fun. Gregoire is an awesome TF.
The readings are linguistically difficult but manageable. Professor Conley is an engaging lecturer, even though he goes off tangents a bit too often. Grgoire is a great section leader.
This is a good way to get an introduction early French Lit.  The writing assignments are manageable, and the reading load is quite enormous, but is faily skimmable.  Prof. Conley is a GEM.  He's clearly incredibly passionate about the subject and just sitting in lecture is incredibly pleasant.
I didn't enjoy the course for several reasons. First of all, while Professor Conley is very very knowledgeable about the material, he oftentimes (to often) goes on tangents that leave me confused and then make me forget about what we were talking about. I tried to put so much effort into this class for the first month, and I thought I was getting something out of it, but as the classes went on, i started liking it less and less. Conley would often start making off-topic jokes or sometimes act out parts of the text in a way that I felt didn't contribute to my understanding. The class was extremely disorganized, what with having two conflicting syllabuses on the isite, then instead deciding to post the homework on the isite, which left you with no record of what previous homeworks. I felt really disappointed in this class, because I was really looking forward to developing my understand of french literature, but found myself only knowing names, not material. I wish this class had taken itself a bit more seriously, because then I would have too.
This class is an excellent introduction to French literature from the Middle Ages to the 17th century. You have the wonderful opportunity to read, explore, and analyze many diverse texts and writers. It is a course that is greatly illuminating of French culture and literature.
French 70a is a wonderful class. I loved all the readings we had, but it's really important that you feel passionate about French literature. It is really fun to write in French, despite the difficulty. The flexibility in the course is so refreshing in comparison to strict syllabus classes. I love Professor Conley and his passion for the literature we read. You should try doing most of the readings, even though it's not necessary.
