It's a really great class! Definitely my favorite so far between 40-61C. The films and readings are engaging, and you get an opportunity to see a side of Paris and France that isn't just the stereotypical postcard. You also get the opportunity to learn lots of slang which makes your French feel useful in a not purely academic way.
Ericka Knudson is the best! She's hilarious and will actually teach you a lot about Paris in addition to French language. There's a good variety of discussion, writings assignments, films, etc. You also learn a lot of colloquial phrases and swearing and stuff like that which is helpful for actually going to France and talking to young people.
Professor Knudson is so great and enthusiastic. She's really intent on teaching you vocabulary and dispelling your illusions of Paris (even though she loves it). The class covers a lot of culture and societal problems. I wish sometimes we had gone more in depth, but she did a great job in the limited time we had.
This is a fairly painless way to get some practice speaking French while also learning about Paris and some additional vocabulary/grammar. Ericka is a great instructor and really puts in a lot of effort to ensure that the lessons are varied and engaging.
This class will be the best cultural, political, and literature filled class you will take at Harvard. Ericka comes to class everyday filled with enthusiasm to teach and to talk with the students. More than teaching, she is able to fill the room with energy to talk about the important issues in Paris -- from racism to police violence. She creates awareness without even making people study it by reading articles. This course will require the student to have enthusiasm about French but also to have a wish to learn the culture and get to know the outside world.
Definitely take this class. You will never regret it, in fact it might one of few french classes you will enjoy at Harvard. Ericka is awesome, very understanding and resourceful.
This class is a great UNIQUE overview of Paris.  If you are looking for a more non-traditional course in which creativity and diversity are celebrated in terms of the French language, this class is for you.
Ericka is wonderful! She's so sweet and a great teacher. The course isn't too hard but it's conducted entirely in French there are a lot of essays/writing assignments; you should feel pretty comfortable with your French before enrolling. But it was super interesting content and the nicest teacher (she brought us little gifts back from her spring break trip to Paris!)
Ericka is a really fun and nice teacher.  The movies are great, and the books are nice, too.  The work piles up a lot at the end of the semester, though, with a final essay, midterm, and project.  Still, the class has a cool subject matter, makes you think a lot about Paris today, and the essays present opportunities to write and think creatively.
Even if you're not crazy about Paris, this course will be educational, fascinating, and allow you to take your interests to the next level. The assignments are all very open ended and the readings will allow you to gain a thorough background on Paris and many of the urban issues it faces. There are no prerequisites other than comfort with the language.
If you're at all interested in French culture, you will love this course. Prof. Knudson is the best, and the material is both entertaining and enlightening.
Modern Stories about Paris was one of my favorite french classes I've taken at Harvard. Erica was a fantastic teacher and made class so enjoyable! The workload was fair and the books/movies were really interesting.
This is truly the best french class I have taken during my time here. Ericka is an incredible teacher. She makes the information extremely interesting and is really funny. This class will drastically improve your french too. My french now is much more fluid and less formal. When I talk to my french friends I understand them better and can communicate much more easily. SUCH A GOOD CLASS!!!!!!
This course effectively improved my French without requiring much pain or effort. A course that manages to be both fairly relaxing and useful!
Really refreshing take on the classic nature of Paris juxtaposed with harsh racial and immigrant realities. New perspectives on old material and fun assignments.
Ericka is great.
French 61m is a great intersection between French literature/culture and language. If you want to review your grammar, improve your language reading/writing/listening/speaking skills, and/or learn about Parisian culture, this is a great class. The class is also conducted as if in a section setting; there are plenty of opportunities to speak in class, and I found that to be very helpful in improving my communication skills. The homework is very manageable, but make sure you do all the readings and watch all the movies, because not only are they fun, but they are central to class discussions and the course overall.
The class puts a great emphasis on modern French skills, including slang and a cultural understanding of the capital of France. I also found the professor to be excellent at facilitating non-stressful conversation. It was an overall super friendly environment with interesting content.
Great course! Professor Knudson is absolutely great and interesting. I love how the class allowed me to be so creative.
Great class if you want to learn more about Paris as a lens into fl
Ericka is great! She is funny and really enjoys teaching her class.
Take this class If you want to learn actual useful street French you don't typically learn in language courses!
This is hands down the best French class I have taken in my 4 years at Harvard. You're able to learn about so many real-world issues like immigration affecting Paris right now while also learning invaluable facts about the city and really useful expressions in French.
Ericka is amazing! So nice and understanding and the discussions helped me a lot to improve my french!
Ericka is a fabulous instructor for this course and is very enthusiastic. She absolutely made the class. But the class itself is great for anyone interested in French culture as it teaches you about a France that most classes overlook. You learn about class conflict and the struggles of different races in France. You also learn French slang, which is super helpful because the French that is taught in other French classes is so different from how the French really speak! Overall I would recommend this course to anyone who has an interest in modern French culture or plans on traveling to France soon.
I adored this French class. Professor Knudson is amazing: she is cheerful, incredibly intelligent, funny, and engaging. The themes she decides to focus in on/the material we use in the class is on-point. It's a French class I think anyone interested in seriously studying French must take - we learn a lot of slang words and useful information that I just hadn't been taught before (i.e. the word 'vodka' is feminine) and that I think will help me if I study in France in the future. Also, it's a relatively low-key class that you will be able to get a good grade in if you put in the work (which isn't that much). The assignments were fair and the midterm/final were really manageable/easy to study for.
