Be prepared to spend many hours outside of class reading and digesting (no pun intended) the texts. Like any other course at Harvard, the value you get out of this course is directly proportional to the amount of time you invest in it.
This class began a something that seemed reasonable and interesting, but by the end of the semester, when it seemed that the professor had lost all patience, the syllabus had been mangled beyond recognition, and when various uncertainties in the course had finally been clarified, the course became really unpleasant.
A heavy reading load, but interesting subject matter, readings, and professor.
You may not emerge with as much knowledge as you'd expect though you will certainly see the gastronomical world through a different lens. Be prepared to spend a lot of time reading.
If you do not have a strong knowledge of written French, do not take this class.  Additionally, there is a huge grad student presence (make of this what you will).
This class was new, and I was hesitant to take it, but afterwards, I came out with mixed feelings. This class was tough: the biggest hindrance: unorganized structure. We got assigned about anywhere between 200-400 pages of readings a week, but only ended up talking about 20%. Be aware that for the test, you're expected to know all of the material, but in reality, only had to know the 20% that you talked about, but isn't fun trying to cover all of the readings, even with study groups. I didn't like how slowly we got back response papers, which you're expected to write every other week. It would make sense if you got the previous one back in your off-week, so you can improve, but no. I got back like 3 at a time, (month and half's worth), and did not have a chance to improve on them. The end of the semester was rough with a second midterm, a semester long project, and a paper about the project. This will be different in your year, but the grad students dominated the conversation. I hate to be a pessimist, and there were some positives. Kathryn is awesome, and the material is genuinely interesting learning about the way the French people wrote about food in accordance with the respective revolutions and regimes. And I did learn a lot about the culture, and the importance of terroir through my final project. But be ready to read and work. It's not as hands-on as I thought it would be, and it's a challenge, but one that you're maybe willing to try.
This class had interesting components in terms of the things we learned, but was way too much work.
Take this class!  It's a really interesting upper level course that will teach you so much about French food/cuisine, culture, and history through really interesting readings and movies as well as class discussions.  You don't get to eat as often as I'd hoped haha, but you gain a really wonderful understanding of these aspects of French culture, how they've changed over time, and the myth that surrounds French cuisine as haute cuisine.
If you're fascinated by gastronomy or the representation of food (and its aftermath) more broadly, this is the course for you! If you're looking to learn more about the nineteenth century, or French literature, I might keep looking. The texts read in this course are mostly along the lines of gastronomic treatises. The films we watched, however, were great (Babette's Feast, Les glaneurs et la glaneuse) and really enriched discussion.
'Talking About Food' is absolutely amazing! Professor Beizer is such a wonderful person, and each chapter of the course is very unique and offers incredibly profound insights - not just about food, but about history, geography, sociology, art, etc. The course materials and readings are also very interesting. It is by far the best French class and also one of the favorite courses I have taken at Harvard.
This was truly an enjoyable class! The small size allowed for really fruitful discussions, and you learn so much about French literature and even some films without feeling like it's a class because it's all about food. The Professor and TF are always available to speak to you about anything, and they do care about your progress.
