The TF you get really makes a difference.
Great class, great structure, do the homework's each night and stay on top of vocab.
French Aa is a great start to French. All of the TFs (seem very passionate. Just remember to not be afraid to speak in class and get as much practice as possible. Office hours and language tables are also great resources that are heavily underutilized, so you get a lot of personal attention.
Yes! I was able to learn so much french in such a short amount of time. It is a very rewarding feeling to come out of a semester with the feeling that I can now speak a new language.
Mme Mills is a highly effective instructor and knows how to run a fun and engaging section. She's diligent with returning assignments and spends time and effort to help you improve, be it with exams or oral presentations. As for the class structure, the compositions and blogs can feel challenging if you don't care to be creative, but I personally enjoyed them as a unique way to engage with the language. This is what an ideal beginning language class should be in my opinion, challenging but achievable and rewarding. There are expectations that you will do more than rote memorization, so it isn't the easiest way to fulfill the language requirement. However, if you manage your time wisely and put enough effort into compositions and studying for exams, you will make great progress in French and enjoy the class. And section with Mme Mills!
Class is almost exclusively taught in French
If you get involved and take advantage of class time, you will be amazed how much you progress through the course
Definitely take this course if you want a solid foundation in French. It is not too hard and you learn a lot in a short amount of time.
This class is a manageable way to fulfill a language requirement.
This class is worth it if you put in effort to work on pronunciation, listening, reading, and writing.
If you are interested in French at all, take this class.  And get Mme. Mills!
This is a pretty good intro to French class, but be prepared to be a bit confused for the first if you don't know any French because the entire class is taught in French which I know was a struggle for me at the beginning. The class does go pretty fast but the assignments aren't too hard and you get to do revisions on your compositions which is great. Definitely speak up in class. This will help you once you get to the oral exams.
You learn French very quickly but it is very difficult and a lot of outside work is required.
If you'd like to learn French, take this class. In just one semester, you gain all of the skills necessary to write and converse basically in French. It's amazing, actually. The course does require a lot of work and a lot of class time, but it's certainly worth it if you'd like to learn French. Mme Mills is a greatly helpful teacher, too. Get into her section!
This course is a good introduction to the French language. The small class size and passionate teaching staff make it a valuable addition to any education.
Great language class for beginners!
A good way to fulfil language requirement. A lot of busy work but you'll find that with beginner any language class.
If you have any interest in learning French, or another language (which you should), do it at Harvard. I avoided language classes like the plague for my first two years because I hated similar classes in high school. They couldn't be more different in college. Professor Mills is amazing, and you should try to be in her section if you can.
If you want to learn french this is a great class for it
Great class. Mme. Mills was a great teacher. It's every day but classes are lively and mostly about verbal practice. They often include discussion with one's classmates or films. Keep on it and you should do fine in writing and oral exams, though I can't say whether it is truly a far barrier to get an A. Personally, I have been working somewhat hard and going outside of the class materials on multiple occasions but don't know exactly where I fall. But more importantly, you learn a good deal of how to begin speaking while enjoying it along the way. Overall, I would recommend with enthusiasm if one is interested in learning French during college.
Its fine. Probably a better experiance if you want to learn french rather than being forced to due to requirements
This course was such a positive fun space to learn!
This course moves quite quickly. After just a few months, we were writing 300 word compositions entirely in French and holding 5 minute conversations in the language with the TA. They can be quite picky about grammar and spelling, but it makes students more disciplined. Be prepared to put in extra time to actually learn the material and grammar rules, because a lot of the material is not thoroughly taught during class hours, but rather is supplemented with interactive learning. The course made me feel fairly proficient, which is really cool! After a semester, I can hold small conversations with francophones!
Come with enthusiasm about the culture, good habits, and tenacity to practice. What you put in is for you--you'll get more out of it. So ideally have an attitude of going beyond the syllabus. Also, attend some of the many francophone extracurricular available on campus and practice "in the world" as much as possible. Change devoir to vouloir!
French is a worthwhile language to learn because of its immense use around the world. Harvard does a very good job emerging all of its French students into the language and culture, and if you are prepared to work, you will get a lot out of this course.
You do learn quite quickly, though the work will be quite regular.
The class was very fun, engaging, and really made me interested in the language and the culture.
It's a tough class but it definitely helps you learn the language. There is not an incredible amount of work but make sure to do the homework and study every day so that the quizzes don't sneak up on you.
Make sure you really want to learn french, because they teach it to you pretty quickly. It's not a ton of homework, but to do well on tests you have to study hard every day.
The class is very effective at teaching French, but don't expect to be thrilled about your grade. Spelling, accents, and negligible mistakes will drop your grade quite a bit, even if they are just in doing so.
Take Mme. Mills' class.
Madame Mills is a wonderful preceptor. She encourages participation in class and gives feedback on written assignments very quickly. Because it is a beginning French course, the material is time-intensive because it requires repetition and application until you have a solid foundation in French.
French is such a fun language to learn. If you take this class and frankly any language class at Harvard, I recommend going to the Language Tutoring Center on a regular basis.
This is a great course to take if you're looking to become conversant in french at a beginning level.
This class is a lot of fun and very effective if you are interested in the language and want to obtain some fluency!
You learn much more than just how to speak French in French Aa. This course has a very interesting emphasis on the creation of the individual from language. I think a lot about inconsistencies in English now because I took French Aa.
Answer in full sentences.
This class is a wonderful introductory course to French. It will definitely be challenging because you often cover much material in one class, but it is super organized and therefore possible to follow along. It is also important that you do not fall behind in the homeworks because it will be difficult to catch up, but Cornardeau was always available and eager to help.
It's a good course if you have the time to focus on it. For someone with no foreign language experience it was pretty difficult. Overall it is a pretty good course though
This class is really what you put into it. If you really practice speaking and learn vocabulary that is assigned you'll be amazed by how much French you can learn.
This class is not easy but you will learn a surprising amount of French. Try to get Jonathan Solarte as your section leader! He is incredibly enthusiastic and a fun guy to see every day.
This class is really time consuming and can have a lot of work at times. I had a really hard time with the class the first couple of weeks and had no idea what the TF was saying. However, if you put in the time and do the work, you will learn a great deal of French. Although this class met every day, I really enjoyed sections because it was very interactive. This class is also great because it teaches you a lot about French culture, not just the language. They teach you in a variety of ways-through music, videos, readings, poems, comics, paintings and more! Even though this class is really time consuming and can feel overwhelming at times, it was worth it and really teaches you a lot. If you are at all interested in French, I would recommend the class, just be prepared to put in the time.
This is a fantastic course that will turn you into a total Francophile if you're not one already. Be prepared to work on French every day or you won't get as much out of the class. You will be impressed and excited by how much you learn by the end of the semester!
Be open to learning French in a unique and challenging way and be prepared to be expected to perform at levels you wouldn't expect yourself to be able to.
Perhaps I didn't enjoy this class because I wouldn't have enjoyed any Aa level language course, but the design of the class detracts from the learning experience. We learn about random unrelated french things that don't substantially contribute to your knowledge of the culture, which actually impairs your ability to learn applicable and useful french. I enjoyed learning the language, I did not like the class.
This course was definitely my favorite course my freshmen year.
Take the section with Jonathan Solarte
This is a wonderful opportunity to fully absorb yourself in the french language!
I have advanced at a pace I could not have imagined when I enrolled in the course. I was amazed when I realized that about one month into the school year, at the midterm, I was able to talk in French for 10 minutes for the oral portion of the test. When I thought back and realized where I began and what I am capable of now, I was very excited.
This class is a fantastic way to fulfill your language requirement.  It is fun and not monotonous at all.  Additionally, you learn an incredible amount very quickly, which is really rewarding.  Also, Mme Mills is soo incredibly nice and supportive.
This is an excellent introduction to French, and I would recommend it to anyone looking to try something new. Take it if you eventually want to learn French! The opportunity to learn a language in such a supportive setting will likely not come after college. Assignments are not always easy, but are manageable and help you improve--they generally do not feel like busy work.
This is a great option for a language class because while it requires work and effort, the classes are entertaining and fun.
It's very rewarding to start the class not being able to say anything in French, and end up being able to carry on a conversation in French!
You can make some serious progress in understanding the French language by taking this course!
Boring, too easy, uninteresting material. Like watching paint dry. Also very France-centric.
This is class is a very good introduction to French.  It picks up pace in the middle of the semester, so make sure you stay on top of things.  If you can, try to have section with Mme. Mills, she is AMAZING.  Overall a pretty good course.  Note:  An A is a 95 or higher, and that's not easy to attain.  Don't take this class if you are looking for an easy A.
The instructors do a very good job of teaching beginning level French to students who either have or have not taken French before. It may seem a bit overwhelming at first because your TF will be speaking French from day 1 but you'll be surprised how quickly you'll be able to understand them. It's a very fair class and does not require a lot of work.
French Aa is wonderful, especially when taught by Madam Mills. Class is fun and interesting. Plus, Mills makes sure that the class is at the right pace. It is best to do the homework nightly to be prepared for class time as well as to ensure that you're keeping up with the material (because the biweekly exams can seem fast).
It's fun, good, and if you put  a lot of time on it results are guaranteed. If you don't have that much time, then is questionable (but that is the student's fault, not the instructor of course)
It is an interesting an pretty fast paced introductory class to the french language. The work is constant but very manageable.
Great intro language class. I actually feel like I can speak.
It's a good class to take if you need it for a second language requirement. French was not a very difficult language to learn but I probably wouldn't take it if I didn't need to.
You have to start learning a language somewhere and for a to-be-french speaker at Harvard, this class IS that somewhere.  Great for new french speakers.
There is a lot of speaking, so if you're shy, try to get over that quickly.
Easy class for the language requirement
It think this course is highly dependent on your instructor. My instructor was ok, which correlated with my experience in the class.
TAKE IT. Do your homework and listen in class, you will learn a great deal.
excellent course but very time consuming
Practice with friends and also do the homework regularly.
It is a great class, dynamic, creative, enjoyable. However, it requires commitment (and obviously learning a language from scratch requires even more and in fact long-term commitment, this course is just the very first step)...
I think that this course was a great introductory level class for French.
Although the class is fast paced and fairly difficult you'll be amazed by how much you can learn in a semester.
It is so fun! Take it!
I would tell students that this class would be a great intro to french course and that they would be amazed by their improvement in just a few months.
be prepared to study
If you want to learn French, obviously you need to start with this class. However, I would recommend learning it outside of the classroom environment if you have the option. The quizzes are difficult and points are docked off for every minute mistake. I took Portuguese last year, and it was far easier. If you are hesitant, I would not recommend taking French Aa.
Really great class. All the TF's are personable and helpful. And the class can be very fun, if you buy into the language.
Very well run course -- you will learn French very quickly and with ease. The workload is not difficult and very applicable. My section leader was fantastic, and I feel that this had a lot to do with my praise for the course, so see if you can get a heads up on the teachers prior to sectioning.
This class is good for very beginning french students. If you've taken french before and want to continue with the language, I would take french Ab. This course was good though for reviewing my french skills and I learned some new information the second half of the semester. The class is easy in terms of work and the quizzes are easy if you do the homework and listen in class.
This class is a wonderful introduction to French and its emphasis on speaking the language was incredibly useful.
its awesome and easy if you do ANY work
This class is worth taking, you are going to learn a lot of French in a semester, but it is definitively more workload than you would expect.
It's a well taught language, but if your just taking a language to fulfill your requirement or don't plan on going abroad, I wouldn't recommend this class because there aren't many times domestically when you will need to use French.
You'll make more progress than you have expected.
This class can really be a lot of fun if you are interested in French culture.
The work is not difficult, and the TFs are very patient and helpful.  Manageable course overall.
French is spoken widely in this world.  Learning French is a gateway to a lot of countries and cultures, and French Aa is a great place to start.
French Aa was such a great experience for me, mostly because I had such an interest in learning French and because my TF instructor was just so awesome. The enthusiasm of the class was always so high, and, even though we never spoke English in class, it was amazing how much you were able to understand by the end of the semester. Be prepared when you come to class - the work is not hard, but it is important that you do it and keep up. Classes are very engaging and always fun. I can't wait to continue next semester.
Great, engaging class, good introduction to the language
Nicole Mills is an excellent professor.
French Aa is a very good preparatory course for beginners in French and is a primer to Francophone culture more than a language course.
Great class to get you speaking French
My French class was my favorite class. I felt like I learned more in this class than in any of my other classes this semester. Still, I wouldn't recommend it for anyone who is learning French from scratch unless they are willing to go the extra mile to get the fundamentals down. It's a great class overall, though!
Do it! this is a little too fast-paced to be a comfortable fifth class, but the work load isn't heavy enough for being the 4th course.
This course is great, French is a great language to learn, especially if you have experience with another romance language. There is opportunity for creativity, which is great because then it is more than just memorizing vocab.
This class is introductory French. This and French Ab will fulfill your language requirement, and it will teach you how to speak, read and write in French. I don't know what else to say.
Nothing you wouldn't expect from a beginning language class.  It's quite fun actually.  You'll be surprised by how much you can say after just four months.
This class makes you write SO MUCH (25% of the grade is on grammar quizzes, ~40% from writing), and I'm not sure how useful it is because we're all beginners and end up spending most of the time on Google translate. I like writing but with the blog, 4 compositions (with revisions), and a play it does seem like overkill. I love French but this class is quite a bit of work if you want to do well (I've taken intro German and Japanese). From what I've heard this class is considerably more demanding in terms of workload compared to Italian and Spanish as well.
I love that the course tries to tie you into popular French culture, French geography, and French food!
rewarding but very intensive
Make sure you keep up with vocab and grammar as you go. The workload and amount of material start off quite low, but quickly accelerate as the term progresses and it can quickly feel as though you are behind. Also speak as much as possible in class, it really helps when it comes to the oral exams.
This is a fun class, and a good introduction to the language.
You will learn a lot in not very long, but it is manageable and not too hard.
Great introductory course to French
French Aa is a wonderful introductory language course. The department is great to work with and the assignments are manageable. The teaching staff is some of the best I have seen in an undergrad class and you come out of this class with an incredible proficiency for a beginner. Take this class if you have time in your schedule!!! Easily one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
Have fun and speak up in class.  You really have a chance to meet other classmates well because you see each other 4 times a week.  Ask a lot questions if you don't understand something.  Ask the professor to help you understand how to say something if you don't know it.  That interaction is better than using a dictionary!  Go to as many tutoring sessions as possible!
This is a strong language class.  The class structure is interesting and the professors show a lot of enthusiasm.
Perhaps I'm just jaded having taken other language classes here, but I'd recommend that you only take this class if you really really want to know French. If you just want to fulfill your language requirement or are considering different languages, know that there are way better language programs here.
Don't take this expecting a fun, easy class.  It's a ton of work--daily homework, and it felt like we got big projects every single day.  Not worth getting up at 9am.  But you do learn a lot.
It's a lot of work, but it's absolutely worth it.  At the end of one semester you have a great foundation, basic language skills, and the ability to make significant small talk with others.
This course is enjoyable and you will learn quickly. It has a fair workload and the teaching staff is very enthusiastic and friendly.
Make sure you do the homework on time.
If you are even slightly interested in French as a language or a culture, or have any hopes of travelling to a Francophone country one day, this class is for you! Prof. Mills is incredibly sweet and encouraging, and makes participating in the class (despite our at times embarrassing beginner's skills) easy so that you can truly get as much as possible out of class time. My favorite class here so far.
This class was probably my favorite class of the semester and going into the course I was really not looking forward to it. Mme Bera made the classes fun and exciting and they were always interesting.
I loved French Aa: coming in without any background in French or learning foreign languages (knocked out the language req with high school Latin), I was a little concerned, but the class was great. It requires a lot of youespecially in the beginning, class itself was really intellectually challengingbut the results are surprisingly good. Also it's a lot of fun--very chill class. If you do the homework every day and practice outside of class, you will know basic French at the end of the semester.
From talking to my friends in other intro language classes, French seems to be by far the most challenging as far as variety of assignments and intensity of quizzes. It's a good class, but don't take it if you're looking for the easiest language grade A.
I mean, I had to take it to get out of my language requirement. It's a good class and you do learn a lot of French very quickly, but I'd rather spend my time taking classes I want to take, not learning a language. As for the class, it's alright.
This course is very interesting, and will give you a very good introduction to the French language.  Be prepared for a lot of work, especially at the end of the semester (but also keep in mind that there isn't a final exam).  If you're looking to learn a foreign language at Harvard, especially one that will be very useful, I would definitely recommend taking French Aa.
At the end of this class you'll be surprised at how much French you can speak and write.  It's relatively stress free and well-organized, but don't expect it to be a piece of cake either.  Some weeks do require a significant amount of effort to keep on the ball.
This course is a wonderful introduction to the French language! You WILL learn, and ninety percent of the time you will enjoy it.
If you want to learn French, this class is a great way to do it. I will warn you, however, that it often feels as if you're expected to know more that you actually do. Be prepared to use a lot of wordreference.com when writing compositions.
The course is great but if you could take it with another teacher it might be better.
I switched to French from Spanish upon feeling rather apathetic toward the idea of continuing in the Spanish track, and I'm happy to say that I am very glad I did so. This class is excellent at introducing students to the language and fostering thought in that avenue.
This is a fun course and you will learn a lot over the course of the semester. At times it feels like there is an abundance of assignments, but they are generally very helpful in improving your language skills.
This class is so much fun! I had heard that Harvard's language department was incredible before taking this course, and French Aa totally confirmed that. I had Mme. Bera as a TF (take it with her if you can, she's such a good teacher and so funny). As long as you do the homework, go to class, participate, and show enthusiasm, you will likely get a a good grade-if that's what you're worried about. Take this course even if you've fulfilled your language requirement. It's so worth it.
It takes a lot of work however it does pay off in the end
can be challenging at times, but well worth it. You learn so much so fast. If you're not excited about it, then I wouldn't really advise it, because the nitpicky sort of grading can be disastrous is one is not attentive.
Gives you an excellent foundation for learning French. I already feel somewhat fluent, though my vocabulary is not yet very wide... The most effective foreign language program I have experienced.
This is a really good course, however, the French AA classes operate as though you are only taking this class, giving more work than any of the other intro language classes (you have classes throughout reading week, and in addition to an oral exam you have to make a play--in one of the Arts stages by the quad--which takes up so much of your time--rehearsing on weekends, coordinating lighting etc.) Be prepared for this to consume as much (or more) time as any of your PSET classes.
This class is great. Homework is reasonable, quizzes are manageable if you do the work, and it's a really fun class overall. Bera is an awesome teacher and makes the class very enjoyable.
French Aa is an exhausting but worthwhile class. Having section M-Th every week means you spend the majority of your semester in the class, but you learn a lot and will be able to speak well by the end. The class consistently has menial work, but is definitely manageable. Don't miss class and keep up with the grammar.
Compared to some other Romance language beginner courses offered at Harvard, the compositions and hand-in tasks we were given in French Aa seemed a lot more difficult- they required us to be able to do moderate-level analyses and write creative works in French. In my opinion, this was challenging but made the course more enjoyable since we were not given any 'busy work' (or work given by teachers to essentially use up time). This course is also very focused on speaking and interacting in French.
It is worth taking as a basic building block if you're willing to invest much more time in the future to learn and practice French. I'm doubtful that you could take the class and then survive in France though... i.e. it isn't much of an immersion experience.
I'm not sure if my experience was different than other French Aa students due to my teacher, but I had a wonderful time in French Aa. It's nothing that you can't understand without a little bit of time. Madame Kieffer was absolutely awesome. She made the course funny and a joy to be in. If you want to take French, this is a valuable introductory course. If you're not interesting in French...well, what are you doing in this Q?
take lots of time
Don't think too much about getting an 'A' but rather learning a new language and you will enjoy the class.
Professor Mills does a wonderful job making the class fun and enjoyable while teaching students a lot. Looking back on the semester, I am truly impressed with how much French I learned having started with absolutely no experience. I loved the small setting and how close our class became after meeting four times a week. I most definitely recommend this class!
Language is difficult but French is pretty fun. The language is beautiful and we do interesting things in class. I never dreaded doing my french homework, although the oral exams were horrifying.
This is an engaging class, but you should be prepared to dedicate some time to really devote yourself to practicing the language on your own (trying to apply what you learn in class to your every day life; speaking the language often, etc.)
This is a fun class. Well-structured with interesting assignments. We wrote essays, a poem, and a drama. The instructor emphasizes quiet much on individuality and creativity. The atmosphere of the class is amiable.
It's a great introductory language course with very little work on the daily , but be ready to have a very, very busy end to the semester.
French is a pretty difficult language to learn as a beginner especially because of the confusing spelling and pronunciation but Marion was a great teacher
Participate even if you suck!
in this class, you have the opportunity to gain a great deal of knowledge about the French language in a short period of time. You get out of this course what you put in. I recommend keeping up with homeowrk assignments and reviewing every night. It really helps.
It's a good first year course. I am impressed with how much we have learned and how well I can think about formulating sentences and analyses in French though I have only taken one semester.
Definitely take a language class. Or more specifically, this one. It's so much fun and you really learn a lot.
If you want to learn French, this is your jam.
Make sure to keep track of all the new vocabulary. It definitely begins to stack up!! It would be helpful to start a vocab list on the last page of your notebook, or buy a smaller notebook just for French vocab/grammar.
French Aa is a great way to learn a new language and change up your class schedule. I highly recommend it. You'll be amazing how much French you know by the end of the semester.
I was surprised by how much french I had learned by the end of the semester.
Professor Mills is really an excellent teacher when it comes to getting students to talk in French and she is always prepared with slides and lessons. It is very refreshing to work the whole class and engage for the entire hour.
Keep up with the homework otherwise you won't commit the material to memory which is vital to the class.
Alot of consistent work is required. Nonetheless, it is an extremely engaging class and any hard work put in will be rewarded. Also, it is also possible to do well in this class if you are willing to spend time on it. Best class to start your day and you can be assured that your classmates in your French class will become one of your closer circle of friends in your first year!
the more you speak the more you learn.
This class is a very good introductory course. You will leave it with a solid basic knowledge of the language.
It's a great course if you actually want to learn French, and not just because "it sounds pretty."
Take French Aa! You might struggle a bit at first, but the French Department will make it worth your while.
Best French class ever.
This is a well organized course, taught well with interesting material. It is fast paced, and it is very common to feel confused and somewhat lost in class or on homework. The class is spoken completely in French from Day 1, and so it is easy to feel behind from the beginning. That being said, the homework is constant, but mangeable, the projects (there are 4 short writing assignments, a speaking project, and a major final project) are often fun and instrumental in learning, and the quizes are certainly reasonable. In my opinion, the test was graded tough, and it is very difficult to get a flat A, though most students will get an A- or B+. If you are looking for the easy A, you might look elsewhere, but if you want to learn a solid foundation in beginning French, this course does just that with proper time commmittment and practice.
You will enjoy this class!!!
Take this class if you are very interested in learning french. Otherwise, it will feel like a lot of work and sometimes be annoying.
I feel like I learned so much from this course and enjoyed every second of it. I can't think of a facet of the course I disliked. The course materials are thought provoking, there is a ton of support if you're struggling, Professor Mills is an incredibly talented and engaging instructor, you gain a lot of concrete knowledge of French, and the class is just downright fun. I went from not even being able to introduce myself in French, to being able to instruct ESL classes in French in the Boston community by the end of the semester (Don't worry, the volunteer ESL teaching is not at all asked of or required in any way by the course).It is often said that a foreign language is a window into another world, and I really feel this has been my experience with French Aa. I had an opportunity to really reflect upon myself and my identity through this course, and I have developed a whole new mode of communication with other people. This course has really inspired a passion for French in me, and I hope to study French in Paris over the summer as a result of this class. If you feel you're indecisive about this course, just take it. You won't regret it.
This course is really great, but it is important to put time and effort into learning the language. You have to study the words and vocabulary and practice everyday in order to succeed.
Great introduction.
You will enjoy it.
It is a fun course.
This course if a very self motivated course. What I mean by this is that you will get from it just as much as you put in. The instructor is there to facilitate and aid in your ventures but in the end if you really want to learn any language, you will only get out what you put in.
It's fun, challenging enough to be interesting, but easy enough to be enjoyable. You will improve a lot over the course of the semester.
This is, in my opinion, exactly what a language course should be. From the very start it is completely immersive, and by the end of the first class, students who had never spoken French before were answering simple questions. By the end of the class, we were able to write short plays, hold fairly complex conversations, and talk about the future and the past. I can't think of a better way to start learning another language.
It introduces french slowly at first then pushes you towards the end.
Take this class especially if you have a little background in French or any other Romance language (including Latin). Otherwise, you'll be fine, but it will take a little more work. Also, review the ends of the chapters before every test- those vocabulary words are very good to know!
I think it might depend on your TF (how much you'll enjoy the class) because mine was fantastic, but I know some other students in other sections who had less awesome experiences. However if you get a good one like Marguerite Costa de Beauregard, you'll learn a surprising amount of french for such a short time, and have a lot of fun along the way!
French is a good basic language to learn, but this course moves a little too fast for beginners.
I really enjoyed the course and the workload was never overwhelming. Although it is an introductory class, many students had background in the language and I felt like I had to catch up in the beginning. However, the course material is taught very well.
It is difficult to learn a new language.
It's fun and not hard. AND you learn French! How cool! Also Nicole Mills is an incredible teacher and seems like a great person.
Take this class! It's not difficult at all, and you will learn a lot of French in only a few months' time. You'll be really amazed at how much you can communicate after only one semester. The teaching staff also does a really good job developing everyone's verbal skills, which isn't always easy to do.
I was absolutely amazed with how much I learned in the semester. The fluency achieved after so little time make this course beyond rewarding.
It's a lot of fun, especially for the first 2/3 of the course. At about the eighth week, though, it becomes a lot of work, mostly group projects that are hard to organize and take a lot of time. But you learn a surprising amount of French and Professor Mills is incredibly enthusiastic and helpful.
If you can get Francois, he is great! He is really funny and makes the class humorous at times. The workload is not a lot at all and most work is collected every other week. If you do the work and actually try (4-5 hours a week), you can easily do well and you will get a lot out of the class.
It's a good course.  It might be better if you have had at least some exposure to French before.
This class is SOOOO much work!  It's not hard work, but there are projects and workbooks and blogs and movies and plays....  A lot of work!  I just took this class for fun, I already fulfilled my language requirement and kind of regretted taking this class.  It was nice to learn French, which I really wanted to do, but there was a lot of busy work for this class.
Just be aware that classes are taught completely in French from day one. I was not expecting that and it was sort of a shock. Also, if you can, try to meet and study with a group of your classmates.
It's a good class, but be prepared for more work than you might expect from an introductory language course. Especially at the end, with the final project.
French Aa is a much more difficult course than Spanish Aa.
First, French Aa is a really great class, with a lot of fun activities and cool materials. We watch movies and commercials, sing songs and read poems. (Though the third assignment, for which we have to write a poem in French ourselves might not be a fun assignment for some people!) However, I have to say that in order to do well in this class and to get the best out of it, I often have to spend, on average, two hours a day on homework and other assignment. We have quiz every other week, with around hundred vocab and grammar stuff to remember, it would be quite painful for someone who expects an "easy A". But what I get back worth all the time and effort! Highly recommend with great enthusiasm!
The workload and difficulty level might surprise you.
This class is excellent. The language courses are all fairly difficult, but you will get out of the class what you put into it.
This is a great class to take. Be ready to think on your feet and learn very quickly. If you do not do the work you will fall behind so just stay ahead of the game and you will get so much for your efforts. It has been the most fun class I have taken at Harvard yet
J'adore.
This was my favorite class of the semester, and possibly my favorite class that I have taken!
GREAT beginners class. Take it you won't regret it but get ready to do a little bit of french every day.
The focus is on speaking and comprehension, with quite a bit of creative work/homework outside class.  Busy graduate students who need to read French in their fields, and do so quickly, would be better served by taking the reading course instead.  But if speaking is a concern, this is an enjoyable way to learn French.
This is a great course. I am very surprised, and quite pleased, with how much French I've learned over the course of one semester. Though the day to day work can get dull, it is very satisfying to be able to communicate in a foreign language after just a semester of study. Sanam Nader was a fantastic TF; she made the class extremely engaging and was extremely helpful and approachable. The grading was very fair. If are willing to put work into this class, you will be rewarded with a good grade. If you get behind, or don't do the daily homework assignments, you'll quickly fall behind. If you have an interest in French or need to fulfill the language requirement, this is a great class to take!
You get as much as you put into the class. Don't be afraid that your accent is bad - in French Aa, no one else's is much better so have fun and speak up in class!
TAKE THIS CLASS
Take this class!!!!!
I recommend this class with enthusiasm. The instructors are really committed to teaching their students, make time to meet with you and they are a vital component to helping you learn and love the language. I'm a big fan of the RLL department.
The amount of work you put into this class is directly proportional to the grade you'll receive. The grading is extremely fair, and Prof Mills is an absolutely wonderful presence in class! Her PowerPoints are always engaging, and she is so approachable.For those of you hesitating to take this course because you've had zero experience with French before, do yourself a favor and take this course. I admit that the course is very intense when it first starts out, if only because the classes are being conducted almost exclusively in French. But you'll get used to it. Prof Mills is also extremely talented at getting everyone to feel comfortable in class. If you mess up, it's not a problem at all. In fact, you feel kind of relieved because you realize that everyone is in the same boat. It's a liberating feeling. So take this class! You absolutely won't regret it!
This is the best introduction to french
Form a study group with some classmates. It's a great way to make friends, to force yourself to do homework, and to practice speaking French with others.
This course is what you make of it - you can get by on minimum effort, but if you're serious about learning French, work hard here and you'll have a solid base for subsequent French studies.
A great course - not too much work, and if you do what you're supposed to the evaluations aren't difficult at all. Take advantage of office hours. It's all in what section leader you get, though. Mine was fabulous, other students have not been so enthusiastic about their leaders.
French aa is a great stepping stone for anyone interested in the French language or francofile culture. It lays the linguistic foundations for basic conversational and written French and I recommend it wholeheartedly.
It is a fun course, but it could be very time consuming if you don't have experience with another romance language.
this is a great class, it made me want to continue with the French language
This class was a great introduction to French. Prof. Mills clearly cared very deeply about her students and was extremely enthusiastic, organized, and helpful. The class was a supportive environment in which to learn a language for the first time.
French is a great language, but be aware you will do A LOT of work for this class. It's not like high school where you can put a language class on the back burner. This class is very time consuming(especially with class Mon-Thurs).
A great way to get started on learning a new language.
French Aa is so much fun! It was my favorite class, and I always enjoyed chatting in French with the other students and my professor.
Your TF makes or breaks this class.  If you have a first-year grad student, be prepared to have an awful time and a complete lack of understanding when it comes to flexibility.  If you have someone who's a tad more reasonable, then you might actually be graded like you're in an intro level course.  I found this course to be tiring and rather boring - since the department liked to flatter itself into thinking that full immersion, based upon research results, would be the best option, no English was spoken in class, and grammar rules were glossed over. I didn't like the course, and the fact that attendance is mandatory made it simply hateful.
This class is a fairly easy yet thorough intro course to French. Definitely recommend for anyone who wants to learn a new language- no prior knowledge necessary.
Great introduction to the French language and Francophone culture! Very interactive class which is nice for a change.
See your tf weekly if you can
This is a fantastic class. I was truly surprised by how much French I was able to write, speak, and understand after just one semester. I found French to be a challenging and interesting language, and the insights I gained into French life and culture made the lessons and coursework even more interesting.
I didn't have any prior experience with romance language, so it was hard for me at the beginning. A lot of my classmates are proficient Spanish speakers so it was much easier for them to pick up new vocabs and grammars. It was a steep learning curve me but I felt very satisfied and accomplished. Take it!
It's a great introduction class for French.
I am much more fluent in the language than I thought I could ever be after only a semester!
Be sure to do your assignments on time immediately after class if possible!
This class requires work, but it is rewarding and you end up with a workable knowledge of basic french.
This class can be very enjoyable and if you put forth the effort you can learn a significant amount of French; however, do not take this class looking for an "easy A" because there is a significant amount of work and if you are not good at learning new languages then it could be quite difficult to pick up the accents and other points of pronunciation.  Overall, I really enjoyed the course and am proud of the great amount of French that I learned in such a short period of time.
Take it if you want a basic understanding of the language.
This course is great for beginners in French because the pace isn't too quick, and you leave the first semester with a genuine initial grasp of the knowledge.  It's never boring, there are either amusing power points or movies or activities to do, and the teachers are all native speakers and completely approachable.
it is fun and you learn a lot, but prepare to do many hours of work
You must have a passion for French or else the class can get annoying at times.
You will learn French better than any language you studied in high school. From the very start, you are submerged in the language and encouraged/forced to learn quickly in order to not get left behind. It's a bit difficult at times, but if you are willing to put in the effort, you will be rewarded with a basic-intermediate understanding of the French language after only one semester.
This class does meet a lot; however, it is a lot of fun, and one of the best classes I have taken yet.
It's great!
A lot of fun and interesting, but make sure you give it the amount of time and attention it deserves. Can be really difficult if you don't do work everyday and keep up with everything.
Enjoy it! French is an awesome language and the grading is SUPER fair.
You learn an astounding amount in a short time.
You will gain a good base knowledge of french and be able to communicate about a small number of topics with fluency.
It is a great introduction to French and I would definetly recommend taking it. It moves a little slow at times, which can be frustrating, and has homework every day (like most intro level language classes).
you quickly get reading and understanding skills in French by taking this class.
If you want to learn about the French language and culture, don't hesitate in taking this course. It is well put together and worth it - even if you have to take it as an elective.
Try to choose a small section.
Anyone who has ever had the desire to learn French should take advantage of the program and enroll now
French is a fun, useful language with amazing TFs to help you out. It's challenging so be prepared to put in the word necessary to succeed, but it's really rewarding and totally worth the time and effort.
If you want to learn French, there really is no getting around taking this course. Be sure to review consistently.
This course is by no means easy. It is artificially set up to be rigorous, with an exceptionally difficult curve. Keep that in mind when you are choosing courses.
I hope you get Elena!
Put in the work and you will be rewarded.
Keep on top of things and you will do fine! They are pretty forgiving.
I really enjoyed it and it feels great to be able to speak some French now.
A lot of the people in my class seemed to have background in how to learn a foreign language which I did not.  By the time I figured out what I needed to do, the semester was half-way done and it was really hard to catch up.  Also, the class goes really fast so be prepared.
This is one of the few courses that is actually pretty fun. I enjoyed attending.
The class keeps you busy, but you are definitely more comfortable with the language afterwards.
This class is great. It's not too difficult, but it really is a great introduction to the language. It's a nice mix up from normal college classes where you meet a couple times a week and have a ton of work outside class. This is more like a high school structure, where you meet often and outside work isn't too hard. However, it still let's you learn a lot! The teacher speaks only French the whole time, and you'll speak only French after like a month, which is pretty amazing.
it seemed to me that there were people with some previous exposure to French.It might be worth it (for those who haven't taken any French before, in high school, etc) to familiarize themselves with the material, and actually do more problems in the workbook than are assigned. Just start early. It is really hard to keep up otherwise. Do all the listening exercises if you can make the time. It's crucial.
Be prepared to put a lot in to learning a new language.
It's a great way to learn French. You'll be excited and ready to speak French after the first couple of weeks.
It's an okay crash course, but not very helpful and wastes a lot of time. Better off getting Rosetta Stone. Take a different language if you can.
A fun class to take, even if you end up deciding French is not the language you want to learn.
This class, and especially my professor (Nicole Mills), did a really good job of teaching me introductory French. That being said, there was a larger amount of work than I expected or really enjoyed, so if you're looking for an easy introductory language course, I wouldn't pick this one.
Great class for an introduction to the language!
Fun and engaging course
French Aa is really fun and allows students to acquire a substantial amount of knowledge about the French language in a limited time span - definitely worth it if you are interested in getting a basis in the language in a semester of fairly minimal work!
A great, painless introduction to French. The teachers are great, care about the students, and go out of their way to make the course relevant and relatable for the kids taking the class.
If you don't have a romance language background you will have difficulty because the course is complete emersion.
I highly recommend this class.  This is a fun way to start learning a language.  And if you put in a lot of effort, you will be rewarded!
This class is not as well organized as some of the other introductory language courses and does not teach you how to speak, read or write French very well.
The professors, tutors, and TF's are extremely approachable and helpful.
This is a great class that does an excellent job of providing students with strong fundamentals of the French language and culture.
It is a very enjoyable class and it will make you happy throughout the day! It is very well taught and the homeworks and assignments are actually fun. TAKE IT. Just keep up with the work - its not that difficult. And get to know your fellow section members.
If you have never taken French and you want to start, take this class! It does exactly what it promises to do and it does it well. Not too difficult, but not boring either. I actually looked forward to this class and it put me in a good mood for the rest of the day.
It was great.
This class is definitely hard because French isn't an easy language (even if you already know other Romance Languages) so beware of the fact that without some concerted effort you might not do really well in this course. Basically, it's easy to float by but difficult to be really good, especially as the course progresses.
This course is a fun way of learning french. From having a face book page in french to writing  a script for a play in french , one gets to learn a lot through these innovative methods of teaching. However, it is intense and a student needs to make sure that he/she has substantial amount of time to be dedicated for this course. Only them would you be able to reap it befits fully.
surprisingly difficult to get an a
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. The teaching staff are really supportive and the classes really interactive. Don't hesitate, TAKE IT!!!
If they have a bit of knowledge of French, then it's a good class.  Otherwise I would recommend they take a rosetta stone course, and then complement it with this class.
The class is very easy, and is a good introduction to the French language.
Great introduction to French. A lot of the students already had experience with another language (and some already with French), so keep that in mind.
French Aa is a gem of a course. I loved it. It's so enjoyable and Franck is the BEST. He's so great, I'm so he's leaving. However, for the most part, all the French Aa TFs are super friendly and super helpful. This class made me love the language and culture even more and makes me want to study abroad in Paris!
A great class to learn French if you have no experience with the language at all.
Although this is an introductory language course, you have to be prepared to review class material everyday, practice extensively on your own, and keep up with frequent assignments.
This has been one of my favorite courses at Harvard thus far. Mme Mills is fantastic.
The class really is great. Madame Bera is an amazing teacher and the structure of the course is effective.  However, if you want to do well it will take A LOT of time, so be careful. Do not simply think this is "an easy language class" unless you've taken French before.
Make sure you have time to put effort and work into this class, and even if you do, your grade might not reflect it.
French Aa is a fun opportunity to try something new and different.  It has you speaking and understanding within a month.  I'm amazed that after one semester of a course I can speak so much french with so much comfort.
Excellent class to get you started in French. You get to practice a lot of French every class, and you don't even realize how quickly you learn. There is homework everyday and quizzes every two weeks, and it is important to keep up with the work in order to do well. Highly active participation in class is required to get a good grade - don't be afraid of making mistakes!
You will be able to understand normal french conversation after this class.
This class was phenomenal--one of my favorites I've taken at Harvard. Pauline Bra was a fantastic teacher. She was really accessible and easy to talk to. Also, this is probably one of the best-structured, most organized classes I've taken at Harvard. None of the grades were a mystery (we were provided clear-cut rubrics for everything) and our teacher was extremely straightforward with us. If you feel like you'd like to learn beginner's French, please take this course. It's really great and you'll be glad you did.
French is sexy.  French is vogue.  French est un cours fantastique.  Why not take it?  The teachers are sweet, smart, and helpful.  And, most importantly, you'll feel so cool.
You will have to devote much time to this course. The learning curve is very steep, the class was slightly overcrowded, the homework is not entirely helpful, the quizzes are graded with a keen eye, and the course moves very quickly. There are many other languages at Harvard.
A great introduction to French - don't expect it to be no work though
You will learn SO MUCH, and honestly, it's not that hard. You have work to do, but it's not so mentally exhausting that you want to kill something/someone. It's not mentally exhausting at all actually, just basic necessary stuff that is fun to do
It takes a lot of time.
Don't fall behind!
Blogs will frustrate you at times. The class can sometimes take a surprisingly large amount of time, and it's definitely not an easy A (although it's a different kind of work than in most classes that you'll probably take at Harvard). French Aa alone is not enough to really be able to say that you speak French, so you'll likely want to continue with Ab.
I am so impressed by the quality of the French program.  Also, Prof. Mills is the best.
Great class, small class size, study hard
It is difficult but I guarantee that at the end of it you will be happy that you took the course.
French Aa is the nearly painless and entirely fun way to start learning a new language! Broaden your horizons and make new friends in the best way possible.
it's a lot more work than an another intro language class and it took me by surpise
Stay on top of the daily homework assignments!
This is a great and fairly easy class, which is a lot of fun. Sections are pretty small, so you get a lot of individual attention
It's good to have a structured environment to learn and practice French. The class was a lot of work, which I don't mind. But it felt more like busy work. It was too crammed in for me to really learn the material. Furthermore, I found myself teaching myself a lot of the time.
Doing the reading and homework is not enough. Keep a notebook and transcribe the important grammatical and vocabulary information from the reading. Also, do work every night; do not wait until the night before the exam to read the chapter.
Language classes are the best classes at Harvard.
one of the best classes i have taken, VERY well taught, so much material covered and I feel like I absorbed a lot in just a semester, TAKE THIS!
Do the homework everyday and try to keep up with vocab from previous chapters.
Tons of work, it feels relentless but you will learn!
Not enough language study is covered in the span of this course, but ample time is spent on cultural explanation about France in English. Furthermore, assignments are often graded on creativity, such as writing a poem or designing a poster, which at times is stressed more than linguistic accuracy. Time spent on creativity could be spent adding a few more chapters to the material covered in class. The person teaching the course is not the person in charge of designing it, so the discrepancy there at times was jarring and inefficient.
Stay engaged. You don't want to fall behind because everything in the class builds on itself and it moves pretty quickly.
It is a language course, that means it requires a constant dedication.
This course is incredibly fun. It's tough and French grammar is not easy, but I definitely recommend it. It's really rewarding when you start to be able to have conversations in French without a problem.
This is a fantastic opportunity to learn and to practice French. The textbook is amazing! The assignments are also interesting and very useful - writing compositions, watch movies, think about the difference between American and French culture, etc. Some of the assignments did not really make sense. For example, we had to create blogs, but we never got any feedback on them. I personally wish I had received better and more concrete feedback. But I got no feedback on the blogs, very little (to none) feedback on the compositions, and same for the final project. I also think the course does not focus as much on the oral part. There is a lot of writing - blogs, 4 compositions, final poster, etc. And not as much focus on pronouncing things the right way, and doing more assignments that focus (and provide feedback) on this. I also think that having the right TA is key. So ask around and try to find a TA that is excited about teaching. Rafael was my instructor. As I said, I wish he'd given us more detailed feedback. He also emphasized "not going beyond our level," i.e. do not use words or grammar that we have not taken in class. And I felt that we were almost penalized if we "try too hard". I have taken many language courses at Harvard, and this has never been the case. People in general encourage us to try and learn new words, etc. But Rafael was very strict about us using only what we know or else "we'll make mistakes". He was very against us making mistakes.
If you want to learn French, this is a great course to get you started! You will not be fluent by the end of it, but you will be able to carry out basic conversations and navigate French-speaking spaces.
if you genuinely want to learn french, take this class
This class is great if you want to learn French. I was surprised by how much I had learned by the end of the semester. Rafael Rios is also a great instructor!
This course was definitely easy and fun, but for an additional 20-30% of work, you could take intensive and learn twice as much.
The assignments are fun. The grading is very generous and there are opportunities to earn extra-credit. The sessions are short and fun, only 1 hours each.
This course was awesome! I learned a lot of French that I actually will remember well into the future. It is time intensive so make sure you have the time to memorize the vocabulary and do the final film project (which takes up a lot of time during reading period). I will continue to learn French on my own because I'll be graduating, but take this course if you actually want to remember and use the French that you learn!
You will learn so much French!  Also, try to have Kathryn as your preceptor because she is the best language teacher I have ever had.
The class has a lot of work and is very demanding but if you drvote the time and resources, the course will not only be interesting but it will be fulfilling.
Kathryn really wants to help. She doesn't find it a burden. In fact, she commutes an hour and 40 minutes twice a day to teach. So she clearly does it out of care and passion.
This is a wonderful class. Kathryn is one of the nicest human beings I have ever met.  She really made me want to learn.
This is a wonderful introductory language course that gets you comfortable having conversations on a variety of topics. The workload is distributed very nicely, with many moderately-sized compositions in place of stressful, large essays and projects. In Spring 2014 there was a final movie project but no written final. You learn interesting things about francophone culture and about your classmates.
Instructors truly make a difference, especially with languages! Don't be afraid to ask yourself how comfortable you feel with your instructor. Kathryn Rose will no longer be teaching, but her enthusiasm truly made a difference and convinced me to tack on this course as a fifth class.
Violeta is a great teacher, she makes the class fun!
I think there's a significant learning curve if you don't know any french (as was my case). The pronunciation is difficult, and listening is also quite challenging. You do get the hang of it by the end, but it took time. The grading is also surprisingly difficult  it's not hard to do alright, but it's hard to do very well (esp. with no background). That being said, I would still recommend it if you want to learn the language.
You learn a lot about Francophone culture in class. Be brave trying to speak or write using things not taught. For solid language training, such as memorizing vocabulary or practicing basic sentence structures, the course is not very demanding and not super helpful, so you should do it by yourself.
I really enjoyed this course. Soraya is an awesome TF who really cares about your learning. She has a great sense of humor and was very engaging. If you approach this course really looking to learn French (and stop focusing so much on grades) - you'll enjoy it a lot!
According to many people I've talked to, French is the hardest romance language to learn. After taking this class, I would agree. The class is a lot of work but extremely rewarding. You have to do all the homework to be able to fully understand everything.
it's a good intro to french
Great way to learn french
Unless you're really interested in French or needing to fulfill the language requirement, I wouldn't recommend this class. I would say this course does a good job at forcing/encouraging you to practice your French in class (even though it may suck), but sometimes there's a lack of connection in the course material. I thought that some chapters definitely required more self-study as section presentations were not that helpful (and sometimes off track), so be aware that you might be working a little harder during some parts of the semester. That being said, if you're good at picking up languages and need a low time commitment class, this is just for you.
The work loads is very light, but the class is really boring. There were a lot of times I had no idea what the professor was saying because he would speak at a level that we weren't at yet, making it very difficult to follow. Wouldn't really recommend taking this class.
Taking a prior Romance language would be helpful, but not necessary.If you don't have any background, you'll still do pretty well on the quizzes if you do the homework every day and study.Relatively easy course load, not as intense as (for instance) Chinese language studies.
With the structure of this course, learning the language is largely on you.
Take this class with Madame Mills. She's a fantastic teacher and person and this class will be the model for what a language class at Harvard should be. She is a competent and disciplined teacher who uses every minute of class to be teaching you something while also very kind and understanding. The material is really fascinating, and you'll actually learn things about the culture and about your own culture. We had some amazing discussions in the class and I'm actually proficient at an elementary level after the semester which is amazing since I was terrible at languages in high school.
Very beautiful language that requires much work outside of class.
This class is great because you develop a useful skill!  The time that you put in definitely pays off in the end and it's really fun!
