Professor Priam is incredible, this class is engaging and the topic is extremely interesting - discussions are really enjoyable, too.
For anyone interested in hybrid fluid identities, francophone literature, or women's issues, this is the perfect course for you. The reading list is excellent. Prof. Priam is engaging, sweet, understanding, knowledgeable, and supportive. Discussions are the strength of this class. Be prepared to read a novel a week.
Be prepared to do a lot of independent work, but it's a really rewarding class overall! Pr. Priam is excellent.
Prof. Priam is great (as always) and presented sometimes grim material with enthusiasm!
This was a really interesting and enjoyable class to take for a cross-registrant not taking the class for credit. The texts were very interesting and accessible. I was worried that the literary theory would be above my head but Pr. Priam was extremely welcoming and friendly and explained all the necessary background knowledge very clearly - I got the impression much of it was new to the others as well so I didn't feel out of place. There was a lot of opportunity to practice spoken and written French and receive feedback and I felt that my confidence in the language had increased a lot by the end. The small size of the class meant that the atmosphere was really nice and welcoming. When my main for-credit classes were keeping me very busy it was possible to skim-read that week's novel and participate in the class discussion on a more superficial level which meant that the course was sufficiently flexible to fit in with my main commitments but on the weeks when I had a little more time I could really get into the novel properly and develop my insights. I would definitely recommend this class.
read the books!
If you are strong in French, take it. Priam is a great lecturer and the books are greats ones that you may not have the opportunity to read elsewhere. Workload is manageable and professor priam really stresses the reading over all else.
Interesting material taught by a great professor
very good if you have a great knowledge of french and want an interesting, low-key class with few writing assignments
Priam is the best prof in the department.
take it - the books are so good and professor priam is a wonderful person/teacher
The readings are amazing  you don't feel like you're doing schoolwork. Professor Priam gives engaging lectures, encourages participation, and uses a lot of audio-visual support which definitely helps students stay alert during the class! I recommend with enthusiasm that you take this course.
Professor Priam is fantastic. It doesn't really matter if you are interested in the topic; she will make it interesting. Read the books though! It's so much better if you do, and some of them are really good.
The authors are great and even if it does sometimes feel like too much crammed in too little time, the professor does a great job of guiding students through everything with her lectures.
This class is fantastic. The readings are really interesting and worthwhile, although they do take time and you really do have to do them. But overall the class is rewarding and manageable.
Be very passionate about French literature
