It's not like you're going to go read Proust for fun anytime soon, so this is a great chance to get him under your belt. Beware Prof. McDonald's highly schematic and inflexible ways of reading, though. She crushes dissent with an iron fist of passive-aggression.
there is a lot of reading, but it's excellent.  however, if you're not already a fan of proust you should do something else
The workload is intense. The biweekly response papers plus three class presentations, plus two movies held outside of class time, plus a midterm, plus a term paper, plus extensive weekly readings (all held to the highest standard) make this class quite a commitment. I'm glad I took it in the end, but I poured more work into this than all my other classes combined.
If you want to read Proust in a classroom setting, this is the place to do it and have excellent discussions about it. If you are writing a thesis while taking this course (especially in the second semester), I would think twice about committing to the large week-to-week workload of the class.
it's a lot of work but reading Proust will question and complicate the ways you think about people, places, and time.
This is a fantastic class! If you are interested in ideas of consciousness, memory, and the philosophy of art, Proust is definitely worth studying.
This class has the potential to change your entire outlook on life.  It made me question who I am and gave me new insight into my closest relationships.  However, I would note that this class is only for those willing to stomach the heaving reading load or the lumps that you could take if you don't keep up with the reading load.
It's one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.
2013 was the centenary anniversary of the first edition of Swann's Way, so it was a great year to take this class with the Proust across the Arts conference and related events taking place on campus! Prof. McDonald is always very cheerful and an immense source of knowledge and critical thinking to be around, while Franois is a brilliant young scholar to work with, who is very passionate about and dedicated to his studies. It was a great privilege to study with this superstar  duo.
The reading is very ambitious in terms of amount, pace and difficulty of content. But if you stick with it and give it the time it needs, class discussion is very interesting and fruitful.
Proust is an amazing author with something for almost everyone and this class is a great way to dive into his work. This class helps to answer questions crucial to anybody who wants to create or appreciate art.
I couldn't imagine a better academic atmosphere in which to study Proust - Francois and Christie are kindly, enthusiastic, lively, insightful, and supportive. But the bottom line is, the difficulty of Proust means you have absolutely got to do all the reading every week, or as much of it as you can. The amount of reading one is tasked to do in a given week is very daunting.
The conference, and the 'Proust and the Arts' theme, really made the course this year - otherwise, it may have ended up being a bit of a slog. The extracts from the novel are long but worth reading thoroughly; with the secondary readings you may want to be more selective. You really need good French, particularly if it's the language in which the course is being taught - Proust's not easy to pin down in any language!
Great way to read much of Proust through a specific (and more manageable) theme - that of Proust's relationship to the arts. Class discussion was not always the best, probably because of language issues - being very comfortable speaking and reading French will vastly improve your experience in the course. All in all, though, take it if you can - if you put in the necessary time and effort Proust really can change your life.
If you have never read Proust before, think twice about taking this course! Go in with some knowledge of Proust and France in the early 20th century, and a good grounding in French literature because the course assumes familiarity with it.
Take this -- definitely take this.
I love love loved this course. I probably should have waited a year to take it, but despite feeling more than a little intimidated by the grad students, I learned so much from the professors (especially the positively wonderful Franois). And Proust is just really, really fantastic--I fell absolutely in love with  la recherche.
