great course
This has been one of my favorite classes so far at Harvard. If given the opportunity to take a class with Carole Bergin, I would recommend it wholeheartedly.
Unfortunately this was the last year for this class, so no future students to tell things :( but the class was amazing!!
Best course one can possibly take in learning about Haitian culture. Topics were very interesting, and assignments reinforced understanding perfectly.  The pedagogy and community service components are wonderful additions to the study.
This course is an amazing course to better one's French speaking ability. It's super interesting and Carole is an amazing professor.
this is an excellent course if you are interested in improving your speaking skills and learning vocabulary related to international development.  I did not feel that I learned too much about teaching and would have appreciated more organization and planning (including on my part) in the Saturday teaching exercises. I would also have appreciated some more clarity in the grammar handouts. Carole is a fantastic teacher and I feel lucky to have had the opportunity to take this class.
Carole Bergin is leaving so I do not think it will run. Either way, she was a big part of what made it so great.
This is a great course for people who want to speak French in the context of learning about Haiti. French is used as a base for the course, which takes an all-encompassing look at education, learning French, Haitian culture, and masterpieces of Haitian literature. The course is dynamic and each class is new and interesting.
If this class if offered again, TAKE IT.
This class requires more work than you might originally expect, but if you keep up with the work, you will get a lot out of this class. Also, teaching is sooo fun!
French 59 is not just another grammar and history class. Going out into the Haitian-American community and making a tangible difference not only improves language skills, but it also ingrains the importance of education.
The course was thoroughly engaging and always interesting  it offered a comprehensive study of Haiti and Haitian culture through the country's literature, music, history, practices and people.
It's worth taking You're doing something for yourself by learning french but you're also helping a community. I really enjoyed that a class could integrate so well with the outside world. It immediately showed how it was applicable outside of the classroom.
This class was fantastic.  Carole is one of my favorite teachers at Harvard.  She is so kind and dedicated.  Unfortunately Carole will no longer be teaching this class.  But it is a great experience either way.  If you are interested in working or volunteering in Haiti, this class is a must.
This course is great. I was exposed to wealth of knowledge about a history I had not previously known (Haiti). Also, Carole will whip you into shape as a writer/speaker, as in her other course. Be prepared for her to rip your paper apart. All in all, a wonderful experience.
This is a great class--the professor is a saint she's so sweet and she cares about all of her students doing well. You won't get a bad grade. However, you will get tired of hearing about how much we need to pity Haiti and how much the west has harmed economic improvement in Haiti. Bottom line--if you want to learn a little bit about how to teach and particularly how to teach kids who aren't academically inclined, this is a good class. It's not a hard french class, and the history of Haiti is interesting.
This class was fun, different, and Carole is great! Going out to teach French did take time, but it was only a few times and definitely a rewarding experience. The content of the course was super interesting and the overall experience was valuable. Definitely recommend!
Best French Class I've taken in 5 years
If you're interested in teaching, French, and/or Haiti, you must take this course. Carole is exciting and her class is a dynamic foray into pedagogy and the Haitian diaspora.
Teaching is a great way to practice French!
This is great course. Even if you don't think you're interested in Haitian culture per se, Carole will make it interesting -- and, it is a fascinating country, in it of itself. You'll have small weekly writing assignments (about a paragraph a week). These were one of my favorite components of the course. These little responses didn't take long to do, but I could feel my written French improving significantly because of doing them.
This course was incredibly enriching-- highly recommend it!
This class was very interesting and you learn quite a bit about Haitian culture. I thought the best part were the guests who were brought in who shared some great stories and experiences with us.
Carole is AMAZING. Absolutely incroyable, if you excuse my frenglish. The course was overall very manageable with a very light workload, and just overall enjoyable. Carole's legitimately cares about Haiti, and that came through in the way she taught us  she really just wanted us to learn. The only negative thing I can say about the class is that the trip to Brockton was unreasonable, but I'm sure that given time, she can find a better alternative for next fall. Seriously though, it's a great class. Don't miss out.
Take this class! Your French will greatly improve and you'll learn about a country that you've barely thought about before.
This class is a great class taught by a great teacher.  Taking this class will surely improve your French.  Even more, it is such an irreplaceable experience to have the opportunity to teach children French.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, and THE best that I've taken in the language department. I sincerely recommend taking a course with Professor Bergin, and this course offers a unique opportunity to learn more about Haiti AND how to teach - along side enhancing your language skills.
It's not too much work, but i think my french got worse after taking this class. We don't have in depth discussions, we more or less fill in the gaps Carole leaves in her sentences. This means I would answer in two or three words, rather than make a complete thought. Also, grammar exercises are graded harshly, and I think it will be difficult to get an A rather than an A-
I would say that this class is a great class. Learning about Haiti is great because it's not a place that we learn about often. I would also say that the teaching component of the class is one of the best parts of the class. The last thing that I would say is that it is important to realize that although the class is fun, there is going to be some work!
This class is so much fun, and I really recommend that you take it. There is definitely work involved, but it is all very enjoyable so it almost doesn't feel like work. If you are at all interested in learning anything about Haiti or Haitian culture, this course will give you so much insight. I highly highly recommend it. Also, Madame Bergin is an incredible teacher.
Super fun and not too stressful, and Carole is an amazing teacher!
I thoroughly enjoyed every class meeting. Carole is an exemplary prof. She is very engaging, understanding, and is truly passionate about teaching. This made every class a great learning experience. This french class was unique in that it combined two very original components--Haitian culture as well as an introduction to pedagogy.
Lecture can be annoying. Grading as well. But definitely a cool experience to tutor and learn about Haiti.
As long as one does the work, the class should not be a worry.
If you have a firm grasp on the language i.e. grammar and reading comprehension then take the class
Loved the class - very enthusiastic and helpful professor, interesting guest speakers, teaching portion (volunteering) a great experience. Also loved the variety of materials regarding Haiti that we covered.
Mme is great, and the class is really fun and interesting. Going to work with the AFAB kids is a pain, but it's not miserable and some of the kids are really nice.
Take this! The professor is wonderful and full of enthusiasm, and you get to know all the other students by discussing readings and doing silly skits. Working with the children outside of class was a highlight of my semester and a wonderful way to escape the Harvard bubble.
It is an awesome class that teaches so much about teaching and Haitian culture. Also Carole is an excellent french professor and a great person to know.
Definitely take this course as an opportunity to learn more about Haitian culture, while learning more about French! I also loved teaching at AFAB, and feel that there's no better way to learn than by teaching. That being said, there is regular weekly work for this class! This course is perfect if you're looking to use French to learn about a different topic.
Carole is great, and the course is a good introduction to Haitian culture
If you're interested in putting your knowledge of French into practice, this is the only way Harvard helps you do that. The tutoring program is the best part of the class. And Carole is fantastic.
It is a great class and very fun!
This course is really rewarding. I loved teaching the kids at both schools that we worked with. Th workload wasn't overwhelming and Mme Bergin was always really enthusiastic in class. I would definitely recommend this course to other students who are interested in learning about Haitian culture, teaching young children, or just looking to take a fun french class.
Depends on your level of French. A basic understanding and speaking comfort very much help.
So much more than just a language course. You get real involvement with teaching to kids yet also get a strong history background of the country of haiti.
This class is a very interesting and hands-on approach to French, and the professor is AMAZING!
Amazing professor with very intriguing course materials and a wonderful opportunity to interact with and serve the community!
Extremely well taught course in French on Haitian culture. The best part about this course is that you get to teach even while you're learning how to :)
Do the readings and work hard on the long compositions.
Carole is fantastic and you really expand your world view. She is so engaging, you get out of the Harvard bubble and really delve into the Haitian culture. Haiti has such a rich history and culture, don't pass this chance to learn about it. You also learn great skills regarding how to teach a course, invaluable skills that can help you in anything.
Be sure to note that there is a focus on pedagogy so if you don't really want to know too much about teaching try another class.
It's a wonderful class that opens your eyes to a place which we have a lot of stereotypes for, but don't know too much about. It was really nice to have a French class wasn't just about learning the language like it was in high school.
First off, this is a WONDERFUL class. Carole Bergin is a super enthusiastic, committed teacher. This class has three big components: General Pedagogy (learning how to create a lesson plan, teach little kids, etc.) Haitian Culture, and Grammar. Be prepared to engage in all three activities. KEEP IN MIND: the 4 required Saturday visits to the Haitian center to teach the kids requires about 3-4 hours of your time each Saturday...
a lot of unnecessary work
This class is a great mix of practicing your French oral skills, serving the community, learning about Haitian history/culture, and learning about teaching a foreign language.
This class is a lot of fun and is very low workload!  Mme. Bergin is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard - she's extremely supportive, encouraging, and enthusiastic!
This class is truly amazing. Great small section atmosphere and really a great dynamic is generated.I loved teaching at AFAB with the other students. It was an amazing way to spend my weekends and I learned a lot of skills from out of the class room as well!
great class! awesome professor, interesting areas of study, real life issues. the work is actually fun and interesting. teaching the kids french is so rewarding and a great opportunity to get involved in the community outside of harvard.
This is the best French class I took at Harvard, and I highly recommend it. Professor Bergin is energetic and knowledgeable about the material.
Incredibly rewarding and engaging course if you're into cultural and linguistic exploration.  MUST TAKE!
This class is interesting and the professor is amazing, but it is a little large for a language class.
