A wonderful class! I strongly recommend taking it if you're interested in feminism, even if you don't know much about it. Prof. Jardine creates a convivial atmosphere and asks provoking questions. Readings are manageable, and you'll have a lot of fun working on your final project.
This class isn't for everyone, because it has a strong feminist slant, but I loved it so much!
The feminist texts you will encounter in this texts are often difficult and opaque, especially in French. It's worth the challenge to understand and discuss these texts though. Jardine is flexible, understanding, and values each person's individuality and creative to approach the course in the way that is the most personally engaging for them.
A WONDERFUL course, You will read a lot of influential French thinkers
Make sure that you really want to be learning about feminism in France before you take this class. Coming from high school French classes, I didn't really realize that the class would be focused on the topic as opposed to the language. However, if you have any interest in the class, take it. Professor Jardine is very special, and I feel so lucky to have had her as a professor. And don't get overwhelmed by all the reading: Professor Jardine and the teaching fellow were always available to answer questions and give words of wisdom in terms of methods of reading and comprehending the material.
the professor is great
Professor Jardine was an incredible course head for this class because she is a leading contributer to feminist theory and personally knows many of the theorists we studied in the class. I really appreciated hearing her perspective on the field and learning from her experiences.
Professor Jardine is inspiring. She has given me a new perspective on how I see and the world and interact with it. However, I would recommend a strong background in the subject material before coming in. There's a lot of material covered quickly.
Feminists should take this course. You walk out of every class feeling empowered to make a difference in the world for women!
This course is a wonderful way to combine French with demanding feminist studies. It is theoretically substantial while also furthering language ability. Extremely interesting and enjoyable.
