The lectures made this class one of the worst that I've taken at Harvard. Your time would be better spent in other French courses.
Only take this class if you are interested in African literature.
It's easy, but you won't learn very much or get very much enrichment from it.
Chill class. Friendly grading. Interesting readings. Nice professor and TF. Helpful TF and section is helpful in preparing for the final exam. Good feedback on assignments. Few assignments. Short assignments. Very doable. Professor kind of reads the books to you. Not always intensely thought-provoking.
The class was a complete waste of my time, which was evident after shopping week. I hoped it would get better and it didn't. It also counted towards my concentration, was the only reason I stayed in it.
I would say not to take it if you want a rigorous literature class, but if you need a 5th class or want a course with little work/structure it is nice.
this course is fairy undemanding and often somewhat interesting, but you will gain only the most cursory and confused understanding of francophone literature and culture.
Only take it if you want to sit through boring lectures.
The professor is a bit detached and doesn't get too involved with the students.
The professor was disorganized and the course didn't live up to expectations, but the literature was well worth reading.
While the subject matter is fantastic, Professor Irele seems somewhat disconnected from the class and does not make that extra effort to bring the material to life.
Lison is enthusiastic and animated and the subject matter is cool, but be prepared for a lot of reading.
You should definitely take this course, especially because it will expose you to a body of French literature that is probably completely new to you.
70c is a great transition from language classes to higher level literature courses. The teacher takes care that students follow her lecture. And, weekly assignments make the course more manageable and help language abilities.
This was a great class.  The subject was fascinating, and Madame Baselis-Bitoun's passion and excitement for her subject was wonderful!  The texts are also very interesting to read.
You're guaranteed to leave this class infinitely more confident in your French skills.
It's a great subject and professor.
Very painless and fun way to take a French lit class.
Prof. Baselis-Bitoun brings so much passion to the course that it is impossible not to be enthralled.
It's fun, engaging and very educational.
This course is a great introduction to issues of race and colonialism. I would especially recommend it to people who would otherwise not think about those issues. The course is as much about life and how to treat other people as it is about literature.
This class will change your life! If you don't grow from taking this class, an artichoke has more heart than you do. LISON IS AMAZING!!!
You will grow as a person in this course. Take it!
Be ready for a lot of reading and for looking up many unfamiliar French words.
I would definitely recommend it if it's being taught by Lison Baselis-Bitoun! I think the class primarily depends on the professor and the reading list, and I was very happy with both.
very nice instructor
This is a great course for those interested in expanding their knowledge of French language literature. Class is very interesting but it is absolutely necessary to do the readings and to do them well or else you will not be able to participate which is a huge part of the the grade.
This is a great course, really interesting material and very informative lectures. The assignments are reasonable and there is plenty of support for the final paper.
This course is great for people who are interested in reading, writing, and (to some extent) speaking French. Most of the books are interesting. The reading load is not light, though  one novel in French every week.
Although it is a lot of reading, the material makes up for it. It is really interesting to read and changing francophone countries week to week keeps things interesting.
There's a fair amount of reading in this class, but Mylene is great teacher and the material covered is really interesting.
This was an incredible course -- take it!
Prof Conley is awesome. Mona is the best TF ever.
Write good take-home exams and papers. Meet with Mona, the TF, because she is extremely helpful and kind.
I took this class because I want a French citation and love speaking and learning about the French language. It was probably my mistake in not reading the syllabus clearly, but this class is very much a class on African & Caribbean literatures that happens to be in French. I personally am not interested in these literatures, so it was difficult for me to get into the class. It made it a lot more difficult for me to participate when I didn't really have much to say about the topic. Yes, it was certainly good to learn about and now I feel more aware as a French speaker, but I did not really enjoy the experience of the class when I was in it. There was A LOT of reading and you really had to read everything because it was discussed in section. Overall, if you enjoy Francophone literature and are interested in these topics, take this class because it is a good, broad intro to these literatures. However, only take the class if you are REALLY interested in this material, not just if you want to take a French class, which was my mistake.
Only take this class if you are VERY interested in La Monde Francophone. Otherwise, this class will be very difficult. Also, if possible, take Verena's other course concurrently because a lot of the readings overlap, but you get to do it in English. If you want to take a class about La Monde Francophone take French 42 (with Lison Baselis-Biton. It is much better)
The best French class I've taken at Harvard!
The materials are very interesting; the only drawback is that at times assignments are not communicated in a timely or clear fashion.  Be diligent if you have a lot of midterms/finals falling at the same time and communicate with teaching staff to get confirmed deadlines.
This course gives you a broad perspective of a number of post-colonial stories and realities over the past fifty years since colonization and across a broad geography from the Caribbean to North Africa to Sub-Saharan Africa. It is fast paced and covers a lot of reading (1-2 books a week) but the stories are fascinating and enthralling. Both the instructor and the TA have lots of energy and commitment to sharing these stories with you and deepening your global understanding. Quite an interesting and different class than the typical french class at this level. Very engaging.
Excellent survey of Francophone literature, with interesting books and a great teaching staff.
Great way to improve your French reading skills.  It can be frustrating at times to have to look up several words a page or not understand parts of a story.  Also, the professor does not try to get you to participate. If you want to speak during the lecture, you must ask questions.
You'll reading some really interesting books.
