It's a lot of work but it's worth it!
This class was certainly not an easy Gen-Ed, but it was extremely worthwhile. Professor McDonald was lovely, and I learned so much from her. It was one of the most rewarding classes that I've taken so far.
This is a great course with fascinating discussions. Professor McDonald is amazing and so so smart, and you can feel her enthusiasm for all the works we covered in the course. Take this course if you want a grounding in some major enlightenment texts, as well as other, more proto-revolutionary texts. Provides a fascinating peek into French literary culture, and the visit to Houghton was so cool!
It's a heavy reading load, but you really get to approach the major authors of the 18th century through their major works. We had stimulating discussions during class time as well. Christie is always available to meet about any questions, and communicated in a timely fashion about assignments and expectations.
This class was really interesting and manageable. I learned a lot for the amount of work I put into it, and the class did not require tons of work to be able to engage with the material and get something out of it. The texts are very interesting and varied, and class discussion was always robust. Professor McDonald is a good professor and does a good job of guiding class discussion while also allowing student thoughts to come through. The assignments--response paper every other week, midterm paper, and final paper--were very manageable. Overall I highly recommend it, for those taking it for the GenEd or for French credit!
Professor McDonald's course was incredible, it is the kind of course I came to Harvard to take.
Overall it was a good class, with very reasonable requirements and very nice teaching staff. The main issue was that some of the other students liked throwing around those meaningless academic words and phrases like "epistemic," "teleological," "phenomenological," "essentialization," "negative dialectic," and "counter-hegemonic discourse." But at least I got a good laugh out of it.
This course is brilliant for anyone who wants to have a VERY solid introduction to the literary culture of the Ancien Rgime! As the title of the course suggests, the focus is on the ethical issues of the Age of Enlightenment, but since those were very much at the center of any contemporary discussion, it is a very good entry point to the literature of the century. Prof. McDonald's very clear, knowledgeable, and kind: it is a pleasure to listen to her weekly introductions of key issues. Because of the nature of the subject-matter, the discussions may run a little dry from time to time.Even if the reading load is unpredictable from week to week, with a little bit of planning, the coursework should be manageable: the bi-weekly response paper helps you stay on top of it!
I would tell a future student that Professor McDonald is an excellent teacher, a kind person, and that she will take you through a great deal of literature in a stimulating seminar environment.
This is a great course if you are very interested in philosophy, particularly works of the Enlightenment. However, if that is not your cup of tea, or you want to read mostly literary works, you may find yourself occasionally frustrated.
If you're wondering how this class works with respect to French vs English, lectures are all in English. If you're in the English section then everything else is, too. In the French section, you have to speak french during section, but can essentially choose to read and write in either English or French.
Really good class, very enjoyable and rewarding without being too trying.
If you're looking for an Ethical Reasoning course and are interested in the Enlightenment era philosophers, this is a great choice. However, it is definitely very challenging, and you would benefit a great deal from having a background in philosophy. If you're looking for a French citation credit, know that you'll only receive half of one credit, even if you enroll in the French section.
I wish I'd taken it in French, but then I would have had to wait a few semesters. Some of the texts are really obscure and some are pretty dry, but it's a great class that introduces you to the complexities of the French Enlightenment. I wish it had covered some of the more philosophical aspects in greater depth, but the readings were still really really interesting!
The reading material is great, and lectures are dynamic and interactive!
Christie McDonald was amazing and if this turns out to be the last class she teaches (for the sake of the world, I selfishly hope not) I consider myself honored to have been it.
Unless something on the course guide changes, I would tell people that lecture is in English, readings are also available in English, and you have the option to write in either French or English
This class provides an interesting outlook on ethical questions through a wide array of different works, both literary, essayistic and philosophical.
This class is simply amazing--the teaching staff are very committed to making the material accessible and engaging, and the lectures and sections are uniformly great. Some of the readings are more difficult/lengthier than others, but that's hardly a significant criticism--overall, a fabulous way to fulfill your Ethical Reasoning requirement, or just learn more about 18th century French literature.
It's such a good class. Great way to fulfill ER.
FR139 is a great chance to explore ethical dilemmas through French literature written during the Enlightenment. It's a great exploration of multiple forms of texts (plays, fiction, etc.) Come to class prepared to discuss.
Students who have a passion for reading eighteenth-century French literature and discussing ethical issues that arose during the Enlightenment would enjoy this course the most.
A lot of this class went over my head. I thought there would be more of an integration with modern issues, but most of this was just implied. I think it was valuable to read these texts and be familiar with these influential authors.
