A truly great French class. Andreaa Marculescu is knowledgeable and kind. She is enthusiastic about the material and goes to great lengths to present students with a breadth of resources. She incorporates historical context, as well as visual (art, video, etc) into her lectures.
This class has the potential to be really enjoyable- the material is fun and interesting-  but there are definitely a lot of kinks to be worked out after the first year. In many instances, the teacher seemed unsure of how to conduct section (discussion) vs a lecture, and where to strike this balance. This may have been because the class was hesitant to participate, but also I think the teacher had trouble initiating discussion, rather than just imparting the given knowledge of the corpus. This was slightly frustrating to encounter in a literature class.
You'll get the chance to cover a lot of great plays in this class, but hardly any opportunities to talk about them. This course is lecture-based in a way most French classes aren't, and it's frustrating to see your conversational French get far worse while you're taking a class that should be improving it.
The class is interesting as you get to read interesting works in class and perform them. We also watched Mary Antoinette at LOEB, which was awesome! I really enjoyed writing a play review. I wish we could attend more plays.
This course has the potential to be wonderful, but is not yet. If you want to speak French and discuss pieces of French theater, this is not the course for you.
This class is pretty easy, except for the fact that it's conducted almost entirely in French.
The opportunity to read French literature is amazing.  Andreea is wonderfully humorous and developed a wonderful arc for the world of French theater.
Be prepared for a ton of reading, but be prepared to enjoy it. The selected plays are an excellent mix of humorous and thought-provoking.
This course was very great and Andreea is a wonderful professor.  Come to class with plenty of enthusiasm and you will find yourself getting a lot out of this class and having an overall pleasant experience throughout the semester.
