Professor Bouju is fantastic! He is willing to accommodate those with varying degrees of familiarity with French and truly interested in teaching each student. He is very, very smart and knows what he is doing with the texts. An amazing class
I learned so much from this class. Both my spoken and written French have improved immensely, and I have learned new ways to think about literature.
Professor Bouju is fantastic and I would highly recommend studying with him. While I didn't realize at first that I had signed up for a course on WWII/post-war literature from the title "memory and imagination," he made the texts engaging and the class environment supportive. The assignments were perfectly reasonable and he was flexible about deadlines. He also provided feedback very quickly. Enjoy the creative writing assignments!
A chance to read some great books and to hear from a knowledgeable contemporary literature scholar
If you are interested in reading and thinking deeply about a lot of extraordinary works of French literature about the holocaust and the Nazi occupation of France, then this is a fantastic class for you. If that sounds too grim or difficult for you, I might suggest looking for something else.
This class takes time to do well in! Give yourself the space to really do the readings.
Professor Bouju is one of the best Professors you will ever encounter. His priorities are the students' growth and improvement and to provide a broad understanding of the topic. He is understanding and also very demanding, and you will come away from the course having read an incredible list of books, with knowledge of a wide array of authors, as well as an entire era of history, and with a whole new level of ability as a writer.
If you should have the luck to take this class, you will engage with some great books and some really interesting ideas/concepts. You will also learn a lot about the french vs. american university system from Prof. Bouju, who is one of the great rare teachers who really, above all, wants his students to learn.
The readings are thought-provoking and carefully chosen; it's a great overview of many crucial authors and works centered coherently around the theme of memory. Bouju is a meticulous, but extremely fair, grader.
The readings are dense, but really interesting. Bouju is an excellent professor and has extensive knowledge about the texts and contexts. I would definitely take another course he teaches.
