Do the readings; they are worth it. Take this class if you're mainly motivated by exploring your thoughts on the religion/science interface, not just getting credit.
Loved this class. The readings were super interesting, and the discussion was usually really engaging. Papers were on the enjoyable side as well. Dr. Ellison is really nice and gives great feedback on written work.
This is perhaps the best course I have taken at Harvard. Regardless of your religious/non-religious background, this course will push the boundaries of your mind, will make you reconsider why you believe in what you believe in, why you don't believe in what you don't believe in, and how we as a species have gotten here. Extremely relevant given the place religion has nowadays on the world's politics and wars. I recommend this course without a doubt and with extreme enthusiasm.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. Prof. Ellison is amazing and knows how to generate amazing conversations. He truly lets students take over the conversation and he pushes us to think deeper. You must take this class if you can!!! It's the class at Harvard that's most effected my daily thoughts and how I perceive my beliefs and the world around me. TAKE IT!
Great place to talk about a taboo topic.
This class is amazing. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, and I don't anticipate that will change. The in-class discussions are incredibly engaging and thought provoking, and the readings are always well rounded in terms of the different opinions on each of the core arguments presented.
Make sure you have at least somewhat of a background on the course topic, and then you will get the most out of this class.
This class and Peter Ellison are amazing. I have truly been pushed outside of my comfort zone at Harvard in here and I couldn't be happier about it. I feel as if I've learned so much about myself in a very academic setting.
This is an amazing course.  Professor Ellison holds great discussions with the class.  I can honestly say I learned an incredible amount about the course material as well as my own opinions.  I would encourage people to take this class if they've ever had a serious thought about where their beliefs are on this subject.  Also, the readings are manageable and the assignments are not overwhelming.  The core of the class is truly the discussions, so bring yourself ready to talk, and you will enjoy the class immensely.
This is a fantastic class. Professor Ellison has designed it perfectly so that everything you do has a purpose, so you never feel like you're doing any busy work. The readings are really worthwhile. Take this class!
This course is great. Be sure to come into each discussion with an open mind to get the most out of the material.
This class is designed to challenge and refine the ideas about evolution and religion that students bring into it. The readings are mostly interesting and reasonable in length and through the discussion in this class I was able to evaluate not just the ideas of the authors but also my own ideas.
This class was so amazing! You definitely get out what you put in, so doing the readings and engaging in discussion makes it so much more meaningful. It's a great space for challenging one's assumptions about various religions and their relationships with evolution (and science in general). Dr. Ellison is so rad, and I learned a ton about others' and my own feelings/thoughts through reading and discussing the course material.
This course is a total gem.  It is a very interesting topic to consider from an academic viewpoint, and the class really challenges you to think on a personal level as well.  Highly recommended for students of all concentrations, as it is really not a biology class, it is an entirely reading and discussion based seminar.  Having three papers may seem intimidating, but they are super short and you have a lot of flexibility with them, so they can end up being a lot of fun.  Overall, a highly recommended course!
i thought this was a great course! It challenged me to think critically about my beliefs regarding religion and evolution, and gave me the opportunity to peacefully discuss this with my peers.
If this class is ever offered again with Peter Ellison TAKE IT. It is probably the best class I have taken at Harvard so far in 5 semesters. At a personal level, it forced me to reconsider my own views of religion and at an academic level, to really think critically about all sides of the debates about religion and evolution. The format of the class is very flexible, we talked about whatever we wanted to each week, and the reading material is fascinating. Prof. Ellison is an amazingly thoughtful person, always guiding our discussion in really thought-provoking directions while never imposing any particular viewpoint on us. There are only three relatively short papers that are very interesting to write. Highly recommend this class whether you are an HEB concentrator or just someone who is interested in examining the intersection between science and religion.
