Professor Tuross was an awesome professor who really worked to teach us, not just test us on what we knew or what we could get out of the assigned readings. She helped us to write more effective papers and dissect readings properly. Having a small class size really fostered helpful discussion. The workload was also very manageable.
If you're super interested in human migration and want to explore it through an archaeological/ genetic lens, then take this class. Otherwise, save your slot for something else.
Very interesting topic, engaging professor, great discussions during class (and often with food!)  Plus we all had the opportunity to choose to get results from 23andMe, funded by Harvard!  Very cool course to take!
Look forward to discussion your migration story and many different aspects that may have affected it.
This was one of my favorite HEB classes that I have taken. I enjoyed the small class size, the flexibility of our assignments, and getting to know our classmates better through the personal migration stories. You should definitely take it!
Take this class! The readings can be a little challenging, but having the opportunity to really engage with and critique them is fantastic.  Professor Tuross facilitates excellent discussions and is extremely knowledgeable about the subject matter. The Personal Migration Story was also one of the most enjoyable and rewarding projects I have done at Harvard. Overall, the class is a unique experience that you do not want to miss, especially if you are HEB.
Great class! Highly recommend! Your critical reading and thinking skills will dramatically improve.
Wonderful course that has interesting material, an engaging professor and a cool discussion like environment. I found the course to be very easy in terms of work load and its a great way to fulfill the junior seminar portion for HEB concentrators. Also only meets for 2 hours a week!!!!
Great course! Small class size so lots of direct discussion with each other and Professor Tuross. She is brilliant and so much fun to talk with. Loved that assignments are focused on general skills that will be applicable throughout life. Totally worth it!
This is an excellent course with a wonderful professor. I would highly recommend you take this course if you have interest in genomics and human origins.
This class is absolutely amazing. Easily one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Professor Tuross is unbelievably smart and really kind. She genuinely cares about each and every student in the class. I really looked forward to going to the class every week. If you are at all interested in human migration, definitely take the class! You learn so much that is highly applicable not only to HEB, but to an understanding of how the world came to be the way it is. Highly, highly, highly recommend.
Migration story project and doing 23andme were very interesting! Light workload that consists of readings, occasionally leading parts of class discussion, and short written assignments. Readings are pretty dense and cover all aspects of migration from physiology, genetics, to our human ancestors. There is a final oral exam or final paper option.
Take this class! It was a great class with an amazing teacher. You won't regret it!
It's interesting, and Professor Tuross will teach you to be *very* good at reading papers carefully. And the family research project is plenty of fun. Heartily recommended.
This is a fantastic class! The readings are all manageable and the few assignments given help you not only understand migration, but teach you how to write short papers or give short presentations in all fields. Take this class!
This is the best HEB class I've taken. I looked forward to class every week. The Family Migration project was a highlight of my Harvard coursework. Dr. Tuross is a gem of a professor. It is certainly a class worth taking.
I would highly recommend this course to HEB upperclassmen. It's a fairly technical course that could be difficult for an underclassman. Also a solid background in HEB genetics, behavior and evolution would allow a student to make the most of the class. It's a fascinating course about the deep history of the human species. We are not and have never been a static species. It was consistently interesting to both learn about historic migrations that occurred 10 or 30 or 100 thousand years ago, and then to compare those migration factors and evidence to that in much more recent times. Hearing classmates's migration stories was probably the most interesting class day we had.
This class was an excellent way to discuss human migration both from a genetics and human narrative. The final family migration project was so much fun to do because it allowed you to explore your our family history and learn about others in your class, which was an incredible opportunity. The class is very relaxed and the seminar component allows you to talk about the papers you read very closely. I learned so much about human genetics and the laboratory methods used to do this type of research. The assigned papers are not difficult to produce and although Professor Tuross is critical of your writing it only helps you improve throughout the semester. I suggest anyone who is remotely interested in human migration and genetics to take this class, especially if you are looking to have a Professor that genuinely loves teaching.
This class could be retitled "Human migrations via genetics," so if that's what you're expecting then definitely take it. Also, the ancestry/migration projects were all awesome and incredibly interesting.
Professor Tuross is one of the smartest and funniest professors I've had at Harvard. She is extremely accommodating and kind and even brought us snacks every class! If you have any interest at all in learning about human migration, this is the class for you. The material is presented in an easy manner to comprehend yet you feel as though you've learned an incredible amount of genetics by the end of the semester. The class presentations were the highlight of the course and really allowed the class to become closer and more engaging. Take this class. You will absolutely love it.
TAKE IT!!!!! IT WAS AWESOME!!
This course will give you a a sound understanding of human distribution across the globe from the lens of migration. It is incredible was you can learn about human populations from their genetics and the pull and push factors that influenced their migration storys.
Great course!  Dr. Tuross is very friendly and passionate about the topic.  Also, the material is interesting and the amount of course work is just enough to still enjoy the class while also still learning about the topic.
This class was really interesting, and didn't over-load students with work.  Every week, there were readings and a pre-class assignment, and two additional papers.  The final presentations were so interesting, and fun to research.  If you think that you might be interested in the subject matter, definitely take this course.
The genetics stuff gets a little boring but it's necessary to understand the roots of migration.  The final presentations are super interesting and professor Tuross is the best.  She's really funny and friendly and knowledgeable.  Her sarcasm is also great.
Interesting material, engaging professor, and fair assignments. I took this course to fulfill HEB requirements, although this course could have been counted for other concentrations as well. One word of caution is that the course this year was genetics heavy - and the readings could get overwhelming at times.
Professor Tuross is the professor you dream to have in college. Very brilliant and confident. Knows a lot about evolutionary biology and great to engage with. Cares tremendously about her students.
This class is overall pretty chill. Skim the readings each week, make sure you contribute to discussion, and you will be fine. The multiple choice on the midterm was pretty tricky.
You end up learning a lot in the class, but it's very ambiguous how you are graded and there isn't a lot of structure to the class which is new for most Harvard students and challenging.
Any class taught by Tuross and Reynard I would recommend. This class was really awesome from an evolutionary standpoint in looking at human dispersal out of Africa, but also really cool to see how modern human migration can also be studied. The material is relevant for studying the past and the future, and that's pretty cool. Weekly readings are lowkey, and there's nothing but the midterm, presentation, and final, so overall pretty chill.
this is a fantastic course and Professor Tuross explains the material well, with great enthusiasm and humor.
This class is very interesting and has very recent readings applicable to human migration. The course is very broad but the first half is primarily genetics.
This class is a good balance of interesting material and relatively low workload. Professor Tuross is very knowledgeable and cares about her students. Would recommend!
