Really cool material and a unique perspective on the world. Recommend it for anyone who likes the idea of game theory but finds some of its traditional applications e.g. in economics a tad trite. Beware that the course staff are quite laid back about the logistics - which means that there are sometimes holes in the psets or uneven deadlines, but also that they are very flexible and reasonable about stuff.
This course is kinda 50/50. The professors and material are super cool, and you'll learn a lot, but the course itself was kind of all over the place. For instance, they seemed really laid back, but then graded psets super hard (it was also difficult to get feedback on them at times). Also they were very relaxed with deadlines, which was great if you took advantage of that, but very unfair for people who worked t turn things in on time. The final paper was very fun to work on, and again the teaching staff for this course is incredible, it just needs a bit more organization.
This was the worst class I have ever taken at Harvard. It wasn't even a class.
I don't even know where to begin with everything that went wrong with this class. It is by far THE MOST unorganized class I have taken and will ever take at Harvard. The material itself has so much potential to be interesting but the way it was presented in every aspect made me absolutely hate my experience. First of all, the professors were SO absent throughout the entire course. My questions about PSETs were always redirected to a person that was hired outside of Harvard to help on PSETs, and to this day I have yet to receive a response to some of my emails. I finished this class and have only received ONE grade back. Which leads me to my next point - the level of disorganization is beyond that I've ever witnessed. We were told we would have five PSETS THROUGHOUT the course, and so I planned for this but it turns out they were all crammed into the second half of the class, and IN ADDITION, received a sixth PSET during reading period on top of the project we already had. This project was also never fully explained and left so many questions unanswered that everyone sort of had to make up their own guidelines for it. It is so disheartening to have to go through an entire semester without having any idea of the grade you have in a class, feeling like the professors don't even care about your concerns. This class was both a waste of time and of the money that Harvard gives me to pay for tuition.
do psets with a partner
This class teaches very interesting concepts, but could have been executed much better. In further iterations, when the teaching and assignments have been improved, it could be a great class.
Its definitely an awesome class and you learn a lot about why humans act the way they do or why we have certain beliefs about things. If you have the opportunity to take this course for a concentration credit than I would a 100 percent take it. Its somewhat challenging, especially as an athlete that doesnt have that much time in season but definitely worth it.
Unless you have a signed statement by professors AND the department to totally reform this course, STAY AS FAR AWAY FROM IT AS POSSIBLE.  Or sit in on a public lecture given by the courseheads, since they are brilliant minds with a cool concept.  This is NOT WORTH SCREWING UP YOUR ENTIRE SEMESTER FOR.
This is possibly the most interesting course I have ever taken and it will change the way you look at the world. At the same time, the assignments require a lot of math that the lectures do not prepare you for so be warned that you really will need a math background. If you have that background though PLEASE take this course because it is fascinating and the professors are the coolest ever.
Really interesting material, but not the most organized class.
This is a wonderful course that will make you think differently about the world around you, but it requires either a math background or a few extra hours each week for the pset.
The teachers made the material of the class relevant, interesting, and graspable. I left the class feeling like I could both look at the world using the tools I gained through this class while also feeling like I could contribute to the field of game theory and social behavior. This class and its assignments were not very streamlined--I didn't mind, but a lot of other students had trouble without clear expectations and due dates. Overall, though, TAKE THIS CLASS. The profs are only teaching it because they want to spread this information to capable people, and they make a point to be available outside of class to chat about it. They're not forced to teach classes; they want to.
Problem sets started being assigned after add/drop period and the work just piled up. It was super super super disorganized so unless you yourself are able to keep on top of work with your own deadlines, I don't recommend this class with enthusiasm. They essentially gave us no deadlines and still expect everything do be turned in on the literal last possible day, which gets stressful. Expectations for the work are not clearly sets, presentations are interesting, though not immediately helpful for psets and generally you need to be super independent in learning to do well. It's unclear up until after the semester ends what the grading will be like.
The material in this class in wonderful, and the teaching staff is great. My only reservation was that the course did not have a very structured, ordered nature, so this course is not ideal for someone who requires a lot of organization. I would recommend this course for anyone who has an interest in game theory, as this is a great overview of the different findings and the models used in the field. The professors are also always available to discuss the course or related topics, which is really wonderful and yields fascinating discussions.
This course is pretty disorganized, so make sure to stay on top of everything and not miss a note.
This course is amazing. it changed the way i thought about the world. A beautiful intersection of biology, human behavior and game theory. I gained so much from the brilliant and passionate professors. All of the course staff are incredibly intelligent and interested in teaching. The concepts will sharpen your logical process and improve your problem solving skills. However beyond the content, which is amazing, the course has some drawbacks. The problem sets are very long and hard, requiring prior math knowledge or at least very strong math intuition.You can complete these psets in groups so if you have some friends that are good at math they can help you understand. The course is also still defining itself. The timing and structure could be improved on. As with many classes here, you get out of it what you put into it. If you embrace the topics and have an open mind this class can change your life, if you are just going through the motions you will be miserable.
Don't take this class. The material is amazing. The professors are really interested in engaging with students and learning from them. The lectures are interesting and will make you think about the world in totally new ways. Game theory is a really powerful tool and it's fun to learn how to use it. BUT DON'T TAKE THIS CLASS. The amount of stress and confusion it will cause you is so not worth it. Unless you know you really like doing math that no one has showed you how to do before, or you don't mind really poorly run classes, you will hate this course. You will go back and forth between loving the material and hating how you are expected to show mastery of the material. Problem sets are brutal and they never gave grades back. All of the course policies (on late work, collaboration, how assignments are created) are undefined and problem sets can and will pop out of nowhere, sometimes with lots of typos that never get resolved.The teaching staff are nice people. But the class is hell.
Interesting material, terribly run course
Avoid this class at all costs. It seems great for the first few weeks, but then it becomes mayhem around week 7. Assignments are so irregular it's difficult to plan out, and it ruins you for other classes too. Do yourself a favor and don't even bother shopping it. Lectures are so inconsistent, and often consists of the lecturers rambling for one hour. This class was brought over from MIT, but runs like it's never been taught before, and you're expected to have an MIT background in math. I was excited when I saw that the premise of this course was to look at evolution/behavior through game theory, but was severely disappointed. This class makes you feel dumb, since the faculty/teaching staff are too oblivious of their shortcomings to help. When you ask a question, you encounter a rude reply, as if you are being talked down to. I feel bad that my financial aid had to go towards me taking this course.
