Professor Pilbeam and Kristi are wonderful. The class structure, however, is very laid back possibly giving a false sense of performance.
I'm surprised a class on this material isn't required in HEB. The work in this class is very self-motivated, but you also get to work in groups for the three projects and presentations. This was a fun course overall. I was pushed to work harder and I learned a lot more about the topics with the approach chosen by the course instructors. Take this course if you like being creative with evolutionary theory and paleontological evidence and aren't afraid of not coming up with the correct answer to ongoing questions in human evolution.
This class allows you freedom in exploring hominin topics that may interest you.  It also helps you practice your research techniques, and I felt like  I came out of this class a lot more comfortable with giving group presentations on scientific subject matter.  The teachers, while they do not do a lot of structured teaching, are definitely available and they want to help you.  I would definitely recommend this class to those interested in hominins.
This was a great personalized curriculum, where you can concentrate on specific areas of human ancestral species that interest you. However, it is a little difficult to manage the research and work in groups and with the timing of the semester.
A well taught course that provide an in-depth analysis of human evolution that most concentrators probably don't get to experience.
If you're HEB, definitely take this course!  Professor Pilbeam and Kristi are the best instructors you will ever have!  The three group projects really teach you about the complexity of the HEB field since you are examining key questions that are still debated to this day!  Definitely take this class!
Super unexpectedly harsh grading, and barely any structure to the course. Get ready to just look for articles online for hours.
This is an amazing teaching duo. Pilbeam is a tried a true leader in the field and is extremely smart, nice, and funny. Dr. Lewton is unbelievably smart and well versed in the field as well, and really is easy to learn from. They create a minimal stress environment, and let you take the material in whatever way you want. As long as you are a hard worker and dont take the opportunity to explore on your own lightly, then you will love this class.
It's tough having your grade based solely on the final project, but as far as an evolution requirement goes, this is a great way to really learn the fossil record information. The style of the class (project based) makes sure you really learn the details and the controversies in the field. And the information sticks.
Professor Pilbeam is really fun and knowledgeable, and working with him and with other students in this project-based is generally enjoyable. You can make opportunities for yourself to explore Harvard's fossil or primate skeleton collections, which I think is pretty unique. The self-guided nature of the course means that you will learn as much as you put into this course.
