This course was a pleasure to take because of Richard Wrangham. He is so incredibly knowledgeable, insightful, and supportive. I worked with him on my research paper and he helped me become a better critical thinker, evolutionary biologist, and student. The subject material is very interesting, and it only helps that you have one of the highest regarded professors facilitating class discussions every week. The one regret I have about taking this class is that Carole Hooven co-taught it...
This class will really shape the way you look at the intersection of the sociological and biological. Carole and Richard have very teaching styles and philosophies, and you'll learn a lot from both approaches.
Great class but I found that at times it was hard for the instructors to answer points of confusion for students. Overall they did a great job.
This was an enjoyable class that went very in depth on a particular subject. I highly recommend engaging with the professors outside of the class, it will make subject material and class experience more meaningful. It's not too much work. The end of the semester is a heavier workload due to the final research paper. Sometimes class moved slowly, but overall I'm happy I took it.
This class is very interesting in terms of subject matter, drawing on fields such as anthropology, sociology, psychology and of course evolutionary biology and is often very relevant to life. You get to write a long research paper in the end with extensive feedback from the instructors which is very helpful in terms of synthesizing what you have learned and producing a piece of original work on a topic of your choice.
Fascinating and applicable subject matter. Carole and Richard are brilliant!
This is a new class and as such is still defining itself. For example it is still trying to strike a balance between lecture and discussion section. Dr. Wrangham is amazing and any class he teachers is worth taking. Don't worry about talking in class as this is only a tiny percent of your overall grade. Get to know both professors because they are good people with lots of knowledge to impart.
This class is great. It created an open space for students and professors to discuss some really contentious issues through the lens of HEB. We constantly took a step back from theory to discuss real-world implications and how policy can be guided by the scientific community. Overall, it was a fun and engaging course.
This class will make you think not only about aggression, but everything related to it
