This course will truly give you a sense of the biological underpinnings that make us human.
This is a really great class, but it's not easy. You need to really pay attention in lecture to do well. Tanya and Kristi are great, and really want to help make sure you understand the material. You learn a lot about a lot of different species, which is really cool. Definitely make charts and flashcards to keep track of everything. Definitely one of the best human origin/anatomy HEB classes I've taken.  Even though it's challenging, you learn A LOT!
If you are an HEB concentrator, take this course early in your concentration. It is certainly more difficult than other HEB courses, but it gives you an invaluable sense of the hominin lineage that will greatly enhance your understanding and appreciation of your other courses. I wish I took this course sooner (and NOT senior spring).If you are not an HEB concentrator and have only a moderate interest in the minute details of all the hominin fossils and sites, DO NOT TAKE this course. It is very detail-oriented.
Prof Smith and Lewis make a rather boring and dull class about fossils, fun and engaging. It is a hard course and previous experience with human anatomy is a great help. You learn all about hominins after this class.
One of the best classes I've ever taken. I'm sure I bored my non-HEB friends with the details of this class. But how interesting are bones, teeth and Neanderthals?
Great look into the human evolutionary past
No prior knowledge is strictly necessary for this course. Be prepared to do a lot of work, but I promise you, this class is worth it.
Before you take this class, make sure you're actually interested in human evolution (and detailed skeletal anatomy).  That being said, this is one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard so far!
While this class is challenging, the knowledge gained is well worth the effort. Drs. Smith and Lewton are invested in you doing well, but also learning the complexities of our human lineage.
This is a great introduction into human ancestry, from apes to modern homo sapiens. Be warned that there is *a lot* of information to memorize so the exams can be quite difficult and the course can get tedious at times. Still, this course gives a great overview of human evolution and the (frustrating) field of anthropology. This course is well structured and designed and the instructors, Tanya and Kristi, are clearly very competent, passionate, and knowledgeable about the material. They're also great and accessible instructors!
Go to lecture.  Lab is fantastic.  Professor Smith and Dr. Lewton are both fantastic resources and very willing to meet!
Lecture is great (though hour and half can be kind of long...)and lab is fun and interactive. Lab quizzes are painless but the exams are hard. Do your reading!!!
