This class does not have a lot of reading, but I would recommend reading it multiple times (and maybe even doing some supplementary reading on your own) to be able to effectively engage in the class discussion.
Professor Hinde is great -- she comes across as super intense but is very helpful and funny. She grades very fairly. Do the readings and come to seminar with things to talk about from the readings. You get to pick the topics for most of the assignments, which makes them fun and interesting to do but don't put them off until the last minute. If you put in the work, it will be reflected in your grade! This class was worth it!
This is a fantastic class. Readings and discussion are very interesting and you will learn A LOT. Just be warned that non-human primates, not humans, are the focus of this class, which may sway your interest level one way or another.
Excellent class - I highly recommend!
Katie is a wonderful professor, and Building Babies is an interesting and relevant course for anyone interested in why babies are created the way they are (everyone should be!). The assignments are useful, discussion is fun, and it was a really enjoyable course overall. Was a great way to fulfill the junior research requirement. I feel like I have a much better understanding about how HEB research is carried out and the types of questions that HEB people are interested in asking.
It was a really great course, but you need to be willing to invest A LOT of time into doing the readings.
Spend time to do the reading and wrote good response papers. also, she MEANS it about the acronyms.
Phenomenal class. Hinde is a great lecturer and the subject matter is terrificly fascinating. Assignments also challenge you to think, but are not difficult, and the course is very manageable.
This class is extremely accessible for everyone, even if you're not an HEB concentrator. It also has real world applicability and is not at all difficult.
This is a fantastic course. If you're looking for a class that you can just go to lecture and enjoy the material and learn without a ton of pressure this is a wonderful choice. Katie is a great lecturer and you can get a ton out of it if you want.
If you are thinking about concentrating in HEB and are interested in life history, ecology, energetics, or babies and reproduction, definitely take this class! It's very focused on primates mothers and the sort of trade-offs they have to go through while reproducing. It covers a lot of interesting topics and you will end up learning a lot!
If you love babies or development, take this course. It's a great mixture of primate and human biology. There are many details of early childhood that get disregarded, but are actually very important. This course does a great job of highlighting components of development. It's phenomenal.
An easy and enjoyable course! You will learn so much about mothers' milk and realize how important mother-infant interactions are!
This course is highly, highly recommended! Although the course was taught for the first time, the it was well-organized and lectures were enjoyable. I learned a lot through this course!
Professor Hinde is fantastic! She is no-nonsense and gets to the point without trying to trick you or make things unnecessarily hard. The readings are short and interesting. The workload is light but you still learn a ton! Take this class if you like evolutionary theory and baby animals.
It's interesting, useful knowledge about primate and human development.
If you are interested in development and evolutions role in development this is a great class to take. The lectures are dynamic and the assignments allow you to express your opinion and ask questions with a lot of freedom. Definitely get to know Professor Hinde. I didn't take that opportunity and I regret it, as she is a great instructor.
This was a great course. The information was interesting and the professor was engaging. HEB concentrators and those interested in development will enjoy this course!
Katie is by far one of the best professors Harvard has to offer! She is passionate about everything she does and you learn something new every class just by being around her. She also really allows you to tailor the assignments to your interests, whether it be human health or chimpanzees, etc. She re-designed the assignments from the last time she taught this to front-load them and it was very helpful. Absolutely jump at the chance to take this!
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Even if you have never taken an HEB course before, but still think the material looks interesting, you should take it.
This class handles extremely interesting material that is going to make you reconsider what it actually takes to build a baby (hint: it is much more than a healthy pregnant body!). The class is also the perfect number of students such that it gives an intimate feel but is not too overwhelming that you have to be speaking all the time. Prof. Hinde is a gifted teacher, and the assignments truly are useful and valuable work, rather than busy work that helps no one. Some basic HEB knowledge is highly helpful. Previous anatomy/physiology would help a lot too, but is not absolutely necessary (I didn't have any background and generally did more than just fine, and Prof. Hinde is always available to explain extra stuff if you feel behind). Important: if you plan to go to Med school/work in public health, you should take this class. It really teaches you a lot about what we should be focusing on in terms of clinical and public health, surrounding pregnancy, stress, parenting, and other fields.
Take it. It's awesome! This course is for anyone who is even moderately interested in human development.
