If you can, TAKE THIS COURSE. Judith is one of the best professors I have had at Harvard - she is smart, tough, kind, and caring, and she REALLY wants you to learn. If you take this course, you will come away with a better understanding of how stress and trauma effect the body and health and will also work on your public speaking and writing skills. Another plus - the small class really promotes bonding, and you will likely make some friends throughout the semester!
I adored this class so much. If you're at all interested in trauma, biology, emotion, stories, or pretty much just humans in general, and if you're willing to really buy in, this is the class for you. It's highly accessible to all concentrators -- would just warn that it's not a gut class. Yes, you meditate, but in order to do well on the weekly quizzes (35% of your grade), you have to do the sizable amounts of reading really thoroughly (and even then, they're tough). That said, TOTALLY worth it, and Judith is the warmest, loveliest human to grace the earth since who even knows when. She has a fantastic knowledge base and will teach you things that will serve you for your whole life in a way that will really stick.
It was simply my favorite course of undergrad. Good luck on the lottery! :)
The class can really change your perception of people around you. You will understand people's reactions to difficult situations in a new light, and it can make you much more empathetic. Judith is great, very passionate about the material. Lots of "hands on" learning is both fun and enriching.
This course will change the way you navigate our modern environment and probably add a few years to your life in the process! You will be challenged to think deeply about yourself and try things that may feel uncomfortable at first (i.e. laughter yoga), but it is so worth it by the end!
This class is an amazing seminar. Everyone in the room is really engaged and excited about the material.
Judith is incredible and this has been my favorite class I've ever taken at Harvard. The course teaches you so much about stress and how it affects your body, and shows you better ways to deal with it and understand its causes. No matter what you're planning on doing with your life, stress will inevitably be a part of it, and this class can teach you a lot to help you be better prepared for it!
The subject matter of this course is incredibly unique. It's rare that Harvard students have the opportunity to delve deeply into the causes, manifestations, and effects of stress. I believe that doing so is necessary because of the incredibly high stress and often intense academic and achievement-driven nature of this campus, and I encourage you to take this class!
I would definitely take this class again. Judith is great. The course material is directly relevant (sometimes too relevant!) to the stresses of living as a student and a son. At some points I felt triggered by the material: issues with home life, parents, friends, significant others were raised and evaluated, and I felt myself re-experiencing some of those traumas. In the end, though, I think it was healthy to examine my life in this context, and I hope I emerged from the course a more attuned, psychologically healthy, and socially sound individual.
This class changed my life, honestly. I took it as a senior in the spring, not expecting too much from a class at this point in my academic work, but I was so wrong. The multidisciplinary approach to the class made it feel enjoyable in a way that it didn't alway feel like class. Our group was small, and I have never been drawn so close to other classmates particularly through class. Judith is an amazing professor, willing to give intense personal feedback. If you are willing to put in the work, she wants you to succeed.
Amazing class that will change your life. Take it if you can!
This class was absolutely amazing: probably the most useful, interesting class I've taken at Harvard. I genuinely looked forward to attending class every week. Judith did an excellent job of integrating the readings with practical, hands-on teaching (meditation, yoga, listening and communication techniques). I have actually been able to apply what I learn in class in my daily life, which is something that you rarely see at Harvard. I felt like I learned so much about stress, stress management, and human nature in general. Also, everyone in the class was so open to sharing their feelings and reactions, and to experiencing new things with a positive attitude. The small size (7 people) was ideal and facilitated great discussions. 10/10, would recommend.
This class requires a lot of time reading and memorizing books. Don't take this class if you are looking for a stimulating, scientific course. It can be frustrating memorizing material you think is incorrect. It is a nice, enjoyable class but lacking in intellectual discussions.
Take this course if you enjoy activity-based learning! Judith provides wonderful feedback over the course of the semester.
I definitely learned a lot from this class, however, it will not be your highest grade, unless you are extremely good at memorization.
I LOVED the course, but as much as you put in is what you will get out. It is a lot of reading every week if you want to do well on the quizzes. If you are passionate about the course and prioritize the reading, you learn so much! Judith is very open and understanding of your needs as a student. ASK her for feedback on drafts of papers!!!
You will read some really interesting books in the course and learn a lot about the stress response and coping strategies. You will also learn concrete tips for public speaking, as well as gain practice presenting in front of your classmates and being evaluated by your peers. This class was challenging at every point, but I think it really helped me develop confidence and familiarity with my public speaking, and turned a weakness into a strength.
This course is awesome, but it is a TON of reading. You're expected to read and remember tiny details from ~150 pages for a weekly quiz. If you have a heavy course load, I would not take this class unless the amount of reading is lessened.
This class is really great - you get to learn so much about the stress response (so many things I never knew! but some I wish I didn't know, because now I'm stressing about them - how ironic) as well as work on your public speaking and discussion skills. This course is awesome not only for the great material and opportunity to interact with peers in a small course but also because it actually helps you with life skills!! STRONGLY RECOMMEND!
This class is great! You learn so much about stress and about yourself in surprisingly new ways. The classes are composed of fun activities or presentations so it just feels like you're just having fun all semester. You'll learn a lot about each other and about yourself. Also, Judith is just a genuinely great human being. This is one of the greatest HEB courses (and HEB is one of the greatest concentrations) so definitely try applying!
This is an amazing class in that you will learn a lot reading, but wont necessarily talk about what you read. Still you do a ton of cool stuff in class that is really worth all of the reading and the stress of presenting and taking mini quizzes every week.
TAKE IT ESPECIALLY IF YOU ARE HEB!!! JUDITH IS THE BEST!! SHE REALLY GIVES YOU EXCELLENT FEEDBACK.  READINGS AND DISCUSSION GIVES YOU WHOLE NEW PERSPECTIVE ON STRESS AS A PHYSIOLOGICAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENON.  REALLY INTERESTING. Do have to do work but it's all great, only a couple of quizzes but response paper and final presentation and paper are fun!
Dean Chapman (we liked to call her Judith) is a wonderful professor who cares about giving her students individual attention. She gives excellent feedback on assignments and presentations. She is always giving students that extra push to do their best. Her quizzes are difficult, but curved. In the end, one learns a great deal of information and takes on a new perspective on how to manage their life.
I really loved this class.  The material was really interesting, both intellectually and personally and the in-class discussions were phenomenal.  If you're looking for a class that connects academics and learning about how to live a healthy life, this couse is for you.  Judith is fantastic- she gives great feedback and is very friendly.  The only downside to this class is that the work is quite variable- for weeks with the presentation, essay, or lots of reading, I could have over 10 hours of work, and for others maybe an hour.  Good time management is all you need for that not be a problem.  In general, I would definitely recommend this course- it's been one of my very favorite classes.
The material in this class is really interesting, and you will get to know your professors and classmates well. It's about evolutionary biology, but you really learn a lot of things that relate to your own life! This class can also be really good for your discussion and public speaking skills, but if you strongly dislike either one of those things, this is not the class for you! Unless you really want to improve.
This is the first time that the class was offered so it might change in the future. A couple of things will remain the same: Judith will always be a very enthusiastic lecturer. The material will always be important - you'll learn things about stress that you would never have imagined.
The things you learn about public speaking are SO APPLICABLE and relevant to real life! After learning about public speaking skills and being cognizant of your own habits, you will always be attuned to your own skills as well as the bad habits of others.... Also, Judith is a real asset to the class because she is so enthusiastic and helpful.
Take it. You'll regret it if you don't.
The emphasis on developing good public speaking is a great life skill no matter the field someone goes into.  It will point out what you do well, and what you need to work on are compensate for.  The final essay assignment is a hardcore demonstration of what higher end science writing should look.  The course also emphasizes good time management on the part of the students; you know roughly when all the quizzes are in advance and get to pick the date of your presentation, so a fair portion of control in terms of studying and preparation is completely in your hands.  The quizzes can be hard, but overall the class is quite fair.
