Pretty interesting material. Not too much work - 3 articles a week that will be discussed. One presentation and one final paper. Discussions can get a little tedious but the articles are interesting.
Interesting information, and work is well spread out over the semester, but the instructor can be very intimidating and hard to work with
Take this class! If you're interested in neuroscience and social behavior, this class is a fantastic introduction and a great opportunity to explore the field. As your HEB seminar or a neurobiology elective, this is great--all the work is really rewarding, and it's on the whole very manageable. Professor Hinde is great, really enthusiastic and knowledgeable about the subject matter.
This is a great course for introducing you to the fundamentals of neurobiology and neuroendocrinology through reading and discussion of recent and relevant articles from the scientific literature.
It was an interesting class where students were really at the center of the learning.
The material is really interesting but the discussions could use some work.
Be sure to do your readings and prepare comments or questions to share with the class during discussion. Since it was a seminar course, if you did not do the readings, it became very apparent. Also, pay close attention to the syllabus and ask questions if you are unclear on what to turn in, in terms of assignments. The professor is very detailed-oriented, so every little thing counts (ie page set up, font size).
This is a great way to actually LEARN about the behavioral applications of neurobiology w/o having to worry about exams and such. I think I'll remember stuff from this class much more than from MCB 80 and def more than from OEB 57.
Great topics and a generally engaging class. I wish there was more feedback on the assignments but the assignments were more useful than other classes I've been in.
This seminar was one of my favorite classes that I've taken while at Harvard. The work and the reading is rewarding and fascinating. If you want to learn about why humans interact socially the way we do, then take this course.
Great seminar! Katie gives great feedback on assignments and the midterm was by far the easiest midterm I have ever taken in my 4 years at Harvard. Also talk to Katie during office hours about assignments since the syllabus descriptions of the assignments aren't always clear. but yeah, take this class!
This course was a great opportunity to read about and discuss some really interesting aspects of neurobio and Professor Hinde is great in facilitating discussions and making this material so interesting.
This class is great for those interested in the intersection of HEB, neurobiology and social behavior. The readings are interesting, and Dr. Hinde assigns a reasonable amount of reading per week, leads great discussions and engages everyone in passionate and interesting conversations. The assignments are enjoyable and challenging at the same time. I would absolutely recommend this class, because the material is interesting and the work is fulfilling.
Great class! Professor Hinde is very knowledgeable and personable and the material in the course is really interesting. This class made me feel much more comfortable reading neurobio research papers, which is a useful skill
This course utilized readings on a variety of social topics that led to thought-provoking, enjoyable, civil discussions. The assignments are fun and unique, like an essay on science in the news and a blog post.
