If the structure of the course is changed, I would definitely recommend it. It is very frustrating to have to participate in a 40+ person class. An interest in law and ethics would also be ideal for this course.
take it, but be prepared to be left a little unsatisfied - lots of missed opportunities since the arc of the discussion has passed, lots of stupid comments and useless points raised by classmates, lots of missed slides or material due to aforementioned stupid classmates, and a disconnect between the two fields.
I thought that the class was great and I reall learned a lot. I would say that the one downfall is the grading system because I have no idea what my grade is going to be because even though they gave us a breakdown of what each thing would count for we never actually received grades throughout the year.
I would highly recommend it, mainly because of the interesting subject matter.
the class is very interesting and engaging but be aware the your whole grade is based on one final research paper
If you've ever been interested in a class that's more about changing the way you view the world, than it is about getting the material across, this course is a must. It's hands down one of the top three courses I've taken in my college career.
Some syllabus issues need to be worked out.
I hope they will organize the class a bit better, but the material is really fascinating.
the room is great, the chairs are amazing, and they bring you snacks and drinks (at the law school).  however, what i loved most were the discussions.  At one of the classes, over half the students actually stayed over for an hour to continue the discussion, because we always run out of time!
The class is very interesting and engaging. In fact, it's one of the most important classes you'll take at Harvard. There is a rather large final paper, but in retrospect it was worth writing that paper to be able to take the class.
I LOVED this class! It was really interesting and low stress throughout. Because we had one student taking notes at a time, it was nice to just have the chance to enjoy listening.
This course was, hands down, one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.  I highly recommend it to anyone remotely interested in chimpanzee aggression, domestic violence, women's rights, etc.  The fusion of HEB and Law served to be continually interesting and provoked a number of discussions that have inspired my directions of study in the future.  The professors are also amazing!!!
It's a heavy course in terms of the content, but worth taking, even though at times it can be emotionally and mentally exhausting.
this course combines primates, humans and the law to examine how sexual coercion in propagated in today's society.
