This course is both interesting and well-taught. It does involve a substantial number of smaller assignments, but they are all purposeful and well thought-out.
Both the professor and teaching fellow guide you along the course.
Absolutely loved this class. The format makes it easy to learn the material without making you feel like the class is a burden. Meredith and Alicia care so much about all the students and connect with you on a personal level
The material is birth. It is an ambitious topic and it includes biology, anatomy, change over time and practice. It is covered from a lot of different angles. Some perspectives will be really exiting, due to personal connection/interest/personality and others not so much. Overall though, there is a lot to learn.
I learned a lot of really important and applicable things from this class and would definitely recommend it. Sometimes it was a bit disorienting with so many guest lecturers in a row, but otherwise it was a great class to learn a lot under low pressure.
This class is awesome.  A lot less biology than you expect, but it truly will change the way you view birth.  Definitely one of the most eye-opening classes I've ever taken.  Also not a lot of work--just fun and interesting assignments that are way more "real-life" than repetitive problem sets or midterms.  Low work load, high reward!
So great! Especially if interested in maternal health
This class has nothing to do with evolution after the second week.  There is no way it should be an HEB course.  You can learn much more about birth by reading a "what to expect when you are expecting" book and watching the business of being born.  Save your parents the tuition cost.
This class is awesome! You really get to learn about birth from every angle, with a variety of guest lecturers who come in and share their perspectives!
This class is by far the WORST class I have ever taken in my life. The content is extremely boring and nothing of substance is actually learned about birth. The teaching staff is clearly insecure about the merit of their subject of interest and, consequentially, simple assignments are graded very harshly in order for people to take them more seriously. This is truly the most pathetic course at Harvard. Do yourself a big favor and do not waste your time; you will regret it, as taking this course is definitely a more painful process than child birth itself.
This class is really interesting and much different than any class you will take at Harvard.
Fun class with really great sections and great guest speakers. Really eye-opening.
This class was one of the reasons that I am still pre-med. It really did have a huge impact on my college career. It has really changed how I view birth and many different medical procedures associated with childbirth.
One of the best classes I've ever taken. I learned a ton, I was never overwhelmed -- but I was challenged. You should experience teachers who are passionate about their subjects, but aren't afraid to cede the floor to guest speakers who are diverse experts in other areas.
This course covers interesting material and it's very useful and relevant for females interested in going into medicine. That said, there are many small assignments over the course of the semester and since deadlines were changed it made it difficult to keep track of the moving parts.
It's great.  You learn so much and it's all very useful information, especially if you're interested in OB/GYN or plan to have kids in the future.
If you are looking for a neat biology class that explores the wonders of human childbirth, DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. This class should be a cultural studies or sociology class because we only learned about birth from a cultural perspective. Additionally, 90% of the class was lectured by guest speakers who offered the same perspective- that "hospital and medicalized birth is bad and that natural birth is good". Don't take this class if you are pre-med, you will be offended at the views of physicians that are tossed around.
This class has some very interesting material but the assignments are extremely ambiguous. The rubric that is used to grade the assignments are so much different than what is expected from the assignment sheet. If you do take this class, be sure to ask the teaching staff a lot of questions about every assignment to make sure this is no miscommunication (they will take off a lot of points if things aren't done in a specific way!). The grading also seems arbitrary and unfair at times which can extremely frustrating.
This is literally, hands-down the most interesting class I have taken at Harvard. The ratio of the amount of you learn/stress of the class is very high compared to many other classes where you either don't learn anything because its so easy or find it hard to be enthusiastic about the material because there is too much stressful work. All the assignments were very engaging and interesting and although it seems like the assignments are never-ending they constantly have you engage with the material. As one of few males in the class I found the information I learned to be completely relevant and would inform my girl blockmates all I learned on a weekly basis. The class opens your eyes on what the American birthing practice is and although it tries to be impartial it leans a bit on the side of pro-natural birth and midwifes BUT with good solid reasons (as you will learn if you take it). Meredith and Alicia are literally the most engaging teaching staff I have encountered and should win all the teaching awards available! I looked forward coming to class every lecture and the reading assignments, although lengthy, were always a pleasure to read! If you can do one right thing in you academic career here at Harvard, if TAKE THIS CLASS!
Alicia and Meredith are awesome and really friendly.  Since their is no final you can really delve into the material you enjoy, and focus less on the material you don't.
The topic of the class is fascinating. You'll learn a great amount about a topic that is very tangible. However, the assignments are random and kind of annoying. It's a flashback to high school. Note, the instructors are so nice and it seems that the assignments have the possibility of changing. You'll feel included in this semi-large lecture class.
TAKE IT! It's a great real-life course, and I learned so much.
This class is very interdisciplinary, informative, and relevant for women who plan on giving birth.
Great range of assignments - only one quiz (midterm) and no final!
Reading is not heavy and is very interestingMeredith is greatGuest speakers are always funGrading is very fair (rubric is always given, assignments are made very clear)Variety of assignments and materials and activitiesTake this class! It wasn't difficult and the content is extremely interesting.
Literally the most one-sided, juvenile class I've taken at Harvard.  The class is disorganized.  I got really sick of the very apparent agenda the class was pushing very early on.
Most interesting class I've taken in my four years at Harvard; Meredith & Alicia are GREAT teachers who generate sincere enthusiasm for the subject. The lectures are multimedia and Meredith is an engaging lecturer. Assignments are reasonable and HELPFUL to the learning goals. Take it!!!!!!!!!!!
I enjoyed this class and definitely found it practically helpful as someone who hopes to have a family one day. Otherwise, I was not as blown away as other students may have been either in the past or this semester and found that I was missing any intellectual curiosity in the course material. It was very laid-back and straightforward, however, so this made up for it.
This is a wonderful course if you are interested in both the scientific and cultural aspects of birth. It is well-organized and has very reasonable assignments that are relevant and fun to work on. The multitude and variety of in-class speakers will certainly keep you engaged in class and section has great discussions of the weeks' material.
This is my favorite class I've taken at Harvard. The speakers are so inspiring and the assignments are fun and applicable. Male or female, this class with change your view on birth!
Do not go into this course thinking it will be a very easy elective. Basically expect an assignment every week or so - and these assignments will require you to sit and outline and think a lot about before finishing them. I highly recommend you go to a lot of office hours.
If you have any interest in birth I would strongly encourage you to take this class. Sometimes the assignments will be frustrating, but really take the time to follow the TF's advice, sometimes its hard to know what they want from the original assignment info.
I'm so glad a class like this exists at Harvard. It has been one of my favorite classes here and I have really learned a lot of really practically information that is applicable to my life later on. I think it's important to go into the class with an open mind because it's definitely a strong proponent of natural childbirth and very anti-hospital birth. Even if you might not agree with the class's perspectives, it is valuable information to take away for those who want to give birth and especially those who want to become a doctor. It definitely made me think and re-think about a lot of things about the decisions I would make as a doctor. It's so interesting hearing a variety of perspectives from all the different speakers who come into class - not your standard class style of teaching, but a very interesting and engaging one.
This class is awesome! It doesn't ask too much of you but will allow you to explore an extremely relevant topic. Everything is really interesting (sometimes if just for the shock factor) but Meredith and Alicia are great and all the guest speakers are so excited to come speak about their fields.
THIS CLASS IS AWESOME. Anyone thinking about giving birth should take and and so should all men.
Take it!  Just do it, all the cool kids did.
This will change your views on the birth process.  Best class at Harvard
This class is very easy and very enjoyable, and it really makes you question what you think you know about birth in the country and in the world in general.
This was such a fun, non-threatening, not too time consuming class. I felt like I could really enjoy myself, I didn't need to scribble down notes all the time, I could engage without feeling nervous - it was SUCH a joy. Take it!
This class was very biased.  It was very pro-doula, natural birth with no pain medications during birth, anti-cesarean section, etc.  As a female, I know that one day when I give birth, I will undoubtedly choose to have an epidural, and I am not against elective c-sections by any means.  There is a plethora of academic studies available that support epidurals and the pros of elective c-sections - none of which was assigned reading for this course.  For women like me who are looking for a fair presentation of information related to birth, not just one side, this course is not for you.
I absolutely ADORED this class.  It was extremely chill, super interesting, and I learned a TON.  I look at birth and pregnancy in a completely different way now, and know more about birth's history, biology, and practices around the world.  I recommend this class enthusiastically, especially because Meredith and Alicia are a dream team of teachers, friends, and mentors.  However, if you're squeamish about birth, don't take this class.
Best science class/ general class you will take at Harvard-no joke.
Not too much work...will change the way you perceive the birth experience
This course is amazing - the lectures were extremely interesting, and the teaching staff was very supportive in discussing a subject that could potentially be very awkward.
This class is one of the best I've ever taken at Harvard. Honest. Meredith and Alicia are amazing and their enthusiasm is infectious. The guest lecturers are super interesting because they bring many different perspectives to the table. This class, for me, incorporated everything I'm interested in as far as global health, health policy, biology, WGS, and anthropology. Take this course if you want a true learning experience that is low-stress and fun at the same time. The subject material of this class is super relevant and I'm positive you'll learn some new things (inequities in maternal healthcare, horror stories in the hospital, etc.). The workload is incredibly manageable and so much so that you actually do all the readings and assignments, unlike some other classes where they just assign an obscene amount of reading in one evening that no one actually does. I loved every second of this course and think you will too!
This course is very manageable and requires very little work outside of class. It is redundant but enjoyable because participation is is encouraged
This class was amazing. Take it if you can! You will learn so much about birth - it's so much more than it seems. It is a low workload class but the fact that people ALWAYS went to class is a testament to how interesting the material is.
TAKE IT!! Its so much fun. It is very female dominated, so if that bothers you stay away. Its also very discussion based and participation is very important, so don't take it if you don't like to talk to or go to class. The assignments are really fun and interesting, and there is always a lot of freedom in them so you can always find something that you would like to learn about.
This is a really engaging and interesting class that provides good perspectives you might not have expected about giving birth in America. And along the way, you get to learn a lot of interesting and neat facts, and maybe even meet some cool people. The guest lecturers definitely made the class fun!
This has been my favorite course at Harvard thus far. The professors are WONDERFUL, the sections are fun and informative, and the stress level is minimal.
If you are at all interested in birth, obstetrics, or medicine in general this would be a great course to take. As someone considering becoming an Obstetrician I was exposed to its history, alternative, and the main discussions/debates in the field. This course also tackles themes like patient autonomy/advocacy, doctor-patient relationships, and medical ethics, which may be interesting to health policy students.  The few assignments are interesting and worth putting effort in.
If you aren't squeamish about birth and all the things that go along with it and you're interested in learning about the birth experience and birthing practices/procedures in this country and other cultures, or you want to give birth at some point in your life, then this is a good class for you.
Every young woman should take this course to understand what issues she might face in the future regarding birth and make informed choices.
Most relevant class EVER (for women). Totally changed my life. Super easy too
Great, fun class where you learn a lot without the pressure of a lot of assignments or hard grading.
This is a very unique course. The topics are interesting and the faculty great. The work is painless.
Great teachers and great course material. HIghly recommend this class.
This is a very good class.  The teaching staff are very nice and open to discussion, and also did a very good job of trying to get to know everybody in the class.  The amount of work is very manageable, and I found that everything is graded very fairly, which basically means that the amount of effort you choose to put in will define the grade you end up with at the end of the course.
I thought this was a great class that I would highly recommend.  I loved the sociological/anthropological viewpoint on the process of birth and thought that the teaching was excellent.
I loved this course because it was a topic I really wanted to learn more about and the professor and TF made it fun and simple. I would highly recommend this course!
great class if you at all interested in woman's health care take this class
Meredith is GREAT! so is alicia. This would be a great fifth course! Everyone should take this course. Its more than what goes on in the delivery room. I LOVED LOVED LOVED it!
This class is totally fantastic. Don't be scared away by the subject matter, it won't be too gross and is totally worth it. Way more interesting and thought provoking than I thought it would be. Very laid back as classes go, with not too much work.
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE TAKE THIS CLASS RIGHT NOW!!!!! It will change your life like nothing else you could possibly take at Harvard. I am totally serious. You will be SUPER grateful to your mother for risking her life for your existence and survival. You will be awakened to the twisted medical system for birthing care here in the U.S. And you will feel a sense of empowerment to go forth and live in a way to fight the stigmas and misconceptions surrounding our American birthing culture. This was a hugely refreshing class to take at stuffy, theory-heavy Harvard where it feels like nothing will actually help us in life... During the semester, I even had the opportunity to coach a friend back home through her own pre-birth preparations! It was awesome! AND!!! The teaching staff is by far the best I have ever seen at Harvard!!!! You will regret it forever if you don't take this class.
TAKE THIS COURSE! It is absolutely amazing! Even though there were not a ton of assignments, what you learn is so interesting that you want to know more about it so you end up researching it on your own time!
This is a great course!  Much of the information I was exposed to was new and interesting.  I never really thought about birth before, the process and its role in social and political perspectives.  The instructor, Meredith Reiches, is an engaging lecturer and developed this course to be a fun and informative introduction to the U.S. and international debate on birth.
This class was fun to go to, not stressful and super interesting.
Professor Reiches and Alicia are amazing!!!  This class is not only very interesting, it is engaging and birth is covered from a variety of angles.  You won't be disappointed.
