The workload in this class in manageable with a few hours of reading per week and one midterm. The end of the class can be challenging with a final paper, presentation, and exam.
The material presented in this course is really interesting and is supplemented with a good deal in class. That being said, it often does not feel like the most exciting course which is strange given the interesting subject matter. I hope that there are changes in the assignments and structure of the course that allow you to think more critically and memorize less. If you take a look at the syllabus and it appeals to you, I would definitely take the class--you won't be disappointed with what you come out knowing.
This class can be a great way to view health from an evolutionary lens. The readings are also really great and discussions are super engaging.
I loved this class! If you're interested in why humans evolved various traits that make us vulnerable to disease, you will love this class. Though there is a short paper, midterm, final paper, and final, the weekly workload isn't bad, and all the readings are extremely interesting. I highly recommend this class!
Just do the readings and you'll enjoy the class!
class discussion was great and the material was really cool. definitely relevant for pre-med students, but interesting for anyone.
This will be one of the most interesting classes you take at Harvard and it gives you amazing insight into your own health and so many medical problems we face as humans. I think anyone interested in human health (people who want to go to medical school or those interested in public health) needs to take this class. But, I also think anyone in any discipline would benefit from this class and the lessons you learn. It helped me realize how useful an evolutionary perspective is when trying to understand disease and I'm positive I would have never received this perspective without taking this class. Other classes may not dig as deeply into health problems and their mechanisms and consequences, so definitely try to take this course if its offered! Amazing readings, great discussion, and the professor is laid-back and so knowledgeable. Take this class!
I loved this class!! Was definitely my favorite class of the semester. Lara is awesome!!
This class is AMAZING! If you are seriously considering going into medical school, you should definitely take this class. I think that all students with a future in healthcare should take this class - an evolutionary understanding of medicine is such a crucial component to pathology. It's a really enjoyable class, Lara is amazing, and it's all extremely relevant information!
Loved this class! Anyone interested in how much evolutionary theory applies to medicine and human health should definitely take it. You'll gain a new perspective and learn so much! Assignments and exams are really fair, lectures are super organized, and the topics covered are super interesting.
This is an excellent course that provides a framework of analysis of human diseases from an evolutionary perspective. The first part of the course covers infectious diseases (e.g. the "arms race" between pathogens and humans), while the second part of the course covers chronic diseases (e.g. why evolution has left us vulnerable to chronic diseases, especially in old age) and other interesting topics such as mental health. Pre-med students, as well as anyone with an interest in health and/or evolutionary theory, will greatly enjoy and benefit from this course.
