The material is interesting; you get chocolate in class; exams and problem sets are mostly multiple choice; the atmosphere is laid back, and you'll learn about some very conversationally relevant aspects of the human diet. Be prepared to take away almost no definitive conclusions, however; everything in this field seems to be disputed. Further, lectures can be disorganized and expectations unclear.
Definitely go to all the lectures!
There isn't a whole lot of support for students in this class. You are on your own for exams, but the content is really interesting.
If the topic interests you, take it!  Wrangham is an expert in his field.  This class probably has some evolving to do in terms of the exams and p-sets assigned.  This year there were 2 midterms and a final exam that were multiple choice and short answer.  Students were told very little about what to study, so that made things difficult/annoying.  However, the pre-domestication bbq made up for it.  Incredible chance to sample exotic meats and tubers.  Also, the amount of biochemistry and anatomy in this class was manageable, even for a non-science guy!!  Very good class with potential to be GREAT!
This can be a fun and relatively easy course if you want, but if you put a lot into it it can also be very intellectually stimulating. It has taught me more about what it means to be human than any course I have ever taken.
Class content is very interesting- especially toward the end of the semester!
Very interesting if you're into food, obesity, health, nutrition.  Not to difficult, pretty fair.
The midterm/finals are extremely difficult and test random information..
Don't do the reading, attend every class, memorize facts and understand concepts
It's a really interesting class and your experience will be what you make of it--especially since there's no section/discussion component.
The BBQ was so much fun! Both Professor Wrangham and Tuross are passionate about their subject material and are extremely approachable - don't be afraid to say hi and ask questions!
I thought the first half of this course was better than the second half. Some lectures were super interesting, and some were very dry. There is no section, and I actually think it would have been helpful to have one because it was often unclear what information was most important. I am not an HEB concentrator, and I felt like some topics were brushed over very quickly that were actually important. That being said, this is the only course at Harvard that discusses topics on the human diet, and its worth taking if that's what you're interested in!
Really great and interesting topics are discussed in lecture. At the very least, it helps frame your knowledge of food and diet.
The material is incredibly interesting, but the class lacks structure. I can't believe the lectures aren't taped or recorded! As it stands, the lecture slides are not uniform and do not provide all the information talked about in class. In particular, Prof. Tuross' slides need a lot of improvement. Often there are grammatical/typing errors which make it very confusing to study. Also, it is not helpful at all to have a single picture from the internet posted on the slide without any accompanying description. There has to be better communication between the TFs and the professors. Often when I went to office hours for a question, the answer was "I don't know, ask ___ for what he/she meant" or "we don't know." Also, a professor gave me the wrong answer for a pset because of miscommunication of how the question was worded. Any ambiguities in the course material should be clearly stated, and either NOT tested on or EXPLICITLY TOLD what to learn for the purpose of the class. Problem sets and midterm questions were also incredibly confusing and poorly, poorly worded.
This course is very interesting.
I took the class pass fail and am so happy I did. I have no science background and thought it would be fine since there are no prerequisites but it wasn't fine. If you dont have a science background and don't take the class pass/fail you will have to work very hard to get an A.
Fun course. Test multiple choice questions are tricky.
Professors Wrangham and Tuross bring a lot of enthusiasm and extensive knowledge to class every day. Lectures are well-designed and interesting, and there is a manageable amount of reading that really contributes to the understanding of the material. Overall, the workload is pretty light, and I would highly recommend the course to anyone who is interested in human evolutionary biology and the human diet!
If you come in without a biology background, you'll have to do some catching up but the interesting content is worth it!
This is a fun class!  The barbeque was a blast and some of the lectures covered fascinating topics.  If you love food you'll probably love this class!  But do be forewarned that a good half or so of the class is based on biochemistry and gets pretty detailed (requiring memorization)
It is an opportunity to learn some of the evolutionary theories from an excellent source. Interesting mix of science and proposed history.
This class had super super interesting content but the tests were frustrating to study for because it is really just a matter of memorization there isn't really main ideas. Also the tests are created to make you second guess everything. I felt like I was taking the SATs all over again with the A but not B type of questions.
This class is great--the lectures are interesting, and the barbecue at the end of the year is awesome. I ate kangaroo and ostrich for the first time.
Professors Wrangham and Tuross are both incredibly awesome. Their lectures are really interesting and make you think a lot about what we eat, from scientific, cultural, and historic standpoints. These lectures are engaging, incorporating current events and new research, and are funny to boot.
Great professors who are excited about what they teach. Assignments are pretty low key as well, but the midterms tend to ask for pretty specific information.
These professors are awesome and the material is interesting, so take it!
This class definitely was a little bit of a let down. I thought that the lectures were stimulating, but the tests were extremely frustrating. The multiple choice can be pretty tricky, and some questions are formulated in a confusing way.
This class will teach you some interesting things about the human diet without taking up too much time.  Don't let the relaxed atmosphere of the class fool you though; the midterms/exams are fairly tricky, so I recommend over-preparing for the tests.
Absolutely take this course. Excellent topics, practical knowledge that you will use even in layperson conversations, and a wonderfully fun BBQ at the end of the semester!
It was an interesting class, and has a low workload. However, it was a bit disorganized and it was difficult to keep track of any central themes for the class.
It's a really chill class and the professors are great.  I'd recommend it.
Really interesting and fun! The exams can be a little tricky, but just try to figure out a way to gear your study
This course has very interesting subject matter, but it is presented in a way that feels jumpy.  Tons of material is crammed into each lecture and many topics are covered.  It seems like a know a little about a lot approach, but on the exams you are expected to know a lot about a little.
Topic's very interesting and not very intensive on a workload level.
TAKE THIS COURSE! It's easy, fun, and you can take it at whatever pace you prefer.
Great class, very interesting stuff, problem sets should be easy to do well on and exams are fair.
This class was interesting but disorganized and the testing was inconsistent. Professor Wrangham is amazing and worth getting to know, but the theories we learn are only his and the class seems to follow no real course schedule.
This is the sickest class ever if youre into diets
The material is very interesting and relevant to everyday life. The lecturers are engaging. The only fault I can find with the class is that the tests are deceptively difficult.
This class is great for people who are interested in the evolution of human diet, but also for those who are interested in the motives behind what they eat today.
Take this class! It's amazing!
It was manageable yet informative. The professors are some of the best in HEB and really care about the subjects. The exams are pretty tricky (especially multiple choice and true/false), though, so watch out. Plus, it's a class about FOOD - the end of the year barbecue was so fun and so delicious!
The course will likely become more structured in the future. The professors are great and worth taking a class with. The workload isn't heavy, but it is hard.
This is a fascinating class if you are interested in how food relates to human history and the many ways that our bodies can process and utilize energy from foods.
The professors are awesome and the subject material is interesting. Hopefully there will be a little more structure regarding problem set/exam expectations, but it's overall an enjoyable and stimulating course.
THe topics covered in this course are extremely interesting. The activities are a ton of fun. Really just lots of great opportunities and resources in this course. If you really want to take something meaningful out of the class you need to put a lot of effort into the class beyond what is expected/required. But if you just take it sort of in a laid-back kind of way, you will still find it interesting, enjoyable, and enlightening.
Really interesting subject matter and totally relatable to your life!
Richard and Noreen make a fantastic team, and the material is extremely interesting. PLus you get to cook and eat some amazing food! Definitely one of the better HEB courses I have taken.
This class is great. The instructors play off one another's strengths and give interesting content.
TERRIBLE. WORST COURSE I"VE EVER TAKEN
Be ready to memorize details also the grading can be somewhat harsh/test format is rather discouraging but you just need to suck it up and learn it all. If you don't have time to do that or aren't sure that you like the topic you might want to look somewhere else. It is a great course...will it push you? Absolutely.
this class has good potential, but needs to be reworked and organized. the professors need to integrate their two specialties and make the class more unified with one theme. overall it is a good class if you are willing to do the work and are interested in the subject, and have some specific bio background.
This class is very interesting, however I found it difficult studying for the exams. There is little guidance on what to study, and all you have is the lecture slides.
Be prepared to study a lot for the unpredictable tests
This was such a good class, I learned so much. However it is important to note that exams were hard and graded rather harshly. They were hard because they seemed to text material not emphasized in class and graded harshly because they were very much detail specific orriented.
It was a very thorough course. What wasn't covered in class was on the final exam.
PSETs seem to be graded arbitrarily. For a field of student that is incredibly gray, there are dogmatic standards by which the exams and psets are assessed.
This class was interesting and the teaching staff are awesome.  The tests are a bit tricky, but honestly just studying the lectures (and problem sets for the second exam) were pretty much enough.  And HEB concentrator (or a LS concentrator needing a class) should look into 1411.
I strongly recommend this course for anyone who is interested in learning about why humans like the foods we do, and how the quality of our diet has shaped human evolution. It is a fun and fascinating course, it's not too difficult, and the professors are great.
This class is so much fun!!  It is great!  Don't let them fool you into a false sense of security, the tests are HARD and you need to study the slides AND the readings!!
This class was so much fun, and was also genuinely interesting. workload was low but interesting, and exams seemed fair. Professors and TFs were great. Highly recommend.
Not as easy as I thought it would be. Slightly less interesting than I thought it would be. Certainly a heavier emphasis on evolution than I expected (not so much a human diet class)
I took this course as an elective outside of my non-science concentration, and I really enjoyed it. Although having more general HEB knowledge might have been helpful for certain parts of the course, it wasn't necessary, and having taken LS1a proved somewhat useful for the second part of the course. The TFs are friendly and ready to help, as are the wonderful co-professors. The professors of this course really care about the subject, which makes the course really fun, especially when they joke around about Professor Wrangham's research with monkeys.
it is interesting, fun and not overwhelming, although grading can be extremely frustrating and arbitrary.
In depth course on diet evolution. Test questions are not always well written
Lectures are generally interesting, but the graded portions of the class (exams, problem sets) are terribly written and organized
exams are hard but the material is interesting
I first want to say that I could see the entire teaching staff was working very hard to do their best, so I want to give them that credit. However, I found the textbook to be extremely boring and sometimes difficult to read with its paragraph-long sentences. Many of the lecture slide shows simply had pictures that were complicated and were literally the first thing that popped up on google images (I actually checked a few). These visuals were confusing b/c I wasn't sure if the professors wanted us to know ALL of the crazy information in the picture, or if the picture had just been made that way by the original artist who uploaded it to google. It is important to take good notes, or else you may find yourself trying to piece together a series of very random pictures when studying for exams. The guest lecturers sounded great on paper, and they were still great in person, but I rarely saw the connection to class material. They often used very specialized vocabulary paired with no visuals, so I had a very hard time understanding what they were talking about. Exams could be very technical, and many people grumbled about the set-up of multiple choice questions where you select as many as are applicable, and if you miss even one (or circle one too many) you get no credit for that question. They did fix that for the later exams though, so maybe that won't be an issue in the future. I did walk away from this class with a better understanding of diet overall. For example, I have a better idea of what I'm eating, what my body is doing to process it, why X fad diet might not be great, and what this SDA/RDA/glycemic index stuff is. Overall, I "recommend with reservations."
Barbecue was best part of class. Tests are a huge joke. Multiple choice part is biggest BS ever. Aside from that the class is good.
The material is super interesting, but the tests are nit picky.
So disorganized, poorly planned, preceptor not so accessible. The course material was mediocre, so only take it if you're very interested. I'm sure the professors are passionate about their topics, but that doesn't lead to a very good over all experience. Also, grading was so unclear.
This class is an awesome intro-level HEB class! The professors are major players in the field, and you learn a lot about human evolution through a really interesting topic. The non-domesticated food BBQ is definitely a plus. Do all the reading, it really is important!
I really enjoyed the class and the material. Exams are a bit tricky, but overall light work load.
You do learn a good deal about how the human diet has changed over time, but be prepared to study a lot on your own (aka memorize all the little details). Take VERY DETAILED notes in class, because the powerpoint slides alone will not save you.
I think this is a really fun and interesting class. You will take away a lot of information and it is in many way practical. If you are interested in food, evolution, public health, or medicine, this would be a good fit. However, I didn't really enjoy the exams or assignments and the way they were structured. The Paleolithic BBQ was amazing!
