If you have a strong interest in human biomechanics, this is the course for you. It was good to get an idea of how to conduct and carry out human biomechanics research. Dr. Warrener gave us a data set, and from that we picked a research topic. Be sure to budget your time wisely once you pick a research topic...the data analysis take much more time that you might think. Class discussions of readings were great. However, in the second half of the semester, the readings were not directly related to biomechanics, so it got difficult to care as much about them considering I was working on my own specific research project.
This is a fantastic class and Dr. Warrener is a great teacher. If you are interested in athletics/locomotion/biomechanics in the least bit you should take this class. The discussions in section are very engaging, and the final project process was rewarding. You will use really cool biomechanics software and lab material! Take this class!
I really loved this class. I found the biomechanics lectures of LS2 to be some of the most interesting ones, and this was a great continuation. I highly recommend to anyone with interest in taking a course half lecture/half independent research, with a lot of guidance.  Dr. Warrener is the nicest!!
the final project is a lot of work with the paper and the presentation.
Took the risk taking a class that had not been previously offered and it was definitely worth it.  This class was a great opportunity to learn a lot about biomechanics in much more low stress environment than LS 2.  Workload was not bad and readings were generally short and interesting.
Great seminar. Diverse and manageable readings, interesting and low-pressure discussions. Topics in the class vary from biomechanics to hormones to the history of women in sports to injury prevention. You get to do your own research project (you are given data and you get to analyze it and draw conclusions), which helps you learn the material and is more fun than your usual research paper. Dr. Warrener helps you through the entire process!
If you're interested in the material, definitely worth taking. Professor Warrener is very good in discussion, very knowledgeable, and very helpful outside of the classroom. Just be prepared to have a big time commitment backloaded in your semester for the project.
