This class was pretty relaxed. The only reason you wouldn't do well, is because you don't go to class and study a little more seriously after the first exam.
I love how this class integrates a ton of different disciplines including evolutionary biology, anthropology, and a little history of science. It's a great interdisciplinary course and gives you a good understanding of the biology behind cultural phenomenons (and vice versa!)
This class manages to make very interesting subjects extremely boring. Unless the course is re-vamped, I would not recommend this course. If you take this course your life will be full of memorizing tedious information that has little relevance to anything. It will also be full of studying 70-slide powerpoints that are white with black text. You really don't want to do that to yourself.
Such a great class! Professor Durgavich is the best.
One of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard.
This course covers a variety of interesting material regarding women's biology and behaviors exhibited universally. The course is taught primarily in lecture form, with no sections, so it doesn't always feel like you are personally engaging with the material a huge amount. That being said the exams are fair and if you study, you can do really well on them. The assignments are reasonable and Professor Durgavich is very approachable.
This is a great class even if you're not HEB. Dr. Durgavich is really funny and a good lecturer. This is a great to learn about women's bodies and behavior. This course is an awesome mix of anatomy/physiology, social studies, and women and gender studies. Take it!
This class went over some truly fascinating topics. It was really cool to take it as a woman, because you come away with a whole new perspective of yourself. It can be a little dry sometimes, but not enough to not still be a really good class.
The course material for this course is very interesting and you will learn concepts that are applicable to everyday life. The lectures tie well together but there isn't time to debate concepts or have conversations about them. The tests mostly require memorization and if you are good at that you will be fine.
Durgavich is a great lecturer. She ties in very relevant examples in the material. A fun and comprehensive HEB course.
TAKE THIS COURSE! It really allowed me to learn more about female anatomy and physiology. Also, the evolutionary hypotheses for why females behave in the way that we do are so interesting and mind blowing. Hands down one of the best courses that I've taken at Harvard.
Study the material presented in lecture.
If you are looking for a fun relatively chill class, this is it. The midterms require a decent amount of memorization, but sections are chill and Durgavich is cool
The material is important and applicable. As a female, you should take this class to better understand how your body interacts with itself and its environment. I feel like a more empowered, knowledgable female and more in control of the decisions I make about my body. That being said, lecture is sometimes dry and to stay engaged required some extra energy.
This is an excellent, interesting, and very relevant HEB class that everyone (women and men) should take. It provides a new way of understanding sexual division of labor, female body image, and the work/life balance debate, and is generally an eye-opening class.
Make sure to prepare for the midterms adequately. You need to know most if not all of the information presented in the slides! So make sure to give the class the time it deserves.
Especially pertaining to women, this course teaches a lot of critical and concerning issues facing women socially, psychologically, and physiologically which I think is essential to the edification of students but specifically women.
HEB 1380 is a course with a great curriculum that combines evolutionary biology with a cross-cultural analysis. I found it really fascinating and the readings will be useful in my own life in regard to having children, parenting, securing a job, etc. I encourage more guys to take this course too (even if the biology of women seems less directly important to their own lives).The exams are challenging but also fair-- anything from the lectures is fair game so you should start studying early and diligently work to memorize and understand concepts and hypotheses.
Great interesting course, with a light workload and very reasonable exams
Go to lecture and take good notes and you should be fine.
Every woman should take this class. It is the best class I have taken at Harvard and I can say with great confidence and two semesters left, it is the best class that I ever will take at Harvard. It changed how I see myself as a woman and I know it will have a lasting impact on the choices I make later in life. I also love that it gave me scientific evidence to back up my feminist rants. You don't need to be a scientist to take this class. Dr. Durgavich is great at providing all the necessary background. I cannot emphasize enough how fantastic this class was. Guys, you should take this class too. It will give you new respect for all the women in your life.
HEB concentrators may find it a bit slow at first, because it is designed (or seems to be) for people with little to no evolutionary bio background. Exams were then a bit harder than expected, but it's a great class overall and the material is super interesting!
I think this is a great course, especially for freshmen/sophomores considering HEB as a concentration or anyone else from other concentrations with an interest in the material. If you've already taken HEB classes on behavior/hormones/sexuality, it may be a lot of review.
Be prepared to memorize all of the hypotheses and studies from lecture for the midterms. This is an amazing class though, you'll learn so much information that will always be relevant to your life (esp if you're a woman) and you'll want to tell all of your friends about this class after each lecture!
It's an awesome class, and Dr. Durgavich is an awesome lecturer.
