I found the pace kind of slow, and a lot of the reading felt completely unnecessary since we covered everything in lecture. As long as you participate and stay up on the essays and graded discussions, you'll do fine.
As with almost any HEB class, the content is illuminating and makes you ponder the reasons for your behavior. Prof. Rosati is great at structuring the course, her lectures, and her presentation of the lectures. If you want to learn how your mind is similar to that of other species' as well as what cognitive skills are unique to humans, this course is for you. Readings are great, lectures are great, assignments and exams are very fair.
This class is basically memorizing so much information- the lectures are dry and long and there is a lot of reading
This class is great! Prof. Rosati is a great lecturer, the material is really interesting, and the coursework isn't that demanding which means you can actually enjoy what you are learning instead of being stressed about it. The midterm/final were super fair, and the section component is really cool because it is during normal lecture time so it's one more thing you don't have to add to your schedule. Prof. Rosati is really easy to talk to, definitely go to her office hours! Loved this class as an HEB concentrator, one of my favorites at Harvard.
This class is interesting and engaging, lectures are awesome and you will learn so much. Readings are really helpful for understanding the material. Work load is light but the assignments are relatively painless and exam expectations are clear. Quizzes aren't graded and help you prepare for exams. This has been my favorite HEB class in my time at Harvard. The professor is so knowledgeable and experienced, and it is clear she enjoys the material. She is great to meet with to further understanding of course material. Love this class!!!
I took this class as an elective. I was a freshman and I wanted to sample a department class in some biology discipline. I thought it was a really interesting class, and although I am unlikely to concentrate in HEB, I would recommend this class for sure.
This is a great way to fulfill the HEB Behavior requirement. The workload isn't too overwhelming and the material is really interesting and varied. Professor Rosati is a great lecturer with extensive knowledge and a great sense of humor. Overall, you can get a lot out of this class as long as you put in the necessary effort.
This course is very interesting and also not terribly difficult. It is definitely worth taking as a mid level course.
I highly encourage you to take this class. Although it is an hour and half, the class flies by! If you are interested in psychology or HEB this class provides a great bridge between the two. It is extremely interesting to learn and to think about how to measure animal cognition and to compare their cognitive abilities with that of humans.
This course is great!  Low time commitment, very interesting, and overall just a fun class.
Take this class! The professor is very understanding and the material fascinating. The amount of work is very manageable with negligible readings. All you have to do is write three short papers and do the reading only when there's a discussion (there's only three of these the entire semester) Take good notes and the midterm and final will be a breeze. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
Easy. Not particularly interesting, for you will be dealing with mostly primary research. You will leave knowing more about primates than you'd ever care to know. But, such is the the life of an HEB concentrator. I wouldn't recommend as an elective.
very structured class and interesting
The lectures are very structured and organized but don't take this class if you're not an HEB concentrator. If you do, be prepared to learn about monkeys the entire semester. Perks: No section, essays aren't difficult, quizzes graded on completion, a few class discussions. Cons: Midterm was graded a little harshly, lots of readings and memorization, lectures could be a bit dry at times.
This class is a relatively easy course (in its first offering) and covers very interesting material. If you're interested in primate behavior and cognition (and do not need for the course to cover the neurological mechanisms in great detail), take this course!
this class is very interesting and a mild way to learn about HEB as a non-concentrator. the grading is super chill and the material is engaging - it's literally a perfect way to explore HEB as an outside interest in a low stress way
HEB 1300 is a spectacular class. Professor Rosati gives very clear lectures that are engaging and easy to follow along with. The material is extremely fascinating and integrates a lot of recognizable tasks and ideas from psychology with primate (and occasionally non-primate) studies. The workload is pretty minimal and all the examinations are fair. The quizzes help students practice for the midterm and the final.
