This class teaches you a lot. You learn how to explore genomes (which is really very exciting) and get practice reading and writing scientific papers. The final project can also be very interesting based on your topic. You should take this class if you are very interested in learning about genomics and genetics in HEB, which is an extremely fascinating subject. I would not recommend taking the course if you are not very interested in this subject, as it is a very focused class.If you are really interested in taking the class (if you are in HEB and you want to get into genetics it may be your only choice) then here are a few tips. Meet with the instructor often and make sure to do assignments well before they are due so you can incorporate his suggestions. Put a lot of time into selecting a suitable topic for the final project and research it thoroughly. Put a lot of work into the first few assignments. Be sure to at least skim all of the readings and mark things that you might be interested in looking into further with your final project.
This is great course, but only take it if you can commit a decent chunk of time to it throughout the semester.
This course was amazing. Dr. Capellini is very knowledgeable about the material and more than that is (more than any other professor I know) ALWAYS there to help, care, and further your understanding of genetics. Such a great course - I highly recommend taking this as an HEB Research seminar!
This is, hands down, the best genetics course you could take at Harvard. If you are looking for a fully immersive genetics experience, and one that is applicable to actual genetics work taking place in the field right now, look no further. Absolutely take this course--don't let LS1B scare you away from genetics; Capellini will show you the light! Great course, great professor, great primary source readings, not too difficult. This is a must take.
Only take this research seminar if you are truly interested in functional genomics. The paper at the end is extremely difficult. Dr. Capellini is incredibly enthusiastic and helpful, but if you are not all in like he is, it may be a rough going.
TAKE THIS COURSE! Even though it will be intimidating, as it is a small class (we were 8 students) and some of the students are graduate students with more experience and background, don't let that scare you away, because this is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. You will learn so much about genetics/genomicsin a comfortable environment, where you can ask any questions, master complex concepts, and then put them to use in the final project, which is super rewarding. Even if you're not in HEB, this course is worth taking. The material that is treated is relevant and interesting. And the format of the class (seminar-style) is very different from other introductory science coursesdefinitely better and worth experiencing. Also, some general pieces of advice: review lecture slides (which lay out all of the important info) for the quizzes; start on the final bioinformatics presentation/paper early; reach out to Professor Capellini with any questions, go to his OH, actually get to know himhe is great. You won't regret taking this class.
It's a good course. The final project is a bit daunting and confusing and unclear about what is expected.
