It is an interesting course but is largely theoretical
Professors Ellison and Reiches are great and really make the class enjoyable.  The class is less traditional of an HEB class in that towards the end we looked at literature on adolescence and how it intersected with our understanding of adolescence from an HEB perspective.  If you're looking to just learn a lot of things, this is not the class for you, but if you're looking to have some really interesting discussions, then take it.
Great class if you are interested in developmental biology, reproduction, and.or evolutionary medicine.
This class is not too difficult, but if you want to get a lot out of it you should really do all or most of the reading. The class takes a very focused look at adolescence, and this depth-over-breadth style of learning is very effective. I feel like I can talk at length about adolescence - and it's a very interesting topic to examine from both a science and social science perspective. Though HEB obviously comes down in favor of science in general, being able to integrate scientific knowledge with more observational qualitative portrayals of adolescence forms a nice balance to the course. Peter and Meredith are very knowledgable about the topic, of course, and having a ten-to-one faculty/student ratio was a great learning environment.Also, this is a really fun course to take since none of us are adolescents any longer, but we all were very recently. Sharing anecdotal experiences or just reflecting personally was fun and often quite informative. "Oh, so THAT'S why..." was an oft-heard mental refrain as people recalled certain behaviors or ideas they'd had.
Not too challenging but interesting if you want to learn about science but from an atypical perspective
This class is a really fun, low pressure, informative class. You have to do the readings every week in order to follow along and participate, but they're not outrageously long and are enjoyable. If for no other reason, just take this class to have Professor Reiches and Professor Ellison. They are so great and make the class really enjoyable. This isn't really a biology class, so if you're really into the hard sciences, you might not enjoy the class because it's very discussion based and there's not a lot of memorization of processes...it's more about the concepts. Definitely worth taking, though!!
Great and easy course! Class discussion can seem repetitive on some weeks but hopefully in the coming years those kinks will be worked out.
Unlike any other HEB class out there. Very experimental, but if you're looking for a class that has a little bit of biology, a little bit of anthropology, and a little bit of humanities, this class is for you! It will certainly make you think.
Great professors and interesting class, but grading is unclear in that some assignments are graded on checks and others out of few points. Had no idea where I stood throughout the semester. However, seminar style with these two professors is invaluable and great!
This class was interesting and offered a different perspective on adolescence. The workload was pretty steady but never overwhelming and the discussion was always stimulating. Highly recommended!
Interesting, good to get you thinking. Not heavy on FACTUAL information.
I really enjoyed the course, and I think it will be better and more organized in the future.
If you're looking for a pretty standard HEB class without too much work, this is it. However, if you're looking to get a lot out of an HEB class, this is not it and there are many other HEB seminars that are better. If you're an upperclass HEB concentrator, you may find this class to be particularly basic and sometimes frustrating, because there are many non-HEB concentrators in the class  (the professors choose it that way on purpose)  who don't know much about HEB; because the class is discussion-based, the discussions often aren't as insightful as you might hope.
This is a very fun class that will also teach you a lot! Definitely low time commitment. The professors are awesome!
Great reading material and Meredith is phenomenal. Work load is very low - just a few articles each week and a few simple DQ/essay assignments. Grading was way harder than expected though!
This is a great course with lively weekly discussions. The course materials are interesting and Meredith does a wonderful job creating a comfortable atmosphere so everyone can participate. The course workload is also reasonable with many assignments throughout the semester which helps ease some anxiety during finals period. I really enjoyed this class and would definitely recommend.
I would highly recommend taking this course.  It was interesting and relevant, and the professor was excellent.
This class was amazing! Meredith is an amazing professor, and this class was my favorite class this semester. The material is fascinating, and I feel like I learned a lot about the material, as well as about how to approach readings and how to make connections between sources. Definitely take this class, it is super interesting, and a relatively light workload. The readings are interesting and pretty easy to get through, and you can choose when to do most of the assignments, so it is a schedule saver!
This class gives a great interdisciplinary look at adolescence, approaching the topic from standpoints ranging from evolution to neurobiology and sociology. Some previous experience with courses in the HEB department may be helpful, but what I liked most about this class was the fact that the members of the seminar came from multiple different academic backgrounds and were able to participate without too large of a learning curve. Meredith is great!
This class was both interesting and useful. It was really neat to learn about the different biological, hormonal, cognitive, and social factors going on at puberty that affect the thoughts and behavior and life trajectory of teens. The workload was definitely manageable, especially if you plan out the discussion questions. It was cool to learn about social rituals in different cultures. Professor Reiches is super nice and supportive and enthusiastic, she creates a welcoming learning environment. This is probably one of the more enjoyable and manageable HEB seminar courses :)
Small class with lively discussion. Increases your awareness of adolescent transition from the physical transformations to the social expectations. A beautiful mix of scientific papers and media representations. The assignments are varied and keep you interested in the course.
This is a very unique and interesting class within HEB. It is fun to study a specific topic (adolescence) through many different lenses, and the course really excels in the second half, when we move out of the realm of science and study adolescence from a social science and humanities perspective. Not a big workload, but a non-trivial amount of reading. Professor Reiches is very engaging and enjoyable to learn from.
HEB 1388 is an interesting, manageable, and well-run seminar.
