This class is amazing if you're interested in learning more about human sexuality from a biological and evolutionary perspective.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. The material is interesting, and it's great that you get to discuss some uncomfortable topics with your classmates in a low-key, non-judgmental, safe environment. I learned to be more open-minded about matters of sexuality in general and about myself. The week-to-week workload is fairly easy, but on the week you have to give a presentation (which happens 2x throughout the semester), be prepared to dedicate a lot of time to your research essay and rehearing your presentation. The presentation is worthwhile and fulfilling though, because you learn a lot after having spent hours poring over your research. Judith is one of the best instructors I've met at Harvard. She truly cares about each and every one of her students and dedicates as much of her attention to you as need. She's there for you every step along the way and provides a truly supportive and developmental environment for her class.
If you get the chance to take this class, definitely do. The course material is so interesting and Judith is the nicest teacher ever. The 2 weeks where you present will require a lot of time from you (probably around 10 hours) but honestly if you start early it's not that big of a deal. Leaving things til the last minute is why some people fell short.
It's an enjoyable class, but there are a few work-heavy weeks! Be prepared to start working on your presentations well in advanced, and be sure to practice in front of others!
The course is excellent! One of my favorite classes at Harvard! I learned a lot about sexuality (some of the things are actionable and can be used to improve your own sex life too!). The class is also very easy as Professor Flynn provides reading guides and takes the quiz questions off the reading guides; HOWEVER, be prepared to put in 20-30 hours of work for each week you present (there are 2). Writing a paper and finding an article to present on the same week are time consuming, so plan this far in advance during times of the semester that you aren't too busy in. Definitely take it! Or at least shop it!
This is one of the best courses I've ever taken. Judith is an amazing professor- she has so much passion and enthusiasm for the subject. She promotes a very comfortable class environment and is eager to meet with students out of class. The material is incredibly interesting, but it is undoubtedly mature content. The average work level is manageable. However, during the weeks when you are responsible for reading, a paper, a presentation, and a quiz, it can be overwhelming.
Judith is a gem! She really wants to help. Use her as a resource. This is a great course. Very low workload most of the time. Perfect for balancing a heavy workload. Take it while you can!  It won't be offered forever.
You definitely learn some crazy things about sex in this class! It feels a bit more like a pop culture class with some (controversial) science mixed in than a true biology class depending on the chapter, so be ready for that. The week of your paper and presentation, be ready to set aside a lot of time to practice! Judith gives fantastic feedback as well, so take advantage of that.
I would recommend this course to anyone with an interest in human sexuality, evolutionary biology, and/or public speaking. There aren't too many courses where you can get extensive practice with public speaking, and Judith gives great feedback on our presentations/papers. Be prepared to learn lots of "fun facts" that will stick with you forever!
Could not recommed highly enough! This class was incredibly interesting, and we had awesome discussions every time. On the weeks you are not presenting, its not an overwhelming amount of work; I probably spent like 3-4 hours on the reading (but you do have to read carefully because Judith asks some tricky questions). The weeks you present are definitely stressful, but SO worth it in the end because you become such a better public speaker/gain confidence doing so. Also Judith is amazing; she really cares about her students and puts a lot of time/effort into helping you improve as a public speaker because she gives awesome feedback. Definitely take this as your research seminar for HEB! There are easier ones, but they are not as great as this.
This was a great course - really tests your limits with presentation and discussion. Topic is also really interesting, and Judith's feedback is so helpful!!! One of my favorite classes at Harvard, I learned so much about myself and my classmates. Thank you, Judith!
The presentation-style course is one of the very best ways to learn. Be ready to work hard though.
This class was absolutely fantastic.  Judith is a superb teacher, always provoking insightful discussion and making everyone enthusiastic and excited about the course material.  Not only have I found this class intellectually thrilling and interesting but this class has also provided me with skills that will last me my entire professional career--public presenting and conducting scientific literature research.
This class only works if the students in it are interested and willing to do the work.  So don't take it unless you want to make it a priority
Take it. You will learn tons about an interesting topic and improve your public speaking skills.
Don't slack off!
Not as much time spent discussing sexuality as I would have expected in a seminar, but very interesting papers presented by students in the weekly presentations and valuable experience in public speaking.
Judith, the class, and the material are all amazing.  This is definitely one of those classes that you get out what you put in, so make the most of it!
so much fun
This class was incredible. The public speaking section would be an asset to students in any field, any degree and with any interests. The human sexuality topic is especially useful for those going into scientific, academic or medical fields as it is too often overlooked or only taught superficially.
This is the best class I have ever taken in my entire life.  Not only did I learn a TON about Human Sexuality... I also learned so much about public speaking.  Judith Chapman is an exceptional professor and role model.
This is a rigorous course which demands constant effort and time, but it reaps many benefits in terms of learning how to present and write about scientific research.
The class is really interesting and Judith helps you develop writing and presentation skills.
This is an amazing course! Judith is a great and friendly professor.
Presentation weeks are killer...a paper, presentation, and a quiz is really too much to do a good job on each.
One of my favorite courses in my 4 years at Harvard! Judith is an amazing professor who really cares about her students, both academically and personally. The presentation portion of the class is great because you get to keep up with current literature in the field that the textbook can't cover, as well as learn what your classmates are interested in. The class is a really unique environment, because you get to discuss very taboo subjects (that others might feel uncomfortable even mentioning) in a frank and scientific way. Also, the course is not much work, while you still learn a lot.
That if you have any interest in human sexuality, you must take it! I learned SO much about everything from sexual predilections that we don't even know about to biological phenomena such as menstrual synching that there is so much controversy about to the basic gender and sex differences between men and women. Additionally, we are given the unique opportunity to grow as people in the course--become better public speakers by giving two long presentations, science writers by writing two full-length science review papers, and better peers to our fellow students by become more engaged listeners.
Don't underestimate the reading! This course is very tough, but you will be glad you took it afterwards. You get out of it what you put in.
On the weeks when you're not presenting, the textbook reading only takes a couple of hours.  On the weeks when you do present, be prepared to spend even more than 10 hours working on your presentation, paper, and meeting/ practicing it.  Meeting with Judith is always useful.
This was a wonderful class. Judith Chapman is a great Professor who gives great input and really shows her students that she is available to them.
If sexuality is moderately interesting to you, take this class. I think everyone should have to take a class like this. You learn a lot of things that are deemed too taboo and thus rarely talked about. In addition, you learn how to improve your public speaking skills, which is so important.
This class is amazing!  Judith is the most compassionate and enthusiastic person I have ever met and makes this class really fun, interesting and helpful.  The public speaking aspect of this class is unique and really stands out from any other class I've taken at Harvard.
This class will challenge you as a writer and speaker but will help you grow immensely. The class is an incredible experience but requires a commitment to the work and the process. Be ready to spend a lot of hours with the textbook, writing the research papers and preparing for your presentations. Also, make sure you are comfortable with topics covered as they do get extremely explicit.
Just as long as your fully committed to do the work and engage with the instructor and other students, you will get the most out of this course!
Be prepared to learn a lot about sex! Your friends will be partially jealous of and partially mortified by your weekly reading assignments. In all seriousness, though, this is a wonderfully engaging and challenging class in which you will learn a lot of material and gain important experience in public speaking.
Definitely one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. This class is very difficult and requires a lot of time, but the rewards are so great. I would recommend this class in a heartbeat.  You do put in a lot of time, but your effort really shows in your presentation and paper. Judith is awesome! She's so helpful and available, and if you take this class you should absolutely take her up on her offers to practice your presentation with you. She give great feedback!
One of the best classes available at Harvard. Not only do you get to study an interesting topic, but you also develop your public speaking skills. There is absolutely no excuse for not wanting to take this class.
A big part of why this class is so great is Judith, she works tirelessly to help her students learn and genuinely wants people to improve their communication abilities. She gives great feedback and has real interest in what students have to say. Although she won't be teaching the course next year, the information itself is very interesting, and if the next instructor continues the emphasis on public speaking it will still be invaluable.
This is a great junior research seminar for HEB concentrators. It was a lot of work when you had to prepare your presentations and the readings were time consuming, but it was by far my favorite class and the material is so interesting I didn't even mind doing the work.
This class was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. I have never learned so much in a science class, and never had a class where the course material was so applicable to daily life. The small-group nature of the class is incredible, and Judith is an amazing professor. I am so glad I chose to take this class.
Take this class!! Judith is AMAZING and she really helps you improve your public speaking!  You also read a really fascinating textbook about human sexuality and learn things you otherwise would have never known!  You learn so much from the presentations.  You have to read every week because of weekly quizzes which are quite tricky but don't let that deter your from taking this.  You should definitely be interested in HEB and the course topic and you will get A LOT out of it!
I thought that this course would be a large time commitment that I wouldn't enjoy my senior spring, but I loved every minute of it. This was a pinacle of my academic experience at Harvard.
Too much work during the week you present. If you want to do well you have to read the chapter 2-3 times.
Definitely in the top 3 classes I've ever taken. You learn much more about presenting than about the subject matter. Take this class if you can.
Week to week, this class may not seem like much work, but prepare to invest 15+ hours on the weeks you are presenting (happens twice). The class has a great atmosphere, and Judith gives really thoughtful feedback!
Not an easy course at all, but it's worth it.
be PREPARED to read some very unnerving/uncomfortable information.  I know for some people, this could mean facing some painful memories, or confronting some difficult topics.  So anyone who is interested in this class should be careful and to either talk with Judith or figure out what is best for you.
This course is amazing.  Try taking it... the material is taught in a completely professional and safe environment.
Best class I've taken at Harvard!
This is an extremely fun class!  You will work hard but it's totally worth it.  Start looking for articles well ahead of time.  Being excited about the article (and finding an appropriate article) makes the rest of assignment so much easier!
It will change the way you look at and approach public speaking.
I would tell them that this is the best class I have taken at Harvard!  It can be hard work, but the work is so fulfilling!  And I would tell them that it doesn't get much better than Judith Chapman!
This course is seriously amazing!!!
Best class ever!
