In order to really enjoy this seminar, you should have a great interest in endocrinology. If you do not, you will not enjoy the labs, lab write us, and the final project. I absolutely love endocrinology- after both Hormones and Behavior and Reproductive Ecology- and really enjoyed this seminar. I especially enjoyed it because the laboratory component is so significant. I had read many studies in my other HEB classes about hormones and how they modulate behavior and appearances, etc but had never really seen how these conclusions and studies were determined. I also took stat 102 last spring, my first ever stat course, and also really really enjoyed that. This course was awesome for me because I was able to see what working in a lab is really like, how you can come up with conclusions based on laboratory methods and subsequent statistical analyses, while also forming unique biological interpretations of results based on prior knowledge and curiosity. The final project was also a great experience because you are able to further delve into a question relating to endocrinology that you are curious about and form a study and analysis of your own!! Definitely a very rewarding and exciting experience of a class for me. However, I am not sure all the students would say the same, and I think that this difference is present due to the difference in interest for the subject matter.
It's a great way to learn about how to do research in endocrinology. If you're interested in hormones this is a class you have to take before leaving Harvard.
Great experience to learn lab techniques. As such, you MUST be able to allot a good amount of time to learning in lab and drafting lab reports, and of course, the final project & paper. (Personally, I would see the latter as a combination of all the lab reports done before in the class, so plan accordingly!) However, do know that all the time invested correlates to how well you understand the concepts (which will be applied later) and definitely is worth it in the end.
Dr. Lipson is a first-rate teacher, and the opportunity to take a focused research seminar in such a small group setting is invaluable.
This class is awesome! Professor Lipson is very patient, enthusiastic, and engaged in the class. She is helpful to all students and willing to work with the students on their individual projects. Both getting to use actual data and come up with your own analysis are both very unique to the class. Professor Lipson wants everyone to learn from each other, and to learn from the actual data that we are collecting. She provides useful sources and is wiling to work with her students outside class at many times during the day.
This class is probably one of the best HEB junior research seminars out there. It has a well-balanced mix of lecture and labs, which continuously build up upon knowledge gained previously. Prof. Lipson also takes time to give you in-depth feedback about your work and cares that you succeed. Awesome class.
It was very exciting to ask a research question I was interested in.
Dr. Lipson is amazing! She is incredibly helpful and accessible outside of class time. Work with the other students in the course - it'll be a very small class, so they're a great resource.
This course has nothing but incredible opportunities.  You get to talk about hormones and how to study them with the incredible Susan Lipson (who couldn't be more helpful, caring, or knowledgeable), who has been researching them for decades.  You get a ton of relevant lab experience while working with a small, close-knit group of students equally excited about hormones.  And you get to develop and guide your own research question to better understand an aspect of endocrinology.  Absolutely take it if you can!
This class is great! Although it has limited enrollment, it is a class you should take.  Susan helps to make this class meaningful and is very helpful in making your first experience with lab work fun and meaningful!
It's really worth your while and it's one of the most relevant classes I've taken so far.
If you have any interest in endocrinology, this class is awesome! It provides incredible access to laboratory materials, creative thinking, usable skills, and a hormone expert.
This class is very helpful for learning HEB laboratory techniques, and is especially recommended if you are thinking about doing a 91r or a thesis. The workload is quite fair and Professor Lipson is generally accessible given that this is a very limited enrollment class. Although the final projects are bound by a general topic for everyone in the class, you are able to tweak the given data to come up with a project that you are interested in. It is really interesting to see what everyone comes up with for their final projects, and you realize how much you learn by the end of the class. This is the first class I've taken that applies the concepts that I have learned about in all my other HEB classes, so it was really exciting to conduct my own mini research project!
One of the best classes I've taken. The class project and your individual final project was extremely interesting. If you are interested in writing a thesis in endocrinology, this is a must-take.
Dr. Lipson makes your life easy and you actually have interesting results to talk with your friends about when the class is over. Take this course if you like working in a lab or want to learn lab techniques.
Although the class seems slow-paced and somewhat dull towards the beginning, the research project that you work on in the latter half of the course is great. It allows you to devise your own research in a low-key and relaxed setting. The professor is a pretty hard grader though....
If you are interested in endocrinology, and especially if you interested in pursuing a thesis in this area, this course is a great way to get some hands on experience with data collection, assay protocols and data analysis. Also, throughout the semester the workload for this course is very light. However, at the end of the semester work piles up with your final paper.
One of my favorite HEB courses ever! If you want to a write a thesis related to endocrinology you should definitely take this course.
It is an extremely enjoyable class. Essential for anybody considering writing an endocrinology thesis.
A really fun way to put your endocrinology knowledge to the test.
If you're looking for an interactive class without traditional methods of measuring your performance but rather a final product that your friends will actually be curious to hear about, take this class!
This is a great way to gain experience in biology research.  The final project allows you to work on your own to develop and support your own original hypothesis.
A marvelous experience. You get to engage in a research project as a class, carry it out (although frustrating at times), and see tangible results... all under the wonderful guidance of Susan Lipson.
It is exciting to do original research and have your own part of a project.  The lectures are not the most exciting, but you learn useful information if you want to do further research in endocrinology.
This a really hands on class and you get to lean a lot by doing.
Instead of just reading about endocrinology, you actually do a project!  It's great to get your nose out of the textbook and learn by DOING.  Professor Lipson is a wonderful professor, and she makes lab fun (This is saying something, because I have a lab phobia!).
This class is very hand on and rewarding. Be prepared for a large time investment in the latter half of the course for data collection, analysis and research paper writing. Part of what makes this class so great is both Prof. Lipson's excellent guidance but also the applicability of this class.
This class has been my absolute favorite in all my time at Harvard.  It helped me discover what I am most passionate about in HEB and has motivated me to take more classes in the area.
Awesome class!  Professor Lipson is wonderful, you'll get great hands on experience in the lab and carry out your own study.  Couldn't have asked for a better class.
enjoy it, and recruit research subject early! have fun spitting
This class really develops the skills needed to perform research individually.
This course is taught incredibly well, with diligence and enormous attention to detail. My recommendation is to consider how this may be useful in writing a thesis: if you see yourself interested in writing a thesis that considers hormone levels as a variable, this is the way to go for you! The week-to-week workload is light, but the final paper is quite extensive so get a head start and meet with Professor Lipson, who will be instrumental in helping shape your final product. I enjoyed taking this class, and feel like it opened some channels of thought that are inaccessible in other Harvard courses.
Workload is very light at the beginning of the semester, but it does ramp up, especially for the final project. I found it incredibly exciting to be able to work with human samples (the subject recruitment phase was fun as well haha), and analyze the data to find original connections. Sample sizes will be small so understand that your research scope will be limited, but this class is a great way to actually work on analyzing data and writing up your findings (sort of a way to test if you want to do a thesis), rather than being a lab slave as an intern in an outside lab. You'll also learn a lot about how to manipulate data and run clinically significant biostatistical tests. Professor Lipson is very accessible and helpful outside of class, and I would definitely recommend talking to her one-on-one to work out any confusing data you might get. 
That being said, this class is much more focused on the logistics of research in endocrinology than I expected than on actually learning about recent advancements and discoveries in behavioral endocrinology. To learn more about hormone/behavior relationships, I'd suggest HEB1310!
