Professor Hooven is excellent!  She is engaging, funny, clear, and really helps students understand the material.  Meredith is also excellent!  She too clairifies any questions, is easy to get ahold of and ask for help, and is very kind!  The course is really great!
A fascinating class that is a great introduction into the HEB field.
as long as you're okay with a bit of oversharing from the professor, and you actually really feel that biology is really big in behavior, go for it? it can be fun..
fascinating material and great lectures. I did not fall asleep once.
Take it!  It is interesting, fun, and challenges you and you will learn a lot!  It is really helpful for MCAT material as well, as a way to learn the hormones in a fun manner.
interesting course, enthusiastic professor
This class makes learning fun and is a great introduction to the material.
It's an interesting way to look at why we act the way we do.
if you are interested
This class changes the way you think about hormones and how they affect human behavior. It's fun to explain how rats and dogs are used to reflect human aggression and maternal behavior and how syrian hamsters and cichlid fighting fish reflect aggression.
be sure you're ready - if not, take it anyway and take it pass fail!  but lots to learn and take away from the course.
Has a lot of potential, but also had some first-year issues.  Definitely worth shopping if you have an interest in hormones.
Take your pick: readings or lectures, because both is a waste of time.
Professor Hooven can be intimidating.
very enjoyable and interesting
prof. hooven puts her heart into her students and the course. the material is super interesting.
This class covers an extremely interesting subject matter in a very mature, but fun manner.
This is a relatively fun and painless class.
Very interesting and enjoyable course; I learned a lot more than I expected.
This class is a wonderful overview of endocrinology, it not only gives you the basic facts, lays a foundation of knowledge but it also encourages students to make connections and learn to think critically about the topic.
This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard. Professor Hooven truly brought the material to life and made it enjoyable to learn about.
Great class.
Interesting, engaging, socially, personally, even politically relevant material; an absolutely phenomenal course staff.
Good professor, generally interesting topics, effective lectures and sections.
awesome awesome class. definitely my favorite science class so far. awesome teacher awesome material. great experience
This is a really interesting course that doesn't tax you a great deal in terms of workload. Exams can make you sweat a little. There are also some annoying people in class that Dr. Hooven will continuously encourage to participate. Though helpful in section, these tangents usually didn't add anything to lecture.
Great class - exciting lectures, interesting material in general; just the right amount of work and challenge. Great prof.
it's so interesting and applicable, professor Hooven makes the inherently intriguing material incredibly interesting and enjoyable. She is funny and creates a warm cooperative classroom environment. She tells really funny stories (while some might call it TMI, I enjoyed hearing about how this field affects her life and can be applied to anyone's life). She is humble and makes you feel like what you have to say is thoughtful and relevant even though she is incredibly intelligent and accomplished.
The exams are graded much harder than you might expect. Study hard for the first one, based on the lecture notes, but the ESR and IBE is essential
Super interesting and Professor Hooven is great!
Take this course! Carole Hooven is a great lecturer and obviously cares about her students and her teaching. That filters down into every component of the course and really animates the material--which is pretty darn interesting in its own right! You'll learn a lot but still enjoy your time in class and not have to stress about the class every week.
don't buy the textbooks, pay close attention to what she says in lecture because the questions on the midterms and finals pretty much want you to be able to read her mind.
This is an awesome course. Carole and Ted are a great team! The lectures are super fun and interesting. Definitely keep up with the readings, because there is a lot of detailed information to memorize and understand.
As long as you put the work into memorizing the immense amount of detail that is involved in the endocrine system (or you already happen to know it), this class is manageable. The material is interesting, and Professor Hooven is a very personal lecturer.
Awesome class! The subjects are really interesting, and professor is really sweet and engaging. I would say be careful if you're not that experienced with biology or not great at exams, though, because I often felt a little bit behind everyone. But worth it if you're willing to work.
Take this class because if only for the opportunity to study under a professor as amazing as Dr Hooven. The lectures are fun, the material is interesting (you'll be amazed at how much you'll start thinking about hormones in your everyday life), and the workload isn't bad at all.
Very interesting. Professor Hooven is extremely emotionally attached to the material
It is definitely a fun and interesting class. Personally, the exams crept up a bit on me, but if you attend lectures and review well it should not be too difficult. Carole is a fun and engaging prof. She likes to talk about personal things a fair deal, which might seem awkward, but in the end I think it can all be laughed about.
Definitely go to the lectures, they are one of the best parts of the course.
This class is super fun/awesome! Not only is the material super interesting but the teaching staff is great and very understanding. This class is not very time-intensive and as long as you make sure to attend every lecture and pay attention in class, you will be fine. This class is not curved but the exams are very reasonable. The first unit is sort of dense but the other two units are very interesting!
This was not only one of the best science courses I took at Harvard, but one of the best courses in general I took at the college. Carole's passion for teaching and her evident concern about making her students have great experience make it impossible not to learn a ton and to enjoy the class. Honestly, this class made me rediscover the love of science that I thought I had lost as the result of bad experiences in the Life Sci 1s and MCB 52.
easy and you'll learn a lot
this is an awesome heb class - especially if you are considering heb and/or are taking the sophomore tutorial simultaneously. the material is fascinating and really changes the way you look at the world, especially social dynamics. on a weekly basis the courseload is very light - an article for section reading. all the information is also on the lecture slides. the midterms cover a lot of details but no curveballs, and the final is really straightforward/easy.
Interesting course with an engaging professor
It's a really fun, interesting class and I highly recommend it.  Don't think it will be a particularly easy class however- the exams can be tricky and everyone studies pretty hard.
This is an excellent class with engaging lectures and topics relevant to the rest of your life. Take it! I learned so much.
Dr. Hooven is very enthusiastic and the class is, overall, a very fun experience if you are at all interested in hormones.
The class is interesting and I enjoyed the material, but there are a lot of assignments throughout the semester!
Professor Hooven is really nice and genuine, it's worth taking the class just to get to know her.
Do the readings, it'll help you understand the lectures and learn the material for exams. Also, the readings are very interesting. This a great course that everyone would enjoy.
This class is a great class to take to gain a deeper understanding of the way the body affects your behaviors and emotions.
Take this class! It will change the way you think about human behavior.
Professor Hooven is great, and very funny. She also seemed to get to know all of her students and liked to engage the students. If you are good at memorizing, you will do well in this class. If you can memorize information, this class will not be too difficult.
This class is full of HEB premeds who have already taken a million science classes. If you are thinking about taking it as an elective, think again. Furthermore, they don't even have to study because they saw most of the material already in MCB80 and LS1B. Seriously, if you are not majoring in the life sciences don't even think about taking it.
Very manageable and extremely enjoyable.
You will come away with a new perspective on male/female mating and reproductive behavior and why we are the way we are.
I loved learning about hormones in a variety of species from an evolutionary perspective. The course was not too difficult and quite interesting. I recommend to all interested in the human body!
more difficult than you might think
Be ready to study every little annoying detail for the midterms - not just the bigger picture ideas or really relevant information. This year seemed like a reaction to remarks from the year before about the class being "easy and fun." It's still fun, but it might be hard in a silly way again next year.
great professor and TF! The professor truly values and responds to feedback, the TF is readily available to meet outside class if extra help is sought by students, the material is interesting!
Every lecture is so interesting!
This was my favorite class at Harvard.  Prof. Hooven was a wonderful lecturer. I always looked forward to going to class because the material was so interesting and delivered with such enthusiasm and clarity.  Additionally I really appreciated the chance to discuss questions and ideas during lecture.
It's interesting, not too difficult, and explains a lot of things we see like  everyday.
The teaching faculty is amazing and their enthusiasm and interest in the subject is what makes the course so rich and engaging!
Requires a lot of memorization of hormones, experiments, but was a rewarding class
Focus on studying the lecture slides, doing all the reading is good for curiousity but if you don't have time just make sure you understand lecture slides
This class is awesome, I recommend it to every person who asks whether they are into the sciences or not. One of my favorite courses yet. Take it!
This class is very difficult and requires alot of memorization, but you learn even more.
This class is one of those few, magical courses that is fascinating and at the same time isn't super hard.  Maybe it's just that the subject matter is so cool but I didn't have to stress too much about this class and yet I learned a TON.  Professor Hooven is a genius and really sweet.  Tory is great as well.  I now think about hormones all the time and try to think about how different behaviors that I see (i.e. at parties) could be mediated by hormones.  It's awesome.
Fun professor, fun lectures, not too much work, great to learn how and why human physiology and behavior connects to endocrinology.
great course. you learn a lot of interesting information about hormones.
It's a great introduction to endocrinology, but know that it is an introduction and therefore will be general over specific in a lot of contexts.
This was an extremely interesting course and Professor Hooven is a fantastic teacher.
This class has been easily one of my favorite classes at Harvard! Be prepared to learn a LOT about hormones, sexuality, and human behavior.
It's an amazing class! It definitely confirmed that I wanted to major in HEB. The class incorporate so many real life applications so it never gets boring. The section readings are really interesting, and both the professor and the TF were great. Take this class!
This class is incredibly fun and interesting. It will make you reevaluate your whole life in terms of hormones.
Great professor, really interesting material
Do the article readings and participate in class and you'll be fine. Take advantage of Carole's enthusiasm for her students and her desires to want to get to know you!
It's amazingly interesting and well-taught. TAKE it!!
A great introduction to both straight endocrinology in addition to traditional HEB seminars' focus on behavior
You learn about human  nature and behaviors from an evolutionary perspective. I loved this class!
Take it!
very interesting material, not too much of a time commitment, definitely worth while
Don't buy the books. Reading is interesting but not necessary.
A great first experience with the endocrine system. A good overview with a ton of nice usage of illustrative experiments.
Take this class! You'll learn so much about the endocrinological basis of what we do, and learn a lot about how the human body functions. I highly recommend this class.
This course is one of the most interesting HEB courses I have taken thus far.  It sparked my interest in endocrinology
It is interesting and enjoyable.
Take good notes in class and you will thank yourself later. It will be much easier to understand topics when you go back to study for the tests, because there is a lot of material that's important but isn't always written on the slides.Don't read the textbook. I didn't even buy it and I was fine. You will never NEED to know the material for class or for any of the tests. It might be helpful if you don't understand something, but it would probably be more helpful to talk to Carole or Tory.
Incredible class that has challenged me to understand the world in a different way! A must take class that is solid in learning and fun an very manageable.
Great class, taught by an instructor that genuinely cares about her students.  My own quibble is that she never posted the same slides online that she uses in lecture.  That can get kind irritating.
This is one of my favorite classes at Harvard and will have more relevance to your life than 95% of the classes you will take. Ever.
Carole Hooven is one of the greatest professors in the HEB department.  Her enthusiasm and knowledge of the topic is amazing.  It is very interesting and pertinent information.  It will help you understand why you behave the way you do at certain times.
If you want to learn the basics about hormones, take the class, because you will learn the basics.
It's a great course to learn about some interesting topics. It's like watching the discovery channel for a few hours each week. You cover a good amount of material and are equipped with the technical tools you need.  By the end, however, I must admit, the course became very repetitive. It was great to get away from T and aggression, and hear a bit about obesity, and I think that switch needs to be made earlier.
Its really interesting information and cool stuff to learn
This class is very interesting.  If you put in the time to learn the material you should have no problem doing well.
The class is likely to be better when Dr. Chapman is no longer the instructor. Be prepared to be a little bit confused about what is expected of you. Also, this class discusses evolution very little, but does present a variety of interesting scientific findings about hormones.
This class involves looking at the implications of a lot experiments about hormones and behavior. If you have even an inch of doubt, do not take this class. However, if you are fascinated with hormonal studies, this is the class for you.
Normally this class is not taught by Judith so I am not sure if future students would see her again. In any case, Judith is a great lecturer and the TFs are really nice. There are a lot of assignments though for an HEB course: response papers, 3 midterms, presentation, final paper, mini-quizzes, meaning there are a lot of chances to gain points but also more to study for. Tests can be tricky because they ask questions like "pick statements that are false" and there could be more than one/none. There is also short response questions and fill in the blanks. Judith tried to incorporate public speaking in the curriculum so there was a final presentation and final paper. Those take time so prepare early.
Be prepared to memorize. Interesting material, but exams tended to hone in on minute details.
Very disorganized class.  Studying for midterms/finals is like memorizing as many cases and papers as you can and remembering as many feedback mechanisms as you can possibly muster.  Good luck to all non-HEB concentrators!  If you're HEB, you've got an upper hand.
This course is great! Take it! You'll learn a ton, it's totally manageable, and a lot of the work that's required of you is fairly open ended--you can basically study anything that interests you in the field!
Reconsider taking this course.
I would not recommend this class to a friend
The class is good, but exams are tough and they're tough on grading the final presentation!
There were often typos in the materials and contradictions in the slides. What experiments should be highlighted was also quite ambiguous. The final exam was some of the new material and then the midterm questions were literally removed from the midterm exam and the same questions were placed on the final. This penalized students that attempted to review all of the material as opposed to just memorizing the answers for the old midterm. I am not particularly certain of what the final was testing other than how well people had memorized the old test questions. Keep in mind that the original professor, Dr. Hooven, may be teaching next semester. From what I have heard, the class is amazing under her instruction. My main regret is that I did not wait out the year to see if she would be teaching.
great interesting class that makes you view world differently
If you want to learn about animals' hormones and behavior, this is great; there isn't much human content unfortunately. Most of the course is memorizing correlational studies linking hormones and behavior, but never goes in to the actual biological and the mechanisms or function of the hormones. There was no focus on the actual effect of hormones. Perhaps sounds better than it actually is. I would be hesitant taking this course. For an anatomy course I would recommend LS2.
I absolutely loved this class! I consistently looked forward to section; it probably was the best class I've taken this year, and now I'm strongly considering HEB as a concentration. It's one of those courses where you actually talk about what you learned in class with your friends and they ask you to tell them more, because it's THAT interesting (once you get past the first unit of nitty-gritty molecular hormone stuff. Though that is interesting in its own right.) Also, do the textbook readings; they're mildly hilarious, and you might stumble upon a table of "Top reasons men and women have sex" or graphic illustrations of the Kama Sutra. Essentially, this course is like if you combined LS1b with SLS20, and made it 50x more interesting, manageable, and fun. Take it!
Take the course! Great way to combine issue of social interest with the fun of scientific inquiry.
Class was very disorganized
The class is all about the books, so you might as well just read the book on your own... The answer key to the tests (three midterms!!!) are all from the book...plus you get soooo much work!!!
This is a very interesting class and I definitely recommend. There are reasonable expectations (3 midterms, one can be dropped; one final paper and presentation; final exam, two response papers) and Judith is a great lecturer!
Take it if Carole is teaching. Do your final presentations early.
This class is great! Be prepared for a lot of memorization, but the teaching staff is very enthusiastic and helpful. The readings are really interesting, and the final paper and presentation on a hormones topic of your choice is a lot of fun. If you're uncomfortable spending a lot of your time studying sex, just be warned. As a freshman, this class was a great way to confirm that I want to concentrate in HEB!
Be sure to memorize the slides for the exam. Its all memorization.
Judith is a fantastic professor - so knowledgable, approachable, and kind. The workload in this class is definitely not easy, but the 3 midterms and various assignments are structured in a way that is actually helpful and makes you learn the material more effectively. The public speaking component of the class is also so useful. Couldn't recommend this class more!
It's fun and not tough. Well worth taking.
Great class, professor Chapman is great, and section is a great opportunity to practice public speaking.
This course covers interesting material and is generally a good HEB class but felt disorganized at times. The exams focused on minute details rather than general comprehension and a large component of section was listening to other students' final presentations (the entire second half of the semester) - both of these points detracted from the course overall. I don't think students outside of HEB would find it very rewarding.
THis is easy if you've taken LS 2 and other premed courses. However if you don't have a strong science background then be prepaerd to put in work actually doing the readings and going over lecture material. ALso if Judith is teaching section is for practicing public speaking so don't expect a review/ reinforcing the material during section
The content is awesome, and if you're even a little interested in how hormones affect behavior I totally recommend this course.  That is, only if Hooven returns--from the Q scores, people loved her, but I'm sure you'll notice a significant drop in the scores this year (the class was far too unorganized and tedious to allow for anything else).But, Hooven is awesome, so as soon as she comes back, take the course!!
The information presented in this course is incredibly useful and interesting. I applied information learned in this course to final papers in two of my other courses this semester.
Read the book portions!  Sections are great for teaching public speaking skills (teaching you and THEN having you use them rather than throwing you right in).  Also, very little work to do in section after the first couple of weeks!  Dr. Chapman is a very energetic and fun lecturer!
This was a really interesting course. I liked the material a lot, however, the professor changed this year and it was a little bumpy. I think there was a lot of enthusiasm, but sometimes concepts were not conveyed very clearly and the tests felt a little like fact regurgitation vs. a test of your understanding of the important concepts of behavioral endocrinology. However, I did really like the material and enjoyed the class!
Professor Hooven is amazing! She really cares about her students and about the material.
This is by far my favorite class that I have taken! Professor Hooven is a really engaging lecturer and the material is super interesting. Definitely take it!
Carole Hooven is an awesome professor.  This class is worth taking and its totally doable.
This class is great.  The readings are interesting, section is engaging, and lectures are usually pretty neat (except for some nitty-gritty biological details that are worth sitting through).  Topics are relevant to life, too!  I found myself talking about stuff I'd learned in Hormones with my friends outside the class.  If you're HEB concentration or secondary, definitely take this.  If you have any interest in bio, human evolution and adaptation, or the physiological basis of sexuality, this is an awesome elective.
This is a well taught class full of interesting, relevant material. Whether your bio or not, it will be a fun class. It's not too difficult, but it does have a decent amount of work and several midterms, but no problem if you invest some time. Take it!
Take this course. Carole Hooven is one of the most enthusiastic and dedicated teachers I have yet to meet at Harvard, and the material gives you a new biological perspective on the way we live our lives. If you're a MBB neuro concentrator, the class is a wonderful and enjoyable way to get a neuro elective out of the way, and broadens your perspective on what components make the body react the way it does to pressures like stress.
This class has a high workload, but the material is not difficult to understand. It's interesting to learn about and then think about in your interactions with people.
Awesome class, good professor.
This is a greta class! Professor Hooven truly cares about the materials she teaches and tries her best to make the lectures fun, interesting, and easy to understand. While the syllabus seems daunting with 3 exams, they are their to help you to learn the material. Professor Hooven makes the exams very fair - so if you know the material, you will do well. More importantly, I learned a lot in this class that I will actually remember after the final exam. Which is not the case in almost all my other classes. So if you want a fun and interesting class with a moderate workload, take it!!
This course is a premed course. The course was very enjoyable overall. If you will enroll in this class, you have to appreciate Dr. Hooven's candor. I thought she was a great lecturer and very helpful in office hours. She is also receptive to comments throughout the course, so that was great! My TF was Ted (Gulus was the other TF). I always looked forward to section since the readings were very interesting (believe me on this), and sections were very relaxed and fun.
This course was really great! It has been one of my favorite classes while at Harvard. The professor is wonderful, really cares about her students. The course material is incredibly interesting and the types of things you were always wondering about...great for non science concentrators as well.
This is what all Harvard classes should be like - the emphasis is really on genuinely engaging with and enjoying the material rather than on brute memorization, creating ridiculous assignments/midterms and grunt work. The subject content is incredible and Professor Hooven is the most dedicated professor I have met at Harvard! Definitely a great course for anyone even remotely interested in biology! Also, as a warning, for anyone that has taking LS2 before, this course has a lot of repeated content based on the physiology, especially during the first few weeks, but if you stick it out through that it picks up and you get to consider hormones from a completely different lens and learn about a lot of fascinating studies! Definitely worth it!
This class was amazing! Definitely my favorite of the semester. Carole Hooven is a funny, emotional, interesting lecturer who definitely knows what she's talking about. Take this class! This course will change how you look at people.
Prof Hooven is THE BEST
Professor Hooven is awesome!
You won't be able to stop talking about the interesting things you learn in this class and you can easily relate to the behaviors that are discussed so finding out the reasons why we act the way we do is VERY cool.
I wish I could take this class again. It's great.
I'm a senior and this has been the best course I've taken in my four years here. The professor is amazing and the topic is super interesting. Usually at Harvard, you can have one or the other. With HEB 1310, you can have both!Also as a non-HEB concentrator (though with some science background), it was very accessible, and the professor and TFs are always ready to help if you need!
This class is a really, really fun class to take. There are so many interesting topics and discussions that make it one of the best classes at Harvard. That being said, tests are hard but fair and the technical biological pathways must be learned, so be ready to study hard but receive a big pay off at the end!
This was my favorite class I have taken at Harvard so far.  Carole is the most amazing, compassionate, wonderful human being which translates directly into her great teaching style.  She is so open about everything and it is so obvious that she cares immensely about her students.  Her lectures are so interesting and so relevant to our own lives that I never felt bored or the need to check my phone or my email.  Get to know her as well as you can and take this class if you have any interest in it whatsoever!
This class is well taught and interesting.  Professor Hooven is more engaging than most professors I have had here.  My one critique is that it brings science into some elements of life in which I don't really want science to be.  Leave romance alone! Great class though, highly recommend
fun and interesting topics, go to lecture they are very enjoyable
This is a really interesting course! Professor Hooven is great and really excited about the material. Exams are tough but the material is worth studying
TAKE THIS CLASS!! This has been one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard so far... Carole is AMAZING and such a fantastic lecturer - I looked forward to going to every class. Readings for section were super interesting and the assignments were pretty painless. As long as you pay attention in class, reviewing for exams is pretty easy as well. The exams are not trying to trick you so even though they do cover a lot of information they weren't that bad. Whether you're HEB or not, if you like biology even a bit you must take this class. It's fantastic.
Relevant for all science and humanities concentrators and for anybody curious about experiencing one of the best classes at Harvard.
A very good course that teaches the functions of hormones from the biochemical level up to the interpersonal level. It's a nice balance between memorizing details and understanding general concepts. If you have taken LS2, you will find the course very manageable. It's very helpful for pre-meds, those about to take the MCAT, or anyone who would like to learn more about physiology.
This was probably the best course I have taken at Harvard.  The professor is captivating and hilarious, and she makes you really want to come to lecture.  The material is extremely interesting and so applicable to everyday life.  Overall, one of the most incredible and worthy courses I've ever taken in my life.
Lectures are great and very engaging. Since the amount of reading is not unreasonable, try to keep up with it to get the most out of lecture.
This was a fantastic class that would be a great addition to any semester. The lectures are great (Carole Hooven is awesome), the material is interesting, and you learn some interesting stuff that will change your perspective on your day-to-day life. There was a good amount of work but it was certainly doable and as long as you keep up with it you will do fine. Definitely one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
Keep an open mind and you'll learn a ton!
TAKE IT IF YOU ARE AT ALL INTERESTED
Very interesting course, not very hard as far as science courses go, engaging lectures.
material changes the way you think about social interactions and sexual attraction. the course could have been better organized, especially with regards to the many testosterone-mediated behaviors; as of now there just seems to be lots of repetition and not a clear, concise summary of T's effects. overall a solid course, but everything people have said about Hooven - good and bad - is true.
The test questions are pretty detailed so make sure you really know the material! The questions are relatively specific.
Incredible experience, best class I've taken so far at Harvard.  Professor Hooven is engaging, passionate, funny, and easy on the eyes.  I had so much fun in this class and the material is fascinating and relevant.  You have to take this!
Take the class - it is super interesting and you learn more about your own body.  It would be interesting for everyone even if you dont likes sciences and it is not a crazy amount of work.
The endocrine system is really interesting, and this class is a great way to learn about its intersection with animal behavior (mostly human behavior). It was nice to get some anatomy/physiology in a class about very interesting behavioral topics. If you want to clarify any of the topics covered or want to read about some of the topics in greater depth, get the textbook (it's great).
This class is great! The material is very interesting, and Dr. Hoovan knows her stuff. She is fun, engaging, and dedicated to her students. She knows the content well and makes it feel worthwhile learning the information. She truly wants students to do their best, and to feel as excited as she is.
Dr. Hooven is great to listen to, and most of the lectures are interesting. She is very passionate about hormones and behavior, and a very personable person, which is nice to see in a professor. The weekly readings were not too bad and the response papers were doable. The exams were pretty specific, so learn the material as you go.
This material is really interesting - you learn a LOT about sex differences, aggression, obesity and diabetes, and stress, and I thought all of these topics were interesting and relevant to my life. Lectures are interesting, Carole is wonderful and knowledgable, and the readings are interesting.
Very well taught, not a huge workload but small assignments along the way to help you learn material and keep up.
This course is fantastic. Carole is the bomb; she's passionate and enthusiastic about the subjects. If you need a really detailed explanation of all the underlying biological mechanisms that initiate a particular physiological response this course might not be for you. But otherwise I think this class is really worth taking and I'm glad I did.
It's really fun! And you really don't need to do every single one of the readings...I mostly used the textbook as a study tool to fill in gaps in my understanding.
material is very interesting; good science course to take; lectures can drag on a bit (an hour may have been sufficient but they are an hour and a half)
Take this course if you can when it is next offered in 2017! Carole is such an enthusiastic lecturer and such a variety of students take this course. It is a nice way to connect science and society. You should take this course if you are interested in women and gender studies. There are weekly quizzes and many opportunities to demonstrate your understanding.
I came home every day at lunch and told my friends about what I learned in this class - that's how interesting it is! (For example, why do you get hungry after you eat white bread? Why do strippers get more tip money at different times of the month?) Carole is a wonderful teacher; she is very engaging, and very accessible outside of class. She cares a great deal about her students. This class does a good job of combining molecular concepts and big-picture ideas.
Professor Hooven's lectures made me always want to come to class! She is passionate about the subject and makes it fun to learn. Don't be intimidated by the amount of quizzes and midterms on the syllabus - because there are so many, each one is not on a lot of material and so they aren't difficult to manage. And, if you don't do well on one or two things, it's not devastating to your grade!
This class is amazing! It does a really good job of integrating science and its applicability at a personal and societal level, and then encouraging you to think critically about all that we learned and the implications. The last two thirds of the course are the most interesting when you get to see how the basic endocrinology that you learn about applies to a variety of different topics, including things like gender identity, stress and obesity. I took it as an HEB requirement but I had friends who are humanities concentrators who found it really interesting and accessible as well. Also Carole is an amazing lecturer and absolutely hilarious! Lectures were really effective and never boring in the slightest and grading is fair provided you put in the work. Section was also a good mix of going over the material and discussing a related article. It's not offered next year, but definitely take this class the next chance you get!
Very interesting, you have to take it throughout your undergrad career!
This class is complicated. On one hand, the material is incredibly interesting -- I cant think of someone who, when enthusiastically and correctly taught about hormones, doesnt think its awesome and super interesting. You will learn lots of interesting stuff by the very nature of the material: super relevant to everyones life, behavior, relationships, health, and the world in general. On the other, there are many problems with the way that this class is taught. The class definitely needs more organization -- between Dr. Hooven and the TFs, as well as in the lecture slides, and in the way section is handled, and in general in what is being taught. For example, it is imperative for the future that there is a clear, constant reference to the organism that was used for experiments referenced in class. Specifically in regards to rodent vs. human models, it is still not clear from the lecture slides and especially Dr. Hooven's verbal lectures what correlations where found in what species. And this is a problem, given the importance of the extent to which we can extrapolate rodent results to the human species. In terms of background knowledge/classes, none is completely, absolutely necessary. Some anatomy/physiology is helpful. Dr. Hooven is a strange lecturer, charismatic but with very sensitive tendencies that at times seem inappropriate for the class setting (as in, crying about the smallest things). Overall, the class is worth it if you know what youre getting into and are willing to read the textbook to (re)teach yourself what you may not have gotten during class. But then again, its not that hard of a class and what you can learn can be applied in many aspects of life.
The course is engaging and not too difficult. You'll pick up a good foundation for further endocrine research.
Best class I've taken at Harvard. Carole is a fantastic lecturer/person, the material is fascinating, workload is low. Take this class.
This class is fun and interesting, and not too difficult, especially if you've taken LS2 (it can actually help clarify and solidify some of the things you had to learn so quickly in that class). Prof. Hooven can be a bit weird but she gives good lectures.
The material in this course is very interesting, but be sure to pay attention to the details in charts and graphs for exams. Do the book readings.
Really amazing and engaging lectures. I took this course as a humanities concentrator as an elective and really loved it -- it really gives you insight into the workings of your body and is a great scientific base for a lot of thinking I'm doing in other classes. Carole is absolutely amazing.
The course material is interesting, but prepared for a poor lecturer, unorganized lectures, and disconnected TFs. The lecture slides are often filled with too many words and need to be condensed. Carole is not a clear lecturer and relies too much on all of the writing on the slides to explain the material. Oftentimes I understand the material only after thoroughly reading the textbook (and sometimes excessive, useless pages are assigned) because Carole will often read directly off the slides or spend minutes staring at the slides without knowing what she really wants to say. The TFs fail to coordinate with each other and with Carole and grading or information can often seem all over the place. Sections can be frustrating because you're expecting the TF to clarify information from that week's lectures but instead wastes time dissecting the required section readings.
One of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard! Dr. Hooven is fantastic and lecture is very engaging.  The material is super interesting and will get you thinking about your own life. Definitely take this if you can!
I absolutely loved this class! Dr. Hooven is an incredible lecturer, her enthusiasm and passion are infectious. She genuinely cares for her students as though they are are children and that makes all the difference. Her lectures are well organized, interesting, engaging, clear and the exams and assessments are more than fair. IF you go over the material, you can do extremely well. I actually liked the weekly quizzes, they keep you on top of the material and they are ridiculously easy. Overall, a very interesting course especially if you are into biology. and its a breeze if you have a good foundation in the life sciences
This is a fantastic class! The assignment schedule may seem intimidating, but it is manageable and totally worth it.
This class is very good for people who are interested in science, and the first part of the class is very technical about the endocrine system and its mechanisms.  However, there is also a good conceptual component about sexual behavior as well, so it is not all hardcore science.  I would definitely recommend this course as an elective or for a concentration, yet it does include difficult concepts and mechanisms, so I would only take it if you find the subject interesting.  If you do, then it is a fantastic course!! (Carole is the best)
This is a great course - you'll learn a lot about how hormones affect the body and behavior in different aspects, from reproduction to stress to obesity. Professor Hooven is a fun, engaging lecturer and makes the concepts relevant to everyday life, and clearly cares a lot about her students and the material. The section leaders are also really friendly and engaged in making sure you learn the material. Section is an extremely helpful component of the course in helping you understand and synthesize the material you learned in lecture, as well as discussing interesting articles that show how these issues are being studied today! Downsides are that lecture slides can be kind of disorganized, without a good distillation of what the main points are, and similarly, when studying for exams, it can be unclear exactly what you need to know.
This is a great course. Carol is a funny and enthusiastic lecturer, the material is interesting and applicable to life, and the workload is reasonable.
This course is EVERYTHING. It will satisfy you in every single way possible - intellectually, personally, emotionally, etc.
you learn a lot about hormones and the way they integrate into behavior
You'll be fine. Do the readings, do the assignments, go to section and you'll get the grade you deserve. This is sort of like a high school course (and we all did well in high school, right?), so approach it like that. Carole is a firebrand and iconoclast. Love her!
It is difficult, but worth it. What you learn changes your view on the relationship between hormones and the way we behave.
Great class but lot's of memorization. I mean you should start putting stuff an quizlet or index cards after every lecture, i learned the hard way.
Take this course. It was the best class I've taken at Harvard- it finally showed me how biology and humanity come together, and which was such an incredible gift. I can't speak highly enough of the course staff. Professor Hooven is so passionate and enthusiastic that it's impossible not to get drawn into her lectures, and the TFs are so interesting and helpful. TAKE THIS CLASS YOU WILL NOT REGRET IT.
The class is very engaging, and the topics are so interesting. There are so many cool things we don't know about animals and ourselves, and the course has opened my mind to think about these things.
Go to lecture! Not videotaped and way easier to follow if you go to class.
Be prepared for a lot of assessments. They are all fair and if you go to class, you should be fine, but you do need to be prepared.
Don't neglect the readings or the class in general. Not as easy as it seems but with normal upkeep and attention in class you should be fine.
I took this class as a WGS concentrator with little science background aside from high school bio, and it's totally doable. I also felt like I learned a lot about how to talk about gender in a scientifically accurate yet still critical way. Also, Carole is a wonderful lecturer, and cares a lot about her students.
this class is really incredible if you put the work into it. Carole cares a lot about her students & the material, and it certainly shows. It's hard to memorize all the little tiny details, but if you understand the big concepts and how the details fit in, that makes it easier.
This course is a great overview of the endocrine system and its applications to animal and human behavior. Great for anyone considering medical school, veterinary school, or grad school in anthropology (or if you are interested in anything in the course syllabus). Definitely be sure to keep up with the material, but otherwise take this course without hesitation
This is an EXCELLENT class. I took it as a random elective senior spring, pass/fail, after having basically taken no science classes at Harvard. I took it because I was interested in learning about hormones and how they impact the human body, and I wasn't disappointed. The workload is VERY reasonable (if you're interested in the subject matter), the subject matter is quite interesting and highly relevant in general, as well as to many people focused fields (parts connected to psych, and I can see how this would be relevant to any kind of bio). Carole is hilarious and quirky and really sweet, and really has her stuff down in this course. She doesn't BS and she clearly cares about teaching the class well and about her students.This is randomly one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard, so if you're interested in the subject matter, I'd highly recommend it!
Lectures are full of info and easy to get through. You'll almost definitely find something you're interested in, especially if you're neuro or have some familiarity with evolutionary biology.
This course is difficult, and it requires lots of work. I thought it would supplement LS1 B, but I spent around as much time on HEB 1310 as I did with Genetics.
Carole is a really fun lecturer and the material is really interesting especially if you are not familiar with the topics. Definitely take if you can!
great interesting class, but a lot of memorization (pretty hard class if you aren't great at memorizing terms)
This is a fantastic course that counts as an elective for a variety of departments (like psych, for example!). There is a bit of work, but all the assignments are extremely straightforward -- if you keep up with the lecture material and read the textbook for pop quizzes, you will be fine. The professor is extremely down-to-earth, and really cares about her students -- don't be afraid to talk to her outside of class! Lara's also a good TF, and section is fun, though a bit unstructured. Hope Prof. Hooven continues to teach this course in the future!
The material in this course is really interesting. The reading load is incredibly reasonable as are the assignments. The class is structured to test your knowledge in many different ways over the course of the term so no one midterm or final is half your grade, etc. Go to lecture. Section is really helpful. Study.
This class is very interesting and the material is not too dense.
This was my favorite class this semester.  I looked forward to the interesting topics discussed during lecture and the required readings were easy to get through.
Marking criteria and the weighting of the quiz will magnify your mistakes and they are not curved. It is interesting but I would advise against it unless you have HEB experience.
Tests are a little tricky. Just beware. Professor Hooven is great though.
Dr. Hooven puts a lot of effort and energy into her lectures, which is great, but the structure of this class is not for everyone and I would not have taken it if I didn't have to.  There are constant textbook readings, section readings, pop quizzes looming every class, random papers, in class exams, and take homes.  If you are very interested in hormones, you may enjoy this, but it requires a lot of time and effort and some of the grading on the take home exams and assignments seemed vague, arbitrary, and unjustified.  Points were deducted with no specific explanation to account for the number removed, and often it was pointed out that something was omitted when the question didn't even ask for it to begin with.
Professor Hooven is engaging, thoughtful, and insightful. Definitely one of the better HEB courses.
This is such an awesome class! Dr. Hooven is the best and the TFs (Lara and Alicia) are really great. Super interesting material and manageable work--it was a great intro to to the field for me as a prospective concentrator and definitely made me more sure about choosing HEB.
This class has been a great experience. Dr. Hooven is an excellent lecturer, and she makes the course material incredibly accessible (and if it's not, she is always willing to meet with you during office hours). The course material is super fascinating to anyone interested in how biology/hormones play a role in shaping human behavior. Definitely interesting and highly recommended!
A fun class. You'll have to do a lot of the reading and study for exams, but if you go to lectures and pay attention you will be okay.
fantastic class to get a broad overview of how hormones influence and shape behavior in the animal kingdom.
This is a fantastic class-- certainly one of the best that I've taken at Harvard. However, it is necessary to note that this class is a pretty tough class; I found myself studying for this class weekly because of the prospect of the pop quizzes which were a pretty large part of the grade (16%), and in my opinion, not very reflective of what we learned/ did in the class. Dr. Hooven's lectures were great-- she is so enthusiastic and interesting and she does a great job of bringing endocrinology into real life terms, discussing social and political implications of many of the subjects that we discussed. Section was great, too, as the readings brought a lot of the material into relevant terms. All in all, do yourself a favor and take this class but know that you will need to study, go to office hours, etc. to truly master the material.
Attend lectures! They are interesting/ engaging and there are pop quizzes. Those quizzes are on the textbook readings so make sure you stay on top of that. The written assignments are doable (evaluating a scientific article) and science and media paper is enjoyable to do (evaluating a scientific article and a media report on the material). Class has three exams: one in-class mid-term, one take-home midterm, one final. Midterms were doable if you attend lectures (a lot of slides are studies or diagrams that are explained in class). For the final, Dr. Hooven provides a study guide that has most of the material that will be tested on the exam. In-class exams consists of multiple choice, fill in the blank, short answer, and longer answers. Readings for section are interesting! Do them! They also show up on exams (main ideas/ results).
You'll love the professor; she's fun and always makes lecture interesting. The material covered puts a lot of our behaviors in context, and you'll start noticing and thinking about them more critically.
This course is wonderful! Dr. Hooven is a great professor who loves the material, and she has a good sense of humor while being respectful. You'll learn more about the way hormones influence the likelihood of our behaviors, and consequently you'll think about a variety of everyday behaviors in a new way. The required textbook readings are interesting, and the pop quizzes aren't too bad if you read while paying attention.
Take this class if you want to have a unique window into understanding some of the most important aspects of human behavior, including reproduction, aggression, parenting, obesity/diabetes from a biological, hormonal point of view.
Very good course!  Dr. Hooven is great!  Glad I took this instead of LS 2 for the HEB anatomy req.
TAKE IT! This is a fabulous and relaxed way to learn a ton about human biology and behavior. The material is interesting and the teaching is top-notch.
This course is fascinating, the most interesting course I've ever taken at Harvard... however........ the grading needs to improve.  This year, 16% of our grade in the class was determined by 9 tricky pop quiz questions during lecture... which is outrageously unfair, because midterms are worth 10% and the biggest paper is worth 8%...
The material is great and interesting. It is well taught and the teaching staff is very passionate about what they do. Sometimes the pace seems a little slow but overall I thought it was a great class.
The topics in this course are interesting, and it's definitely valuable to gain an evolutionary perspective on human behaviour. That said, be aware that it does get very detailed (to the level of having to know the names of all twelve nuclei in the hypothalamus) so there is a good deal of memorization involved. The workload is reasonable and Carole is an engaging lecturer.
A great and fantastic class! Professor Hooven is very passionate about what she teaches and very open to interacting with her students. The material is both interesting and relevant.
This is an amazing class. If you took LS 2 and enjoyed the endocrinology portion of it, this class is for. If you are premed, this class if for you. If you like behavior (human or otherwise), this class is for you. If cool things interest you, this class is for you. Take it at some point if you get the chance. It's not very difficult and will add minimal stress to your life. You will not regret taking this class and will go back home with a lot of amazing and interesting things to tell your friends and family about the groundbreaking research being conducted in behavioral endocrinology.
I thought the material was really interesting. It was a little more work than I anticipated, so make sure you're not taking too many other difficult classes at the same time.
This is a great class! I loved the material and encourage you to keep up with readings and section material. The lecture slides are helpful in reviewing but go to lecture to get the most out of the class!
Gives you a great understanding of how hormones can affect the body and behavior, and so much more. It lets you understand everyday behavior and relate it to biology in a way that you never have before. Whether you choose to do so is up to you! Carole is a great lecturer, and if you pay attention and really absorb the material you'll come out of the course with knowledge that you didn't think you'd be able to bring up in conversation so often! Also, definitely read the textbook before lecture when you take this class (I say "when," not "if," because you should really try it out).
This is a great work. It is a great course but you'll understand sex differences and other hormonally influenced behaviors in a whole new light. Even if you aren't pre-med, you'll have cocktail party conversation fodder enough for the rest of your life, and if you ever are in a relationship or looking to lose weight you'll have some science behind your efforts.
it is a really hard class, a lot of tedious work, memorization and you really need to be devoted to it
Know the details.
Very interesting material, although if you don't have close attention to detail you will find it hard to do well.
Any HEB concentrators should definitely consider taking this class.  Carole is great, and the information is so interesting and applicable to lots of other HEB classes you would take.  Even non-science concentrators would enjoy this class.
Carole is a very passionate teacher, educator, and advisor! She will demand a high standard from you but for a good reason. She offers interesting, fun and stimulating lectures that will keep you engaged with the material. Exams are low stress because there are 3 (Midterm , Take Home Midterm, Final).
This class is very interesting if you can keep up with the lecture material. Try not to fall behind (of course I did!) since lectures are often very fact-heavy, some more than others. Many people seemed to be taking this class as a sort of introduction to HEB, and were not even HEB concentrators. I took it as a requirement, and would probably not have taken it if it wasn't a requirement, just because HEB seminars are generally so much more informative and interactive, and a better way to learn. I would advise people looking for an intro HEB class to take an easier intro class or go straight into a seminar if they have a good background in genetics/evolution from other non-HEB classes. That said, Prof. Hooven is an engaged, funny professor who genuinely cares about her studies, their lives, and their learning experience. She is a wonderful resource outside of the classroom and brightens the lecture hall with her enthusiasm, always a plus!
Great class. Carole is awesome!
GREAT class if you're interested in human behavior. Carole is really knowledgeable and takes a genuine interest in every one of her students.  Heads up, not all of the day's content is covered sometimes because the lecture gets a bit sidetracked, but honestly it's totally worth it. I won't say the final was easy, but overall all the assessments are very fair if you've paid attention in class.
It will be one of the best classes you take at Harvard. The exams are more specific than you'd think, even when Dr. Hooven says they're not.
I took this class as a Humanities major looking for a challenging/interesting but accessible SLS. It was my first STEM class as a junior at Harvard. I found it challenging and it pushed me to think/work in ways that I don't usually at Harvard, but overall it was engaging and more interesting than I expected a STEM class to be. The teaching staff were incredibly approachable and supportive when I felt out of my depth, though lectures sometimes moved fast--I knew that I would be better able to keep up if I had more experience in bio, but overall that didn't prohibit me from enjoying the class and keeping up with assignments without overwhelming my ability to focus on other classes.
This class is accessible for non science majors, and equally interesting for those with background. Carole is inspirational, and I have never had a professor who cared more about me as a person. She was passionate and the lectures, and that made the students care.
Take a course with Dr. Hooven and you won't regret it. She's both funny and inspiring. You'll learn a ton of applicable stuff about how your body operates and why it evolved this way. Interesting questions raised, fair assignments and exams, incredible professor!
This class is so interesting and the content is so relevant, no matter what you study.
This is the class that taught me the most about myself by far. Wanna know why youre so stressed about finals, internships, and hook ups? Take this class. Wanna learn about hardcore endocrinology for Med school or whatever? Take this class! Carole is so down-to earth and helped me class material and real life stuff. She's awesome, the TFs are super helpful too! Sick class 15/10!!!
Take it!!!!! There could not be a better was to fulfill an HEB requirement. Carole is the most amazing lecturer you could ask for. There is no professor who cares more about the students than she does, and she really puts a lot of effort into making this class the best possible experience.
This class was really interesting and Carole is great. There are a lot of assignments and exams, so you're kind of always doing work. The key is to just stay on top of things. Study a lot for the in-class exams; she likes asking questions of tiny details that you either know or you don't. This class is essentially an endocrinology class with a little bit of evolution mixed in.
It's a good course. Dr. Hoover really cares about her students and tries to get to know them. However, one thing I didn't like was the balance between teaching and listening. Although she has an open mind, she talks way more than listens especially in private conversations. She does have a lot to offer so it's cool listening to her talk. One of my biggest concerns with this class occurred in the last unit where she mentioned her prejudice towards overweight individuals - not only did I feel some students could be hurt by this but also it was very unprofessional to express such views in front of the entire class. I do have to say her personal stories are great and a wonderful addition to this course.
Make sure you keep up with lectures for the quizzes which are like every week
This is one of my favorite classes of all time! You'll learn so much about hormones and how they affect our behavior and that of people around us. I would leave lectures excited to tell my friends about all the cool stuff from class that day!
Fascinating class, good material, not an overwhelming amount of work but you do need to know your stuff on exams so don't slack on studying.
This is a GREAT course that will change the way you look at the world. Get to know Carole, too. She's a gem. Low workload but you gain a ton. Moderately difficult, you have to be ready to study. But it's fantastic. As someone with no bio experience whatsoever, I was still able to keep up.
This course is extremely interesting and the course staff is great. I'm sure the TFs will be different, but if Carole uses the same criteria she used to choose this year's TFs, you'll be in great hands. This course really helped me to understand hormones and behavior when I had very little experience learning about either. It was awesome to look at behavior as a more microbiology-centered student.
Take it because Carole is great, and you will learn a great deal but be prepared to put in time and work for studying. In-class midterms are tough and detail oriented.
This class is fantastic. I took it initially thinking it would be a great class to take to prepare me for med-school type classes in the future and totally went in thinking it was just another biology class but it really gets you appreciating the magnitude of impact hormones have on us, from shaping our sexuality to disease. It gets you to question how much free will we actually have and almost makes you feel helpless because these small things can do so much to our bodies and affect our lives in significant ways and can even carry on to future offspring. Dr. Hooven is just a great person and I would go back and switch to HEB just to have her as my advisor. She is so invested in every student and makes an effort to learn your name even if the only time you interact is during class. Do not hesitate to add this to your schedule. It does require careful attention to detail and you need to read the test questions carefully but honestly it's not a class that tries to kick you down or anything. If you do your share you'll be fine.
This class is okay, probably the most painless of the required anatomy classes. However, lectures are disorganized and behavior isn't even covered in depth. You'll learn more about cell types and hormone releasing glands than behavior or bigger picture things.
I cannot say enough good things about this class! Carole is a wonderful lecturer who cares SO MUCH about her students and the course and pretty much everything. It's well structured--while the syllabus may make it look like there are a lot of assignments, it's nice because they're all relatively low pressure so it's easier to do well. The teaching staff is very invested in making sure you have enough resources and will go above and beyond to make sure expectations are as clear as possible and to help you succeed. Probably my favorite class I've taken at Harvard, and Carole is awesome
Dr. Hooven is awesome. I would recommend doing the reading. The take home exams are a little weird if you aren't used to doing them.
Wonderful class for people of all backgrounds. Do not be scared to take the class even if you aren't of a science background and have not taken prerequisites if you are interested in the material. I took AP bio in high school and some psych classes at harvard and did not have difficulty with the class, except in Unit 1. This class showed me how applicable hormones and biology is to daily life and human behavior and loved the experience of learning. Carole is absolutely amazing, and such a personable and approachable professor who cares about her students and the sections really help you understand the material. Great great class.
Dr. Hooven is incredible and really cares, Giussepe and Andrea were awesome.  Overall the material is super interesting and there are weekly 1 point quizzes that make you stay on top of the material so when midterms come its not too bad to study!
I really liked this class! Being an HEB concentrator, I have known Carole for several years, and was excited to take this class with her. She was really enthusiastic and cared a lot about her students. I also enjoyed the fact that we discussed topics that are actually highly relevant to our own lives. My only warning would be that HEB concentrators take this earlier, and not wait until their senior spring like I did. I felt like at times the lectures were too simplified and slow, but that's to be expected since Carole works to make the class accessible to everyone. Had I taken it my sophomore year when I was just starting out in HEB, I don't think I would have had this problem.
This class seemed like a waste of time. All the material in each 90 min lecture could be condensed to probably 30 min, but so much time is spent on digressions and pauses. Some of the exam questions seem unrelated to the main themes of the class, and ask for specific but largely irrelevant terms or information. Other upper  level HEB hormone courses are much more worth the time and have much better teaching, with professors who are knowledgeable about more than what is just on the lecture slides.
This class is fun and makes you learn lots of cool new things, but be prepared for a LOT of work and midterms that feel malicious
Interesting material, useful and meaningful assignments, and a great professor. Dr. Hooven made an effort to learn the names of everyone in the class, which just goes to show you how much she cares about teaching and about all of her students.
Lectures often focus on big picture, "fluffier" concepts, while exams often test nitpicky details not emphasized in class. Response paper assignments kind of annoying, ask questions like "how did this paper change your life" rather than real analytical substance
Take the opportunity to meet with Carole and your TFs! It will help you with understanding the material and they are very interesting people.
Lecture can be a little boring and disorganized and the tests and assignments are graded very strictly even though the material doesn't seem very hard. It is not a super science heavy course and I think anyone could take it with little background required.
I highly recommend this course. You learn so much relevant and interesting material. I would also highly recommend to read the text book a couple of times, because your are asked to remember detailed material on the exams.
Dr. Hooven is extremely engaging and very in-tune with the student experience.  This class is very straight forward as long as you stay on top of readings and attend lectures; the slides aren't self explanatory on their own, so you really do have to go to class to fully understand the material to the extend you'll be expected to present it on the exams.  The quizzes are easy, I reviewed lectures over breakfast the day of and was always fine.  It's really interesting material.
This course is an excellent introduction to behavioral endocrinology. I am a History and Literature concentrator, and the course was challenging (I hadn't taken a science course at Harvard) but well worth my efforts. The teaching staff is consistently available and ready to lend a hand. The material is directly pertinent to the world around us.
Best course ever. Super interesting and Carole so obviously loves and cares for her students that it is best class ever
If you're more of a biology person rather than a psychology/behavior person, I would recommend this class for you, because the class was more heavily weighted towards that aspect.
The class is a very relaxed bio course and a real SLS gem! fascinating material (gender, sexuality, appetite, aggression, reproduction, etc) from a biological perspective. May not be that interesting if you really are interested in the cellular level mechanisms as it does not dive terribly deeply into the technicals. Professor Hooven obviously loves her students deeply and is super passionate about the material.
The professor is a bit scattered in her lectures but she seems to care deeply about her work and her students and that can make up for the unfinished lectures. The course material is interesting and engaging, especially if you're interested in hormones and how they affect the body.
Amazing class! Carole makes every class engaging and the material is so interesting/will make you look at everyday human interactions differently.
This is a good class. You learn a lot about your body and it helps explain a lot of behaviors or phenomenons that were otherwise shrouded in mystery for me. You learn many things that could help your understanding of different people's identities and the struggles people face. But, recognize that the tests can be tricky and that the first unit may be jarring if you've never taken an anatomy or in-depth bio class past LS1B. After the 1st unit, things get much more interesting and digestible so if you see things you're interested in later on in the syllabus, stick with it because things get a lot better. Dr. Hooven is really engaging and passionate and that's always nice to see in a professor. Overall, if you want to know more about how your body works and how hormones affect identity, take this course. Just know that it has 3 midterms, a final, several quizzes and some writing assignments so make sure you have the time to spend on the course.
Dr. Hooven is the perfect professor for this course, she has a lot of enthusiasm for the subject and really wants to get to know her students. You just need to keep up with the work because there are weekly quizzes and the response papers come up pretty quickly.
If you are interested in how hormones work and the anatomy of the endocrine system, this course is super interesting. There is a lot of material, but it is completely manageable and there are many real life applications which make the subjects seem relevant and fun. Would highly recommend- outside of classwork was minimal and you really can get as much or as little out of the class as you want.
