This was one of my favorite seminars at Harvard because I feel like it combined the perfect amount of lecturing and discussion. Unlike with other seminars, I learned a lot by having to critically read and integrate the papers of the week. Every class was a great opportunity to delve into seemingly simple topics in evolutionary biology and understand their real complexity through very interesting discussions.
Be ready to really work but to be engaged while doing so
Top three on the best courses I've taken in Harvard. It is the best.
This course requires a descent amount of work but class discussion is great and the response papers really help develop your analytical skills. 3 hours make seem like a long time but it goes by relatively quickly. Stephanie is also engaging and fun to talk to so I definitely recommend taking this class!
Take this class if you:-are interested in the evolution of mating strategies-want to improve your academic/scientific writing-like discussion-based classesDon't take this class if you:-don't like reading many papers and then talking about them-don't like talking in class
great class... have interesting discussions and learn a lot
Take this course! The workload was not unreasonable, and the topics were always interesting. Discussion-based so come prepared to talk, but the hours went by fast and discussion was not stressful at all.
The course is a great way to strengthen your article reading, critical analysis, and discussion skills. Additionally, you learn how to develop and defend arguments.
The grading is really tough and you really need to do the readings because your class participation will be graded on a 0-5 scale for each class. Just understanding the readings is not enough to get a 5. Sometimes it was hard to speak up in the class because everyone wanted to talk. You have to butt in a lot to get your participation points.  Stephanie is not very lenient on things that are not in the syllabus, so be on top of your work and don't think she will give you an extension or extra time or grade easily. There are some pretty cool topics in the class, but it really is all about animal mating behavior so make sure you're interested the topic or this will be a painful class. Due the reading responses early so you don't get behind!
