The Head is a great class to learn about human anatomy as well as the evolution of humans.  Brenda is a wonderful instructor and does a great job facilitating discussion and enthusiasm as well as making the work manageable and engaging.  The final paper (the major assignment) is a great way to put all of your "head" knowledge together and create a mini-thesis.
Brenda is the best! She is a very understanding and helpful seminar leader. She made things stress-free when it came to the readings and final project. Definitely take this class if you want to have fun AND learn a lot of cool things about the head!
Brenda is awesome! She is very approachable and helpful and is way more concerned with you understanding and learning the material than she is with grades and assignments. She wants you to be comfortable with the material and she wants you to learn and enjoy it, which makes the class awesome. Definitely take it! It is the best HEB junior research seminar!
A great, stress-free course where you still learn a lot.  Brenda is an amazing teacher.  Take this course!
This course is very interesting with minimum workload. A plus is that you get to learn how to select a dataset, analyze data and write a research data based on your analyses. Brenda is fantastic and really accessible too. The only minuses might be that it can be a bit dry at times.
This is a wonderful class to take, especially if you're an HEB senior thesis writer. This class really makes you think about and appreciate evolution. Super great class and Brenda is wonderful!
Brenda is an amazing teacher and is great to learn from.
You will learn a lot about conducting your own research and about thinking critically about data and evolution
A ton of information is packed into this course.  The work does not let up all semester.  One project or presentation just transitions into the next.  Katie is a great instructor, but don't be fooled by her nonchalant attitude toward some of the assignments - they are all graded exactingly.  This being said, I feel that I learned a lot and had an enjoyable experience overall.  Hopefully the next iteration of the course will include more current literature as planned so that you won't feel like you're drowning in the Lieberman textbook the entire semester and attempting to memorize trivia and minutia.
It's a great, relatively painless way to knock out the Junior Research Seminar Req.  I think the course is going to be changed a bit so that "The Head" isn't the only text used, and with that change I think the class will only improve.
This class is a great way to fulfill the Junior Research tutorial requirement. The research project that we have to conduct over the course of the semester is a great way to get introduced to writing a research paper and conducting one's own statistical tests.
This class is the best way to fulfill your junior tutorial requirement for HEB. Professor Zink is amazing and it gives you great exposure to what research in HEB is and looks like. Take this if you are uncertain about writing a senior thesis or pursuing a PHD.
Come to class prepared because class time is devoted entirely to discussing the previous week's readings. You're a fish out of water if you don't read. Also, take advantage of office hours with the instructor because she's very supportive. She will help guide you through assignments if you have questions.
Great class with interesting assignments. Prof. Zink kept the class fun and exciting.
