Take this course!! All of the lab activities are really fun and engaging, and you will get a valuable background in lab methods and techniques.  Although the lab reports require a considerable amount of work, you will really grow as both a student and scientist.  This course offers you the opportunity to really challenge yourself and engage in laboratory activities that are common practice in any real-world lab.  You can get a sense of what types of projects you like, and whether you are interested in pursuing research as a career. This course also offers the rare chance to gain that elusive "experience" factor that will make you a valuable job or applicant.
If you don't have any ab experience (apart from LS1b) and would like to learn the main techniques and theoretical backgrounds of those techniques, take this class. I was scared to be lost but Prof. Reynard is very organized and approachable. Definitely recommend.
Great course! Get to know Linda.
This class is so much fun! You'll get real-world lab experience and come away with a lot of really applicable skills. Dr. Reynard is wonderful and a great resource both in and outside the class!
This class was amazing. Linda is so great (super knowledgeable and helpful) and class is really fun. You get to do the experiment at your pace and are not constrained. The lab reports are a great way to test your understanding of the experiments and the results.
Dr. Reynard lets you drive the course if you're interested in it, which is really cool. THe experiments are helpful, basic lab techniques that are great exposure if you think you might be interested in bench work. Having just one lab a week is great, but you definitely have to put the time into it. Go to class prepared, and you will get so much more out of it.
absolutely take this course. very practical and incredibly interesting.
It's a really fun class where you'll learn a lot. Dr. Reynard is awesome and really helpful.
The labs were all pretty interesting and relevant to both day to day life and human evolution: you'll have the opportunity to learn about how certain genes or traits were selected for in ancestral human populations, and then see how that applies to you.  Experiments that let students learn more about themselves included caffeine metabolism, starch digestion, and how diet affects your molecular make up.  The basics of many different lab techniques were introduced, and doing a lab report for the majority of them definitely led to improvement in the level of analysis and details that everyone was able to provide for each lab.  The fact that any teaching or instructions Linda had to provide for a given experiment could be done in the same time frame as the lab, saving lecture hours during the week, was a really nice touch.  Felt like it kept things more efficient.  This is overall a great class to learn more about lab based research.
The lab reports can be time-consuming if put off to the last minute. Also, the labs are graded pretty harshly. I have no idea what my grade will be because the labs are graded tough with the promise of a curve. A mid-semester grading sheet with relative grades (A,B,etc.) would have been really nice to gauge my performance.
This is a great way to learn about a variety of lab methods in HEB prior to writing a senior thesis or otherwise doing laboratory research in the life sciences.
This class is a lot of fun. You do some really interesting labs and will learn a lot about conducting research in general. The lab write-ups are not at all onerous and provide a great way to develop science writing skills. Dr Reynard is also a fantastic teacher
This is a pretty good class. There's not much homework, just one lab report a week. It's not very exciting in the beginning but the final experiments and guest speakers were more interesting. Linda is very helpful in experimental procedures and data analysis.
The grading is very ambiguous, so you don't really know where you stand the entire semester. Also, I'd recommend already being comfortable in a lab, because it can be really stressful.
This course is an awesome introduction to an array of biological experiments that can be used to ask a variety of questions. It's really great!
This class is great for those considering writing a lab based thesis (in HEB or other fields) or generally pursuing a career in lab based research. It will take you beyond simply following the step by step instructions in labs in LS1a, LS1b, and PS1 and answering a few required questions. You will become more comfortable working in a lab and think more seriously about how scientific ideas may be tested. If you are someone who likes highly structured classes, this may not be the best for you. The small class size and individualized attention are awesome!
One of the better classes I've taken at Harvard and a great option for the junior research class.
This class is a great reintroduction to lab work; the labs aren't at all arduous but always interesting, and the final paper is completely open ended. Linda's a great teacher and this class was a lot of fun.
