Tanya is extremely passionate about the topic which makes the material very engaging and something in which you become quite interested in as well.  My friends and family had to hear me talking about teeth for weeks because everything I was taught in class/lecture gave me so much to think about.
This class taught me everything I could possible want to know about teeth and gave me the change to do independent research, which was fun and new for me. The small class size is really beneficial and the material is interesting. Reading articles and papers together taught me what to focus on in each paper, and writing my final paper at the end was easier since we had seen so many examples.
Great introduction to a little known field that offers a way to start genuine research.
Make sure you like thinking a lot about teeth. The cool stuff you will learn about teeth will be hidden in with lots of dense reading, but if you focus on the cool stuff, the course will be very fulfilling.
Great professor, interesting subject and unique lab experience!
If you are at all interested in teeth you should take this class.
Teeth are at the center of paleontological research, functional morphology and evolutionary cladistics. This course is therefore useful to anybody interested in evolution. It is especially helpful to anybody considering forensic sciences or dentistry. One bonus is that this course is taught by one of the world's leading dental histologists.
This class, although really enjoyable and informative, is a lot of work. Expect to put a lot of effort every week into studying for the quiz and working n your research project.
This course touches upon the essentials of dental anthropology and challenges students to explore territory that is kept relatively quiet in the anthropological world. It makes you dive into research, either expanding upon a familiar study or challenging yourself to explore a completely new realm. The class was very varied which made lectures interesting.Its intimate size is conducive to great amounts of professor-student and student-student interactions.  Professor Smith offers wonderful guidance throughout the semester.
This is a really well taught course that also provides unique and fun lab exercises. You can also explore in depth a research topic of your choice about teeth!
Even if your primary interest is not dentistry or archaeology, this is a great course to take and you will learn a lot!
The class is incredibly challenging, but it should not deter you from taking the course. You will learn so much not only about teeth and human evolution, but about yourself as a scholar.
Reach out to Tanya while you work on your research project - she provides excellent feedback!
