It will help you improve your ability to read scientific articles.
When I took the course there were only two other students with me. Prof. Ruvolo is an excellent instructor, keen on making sure her students are prepared for assignments and are learning the materials. She is extremely supportive and understanding, yet willing to give tough love when necessary. She cares about her student's growth.
Incredible course. Professor was very informed, thorough, engaged, and fun. I don't know of any other class where everyone looks forward to being there for 3 hours straight.
One of the best classes I have taken in college. If I could I would've taken it again.
This is an awesome class if you are interested in molecular evolution. Prof. Ruvolo is very enthusiastic and knowledgeable about the subject.
This is a great class- where else at Harvard do you get to discuss genetics, evolution, and pirate monkeys in the same place?
professor very experienced in teaching the class. class not just about primates - can pply a lot of the concepts to other organisms.
This class is most rewarding if there is a specific topic you already know something about and want to do more research into. It is heavily focused on research paper writing--but this also means that workload is spread across the whole semester and can be very light if you stay on top of things. Professor Ruvolo is really fun to work with in class and creates a very pleasant learning environment.
If you would like to learn more in depth about some key evolutionary concepts that were touched upon in LS1b, this is the course for you. Prof. Ruvolo is a very knowledgable and patient instructor, and she really can help you achieve a good understanding of a specific topic you find interesting within molecular evolution. The work throughout the semester is doable and not too overwhelming and -- since it is focused to a final paper turned in during reading period -- it seems to be relevant to a grander purpose or question.
Study the structure and argument of each week's readings thoroughly.
This is definitely one of the best classes I took at Harvard. Prof. Ruvolo is a great teacher and obviously cares a lot about her students. The small number of students allows for a lot of interactive discussion. Weekly topics are well-chosen and follow a natural progression, and the focus on recent research papers give you a sense of the open questions and ongoing debates in the field. I entered this course mostly wishing to learn more about evolution as background knowledge, but now find myself planning to incorporate molecular evolution into my future potential academic work. Highly recommended!
This course was wonderful -- just challenging enough that I learned a lot but not so hard that I got totally lost, even without having taken the prereq course. A solidly great HEB course!
Great class! Prof. Ruvolo is an engaging instructor and the selection of topics is foundational, yet comprehensive. I came in knowing next to nothing about molecular evolution or primates and left with a survey-level knowledge of this area of research.  If you have an extensive background in this material and are looking for more heavy-duty math/analysis, however, this course may not be for you.
This is how seminars work: The more you put in, the more you get out. You have a fantastic professor and very few students between you; read the papers thoroughly, be prepared, and take advantage of the opportunity to get to work with her!
I would tell students to take this course if they are looking for a challenge. The earlier you start working on your final paper, the better!
Great class, very interesting and engaging!
This course is a great introduction to the breadth of research in molecular evolution, and provides the background to join a lab in the field of desired. Professor Ruvolo is very friendly and offers great advice for final papers and other assignments.
Take this class. It's not easy, but it's worth it. I walked into this class BECAUSE I left LS1B fairly scared of genetics, and I thought experiencing molecular evolution in a different setting would be more formative. I was absolutely right. Having Professor Ruvolo teach you genetics across the table in an open discussion was a wonderful experience, and I ended up extremely fascinating with a topic I would have otherwise never explored.
Every section is engaging and intimate! lots of fun, but some material was difficult to understand
Extremely interesting course. Professor Ruvolo does an excellent job of making sure everyone understands the material.
