If you're interested in examining biomolecules from many different angles this class is for you.
This class is WONDERFUL. Professor Tuross, Dr. Reynard, and Jon are dedicated, engaging, and fascinating teachers. The course focuses on a number of topics that are supplemented by case studies so students can have both a broad review of the study of ancient biomolecules yet a comprehensive understanding of specific topics. The psets are manageable and interesting and the work load is very light. These aspects do not make the course "easy." Active participation and interest is still required but the structure and teaching staff allow that to occur naturally. I learned substantially from this course and would take it again in a heartbeat. All courses at Harvard should be organized in this manner, especially small seminars like this one. Take it, but Prof. Tuross/Dr. Reynard: Keep it small!
A fun and engaging way to get a look at an incredible field that most don't know about and that is in the news a surprising amount!  The teaching staff is very accessible and make the material interesting.  The emphasis on application of material that is learned make it one of the most relevant classes you can take.
This class was the easiest I took this semester. I was kind of shocked as to how little time this class took up every week. There was virtually no work, and even the lectures did not last the entire hour and a half. I think the fact that the class was so relaxed helped me learn more, since I did not feel pressured tofocus on arbitrary points just for the sake of doing well on a pset or exam. And I loved Professor Tuross :)
This course is very interesting and forces you to question how we know what we think we know about the past. You get the opportunity to learn how these studies are conducted and their limitations. You become a better consumer of scientific literature. The course does not require much work because problem sets were pass fail and the final was take home. That being said you never really know where you stand in the course.
Really interesting material and very low workload, although that might be changed in the future since this was the first time the course was being offered
Great way to knock out an HEB requirement. Very chill class. Problem sets are pass/fail...
This is a great course!  It teaches different material from other HEB courses, which can get repetitive, and emphasizes hands on and in depth learning over rote memorization.  Fair psets, fair final, fair grading and expectations.
This course is new so there's still a lot of work to be done! It was interesting and not a huge workload. The teaching staff are lovely but the whole class feels a little.. lost. I think it will become more concrete with each year tho.
Take it. Super chill and interesting. I looked forward to go to class every Tuesday and Thursday even though it interrupted my nap time.
Professors and material are engaging. Really emphasizes understanding the material rather through extensive feedback in problem sets.
