lots of great content, breadth and some depth
An awesome and easy HEB class to ease someone into the subject and material.  Wrangham is also super cool so I'd recommend a class with him at some point.
The class is interesting but very disorganized which makes studying hard. I don't like how it encouraged rote memorization instead of learning big concepts.
SUCH AN INTERESTING AND COOL COURSE. The teaching staff is so wonderful, and presents information in a concise and thought provoking way. I left every lecture pondering about something that was just said. The class as a whole really changed my perspective on lots of things and I feel as though my thinking has changed. In addition this is a great introduction to HEB so take it as a freshmen or sophomore for sure! The assignments are not difficult and are kind of cool, and the midterm though a little weird was reasonable.
It's a decent overview for HEB classes, but it does cover a ton of content for a single semester. The workload is pretty manageable.
Great class to explore human behaviors through an evolutionary lens. Sometimes the topics get tense but that's a good thing.
You cover a lot of material in lectures but it is mostly rope memorization so study for the midterm and final early and pay attention to close details. They love asking which of the following is NOT true or a part of blah blah questions. Exams are multiple choice, true false, and short answer.
I would say the course material is great and the teaching staff is enthusiastic, but the tests can be a little tricky.
Overall this is a good course, but it's harder than I expected. It's also a lot of memorizing before the midterm and final- a ton of info. Given that it's a survey course that supposed to help you figure out if you like HEB, I found it not as exciting as I'd hoped, but if you're interested in HEB I'd still take it. Also, the material is very interesting, and you will start analyzing your own life with a new lens.
This class is a great introductory course to HEB. The course covers a wide range of very interesting material.
The class is really interesting, but poorly structured. Professors Wrangham and Hinde know the material very well, and are excited to share it with students. Section is not well run, and exams are not well written. As a concentration requirement it is worth taking, but as an elective only take it if you're really interested in the material.
I would recommend this class to a student who is willing to work in an elective class (with dense readings) or to a student who wants to explore HEB.  For me, I ended up realizing that I didn't love HEB, but I did overall enjoy this class, and especially Professor Wrangham's lectures!  It's not a ton of work, but if you're just taking it without any interest in the subject matter, you probably will lose motivation to do the work.
This course has really interesting material that makes up a lot of the fundamentals of HEB. However, the class itself is not as engaging as one would hope. I think it might be because it aims to cover way too much material within short classes and each class, while interesting, can easily be glossed from realizing the larger topic and purpose (after all "the evolution of human behavior" is as broad as it can get).
This class is a really good intro to HEB if you are thinking about pursuing the concentration and a relatively painless way to get the behavior requirement out of the way for current concentrators.
There are lots of pre-meds so that should be taken into consideration (read: high levels of neuroticism).
Really fascinating class, pretty low workload, and straightforward but fun assignments. Section was awesome and I actually looked forward to discussing the material. Lectures could get dry at times but overall were interesting and included lots of case studies that I enjoyed. Stellar professors and TFs (Zarin is the best!). As an upperclassman HEB concentrator I felt that some of the material was repetition from other classes, but there was still enough new stuff to keep me interested.
The class is great, but there is a great deal of information to be learned.
There's a lot of information covered, so really try to pace yourself! also lectures aren't recorded so pay attention
You should take this class if you are remotely interested in science or even want to see if you are interested in science. You don't have to be "good" at science to enjoy this class and perform well in it. It's one of my favorite courses I've taken here and would honestly take it again to soak up the information. It answers a lot of questions about why humans do the daily things we do- so it is applicable. It approaches science from a macro perspective. The projects were good and not too time consuming. The readings were actually interesting and worth doing. They don't take up too much time. The midterm was fair and involves memorizing and understanding course material. The final was cumulative so you do need to spend time studying but it is definitely worth it. Overall the class wasn't too time consuming at all. TAKE THIS CLASS.
Great introductory (or capstone!) HEB course. Really interesting concepts
You don't need to do the readings, but make sure you go through lecture at least once every few weeks, because there is only so much information you can stuff into your brain before an exam---> there is a lot of information.
The professors are awesome, super cool and present material in a very interesting way. The class is very engaging and will leave you thinking about humans and interactions in a different way. Great intro to HEB class, and it will totally get you hooked. The work is completely manageable and I would recommend this course to anyone considering HEB or just looking to meet the behavior req. Just a cool class about human behavior and interactions that is relevant to everyone.
Extremely interesting material. Highly recommended class. Very manageable workload. Awesome professors (go to office hours for sure).
If you are at all considering concentrating in HEB, take this course. The curriculum is extremely interesting, and Professors Hinde and Wrangham are fantastic lecturers. There is also not a lot of work throughout the semester, although studying for the midterm and final was a bit difficult. There was so much information condensed into each lecture that it was difficult to figure out what to focus on the most.
This course isn't very relevant to everyday life. You will learn a ton of HBE facts and theories about why we do things the way we do (really interesting - about sex, love, war, conflict, reconciliation, parenting, etc) but not a ton about how and why that matters to any societies we live in. Exams are fairly straightforward if you can memorize the slides, but do expect some brute memorization. Really enjoyed other assignments and section is amazing!
This is a really interesting class with two top professors, both of whom are approachable and kind with students.  The material is fascinating and will really enrich your outlook on human behavioral complexity.  I really liked how we learned many ways to look at situations, through different lenses and such.
This course is awesome! You don't need to be a biology/science concentrator and although it is not a Gen Ed, it is the perfect example of a fascinating and challenging Gen Ed---there was a lot to learn but the material was very interesting and the class is very well organized. Take it!! You won't regret it.
take this class if you want an enjoyable class that still requires a lot of attention to work but is very rewarding
This class made me so excited to be an HEB concentrator. So many cool topics, two professors I'm really glad I know, and a great introduction to the study of human behavior. If you're wondering about HEB, this is an awesome class to take.
This is a good introductory course for students who are considering concentrating in HEB or are interested in just taking an HEB elective class. The readings are interesting, section is great (make sure you do the readings), and most lectures are pretty interesting.  However, it is an introductory course, so it may be a bit repetitive if you've already taken a few HEB courses. The midterms and finals are fair. The teaching staff is great.
A lot of pointless memorization and a terrible group video project component. It is fairly easy if you are good at memorizing information.
A great class if you have interest in the material, without a lot of work.
This was a new course that was done pretty well! Andy is an amazing TF so hopefully he will return for next fall. The workload is extremely manageable and the "textbook" is a novel type book that's actually quite witty and interesting. There is no final exam, just 2 midterms which is great!!
I took this class purely as an elective because I was interested in the material. Be warned that it may not be as easy to do well in it as you may have thought; it is a class that requires some work - a manageable amount, but work nonetheless - so if you are taking this for an "easy A," I would not recommend it. I learned a lot and lecture and section were something I could always look forward to - so the class did exactly what I wanted it to!
great class. the exams and assignments were straightforward and fair, the topics discussed were interesting, and the professors were engaging
Solid class. Interesting mix of psychology and evolution. Wrangham is a particularly good lecturer.
Nice overview of primate social behavior and its evolutionary origins. Somewhat disorganized but still interesting
It provides an interesting, low-stress introduction to the world of evolutionary human behavior.
Interesting class, but hard to know what's important for the exams since there's so much information.
The stress from this class will not come from the material.
Really think about the actual material in the class before taking it. Look at some of the readings because the course turned out to be a bit different than I had thought it would be.
Very interesting course, and not too difficult
A great introductory class to the field of HEB. The assignments are fairly straightforward, and the video project is really fun. Just don't be afraid to speak up during section, because participation is a major component of your grade. Also, be prepared to memorize things straight from lecture (e.g. name the five types of this type of behavior, or the specific experimental example of this type of behavior).
This is a good class! Professors Wrangham and Hinde are both very good (and also very different), and both very accesible. Go to office hours!! You think of a lot of interesting questions when doing the readings, and that's exactly what office hours are for. The readings were pretty short and painless, and interesting! They also encourage you to think critically about the articles you read, and not necessarily take them at face value. Soemtimes it's a little tricky to figure out which information is important, and which is just side-notes. The tests are fair, and it ends before reading period even starts, so if you have a tough schedule otherwise, that's a really nice aspect.
Although the professors and TF's were very passionate about the subject material, they did not do the greatest job actually teaching it. Between disorganized, heavily primate-focused lectures, and rigid sections focused almost entirely on questions to guide the readings, there was not too much to get excited about. The title of the course suggests that it will be relevant to understanding human behavior, but this was not really the case. Most of the topics for the course, which seemed so interesting and inspiring on paper, did not pan out this way in reality.
This course is a great introduction to HEB. It covered a wide range of topics, all relevant to human and non-human primate behavior. The class was fairly easy since there were no psets. But make sure to do the readings and prepare for sections since the two exams are detail oriented. The group project was also a lot of fun, and a different approach to a typical bio class. Some lectures are boring, some are interesting, especially when Professor Wrangham shows off his chimp calls.
A great overview on what makes Human Evolutionary Biology interesting. Not a lot of work besides doing some paper reading every week. There is a group project that is fun to put together. Tests are fair, you will need to memorize things well to do well.
Its a good class with interesting material. The professors are great and they know much about their work. Yet the readings could get annoying.
Definitely take this class if you are interested in human behavior!  It's relatively painless, although you do need to put a lot of effort into studying for exams.  The material is especially useful if you are concentrating in HEB but is also something that I often brought up with friends outside of class.
Be sure to dedicate a lot of time to this class.
The class is interesting, but the tests expect you to know much more specific detail than would be expected. It's unreasonable to make us memorize the group size, philpatry, and mating systems of every single species of primate, only to test us on the exact differences between bonobos and chimps.
This is a great intro course to HEB. It's not that much work so long as you keep up with the readings material. Tests are not tricky or impossible and work is graded fairly.
I enjoyed this class! It gives a great evolutionary perspective on social behavior. My roommates are probably sick of hearing all of the cool stuff that I learned. However, I dreaded going to my Friday morning section every week. Make sure you do all of the readings and answer discussion questions before you go to section!
This class is very interesting, but the assignments are not presented well and therefore, grading tends to be more harsh than anticipated. The information is very interesting, and the concepts presented well, but when it comes to grading, it is hard to do well.
The material learned in this class is great, and I definitely recommend this to anyone looking to get a taste of HEB or thinking about concentrating in HEB.
Great class to get introduced to HEB or if you're not sure which area you'd like to focus on yet. Well taught, interesting/engaging lectures, and fair exams.
If you are interested in HEB or behavior or primates you will have an ABSOLUTE FIELD DAY in this class!  We covered so many interesting topics that I'd always wondered about, Dr. Wrangham and Dr. Hinde were the BEST, and even section was interesting and productive. You do have to do the readings to do well in this course, but they are interesting and relatively painless.  The only assignment that I didn't like in this course was the group project because it was such a nuisance to organize group meetings, but that is just to be expected with group course.  Definitely take it though, it has been one of the best courses that I've taken at Harvard so far!
GREAT CLASS! It's really easy to think about and definitely not a class that will stress you out! TAKE THIS CLASS! Lectures can be a little long, but all the information is interesting. Also, the book required for class is actually really interesting to read. This class made me decide to be a HEB concentrator.
Take another HEB course until this course figures itself out. It's great in theory but has a lot to work out in practice.
HEB 1329 (Sex, Love, and War) is a phenomenal course! Everyone interested in primates or human evolution should take it. It delves into the most profound questions about the human condition: why do we act the way we do? Are altruism and cooperation just human characteristics, or do they come from our ancestors? Are our social patterns cultural or inherent? The readings and lectures will provide fascinating answers! And you will walk away with a heightened appreciation for both humans and our closest animal ancestors.
This class covered too much material. It was difficult to comprehend the amount of material that we were given. There was no technique in which importance was ascribed to a topic; thus, everything seemed of equal importance and of equal weight. Studying was brutal and, personally and tragically, unsuccessful.
This is a great class for people considering HEB as a concentration. If you haven't taken any HEB classes before this is a great place to start. Don't take this as an elective just because of the interesting title. If you have no interest in primate behavior this class will annoy you. Both TFs are great. Don't be afraid of Stephanie. She is actually extremely helpful and explains the material in ways that are easy to understand and apply to everyday life.
This course is pretty interesting, but it requires quite a bit of work if you want to do well.
Great intro course to HEB to see if you like the department - taught by great professors
great class. great professors. great introduction to HEB.
Professor Wrangham is wonderful. The course material is very interesting, and the discussions it sparks are also good. To the extent that I don't know if the teaching staff or even the assignments will be the same going forward (since the class is new), I would say that this class could be a good one to take. However, certain members of the teaching staff are a huge pain and extremely prejudicial, and they affect everyone because the whole staff (TFs and lecturers/professors) gets involved in grading the group project, and the TFs alternate on who grades the exams. Thus, the class will be a great learning experience, but if you don't want your blood boiling over your grades then you should definitely think before you take it.
It's a great class!
Make sure you keep up with the readings.
The material is really interesting and for a new class, although it was a little disorganized, is worth taking. Definitely take it even if you are not concentrating in HEB.
This is a great introductory course! I will admit that I was skeptic about how much I would enjoy the course with the amount of focus on non-human primates. But it turned out to be my favorite course of the semester! Lectures are engaging and any class with the word "sex" in the title is bound to be pretty interesting. However, it does have a group project aspect, which can suck depending on your group.
The content of this class is VERY primate-heavy. I think it's a good intro course for HEB but I decided not to concentrate in HEB mostly because I felt the class was so much more focused on primates than humans.
Good introductory course to HEB if you are considering.
Material is interesting, professors are fun to listen to, group project is fun, exams are fair, reading is not too heavy
Great and interesting course!
This course is good if you are looking to learn a broad scope of material behind evolutionary, especially mate selection. With that said, I definitely would not recommend this if your background in evolution is even somewhat developed beyond what is expected on an incoming HEB/OEB concentrator. I believe I fit in this category; I did not learn a lot in this class sadly. Therefore, if you feel confident of your knowledege, do not take this class. For me, it weighed me down. However, had I not had the background I do, I believe I would have enjoyed the class a lot. I also am a big fan of NatGeo, so all the videos shown in class were old, but they are very fascinating videos.
This is a new course that still needs the kinks worked out. It will probably be good by the time you take it considering the material itself is very interesting.
Good class for basics in evolutionary biology
It's not all about humans, we spent a lot of time talking about other primates
This class is not very interesting at times, and is organized poorly. This makes it difficult to study.
I really liked this class - IF you are an HEB concentrator, it will be easier to understand than if you are not. It was A LOT of information, so be prepared to memorize before the exam because it's not just big concepts and theories (which would make a lot more sense and is more indicative of the course material) but it is interesting, nonetheless. All this said, it was a good class and if you are willing to put the time in, it is worth it.
I think the class starts off a bit slowly, but it gets better as it goes. The second half especially was really good. The first midterm material was decently interesting, but I think it really picked up and got really interesting after that.
This class is still figuring out what it looks like. The material is interesting and when Dr. Wrangham gives a lecture (sadly not that often) it is a wonderful thing. This class was low work. That being said the exams cover a lot of material (because it is a reading based course) and so studying was essentially memorizing the lecture slides. The section was interesting, but they have section questions which are harshly graded with extremely vague instructions this combination sadly will do some serious damage to your grade. All in all this was a great introductory course with little work and tough grading.
This is a great class, and the instructors are some of the best informed and most accessible that you will find on campus. Be prepared to do some memorization for the tests, but the assignments are few and easy.
Great class, not much work outside of readings and the 3 mini-projects which were pretty painless!
This course really delves into many aspects of evolutionary theory that are explored in HEB as a concentration. I would suggest this class to any student thinking about concentrating in HEB or in understanding why humans behave the way we do. The assignments are very manageable and the exams are also manageable if you learn everything on the slides. Hopefully next year the lectures are recorded because sometimes stuff on the exams aren't exactly on the slides and it would be a good study tool to have.
interesting material, but very difficult exams
You will learn interesting material in a tedious fashion, unfortunately. For HEB concentrators, this fulfills a requirement, so that's unavoidable, but there is a lot of overlap with sophomore tutorial, and you might feel 'babied'. That being said, it's a very light course.
The exams in this class were ridiculous. The questions were intentionally deceptive, and in many cases filling in the blank with an English synonym for the correct answer got you 0 points, with no regard for clear demonstration of knowledge of the underlying concept to which the question referred. So if you're good at memorizing specific keywords, go for it because honestly the material was interesting and the lectures were good. But if you're like me an you expect exams to be a fair metric of your knowledge of course material, stay far far away from this class.
This class was very poorly organized with regards to the midterms. For example there was a study guide put on the course website for midterm 1 which had nothing to do with the actually midterm. Also there is a tendency to read off the slides which facilitates the problem that there is no original thought in the class. Rather it encourages rote learning which doesn't teach much. Luke is amazing, he is so helpful not only in terms of the course but also in advice on how to behave with professors. If you take this class I truly hope he is still a TF because he made this course for me.
This class is a nice introduction to HEB, with a wide variety of topics and case studies of different human societies, as well as studies of and comparisons with non-human primates.  I took it as an elective as a senior in OEB -- I have a good background in evolutionary biology & theory, so it was fun to learn the human side of things!  But it's certainly also an appropriate course for freshmen or others without too much of a bio background who are interested in HEB.
Fascinating class if you're at all interested in HEB, or really people in general. It's an awesome introduction to the field. The lectures are very interesting and the workload is really manageable. I'd highly recommend it.
Take if you're interested in heb and want to get to know the department and course material. Harder than I thought it would be as just an elective though.
Take it if you have to, or are really interested.  Cool subject, but kind of unorganized
