This is a very straightforward course without a lot of work.
Kind of anti-climactic: going in, I expected to learn about aging and potential treatments or ways to slow down aging. By the end of the lecture, the concept of aging became more convoluted/vague to me, and the only effective ways to slow down aging are diet and exercise, which I already knew going into class.
This is a really interesting class that has the added bonus of not having too many class hours or homework assignments!
It's a class with very little work, but the midterm and final exam may give you an unpleasant kick in the butt. If you're an HEB concentrator, the questions may be more intuitive. If you're not an HEB, be prepared to spend more time figuring the course out.
You grade in this course is based solely upon two take home exams.  Be sure you can allocate an appropriate amount of time to writing these take home exams.  Some students spend 5 hrs and others spends 15 hours on the exams...
take it for an elective
The course is great because it only meets 2 hours a week and has minimal homework, but make sure you take really good notes in class because the lecture goes pretty quickly and you will need the information for the midterms (in a pretty detailed manner).
It's really easy in terms of time commitment but you will have no idea what grade you are going to get because your entire grade is two take home finals that are graded in a very esoteric manner.
This class is the best class to take a senior. The workload consists of interesting readings and two take home exams.Also, DO NOT miss lectures. You can answer most of the exam questions from notes you take during lecture.
Take. This. Class.
Unfortunately, exams often tested knowledge of minor details or things that had been explicitly dismissed by TFs as not important to know (indicating a significant lack of communication among the teaching staff). Additionally, exam questions were often worded in ways that did not really capture the kinds of replies expected, or had errors. Furthermore, exam preparation materials (practice/previous exams in particular) were for the latter two exams promised but not provided to students.Considering grading for the course was completely dependent on three exams, of which one could be omitted, these flaws are certainly major issues to be addressed. Basically, the fact that your only grades are these tests ISN'T actually a good thing.
Such a great course! Clear, interesting lectures, good papers, laid back structure!
This is such an interesting class and it really is lenient, the fact that is a little disorganized shouldn't discourage you.
The class material is great, but lectures can get pretty boring. Just take extremely detailed notes, as they'll help loads on the exams.
May seem easy but if you don't attend lectures or are not on top of the readings it will be difficult.
Be prepared to not have many assignments to do...you'll have to keep up with the material/readings on your own
This class is easy if you want relatively no work on a weekly basis and need to up your GPA. Basically this class is two take home exams, and meets once a week for 2 hrs plus an optional section. So overall this is definitely a go to class even if you're not an heb or science concentrator.
It's such an interesting subject from both the science and policy perspective. Honestly, you can't find anything more relevant than aging both personally and on a societal level these days.
Lots of work but you learn so much and the professor is awesome.
It's not very hard, minimal work, and the professor is awesome.
know how to read scientific papers and go to lecture!!
It's a very interesting topic.  However, you might not learn as much stuff as you'd have liked.  Also, the answer is not particularly satisfying.  You should also consider if you only want to be evaluated based on 2 or 3 take-home / midterm exams.  Also, their actual written midterm is ridiculously hard, so try your best on the take-homes.  The prof is amazing and funny and incredibly brilliant.
This class provides a unique perspective on the science of aging which proves to be quite interesting and engaging.
A good overview of the various mechanisms implicated in the process of aging. If you are an MCB concentrator, the class may be a bit basic.
Great professor, but not that interesting of a class.
amazing class with loads of interesting material! keep up with the readings.
Only take this class if you are VERY good at molecular biology. It's a very interesting course, but it requires more knowledge than LifeSci1b.  It is not a demanding course, but the exams take a VERY,VERY long time to complete.
Both the material and the instructor for this class are interesting.  I enjoyed it and I think you would too.
Expectations are not outlined clearly. Material could be very engaging, but is not explored adequately in lectures nor in the optional section.
This is a great laid back course that could be taken as an elective. I found the concepts very interesting. Exam questions were sometimes difficult, but I actually enjoyed thinking about them and organizing an answer.
The content is interesting, but the sections were disorganized and the lectures were dry.
Make sure to take copious notes during lecture as much of the material tested refers to this and there are no notes and the slides aren't text heavy. Other than that, the bulk of the work was the take home midterm and final-not much else in between.
The material can be all over the place and the exams, although take home, are difficult. Professor Tuross is a fair grader and great teacher but probably better in a seminar format.
The Biology of Aging is a fascinating topic.  I learned a lot about it from lectures, but I don't feel like I came away with a holistic understanding of it.  Also, the exams and poor sections make the course too frustrating and discouraging to recommend.
If you don't keep up with at least some of the readings it will be a huge pain to read everything right before the exams. You should also make sure to leave enough time to do the exams as they take longer that you would think.
