Great introduction into research work. The course requires a lot of responsibility on the student's part.
This class is absolutely fantastic if you enjoy doing actual lab research. Note, however, that it requires a lot of discipline because there is relatively little oversight.
If you want a great one-on-one experience as an introduction to the research field take this class.  Close contact with professors and advisors as well as fun projects make this class a must for an HEB student interested in research.  Also, despite the surprising time commitment the work is fun and allows you to be an individual instead of just a number in the class.
This course is unconventional but it is an amazing experience. It's really unlike any class I've taken and I'm so glad I did. You really feel like you are doing something because you are learning as you are researching. It can be very hard if you feel like you're out of you're element but the support from the TFs helps you make it through. It requires quite a bit of time and energy at some points but it all feels worth it at the end.
This class is basically independent research project with some of the best professors at this university as your personal mentors. The course is definitely challenging, as fitting an entire project into a short semester is harder than it seems because you are constantly generating new ideas and questions, beyond the time consuming aspect of data collection itself.  That being said, it is a wonderful learning opportunity if you are self motivated and have a real interest in one of the projects.  I highly recommend Dr. Lieberman's lab!
Great course, gain lots of hands on experience in the lab and scientific research process.
This class is as good as you choose to make it. The amount of work you're willing to put it into it makes all the difference. Time management is critical and a self-driven personality is essential.
This course takes a lot of work and commitment. Make sure you have the necessary time in your schedule available to commit.
This class shows you what it's like to do real research, and is one of those classes where you get out what you put in. It can definitely take up a ton of time though so make sure to stay on top of it.
Awesome class, really great experience to work on an individual project!
This class is amazing! Dan and the PhD students in the lab are amazingly chill and intelligent. One of my favorite classes I have ever taken. Dan is an absolute legend. The most knowledgeable professor of his respective field that I have ever had. I loved the material that I learned but even if I didn't the class is still worth taking to get to know Professor Lieberman.
This is a great way to conduct meaningful scientific research in Professor Lieberman's Human Skeletal Biology and Biomechanics lab and to deepen one's knowledge of and focus within the HEB concentration.
This class is definitely a great way to get involved in cool HEB projects, and the postdocs are super nice and helpful.  If you can, make sure to spread out the work throughout the semester instead of letting all the data analysis/presentation/essay pile up to the end
