Even if you didn't enjoy LS2 all that much, this course is definitely worth a look. I found the subject material in LS2 to be interesting, but found that the huge lecture format didn't really help to spark my interest further. This class was one of my favorite classes I have taken at Harvard.
Great teaching and interesting subject matter!
The course material is extremely interesting and taught very enthusiastically!
Great preparation for med school!
Seriously, if you are premed for real, take this class.  It is hands down the best science class, and the best class altogether that I have taken in the 8 semesters I have been at Harvard.  If you don't love this class, medicine isn't for you.
you have to keep up to do well
There is a LOT of memorization. It is a hard class. Best to take it after LS 2 but not absolutely necessary. Put the work in on a regular basis--get flashcards!
This is an amazing class and an amazing opportunity for all Pre-Med Students and students interested in the human body. You engage with the human body from all different perspectives, from the cadavers you see and touch at the Med School, from lectures, from labs, and from learning about being human from developmental and evolutionary perspectives. This class, unlike something you would receive in Med-School is a course that will allow you to get an overview of so many aspects of the body. It is definitely worth the time and the effort (which will admittedly be a lot) that you put into it.
The teacher really love this subject and it goes a long way. She really wants the students to care about the material. It is pretty difficult.
-The teacher does not make the course worth it, as her lectures are honestly rather boring, and the pace is so fast and overwheleming that you wont absorb the material in lecture. The professor also presents herself as unhelpful and unsupportive in your learning process, both in office hours and in the way the tests are constructed to essentially try to make you get answers wrong. Only if you're willing to learn everything independently without much support or guidance, then take this course.
its a great, small, premed class taught with care
It is a lot of work, but you learn a lot and the teaching staff is great!
Be sure you go into this class knowing it is a lot of work and fairly difficult.  The amount of information covered in the class is huge and you have to keep up with it.
This class is very interesting but be prepared to learn a lot. The shear amount of information is sometimes overwhelming so make sure to always stay on top of your work.
Tanya Smith is a great professor. The material is captivating and the evolutionary portion helps put it all into perspective.
great addition to LS2. anatomy can be very complex and this course was right at my ability level as i learned a ton but never felt overwhelmed.
This class is enjoyable and it takes a lot of time to study the material because the breadth of material we learn is so extensive--make sure that you have the time to study!
- Great for med school. Not that I'm applying, so I guess great if you're not going to med school as well, so long as you are interested and willing to put in the effort.
this class is a hidden jewel - great professor, great material, and especially helpful if you are going to medical school.  so glad i took this class! sadly, this practical class also made me realize how un-useful most of my other harvard classes are to help my actual career.
It is very difficult, but definitely one of the best science classes I have taken at Harvard!
Take this class for sure if you are pre-med, and if you are interested in the human body!  Run away from this class if you hate memorizing and if you are looking for an easy time.
The human body is such a marvel to behold! Everything fits togetherin such an intricate manner. This is extremely practical f you ever desire a career in medicine or anything in the exercise sciences. In addition, we go over a lot of our evolutionary past. What a delightful romp through the annals of human history! You learn a lot of great things in this class, and Dr. Smith makes it quite fun.
Be prepared to spend MANY hours every week memorizing lots of information.  Also, time spent does NOT by any means translate to success on lab quizzes and assessments.
This course is really interesting, a great opportunity to learn about something really familiar to us (ourselves), and definitely worth shopping.  It is definitely difficult, but worth the work.
It's such a great class, and if you are premed, I would definitely say you should take it. Just be ready to put in a lot of time!
it's an awesome class.  It's a lot of memorizing but for students interested in medicine, it's definitely a very nice introduction to gross anatomy.
I think that you have to have an appreciation for the complexity of the human body before you think about taking this course. It is not an easy one by any means but if you are interested in learning about how the body moves and works then it is for you.
Extremely interesting material, really fun presentation. A LOT of work/ memorization. But if you put the work in, it's pretty rewarding.
Incredible to understand the anatomy of the body and it is done in a relaxed and helpful atmosphere which makes it very enjoyable.
This is definitely a great class if you're interested in physiology or want to go to medical school. For me, I enjoyed this a lot more than looking at cells and stuff. It was a lot of material but the class is well taught.
the prosections are awesome
challenging but good course for people interested in pursuing a career in medicine. if you don't like this course, don't go to med school.
This is the toughest elective I ever took, and while the information is fascinating, the professor grades extremely harshly. She's kind, but even though I poured more time into this class than all my other classes put together, I feel like I was punished despite promises to the contrary, and the grading definitely pitted people against each other in a way that was more unfair than in any other premed class I had ever taken. I would tell future students to take other classes if they're doing premed requirements, and even if you like anatomy stay away unless you've gotten into med school already so you can take this pass/fail.
Take it! This class is great and don't listen to the people that say it is too hard. This class is tough but worth every effort.  The subject material and course heads make this so interesting that you will not notice the extra time and find the studying fun.
dedicate all of your free time to the course!
This course is worth it!!! It is a lot of work, but extremely rewarding. Looking back, I would definitely choose to take it again.
This is a wonderful class and you will learn a lot! Study as often as possible and use as many resources as you can. The material cannot be learned in short amounts of time.
This class is VERY DIFFICULT and a lot of work, but incredibly enjoyable and interesting and engaging. You will struggle but you'll learn it--although it may totally eat your life all spring. If you were taking it P/F, I'd recommend it with enthusiasm. If you're taking it for a grade, make sure the rest of your classes are fairly light. But it's a rare and wonderful class with the unique opportunity to actually go to the medical school and view prosections (an incredible experience!), plus it has a developmental approach, which you are unlikely to find in a med school anatomy class.
This class should be mandatory for all premed students! Yes, it is a difficult class. However, I learned an incredible amount about the body and I feel that what I learned in this class has, of all the classes that I have take here, prepared me well for medical school.
Very cool but expect to work every single day.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.
This is indeed a very hard course, but very rewarding and honestly so beneficial if you want to go into medicine. The instructors are wonderful, and you get some experiences that I don't think you could get elsewhere ( get to see human bodies for exam review). However, you really must but hours of study in every day.
Take this class! But be forewarned: you will get what you put into it. The prosections are a great way to review gross anatomy (but not mandatory if you do not like cadavers). Exams will be difficult if you do not study as you go. Review each lecture everyday after it is given (even if it is only for 10 minutes- you will thank yourself in the end).
I would say this is a good alternative or complement to LS2. Tanya is a great professor and really takes you in depth with the material. You should know that it is a lot of work. There is a lot of content and you will need to be reviewing every week if you want to keep up and get a good grade.
Take this course! Especially if you've already taken LS2, this course is a natural addition and so much fun! The prosections at the Med School are awesome (but optional). Definitely take advantage of them! They are so helpful.
Not very much work- no psets, short lab that ended early often. Material is straightforward and sometimes repetitive between the three modules. Professor is absolutely amazing. Prosections great.
A must for premeds who want a better hold on gross anatomy before med school. No psets, but expect an extra day or two than normal to study for all the material for the tests. The final isn't cumalative -- its more like a third midterm, which helps workload wise. I enjoyed learning the material but that's because I'm a premed who enjoys that type of thing. Anyone who wants to go to med school shouldn't shy away from an anatomy course just because they've heard it's a little bit more work. It wasn't even that bad.   Professor Zink is an enjoyable lecturer and wants to help you learn the material. Tests won't trick you.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Dr. Zink is absolutely amazing, and the class is extremely interesting. It is an anatomy class, so there is a lot of information to learn, but the organization of the class makes it easy and fun to do! Keep up with the work and you will do well!
Lots of rote memorization, but worth it for the prosections and getting to know the professor, who genuinely cares.
Take this class! It's amazing.
You will have to memorize a lot of material, so it is better to learn the stuff as you go. Dr. Zink is a good lecturer despite the material sometimes being boring. There is little work on a day-to-day basis (will have to cram for tests if you don't study as you go, and the final paper requires research but is easy enough). I did not go to the prosections but I heard they were worthwhile. You have six 1.5-hour labs, which are painless (just filling out a worksheet and getting to look at the bones and muscles on models). Good class as prep for med school or if you want to know more about the human body. Take it pass fail if you are worried about the memorization. Class covers tiny bits of development, basics of human evolution, and all the muscles, bones, nervous system, etc.
Take this class! If you like anatomy and a willing to put in the time to learn the material, you will get so much out of it. Professor Zink is wonderful and made lecture fun to be at. The exams cover a lot of information, but everything on there is fair- she never tries to trick you.
Katie is superb, and this couse really manages to be interesting despite the significant amount of memorization. LS2 isn't required at all, but it does complement HEB 1420 quite nicely. I really don't like when courses are repetitive, but I took both and didn't feel like there was too much repetition at all.
Professor Zink is amazing, the prosections were SUPER cool, and your mastery of anatomy going out of the course is very good. Definitely required a fair amount of work, but absolutely worth it for any premed or pre-health sciences. Recommend 5/5.
BEST CLASS AT HARVARD HANNDS DOWN. if you have any interest in anatomy take it!!
AMAZING CLASS - don't cram though
This class is tight.  Its structured very well.  The teachers are great.  You get a great comprehensive look at thew hole human body, and interesting evolutionary explanations.  You should take it.
The professors make this class AMAZING!
This is a wonderful introduction to anatomy! Although it's quite a fast-paced ride and there's a lot of content to learn, the teaching staff make it really enjoyable and at the end you really have an appreciation for just how much you've learned!
This class is a lot of work but if you put in time every week it is manageable.
This course is wonderful! About to go in and prepare for the final and give it one last go to get the best grade possible. The material is a lot to learn and will take a lot of your time every week as you prepare for the midterms. Midterms are more than just memorizing material. You need to be able to apply the material in that you can identify the body parts in a section on the body with all the other parts in between. You also need to be able to identify cross sections of muscles. some of the evolutionary concepts can be extremely tricky because it seems like you should memorize but the trick is knowing how to answer the question as one can easily start to lose points on the test for little details in how you answer evolutionary questions. I do think this class is worth it at the end of the day. I feel much more informed about the human body and evolution of human beings and if I am shadowing doctors again my conversations would be on a much higher level than before.
OMG amaaaaazing class. Definitely the class I learned the most from in college, material wise. You are learning about yourself which is really cool. The tests will creep up on you so be sure to stay on top of the material weekly, make flash cards over the weekend and quiz yourself throughout the semester. ask questions if you need clarification - the professors are so willing to help!!
TAKE THIS CLASS!! Katie and Neil are awesome! Labs are super fun and laid back. You get to go to the med school for prosections in the cadaver lab. If you enjoy/have interest in anatomy, you will love this course. Memorization is made as painless as possible. Midterms are fair...as long as you put the time in to study, you will be fine. Don't wait to study until the night before. The class also has an interesting evolutionary twist, so it isn't just straight up memorizing anatomical terms. I recommend getting an anatomy coloring book and making flashcards, especially when learning muscle-heavy sections. This has been my favorite course at Harvard so far...take it!
No matter what your background is, if you are interested in becoming uncannily familiar with your/the body, take this class! Katie and Neil are the absolute best lecturers. They care so much for each student, making themselves available for any help you made need, and made the information - though it was a lot - incredibly digestible! Thanks so much yall!
It's a good class, but it's very difficult and the grades are largely on exams. You don't have other assignments
This is the best class you will take at Harvard. Studying for it is fun, but challenging. Leaving every midterm you feel such a sense of accomplishment. You also get taught by two of the best professors ever, and get to look at cadavers. There's no downside to taking it if you're willing to put in a ton of work before every midterm.
This is one of my favorite courses that I've taken here at Harvard. The professors are absolutely wonderful--they care so much about the topic, and their enthusiasm and humor made lecture something to look forward to. There was a ridiculous amount of material that we had to know for each exam, but I feel like I've come out of this class which a much more comprehensive understanding (and appreciation!) of how it is our bodies function, and the parts that comprise them. It was also incredible to have the opportunity to go to HMS for prosections--seeing the terms we learned in lecture in person definitely helped me remember them. Overall, amazing course and could not recommend enough!!
This was one of the best classes I have ever taken at Harvard. The material is so interesting and relevant that I think anybody from any concentration would enjoy it, but you will definitely love it if you are a pre-med. This and LS2 were the only classes I took as a pre-med requirement that I think will actually be relevant for med school. It's really great that we are able to look at human cadavers because there isn't another class that lets you do that. It also definitely enhances your learning and gives you a taste for med school. However, over everything, the teaching staff are AMAZING. Neil and Katie have a ton of enthusiasm for the material, they are interesting and funny lecturers, and they go out of the way to support the students. They are both just lovely human beings in general. The workload in this class is not a ton, but you learn a lot, so it's helpful to start studying early. I always started reviewing material over a week before the actual midterm because you have to know so much stuff, but much of it is memorization. I recommend making flash cards. However, the exams themselves are pretty straightforward and are not there to trick you. They also do a good job at consolidating everything you learn. Having taken LS2, I will say that it certainly helped and prepared me well for this class, but there is very little overlap between the two courses.
Avoid this class if you can. It's pretty terrible.
Super hard but a really cool course. It makes me hopeful for med school classes being more rewarding like this course.
It is difficult because it is exam based but if you like anatomy you should take it! You can also take it pass-fail!
- Amazing, accessible, friendly and funny professors- Prosections are a great and unique opportunity that definitely help with exam prep- A LOT of memorization for exams but exams are fair, just give yourself a week at least to study
Katie and Neil are the best and you have to take this class if you need a biology requirement or an HEB requirement. You learn so much about the body and this has such a practical application compared to most of my other classes. They made a seemingly monotonous subject exciting by including background in development and evolution as well as clinical asides. Prosection was the coolest thing I've done at Harvard, as you got to get up close and personal with the anatomy in a real life context.
The professors are fantastic and caring, but the content is such that it takes a lot of work ahead of time. Additionally, some of the exam questions can be a bit picky in the way they want them answered so be aware.
It is a very interesting course in which you will learn a lot. You will have to study a lit for the midterms in final (about four full days of studying) but other than that there is not much work in the course. The pro-sections at the med school were INCREDIBLE. Such an amazing opportunity for us to further understand the human body by looking at real cadavers. Definitely my favorite part of the course.
Even though the course material was the most difficult I have encountered at Harvard, this was my favorite class and this made me persevere and enjoy even the difficult aspects.
This class was super interesting and very fair. Katie and Neil are enthusiastic about the material and explain it all well. The exams are fair and test you on things presented in the slides. It is of course best if you review the material each week so you don't fall behind and start studying for the exams at least a week early (at the very minimum). It's not difficult at all, just a lot of material. The prosections are also extremely interesting! Cadavers are cool.
This class is awesome!! Neil and Katie are the absolute best and the material is really interesting! You definitely have to put in a lot of time if you want to do well in the class, but it is totally worth it.
An amazing class. Easily my favorite science course at Harvard, and I've taken a lot of science classes here. Katie and Neil are incredibly knowledge, engaging lecturers, and very approachable people. If you are a pre-med looking for a bio class, look no further. This material will give you a perspective on the body and evolution that is likely very different and much more applicable than your previous coursework. The prosections are also another amazing aspect of this course, and deserve special mention.No assignments (with exception of the anatomical paper, which isn't too bad anyway) means that you will have a good deal of unstructured time with this class during the semester. But when midterm time comes around, you better be ready to GRIND. This is a lot of material, and it cannot be overstated that this course requires pretty immense amounts of memorization and information rehearsal. But if you apply yourself, you will find that it is incredibly worthwhile. In certain ways, this class is the anti-chem 27. That class makes you dread becoming a doctor, this one gets you chomping at the bit to head off to med school.
This is one of my favorite classes I have taken at Harvard. If you want to learn anatomy, there is no better way of doing it. The material is presented in a way that is very easy to learn and organize, and the professors are very inviting and entertaining during class. Its not just pure anatomy either, as a lot of the structures are explaining in a evolutionary context that gives reasons for why they are the way they are. The class is also very small so it is easy to get to know the teaching staff, and I would highly recommend doing so! There are no problem sets and just one anatomy report at the end of the semester which is not very stressful, so the class just boils down to learning the material for the exams, which helps decrease the time commitment. If you are interested in anatomy and are ok with memorizing material, I would highly recommend this class!
This is an excellent course! Katie and Neil are both amazing professors who make learning the difficult anatomy a lot more enjoyable. There is some overlap with LS2, especially with the skeletal system, but I didn't find myself feeling bored ever. I would definitely recommend going to the prosections. They were really pretty incredible and passing up on them would definitely be a missed opportunity.
This is a great class for anyone looking to really learn musculo-skeletal anatomy. Definitely a lot of memorization, but if you give yourself time, it's fine and the testing is very fair. On the other hand, if you're looking for a course that is primarily evolutionarily focused, I would not recommend this course. It's much better described as an anatomy course with evolution as somewhat of an aside.
This class was AWESOME. I hadn't taken LS2, so was a bit nervous. It turned out half the class had taken LS2, but honestly I didn't feel that I was at much of a disadvantage other than a few extra hours of studying for each exam. The class is just great, really great. Katie and Neil are excellent -- Katie for her humor, ability to connect with students and be interested in our lives, and her general ambience just creates a space in which you want to learn the material she's talking about. Neil has a much more serious/focused affect, so while his lectures might not have had as "fun" of a vibe, they were very clear, well-delivered, and interesting. Dynamic duo. The exams take a lot of studying -- it is an anatomy class, after all. For each exam, I studied straight Friday-Monday (exams were on Tuesday). Was a brutal 4 days, but that was really it. Other than those study periods, the class didn't have any work (other than a short anatomy paper at the end, which was pretty painless to write). And the studying was totally do-able, just a lot of memorization. REALLY, HIGHLY recommend this course to fill any anatomy requirement or just to add another layer to anyone who is interested in biology! AND they take you over to the med school a few times for cadaver dissections to look at anatomy you're studying for each exam. Seriously blew my mind, and was an exceptional learning experience. Would take this class again!
Phenomenal class --- take it when Katie and Neil are teaching. Great lecturers that generate interest in material. they make the memorization less routine and boring. I would highly highly recommend this to any premed student, or really any student in general. easily one of my favorite classes I've taken at harvard. ps. prosections are super super cool
It's no joke. You will need to study at least twice a week for this class. But, its so much fun and if Katie is teaching it, she will carry you through. My favorite class at Harvard.
This is an incredible class, and if you are interested in human anatomy, then this is definitely the course for you! Every single class feels a bit like a whirlwind, as there is a huge amount of material. However, Neil and Katie present the information in an effective and understandable manner, and their enthusiasm for human evolutionary anatomy is contagious. If you want to know about human anatomy, as well as the differences we have evolved from our closest ancestors over time and how we develop from embryos, take this class! We also spent a good amount of time talking about clinical examples, from disease to genetic condition to injury. Every day was exciting and interesting, and I walked out with an incredible amount of knowledge. In addition, there are three prosections during which you have the option to visit the Harvard medical school and learn about the anatomy with cadaver specimens.  If you are looking for an easy A, this is not the course for you. It requires a lot of study time, from memorizing human anatomy to reviewing evolutionary and developmental concepts. In addition, this course requires a lot of unstructured studying, as there are no daily assignments, but rather three exams and a single project that account for your entire grade. But if your are enthusiastic about the material and are willing to put in the work, then I highly recommend this course!
This is a hard class. But it's very rewarding. Keep up with taking notes on each lecture after class.
If you take this class, study every week or it will be difficult to do well on the exams.
The prosections are incredible!!!! you should go! Neil & Katie are absolute gems. They instruct with clarity and care so much about their students -- even the ones who are not necessarily excelling in the course (like yours truly). I just could not be happier with the teaching staff and the privilege of going to Harvard med for the pro sections, where we were able to view the anatomy in real life. What an incredible experience.... Like I got to call home and tell my dad that I held a human heart in my hands. Katie makes you into an anatomy nerd with her enthusiasm for the subject, but you're ok with it by the end of the course. If you go to OH they are super helpful and responsive.
This class is obviously difficult (it's anatomy). The exams require a lot of studying, but this class is definitely worth taking. Katie and Neil are both great and make the material interesting. For HEB students, this class is more engaging than LS2, since a big component of it is the evolution of human traits. I would definitely take this class again.
Know that this course requires a huge amount of memorization and doesn't go into much detail on physiology (how the body works on a cellular and molecular level) but you will come out knowing a ton about the human body and why it is this way.
It's more work than you think. Do not let yourself fall behind, because catch up isn't fun. That said, they are some amazing teachers, and you will learn a lot.
This course requires a lot of work.  Do not take it if you aren't willing to put in the hours of memorization each week.  However, you will come out with very deep, comprehensive knowledge of anatomy and built a strong relationship with both professors.
Take this class if you at interested in anatomy. This class requires a LOT of memorization, and the second module is brutal. But it's worth it. Katie and Neil are super sweet and engaging lecturers. Go to the protections because it is such a rare chance to be able to see structures on real humans and not on the slides.
This is the most incredible class I have taken at Harvard. Yes the material is hard, but it is super doable if you are willing to work hard. And you will want to work hard because the class is so interesting. Definitely study the material after every lecture or every week, otherwise it will just be too much to learn right before the exams. The exams are hard but very fair: lots of memorization but no curveballs. Don't be afraid to take it without LS2 or HEB background. Neil and Katie will teach you everything you need to know!Neil and Katie are wonderful, engaging and accessible professors. They both lecture very well, and are great in office hours and labs as well. They encourage so much enthusiasm for the material, which I think was particularly evident when we did individual presentations at the end of class. This class was extremely formative and important for me in deciding if I wanted to do premed.
This course was my first real exposure to the requirements for the MCAT and knowledge of the human anatomy. It was very enjoyable, and the pro-sections at the medical school helped tie in and aid in understanding of the modules.
This class is awesome! It's a lot of information, but since it's more focused on anatomy and evolution rather than physiology, it was very manageable. Give yourself at least 4-5 days before the exam (especially the final) to review things. Katie and Neil are phenomenal and super open to questions or arranging times to meet. Stay on top of the material. The text book is a nice reference, but I barely used it. Invest in a good atlas (there's an app called essential anatomy that lets you view things in 3-D, helpful to visualize how things fit together). Loved this class overall!
A lot of work but super fun and fair!
Take it. There's no other course like this one at Harvard, and you will appreciate having learned anatomy before going to medical school. Prof. Zink and Prof. Roach really know the material and make it fun to learn about anatomy by relating to medical conditions and facts about everyday life.
This class is amazing, but SUPER hard. There is a ton of memorization required to do well on the exams (and the majority of the grade is based on the very challenging exams). There's a ton of material, but Katie and Neil teach it well and are very available for outside assistance if you don't understand something and are very passionate about the material. If you want a chill premed class, don't take this, but if you want to learn a ton of anatomy from an evolutionary perspective and really challenge yourself, this class is perfect. Also, the prosections were really cool! I think this is the only undergrad class at Harvard that offers them.
Cool class. Took this with a background in physics and math and the material was pretty digestible. Interesting to learn about the human body. Lots of reading and diagrams and memorization but manageable.
