Overall it's a pretty good class.  The material definitely links together the effects of wildlife health has on the world as a whole.  Professor Nunn is really passionate about the material he is teaching and that aspect shines through in every lecture, and the guest lecturers that came to talk helped demonstrate real world applications of this type of research, such as linking economics to global health or conservation efforts to global health.
Very interesting material, presented in an accessible way.  Encourage independent research and thinking.  Teaching staff are very accessible and enthusiastic, and truly care about teaching!
Amazing class, really enjoyable!
Professor Nunn is an excellent lecturer and very kind. He really cares about his students and is highly accessible. He generates a lot of enthusiasm for the class. I learned a lot and thoroughly enjoyed it.
This class was a gem. The professor is amazing and it's low stress. I learned a lot but it was the chillest science class I've ever taken
You learn a ton and it's not stressful at all. Lectures and readings are super interesting. Stay on top of your work and you'll enjoy lecture a lot more!  A great HEB class!!
Be prepared to work with stats (particularly R), and ask questions about it if you don't understand.
It was a great class!  The workload is pretty light - a few readings per week, 4 problem sets, and a very short research paper (no final!).  It was really interesting too - infectious diseases are exciting!
The majority of readings are scientific papers/studies that are used as examples of certain principles in lecture. The end of the year project is very free form, and allows a lot of self-directed learning and application of statistics.
You get as much out of it as you put in. Start the psets erly and do the reading.
Only take this course if you are really interested in public health. I thought the course would have more of an emphasis on the biological mechanisms behind primate diseases, but it actually focused more on public health. Also, there are a LOT of papers in the required readings, which can be a bit dull.
This is an incredibly interesting class that will teach you very applicable information and skills!
Fun and easy way to learn epidemiology. Lots of personal attention from the professor, get to learn some R (which is very handy), and excellent at making the material applicable to other areas.
If you're interested in primates, disease, or global health, definitely take this course.
This class is simply excellent. The teaching staff work tirelessly to teach you the material and the assignments build up to giving you the capability to make a comprehensive final project. The guest lecture series was  great and overall it is an enjoyable class. If you are thinking about taking this class, be sure to think EARLY about your project idea. It will really help as the class goes on. There are so many questions to pursue and finding one early will help you execute well on it.
This class was great! You get to learn about some of the great research being done in the fields of infectious disease and primate ecology.
Really interesting course material, and Charlie is a great lecturer!
This course had so much potential! I was drawn by the topic and desire to learn about disease epidemiology, which this course definitely delivered upon. I certainly learned a lot about how diseases evolve, develop, spread, etc. However, it was much more work than I anticipated. The problem sets were frustrating busy work, three involving a computer programming software that was extremely confusing for people with no computer coding experience. Instead of learning and analyzing disease ecology when doing the p-sets, you just try to follow instructions and desperately figure out where you went wrong when the computer code doesn't work. It made it hard to enjoy the class. But Professor Nunn was very enthusiastic and knowledgeable, we had interesting guest speakers, the two midterms were fair, but the sections were kind of useless.
It's a great class if you're interested in the material. The psets are fun and instructive, and the readings interesting.
Definitely enjoyed it. Charlie is a great and enthusiastic professor. There are interesting discussions and the subject matter is pretty cool. You'll get more out of it if you do the readings. Not too difficult.
This was a fantastic course to take! Professor Nunn gave excellent lectures, there were some great guest lecturers. You learn so much without having to try because the material is interesting and well taught! The problem sets are fun, the exams arent too tough and the final project was a great experience.
The course instructors are all super enthusiastic about the material, and very supportive in encouraging independent ideas.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Professor Nunn is a great lecturer, the subject matter is fascinating, and the workload is really manageable. The final project seems a bit daunting, but once you choose a topic its actually really fun. Finally, make sure you go to as many coffee hours with Prof. Nunn as possible!
Super interesting!
This class involves some extremely intriguing and applicable material with an awesome professor who genuinely cares about getting to know his students. Professor Nunn really values students' learning over making them complete mindless busy work, and as a result I always looked forward to coming to lecture, coffee hours, etc.
This class is interesting for individuals with an interest or affinity for non-human primates.
if you're pre-med- this is super interesting and relevant to modern medicine and public health, as well as a painless way to boost your science GPA! professor nunn is outstanding and new enough that he hasn't lost his passion for teaching and friendliness towards students. this class is a real gem
This is an interesting class and you definitely learn a lot.
This class is very well-taught.  You'll go over quite a bit of material, but things move at a very manageable pace.  Also, what you learn is pretty interesting.  Discussions are generally both informative and engaging.
Great class.
If you are at all interested in infectious diseases, this is the perfect class!
One of the most engaging courses in HEB department! Professor Nunn does a great job instilling his passion for learning and stimulating interesting discussions every week.  For a course with manageable workload, it is definitely a rewarding experience.
This course is amazing! Professor Nunn is great and extremely friendly and helpful, the material is fascinating (given that you're interested in primate disease ecology), and I learned so much that really applies to human health as well. I would definitely recommend this course- it's not too taxing work wise and you get to work with programs like MATLAB, which is interesting to learn how to use.
This is a very interesting course and the professor is really enthusiastic about this field.
Cool papers if you're interested in primate disease. Prof is awesome and really accessible
Really interesting, applicable, especially if you want to go into any fields related to global health or conservation
