Make sure you have a good TF!
Definitely consider taking this course, even as an elective. The issues are immensely interesting and you will learn quite a lot about an increasingly important area of science and ethics in the world today.
-Requires a lot of reading but very engaging lectures and section discussions
A great class if you are interested in the issues already... perhaps not for people who don't either like theory or know about biotechnology
I would advise future students to attend every single lecture because not only were they helpful in elaborating on the topics discussed in the readings but were enjoyable and thought-provoking as well.
Very interesting course with relatively little work and reading
Its a lot of fun and gets you thinking about some modern ethical issues.  Very interesting and thought provoking.
If you are a senior, take it pass fail and it is great!
The topics are very interesting, but the class is not very well structured and you do not feel that you come away with a solid foundation of things you've learned.
Its a very interesting and exciting course. Exactly what I imagined taking in college. very applicable to every day issues. good course to take pass fail
I would say that this course is a hidden gem. It's combination of great professors, interesting and provocative topics and light workload cannot be beat. I am so glad that I took it as it was the best course I have taken at Harvard and has helped me to grapple with important moral and ethical issues that I will face as a voting citizen and in my career.
Take it if you find the topics listed really interesting.
This is an exciting introduction to the effect of developments in biotechnology on our moral understanding. The interdisciplinary nature of the course, with issues bridging science and philosophy, made the course especially intriguing.
Being able to watch two of the leading minds on these topics, one focused on the moral theory aspect while the other on the science, was amazing. Seeing the difference in the scientists thought processes and the ethicists thoughts was fascinating and watching the two debate and question one another was a real intellectual treat.
Go to lecture. Read Sandel's book. Have fun with the course.
This course will change the way you look at the world. I think these are very important topics to think critically about, and I almost wish everyone was required to take a course like this at some point.
The course covers very interesting topics and really makes one think about their gut reactions to certain bioethical issues.
This is a very important class for anyone who is interested in science, public policy, religion, basically anything.
great course, the ability to think about the future in a course like this seems pretty rare, appreciate the great lectures and the amazing science you're being exposed to, can't go wrong in taking this course
This course is great. You will get more out of it if you try to form strong perspectives on each topic.
Try reading a little about the major philosophers before taking the class (or while taking the class) so you can put arguments into context.
Don't bother taking this class.  You will learn nothing you didn't already know, and it will merely reinforce your hatred of your fellow Harvard student.
It is a really unique class at Harvard. An interesting way to break into the topic of bioethics.
If you're interested in applying skills of analysis and debate that unites the fields of policy, science and philosophy, this is the course for you, especially if you feel you'd like to learn more about the ethical issues that surround medicine.
Do not go to lecture.  Go to section and enjoy.
Very interesting and relevant topics about today's biggest issues.
the final sucks...
This was one of the BEST classes I took at Harvard. Even in the middle of senior spring, this is the only class that I absolutely never wanted to miss. It is very rare to find a class where both lecture and section are equally strong components of the course. I would HIGHLY encourage every student who has any interest in bioethics (even if it is mild) to explore this class. It has been of my most challenging, yet fulfilling experiences here - not because of the course load (which is manageable), but because of the content and the discussions that we had.
Awesome professors, engaging classroom discussions, relevant topics studied
The topics are extremely interesting, and really instigate some intense discussions.
Workload was very manageable and lecture was very interesting. However, the lectures were a little too long in my opinion, and the student participation was a drawback.
it is easy and interesting.  if you liked Justice, you'll most likely like this class. some of it is repetitive, but class discussions always bring out new insights.  if you've ever wondered about the implications of biotechnology and have strong feelings about it, this is the class for you
Sandel and Melton are excellent lecturers and really work well together.
It is a fun and easy class.  Good for senior spring.
This course may not be for freshmen. Having done a good deal of college writing and thinking is very helpful. In particular, it is helpful to have some experience with philosophy. Also, do the readings and don't be afraid to participate in lecture and section. The learning takes place in the discussion.
Sandel and Melton are great together - it's fun to participate in a discussion of which they are the center. Discussions are great in lecture and even especially in section.
Interesting topics, sometimes good debate, long lectures, not very integrated, can be slow and dry, unpredictable grading
Highly interesting class that is relevant to current events
I would tell them it raises interesting questions and makes you think- but it is more about learning how to make an argument than learning substance.  Maybe that is just my inclination as a more science oriented person though.
Great class, very fun, easy readings
It was entertaining, thought-provoking and a good way to fulfill a science elective requirement
It's really interesting, but sometimes I felt that I didn't learn anything concrete.
It's easy, the professors are excellent, and the material is very interesting and relevant. Make sure you get a good TF.
Both Professor Melton and Professor Sandel are incredible and masterfully teach the class.
Super interesting class. You get exposure to two of the most impressive, accomplished professors at Harvard, and they live up to their reputations. Melton and Sandel are fantastic--Sandel does a great job at leading discussion, and Melton is surprisingly funny. If you've taken Justice, this course is sort of similar, but much more applied--the class is structured around the applied topics (stem cell research, genetic engineering, preserved human bodies) as opposed to theories (no Kant, Locke, Bentham-esque conversations). One of those courses that make Harvard, Harvard.
Choose your section leader carefully, as this course is evaluated subjectively. Also, be prepared with prior knowledge on how to write an ethical argument.
If you are willing to listen to the same arguments and topics over and over, it can be an interesting course because the professors are still excellent.
This is an amazing class and I really recommend making space for it in your schedule at some point before you graduate. Sandel and Melton work well together and foster very interesting discussions. The assignments (short essays) for the class end up being very fun to complete because the topics are so interesting (or at least were for me!) and it is difficult but wonderful to have to challenge your own ideas to come up with more than just knee-jerk reactions to these prominent ethical issues.
I absolutely loved this course and would recommend it to science concentrators and non-science concentrators alike. The material was so interesting and really enlightened me on the future of biotechnology and our world. The readings were super interesting; however, you could easily get by without doing them on weeks you're not writing a paper as long as you come to section ready to argue. The paper system is also great because, as long as you plan ahead, you can pretty much avoid having to write papers on weeks when you're super stressed. Also, 900-1000 words is a great length - I felt as if it was the perfect amount of space to engage with the material without having to make stretches. The biggest downside to this course is that the arguments become repetitive because you usually see the same handful of arguments applied to every topic. However, you can pretty much say that about any course. Overall, this was a wonderful way to fulfill my ER requirement.
LOVE IT!! so light on work, heavy on meaning
This class certainly raises thought-provoking questions, and Melton and Sandel are both icons in their fields. That being said, the format of the class (a little scientific background from Melton and then a class-wide discussion) is not for everyone.
Great class!  Really interesting material and great professors.  Workload isn't too much.  The deadlines are somewhat inconvenient though.
It's a great way to start talking about issues that you probably otherwise wouldn't be talking about. It gives you a format and the tools with which to think about immortality, eugenics, sports enhancement and for that reason is very valuable. However, if you are looking for a class that will teach you moral philosophy, this is not the one for you.
It's hard, but it's manageable. It's not going to be a lot of work, but your work will be graded toughly. Don't mess around with the essays - use your TFs, use kids who have taken it in the class, and use a lot of analytical thinking. This class teaches you how to construct a hole-proof argument in the world of ethics (and makes you realize that it's not possible). It's a good class, but the essays WILL be graded toughly. You can get an A, but you'll have to care a little bit.
This class is really well taught, and having the preeminent leaders in science and philosophy in the same room makes you appreciate Harvard even more. That saidmake sure you have a good section leader (since you have weekly section) and beware that a lot of the course falls in gray areas. You might not come to a definitive answer on any of the questions raised in the course, but that's precisely why they're so interesting.
This class was by far my favorite that I took this year. The material is really fascinating, and I love that the entire course is centered around discussion and the students' perspectives. Though Sandel can tend to monopolize the discussion, I love that Melton balances the more ethical side with  solid scientific background. There are five essays throughout the semester, each weighted equally and you get to choose the topics and due dates. Section is really fun, and the conversations are stimulating and profound. I love this class and highly recommend it!
If you love to debate science or ethics, take this class. But be ready to fight to keep the discussion on track.
If you like science fiction, you will love this class. As a plus, you will become the most interesting person at the dinner table as you will be able to discuss relevant scientific topics having learned how to do so from the best in the field.
If you are willing to put a lot of time into this course, it will be thoroughly enjoyable. If not, it'll be miserable.
This class is great for anyone even remotely interested in scientific policy, or anyone who generally enjoys thinking critically about ethical questions. A great way to fulfill the ethical reasoning GenEd.
This course is one of the most interesting courses I have taken. I recommend you take this if you are into biotechnology but have never discussed the ethical points behind its development.
I love the way this course is structured. If you're interested in the topic, you'll love it. The only problem is that the papers are graded pretty harshly, so if you're not the best writer, you will not do well in this course. That said, I knew that going in, and still took this course because I loved lecture so much. My GPA may be a bit lower in the end, but in my opinion, it was worth it.
Start work on the essays early, they will likely be more difficult than you might anticipate.
This is a great class to get some exposure to some very important questions in bioethics, especially relevant to those interested in health or science, but interesting to all.
You'll get really hooked at first but after a while, some of the reasoning just gets repetitive.  It's especially annoying when you only hear from the same kids each class.
This class opens your perspective to a lot of unique ethical issues.
Fun class and highly relevant to our future!
Sandel and Melton have a very interesting back and forth that is both entertaining and stimulating. The discussions in section and lecture are very interesting in the first half of the course but become bland in the second half because the same arguments keep reappearing. It gets to a point where you're basically hearing the same reasons used for and against a certain biotechnology. The topics are interesting throughout the whole course. Grading can be harsh especially because you are not told what is expected of your writing and a lot of the comments about your paper are counter arguments from your TF. However, there is only so much you can address in a 1000 word paper so it feels like you're being penalized for not covering certain counter arguments because you run out of space. Besides that, the course is manageable and interesting enough to motivate you to come to lecture and hear what the Professors have to say.
It's a fabulous class. Not a lot of philosophy, but that's why it's great as an ER gen ed. Try to lottery in.
It really helps if you have taken Sandel's "Justice" or some other ethics/philosophy course(s). Don't really need any relevant science background. How well you explain your argument & defend it in a logical manner with your premises makes or breaks you in this class.
It's a really great course to take, especially if you love ethics.
This class is amazing. The workload is low, and the class is excellent. I would take this course again in a heartbeat
I loved this class. The topics were interesting and the class as a whole was very engaging. It really makes you think about how rapidly technology is developing and how this begins to raise moral questions. The papers were a bit hard to write at first since I didn't know much about philosophy, but I got better, and became a better critical thinker as a result.
This class will challenge you to think - it will not teach you particularly much, in the way of ethical theory or scientific knowledge, but it will make you think about ethical issues in modern biotechnology. The dichotomy between Melton's utilitarian, scientific viewpoints and Sandel's virtue-based ethics is very interesting and keeps the class lively, even if it is relatively predictable where each of them will come down on any given topic."Lecture" is usually a very high level overview of a scientific topic, followed by some back and forth between Sandel and Melton, followed by general discussion. Prepare to hear opinions from peers that you definitely don't agree with, and that often seem (or may actually be) relatively ignorant [especially if you understand the scientific background, and they don't], but if you're okay with that, then you will enjoy the class. Section is basically a smaller version of lecture, which is nice. Readings are generally newspaper articles and papers from the last decade or two, and are not very hard, but are interesting. Assignments are pretty light, but make sure that you follow the general structure of Argument-Potentially Rebuttal-Rejoinder. Overall, a very good class. I like how it brings together Gov and Life Science kids, as the Gov kids will be the ones legislating what the Life Science kids can research in the future, and it is important that both sides of the table begin thinking about potentially issues..
This was a great class that I would highly recommend.  The structure of it is great (no final or midterms!) and class is always incredibly interesting.  Sandel and Melton make a great team.  This is one of those classes that really changes the way you think.
Don't choose Joe as your TF. Be prepared to hate the way that the essays are graded. You won't learn much about morality or ethics in this course- mostly just weighing utilitarian arguments against value arguments, and going absolutely nowhere.
Sandel and Melton debates are incredible, but lectures can get boring. Paper grading is pretty difficult, but the actual material is very interesting.
It is potential a great class, if the format is readjusted a bit. You have essays due at the start of every week, and then you discuss the essays during lecture and section, after you turn them in. Therefore, section and lecture don't really help you in your assignments. It would be better if we could write our essays either all the time or sometimes, after lecture and section, so that we could have the chance to write after we have had a signicficant amount of discussion and time to think about the topic.
This class is really good in terms of the discussion, but be prepared to feel like the essays are a chore.
Come to class prepared, and do the readings to inform your thoughts during lecture.
This course covers very interesting subject matter, and both Professor Melton and Professor Sandel are very good at what they do. Rather than learning new material or new facts, you will learn through reflection and taking things you already know to their logical conclusions (this is more a philosophy course than it is a science one). By the end, some material felt redundant, but overall an enjoyable class and certainly not a difficult one.
This course was an exciting look at the ethics of some cutting edge technology.  Professors Melton and Sandel lead discussion very well in lecture and always have deep insight into the topics.  The fact that they are often at odds with each other makes for some very interesting discussion.
Take this class if you have never thought about bioethical questions before and want to dabble and hear what others like you have to say. But do not expect any rigorous moral or philosophical component - it just isn't there. Professor Sandel leads his typical socratic lecture, wherein he does a good job getting a feel of everyone's views, but that's all. There is no rigorous thinking or learning to be done, except perhaps in section, where your TF may wish to introduce the things that one would expect to be taught in lecture. The papers are graded harshly for the level of thinking/teaching that goes on in lecture. The saving grace, though, is Professor Melton, who takes an educated, informed, no-nonsense approach to these bioethical questions, in stark contrast to most of the students in the class and Professor Sandel.
Many topics were definitely interesting and the Sandel-Melton dynamic produced some quality lectures.However, trying to blend together science and philosophy at times tended to temper both to levels below expectations: science people looking for a touch of philosophy didn't get enough science, humanities people looking for a touch of science didn't get enough philosophy type perspective.  The Sandel and Melton dynamic, while it generates discussion, was always Sandel against and Melton in favor.
You'll do well if you write well.
Definitely take this class over the other bioethics class because Melton and Sandel are such interesting lecturers.
This is a great class, especially for senior thesis writers because it gives you flexibility as to when you want to write your essays. Nevertheless, the topics are quite broad and theoretical, so if you want a more practical bioethics course, I hear the other bioethics course is better for that. Work load is very manageable and lecture once a week is always nice.
Great class, interesting material, and not much work! Highly recommend taking a class with Sandel and Melton!
The discussions present throughout this course is one of its strongest points by pushing students on their stances and providing them with knowledge on how to establish their own ideas and the topics can be fascinating.
The lectures are interesting only because of the difference in opinion between the two professors. Otherwise, a lot of lecture time is spent on student opinions, which could often be replaced with more lecture-style teaching. However, the topics that were discussed every week were fascinating, things I would otherwise never learn about. The readings are also enjoyable and fun to read.
Your essays are not graded on how well they are written, but how rigorous the logic is. It took me 2 false tries to learn that, but once I did it became much easier to get good grades.
Best Ethical Reasoning coures offered at the school!
The papers will take longer than you think if you hope to craft a useful and insightful argument. The problems presented in the class may seem obvious, but the difficulty in assessing them arises when trying to find out just why it is, exactly, that they seem so obvious.
This is a compelling introduction to the bioethical issues we face now; it is helpful for those wanting to enter the health professions field because it outlines different perspectives--utilitarianism, deontology, virtue ethics--on moral decision making. The Sandel-Melton dynamic is engaging, Melton the intelligent, pragmatic, and persuasive layman foil to Sandel's subtle and conscientious philosopher.
THIS IS NOT AN EASY CLASS. only take it if you are prepared to meet with your TF outside of section to develop your argument.  Be comfortable arguing your position in section because you will always get a lot of pushback.
I really enjoyed this class. It was a great learning experience and I feel like I was exposed to such interesting topics that are really pertinent to society and questions that we will need to be answering in the near future. The readings were interesting, many newspaper and magazine articles on the subjects, so we were able to get a sense of how the public was responding to these issues before formulating our own opinions. I really would recommend this class!!
This course is great. I always thought that I hated philosophy and had really low expectations for any Ethical Reasoning course, but I really loved this class. You not only discuss interesting issues, but you also will learn how to organize your ideas in a logical way and present a sound argument (at least with Kerstin as a TF!). I wish I had taken this course sooner in my college career. The readings are really interesting, and section discussions are the best part of the course--make sure to participate! You don't actually really need to do the readings or go to lecture to participate in section, but it helps.
Section component was great, but lectures were a waste of time - it was basically a constant argument about the same exact points lecture after lecture between Prof. Melton and Prof. Sandel
I really dislike philosophy, but this is the best ER of the ones available for the gen-ed. Sandel/Melton compliment each other nicely. Not too much work. Easy to do moderately well, hard to do super well.
Not much coursework, but gets repetitive and not very structured
Take this class if you need a REALLY easy Ethical Reasoning class. It won't change the way you think, but it will fulfill a requirement!
This class sounds awesome on paper, but was disappointing in practice.
though this class is not perfect in structure or content, it was still an interesting class that had very tangible connections to things currently relevant in the real world. its also a fairly easy way to fulfill the ER req
The lecture is interesting, the science well explained, but the assignments were all due BEFORE lecture/section. So they bring up things in lecture that you could have used in your essay. The lecture is really the crown jewel of this class. They encouraged participation and it seemed like an ethical argument between the professors and the students. Go prepared to debate and discuss!
Meet a good tf.
Very good class, the Melton-Sandel conversations during lecture are pretty fun (especially when Prof. Melton starts playing Devil's Advocate). The readings are pretty interesting too, and the conversations in section can be pretty engaging. Not a class you should take if you want to read more of the classical authors (Kant, etc.), but the readings are still good. Great class to take for Ethical Reasoning.
This may have been the most practical class that I've taken at Harvard. I have learned so much and have really fleshed out my views on a variety of salient topics. I've come to respect my professors and fellow students, and have learned to entertain their worldviews without necessarily making them my own. it is a framework which I hope to retain for the rest of my life.
This is such an amazing class. The topics were great and I really enjoyed discussion. It has really changed my thinking. It is true, however, that section is really what makes the class so you have to be lucky enough to be in a good section.
The readings and section discussion are interesting, but I don't feel like I overall gained a lot from taking this course.
One of the best ethics courses out there if you're looking to not work too hard.
You'll probably get better at constructing and supporting ethical arguments.
It's the best Ethical Reasoning class!
Really interesting topics. Lectures are not as engaging as section discussions though, unfortunately.
Class felt long, but readings were interesting and section was engaging.
This course is less about science and innovations that it seems to be.
Good class! Really enjoyable overall; Sandel and Melton are a great team.
Great ethical reasoning for people who don't want to read endless pages of theory. The topics were interesting and lectures/section were fun :)
Its not worth it. It is badly structured, has no real intellectual rigour to it; the readings and the course itself  have such potential but it is wasted on boring, weak lectures. The to and fro between Sandel and Melton is tedious and repetitive (both falling into two predictable categories).  And asking students what they think on genetic engineering in a 200 person class makes no sense when one of the worlds leading stem cell researchers is in the class. I am here to learn about stem cells and the ethical implications from the worlds best and instead I get to listen to Bob's opinion on it. Dont bother with this class.
Professor Melton was amazing! Professor Sandel seemed unprepared for lecture though, so at times it was a hit or miss. Make sure to pay attention in section, it will help you with the final. Also, make sure to do the readings for the papers you write. These papers are more like philosophy papers, so keep that in mind.
This course was not what it was cut out to be. As a pre-med, it looked interesting because it was titled "bioethics," which could be relevant for a future career in medicine. And while it did give a lot of emphasis to topics in biotechnology, certain areas of "bioethics" were ignored (especially medical ethics). The topics in the course became very repetitive over time (since sex selection, embryo screening, stem cells designer children are basically all raise the same ethical issues), and lectures were interesting at first but were generally not very helpful due to their disorganized nature (basically Sandel facilitating a discussion among a 200+ person class). Papers were graded somewhat arbitrarily and feedback was generally slow and not constructive. Also, the course basically assumed that you had a philosophical background, since no ethical theory was given in the course. Thus, for papers, more time was spent trying to assemble a hodge-podge of provided arguments in the reading than formulating one's own view on a topic (based on a set philosophy, for instance). Sections were generally repeats of lecture (though specifics depend on the TF), with fairly loose discussions rather than more organized debates on the different sides of each issue. Overall, given the topic of bioethics, this course left much to be desired. And if you're pre-med, be careful with this course because you can work extremely hard and still walk away with a B.
I think this course was one of the best ways to fulfill one of the General Education requirements. More importantly, you really could not ask for better professors, both Professors Melton and Sandel are titans in their respective fields. I would expect students to find this class enjoyable and engaging.
Take if you are interested but are not looking to figure out how to write moral arguments.
This is definitely one of the most applicable classes you could take for ethical reasoning. Instead of reading about the theories of old dead white guys, you read news articles and books by living old white guys including lecturing professors! Be wary of the robotics and animal chimera units if they keep those, but sex selection and immortality are interesting topics.
This is not a science class that discusses the ethical issues that arises from scientific advances. This is a ethics class with a little bit of science. Many of the arguments students are responsible for making involve hypothetical situations and not practical ones. So be prepared.
It's probably one of the best spring ER options. You cover a lot of cool topics, just don't expect it to be grounded in anything particularly meaningful beyond how people feel...
This is not a science oriented class and it might be easier if you don't understand science because it won't interfere with the ethics side of your arguments. Listening to Melton discuss where biotechnology is going was fascinating.
The course overall is thought provoking and does not require a tremendous amount of work. The take home "final exam" was brutal however... It definitely took longer than the eight hours it was supposed to.
This is a good way to fulfill the Gen Ed ethical reasoning requirement, as it is very pertinent to the world that we live in today. It teaches you a new way of thinking.
Relatively painless way to satisfy the Ethical Reasoning requirement. The readings are pretty easy but do them anyway. Go to the lectures! Be prepared to voice your opinion when you go to section.
A great way to fulfill a gen ed in moral reasoning. Informative about recent topics in bioethics.
This class is really interesting, but unless you know how to argue philosophical matters well, don't expect it to be easy. The TFs are really rigorous when grading papers. If your arguments are less than solid, they will rip you apart. Also- the lecture gets boring once Sandel and Melton stop talking. There is waaay too much discussion, so if you don't want to hear your peers babble on and on and on about things, I suggest you bring work with you to lecture.
A very interesting course with great assigned readings, but the grading is very harsh for students who are taking this course as an introduction to ethical reasoning.  Lecture is a bit too long for most students' attention spans (as seen by the number of alternative activities people were engaged with on their laptops during lecture).
The material is very interesting, and the Professors are fantastic in their fields.  The papers are tough in how they are graded, but you will learn a lot of interesting information.
The course is a great introduction to an important set of issues that will be shaping our lives and the lives of future generations, so unlike a lot of philosophy courses, the issues are extremely pressing. Just don't fall behind on the papers/readings!
While the class can at times be tedious, the material is interesting and quite fun to debate in section. The writing component of the course definitely helped me to improve my writing skills.
This class was a big let down. I had high hopes. There was little direction. Even though class met only once a week, that two hours dragged on slowly.
This is a great course, I would highly recommend taking it. You do not need any background in ethical reasoning or philosophy, just an interest in the challenges posed by biotechnology and the willingness to think through different scenarios.
This class is very interesting and maintains your interest. Lecture isn't very helpful
Easily one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. It introduced me to some fascinating topics, and taught me to see them from different perspectives and reason about the ethical implications of each. Melton and Sandel are fantastic, and the interplay between them is a joy to watch. Finally, for the writing-impaired: only 4 essays, and each only 4 pages! That's not to say they're a joke, but it's very clear that this class values the ability to write a valid argument over a mastery of words.
All the questions you tackle are hypothetical; they want you to address the moral issues, so situations are posed that aren't that likely. I personally changed my stance on a lot of the issues, and became more careful about my thinking with ethical issues, and enjoyed lectures (for the most part). It's not necessary to do all the readings, especially since sections are after lecture; it might depend on your TF, though.
Wonderful class.  You'll fall in love with Prof. Melton, though Prof. Sandel might inspire you to become a more ethical person.  Manageable workload.  Take it!
The section discussions are the best I've ever had at Harvard. I would often leave section still arguing/discussing with a handful of classmates. I actually looked forward to section most days. The lectures got a little tedious by the end...
The class is pretty easy, with a pretty small amount of work. Also, it makes you think about issues that will undoubtedly play a huge role in our future.
A fairly good (but not easy) way to complete a General Education requirement if you have interest in the course themes and material.
Material can get sort of redundant, and it is difficult to get an A.
Great, thoughtprovoking course. Not a great sapper of time, and what you put into it is what you get out of it. Nice course.
Interesting materials and concepts, but the lectures are a real drag. I assume Professors Sandel and Melton engage in limited advanced preparation, and the results are obvious.  The lecture structure resembles that of a trial, with a prosecutor and defendant, respectively.
Papers were really challenging. The course topics were really thought provoking and it really changes your views on certain ethical issues. Lectures were entertaining but weren't really necessary for any assignment.
It's not about wading through ethics or discovering the boundaries of your personal morale. It's simply about how to make "the best" argument. It's not an ethics class as it is a moral reasoning class. It's less about the morals, and more about the reasoning.
Write every essay with finely crafted premises. Be explicit -- excessively so. It doesn't matter so much if your writing is clunky as long as if your logic flows, because this course is ALL about logic.
Science is fun, moral reasoning makes for terribly structured essays...Felt like I needed to be falsely polemic to earn good marks.
