once again, it's a very intense course, but it's also very rewarding. i would say though first semester of the class was probably more organized and topics slightly more interesting.
Don't take the prerequisites for this class as a joke. There were aspects that I was underprepared in, and this lapse definitely had an effect. However, despite all of the countless hours studying and working on psets, I felt this class was worth it, simply for the work ethic and seriousness I gained, and the vast, amazing body of knowledge I was exposed to.
This class is an outstanding intellectual opportunity. I expanded my scientific knowledge in fields few college freshmen would expect to study, like computational biology. Professors inspired me everyday with their scientific passion. Although I am glad I took the second semester of LS50, there were certainly times when I was overwhelmed by the amount of work and time the class demanded. I think overall we learned less human biology than our peers in LS1b, but we learned about a remarkably wide range of topics. I would tell future students that LS50b will be worthwhile for students who can also find enjoyment in studying math and physics and computer programming.
Think very carefully about whether this is the class for you before you take it! Yes, you get to meet amazing professors that are the leading figures in their fields, you will learn sooo much about EVERYTHING, it has an incredibly fun and amazing lab component and the TFs are generally great. HOWEVER, the course is one of the most demanding experiences I've ever had in my life. It has lecture every single day, plus section, plus lab, plus (optional but you will die if you don't use them) problem sessions, plus office hours. The psets won't just go over the learned material but will truly challenge you and your perceived understanding of said material. The tests will be stressful and there is a great risk of burning out in the course. If you get sick you miss so much and it's really intense having to catch up, despite the understanding nature of the professors. In essence, this class can be hell, but if you're really interested in some of the things it shows you it is definitely an incredibly rewarding experience and you will meet some of the best people, not only in your professors but in your TFs, CAs, and especially in your classmates, that you will ever meet at Harvard. So think hard about it, but also be willing to take a leap.
I would like to let people know that this is not the sort of course that can be undertaken lightly or by everyone. Some people will not appreciate the focus of the course on learning how to think, and some will be overwhelmed by the sheer volume of information that this course teaches. I think that no matter what you hear or read, you will think that this course is easier than it is. It is an amazing course, and it is one of the most challenging ones offered here. Be aware that this is its own community and activity if you choose to pursue it.
Be prepared to put in the time. You take away as much from this course as you put in it. Don't be afraid if you don't understand some things. Course heads, tf's, and ca's are all really helpful resources.
It is an amazing class, but you should be quite sure that you want to enter the sciences and that you will be willing to put a ton of time into it.
Definitely a difficult course but very very rewarding. You must be ready to put a lot of work into it but everybody is very helpful and they all want you to succeed. You will be introduced to EVERY aspect of science. We had 3 midterms and they were all fair.
Be prepared to work HARD but learn a lot!! You will also get super close with your classmates
LS50 was the best academic choice I made in my freshman year. Because the class is so small, we are such a tight group of friends with similar, yet different interests. Although its focus may lie in biology, the lens through which we look at this varies from chemistry, physics, and computer science that any student with an interest in any science fields with a curiosity in biology can take the class and take a lot from it. The professors are really amazing, and all 6 of them know you really well by the end of the class, which is something you usually cannot get from the other freshman classes. The TFs are really amazing, and the content you learn in this class is something you can apply directly into research if you choose to do research during the semester or over the summer. Because they know us well, the professors really helped in finding summer internships as well, which I am really grateful for. It's not a deadly workload as it may be falsely rumored, but it is challenging and interesting at the same time!
Take it. But only if you are prepared to work. Because if you are, this is a defining aspect of freshman year.
The class is definitely not a walk in the park, as there is a large commitment expected from students. However, the class is definitely worth it as the various topics introduced in the class will be revisited in other upper level science classes. It was also interesting learning about biology from a completely different perspective compared to the traditional AP Biology memorization style. It was much more of a problem solving course compared to memorization.
This will be one of the hardest courses you will ever take. This will also be one of the most rewarding courses you will ever take. Take it.
This course is intended for prospective STEM concentrators, especially those interested in the life sciences. The teaching staff is extremely passionate about the material they teach, which covers several STEM fields. The lab component teaches several advanced experimental techniques in the context of ongoing research questions. There are still some bugs with this new course, but for the highly interested STEM concentrator, it is a worthwhile class.
LS 50 is a beast. Lectures are every single day, labs last anywhere between 3-5 hours weekly, and problem sets take a very long time to complete (even when working in groups). You will leave the class with a solid bedrock of scientific knowledge. In fact, I was able to apply concepts that I had learned in LS50 in each of my four lab/internship positions during the school year. The instructors are very helpful and are leading experts in the field. The class also has several TFs and CAs, which brings the faculty to student ratio to something like 1:1, which is unheard of in any other class at Harvard.There is a lot of work and I would definitely advise against tackling psets by yourself. The sense of community within LS50 is pretty awesome and there is definitely a lot of bonding over psets or reviewing for exams. LS50 has been a blast and for any individual who wants to have a truly immersive scientific experience, take it!
I have so much to say about this class, but I guess it's very similar to the comments for the first semester. If you're eager to learn a huge amount of science, work really closely with excellent faculty, struggle as a group and get through problems together, this class is for you. I cannot highlight enough how good an experience it was because of the tightness of the entire course (faculty and students)!
I'm not going to sugarcoat it. This class is hard. LS50 was the most challenging thing I've ever done, but it was also by far the most rewarding. The professors are amazing and all really want to see the students succeed and learn and just love science as much as they do. I learned so much about science from both the lecture and lab components of this class, and I think this class is the best introduction possible to the real world of science. This class is also very collaborative, and the community formed amongst the students is really amazing. If you have a real passion for science, absolutely take this class.
I decided to take this class because all I knew was that I liked biology, and thought maybe LS50 could help me figure out what specifically I liked. It didn't quite do that. Now there's just a whole bunch of topics I want to learn more about, ranging from developmental biology and phylogenetics to statistical mechanics and Markov chains! The professors are great, and they make their favorite topics so cool that you can't help but be intrigued.
This isn't just another class; this is a family. Each week, you are pushed beyond your limits, but so is everyone else. Through this suffering, a bond is forged with your classmates that no other class can create. You have to be a bit insane to take this class, but that's ok; nobody "normal" was ever successful.
This course is definitely a big commitment in terms of time and workload, but you will learn so much, and the faculty involved are all excellent. It is an amazing class for anyone interested in research. The lectures are all taught by professors who are doing active research in their fields, and the labs are an incredible opportunity to do real, cutting edge research with the Bauer research fellows.
LS50 has been a great contributor to my happiness as a freshman. I've formed close relationships with my classmates, my professors, TFs and lab mentors. We struggle but we struggle together and we work together (just like scientists). This class, although very difficult, is worth the effort and I have learned so much about biology and looking at biology from a quantitative aspect. Highly recommend if you don't mind doing a lot of work!! This is my favorite class of the year.
If you love science and if you love to get down and experiment yourself, as well as learn the real tools of the trade, then this is for you.
I would first say that I had an amazing experience taking this class. The only reservation I have in recommending it is that it is quite a large time commitment, both in terms of coursework and in terms of scheduling slots. You have to be very certain that you want to dedicate most of your freshman year to this class, and you have to be strongly interested in biology to justify taking it.
This class is crazy. You have to be crazy to take it. But I mean crazy in a good way, in both instances. The course goal is very ambitious: to teach the "intro" or "basic" life sciences curriculum topics (like the ones in LS1a/b), but from a multiplexed and deep foundation in physics, chemistry, math, and quantitative reasoning that will enable you to begin thinking like a scientist with the potential to discover new things about those topics. LS50 is the very rough beginning of a long educational journey.The class is very small (<25 students), and you will all become very close over the course of the year - because you will bond through your suffering. Be prepared to make the trek to the science buildings at least 5/7 days of the week, and become comfortable with the idea that you will work with your peers on almost all of the psets, which typically take >7 hours to complete. However, if you put that work in, you will gain so many valuable skills, from concrete things like MATLAB proficiency and wet lab skills, to increased self-confidence and ability to tackle problems in the sciences. I personally went from having 0 experience in doing science, to coding simulations from scratch and purifying DNA on a regular basis. If you are at all interested in becoming a researcher, this is a great way to get started and to meet great researchers who can guide you. Rest assured that the professors and TFs understand the difficulty of this class. They are understanding and willing to help in any way possible, from office hours to literally helping you find & fund summer research as your next step in learning to become a scientist. They all have great personalities and are the greatest resource of the class. Because the class is brand new, the pacing, subject matter, and workload has been and likely still will be very rough. For example, if you don't have any physics or multivariable calc exposure/experience, you will struggle greatly with those sections of the course, and may become frustrated when your peers have intuition that can only come from >1 year of exposure to the subject. There was not much in place to help students with that problem, mostly because physical intuition can't be built overnight. Another big problem comes from trying to teach MATLAB in a fall crash course, and then hitting the ground running in the spring with pset questions that assume full working proficiency in the language. Needless to say, a lot of students struggled with this. This is a problem that affects most topics in the class - because lecture meets every day and there is little time to let concepts sink in, it's often difficult to have a cohesive sense or understanding of the material. A lot of the positive feelings about this class are retrospective, when you reflect on the topics or view them in a different setting in order to realize that you really did learn a lot.Furthermore, because the class is not taught from a single textbook, there's large variance in the amount of reference materials available for any given topic. However, again, the professors are always willing to explain things, and the TFs often produce their own notes or even extra practice problems to explain tricky concepts. This requires more effort on your part, and on everyone's part, but - again, if you're willing to put in the effort, you can get a lot out.You will struggle in this class, and you may feel like you're drowning when in the midst of it all, but I personally believe that the skills and the relationship forged between the students and staff make the crucible worth it in the end.
This class is extremely difficult, but rewarding. If I were asked to take it again, I would definitely spend more time thinking about the decision, but the teaching staff is extremely supportive and will work to get the students research positions. I often felt that what I was learning wasn't all that relevant and was hyperspecific examples. I also feel that the course is a huge commitment (4 classes out of the year).The community of the class is amazing, however. You make very close friends and you do learn cool, interesting concepts that integrate the sciences involved. The staff is extremely supportive and willing to help at almost all hours with psets and study questions. I would say that this class definitely achieved its goal of teaching science in an integrated way--I look at science concepts I learn in a new light. But I would say they should find a way to condense this, cutting out hyperspecific things (like physics and statistical mechanics) and focus on broad concepts (math modeling, signal transduction, etc). I do feel that the staff will do everything in their power to make the course better.
This class is unlike any other you'll take at Harvard. In this class, questions push content--they introduce a case study, such as the question of how a bee flies, or how facial detection works, and teach the skills necessary to solve the problem. The professors and TFs are incredibly hard-working, caring, and dedicated. They care about the content they're teaching, and they care that you understand it. I highly recommend this class if you are interested in the intersections and applications of scientific disciplines, and if you are willing to work hard.
Take this class if you thrive on challenge and are willing to put in a lot of work for an incredible opportunity to learn about the cutting edges of the life sciences. On a more concrete level, talk to the TFs early and often, make a study group.
This class can be great and turned out to be a choice I was ultimately glad about, but you need to know what you're getting into-- try to talk to a former student to decide if this is the right option for you.
If you are looking up this course, chances are you have been in LS50a, or have looked up LS50a. In the first case, you know what you got yourself into! It does not get easier or more difficult in a general way - it really depends on what your strengths are. It gets better because you are already part of a community that will always support you. For those who are looking at LS50a and b, the idea is quite the same as in the first term: this is not a course to enroll in if you are not willing to work very hard, and if you are not sure that science is the thing for you. To me, it was the highlight of my freshman year and opened up many opportunities, as well as giving me a more clear direction for what I want to do in the future.
This semester was much more difficult than last semester. There were moments where the course attempted to teach linear algebra and physics in just one week... More Matlab application questions appeared on the problem sets, and most students felt unprepared. Problem sets never reflected the content on exams, and the midterms were simply unpredictable. Lab sessions were amazing as we got to work with poison frogs and toxin sequestration. Professors generally show much enthusiasm about the class and provide individual support. Yet, I would still recommend this class with reservations due to the sheer number of content the course so ambitiously tries to cover and "integrate."
This class is without a doubt an extremely challenging class. It is honestly the hardest thing I have done in my life. Nevertheless, I am extremely glad that I took it! Do not take this class unless you are willing to make it your top priority, and are ok with the majority of your close friends being LS50ers. However, I have made amazing friends in this class, and honestly find the class community (also called a "cult") incredible - it has really made my freshman year very special. I am sure that this class will be even better next year, as they are going to calibrate many things (especially problems). I can also not yet say how well this class prepares me for the future. However, I think that it is very rewarding. Additionally, the opportunity to learn so closely from such amazing professors is incredible and a huge honor!
This class was a lot of work and very difficult at times, but I felt the information learned and the relationships made were incredible experiences and worth the effort.
This class is HARD. It is easily the most difficult class I have ever taken, so think carefully before you decide you want to do this. It was ALWAYS my first priority and the class that I dedicated the most time and effort to. It was worth it, since I learned a lot, but I definitely had to work for it. I would recommend taking this course if you are truly passionate about science, and are dedicated to learning. This is not a class you can do casually, and if you decide to take LS50, you should make the rest of your schedule as easy as possible. Take Gen Eds as your other classes, and don't get super involved in extracurriculars.
