Take advantage of it. It is an excellent class for those with little to no research experience.
This is not your regular science class. You have 24 hour access to a lab, to do whatever experiments you want (within  reason), and if you didn't like your project, you are not obligated to continue next semester.
This is for anyone who enjoys taking initiative and exploring different concepts in science.  I think most people who have taken this course will say that lab experience in LS100r is completely different (in a good way) from lab experience in say, MCB52, or one of the introductory Life Sciences classes.
It is wonderful!
if you are looking to kill two birds with one stone and do research while getting a grade for it, this is the class for you. I had no time to work in a real lab and take 4 classes, so I took this class and it worked wonderfully.
This is the perfect introduction to labs at Harvard.
Alain is amazing! He will always be there to help you with anything you need.
Any student that is interested should make the most of the opportunity to take this class
This is a great class regardless of your level of lab research - it's for anyone. The professor is GREAT and always avaliable to help you out.
You get out of this course as much as you put into it.
It's an interesting introduction to lab techniques.
Take it! Alain is the best professor. He will always be there to work with you and help you.
The instructors are understanding and you're always learning something.  The attitude of the class is also pretty relaxed.
Alain is wonderful, easy to work around any schedule
a great research experience, but make sure you are excited about spending some serious time in the lab.
The concept of this class is absolutely wonderful.  You get a great introduction to research, but have a lot of support.  It's a great way to gain familiarity with how research is conducted.  It's also very non-competative, and there is very little stress involved even if you are spending the same amount of time in lab as you would be working on more stressful problems sets and studying for tests in another science class.
It's not a difficult course, but it does take some time.
this is a great way to get lab experience in a very directed fashion
This class is a very fun way to become introduced to scientific research.
This course is a great way to get involved in basic life sciences research for those who have little or no prior experience.
great into to research--i found it to be a great experience i didn't expect i would have!  the tf's and alain are great as well.  they really make the experience low stress, fun, and rewarding.
This class is a great initial exposure to research in biology. You learn all of the main techniques and procedures that are used in all mcb labs.
A great way to fulfill a research requirement for those who have had none to little prior experience.
Future students should know that this course was very engaging and exciting, for you have the chance to do hands-on research in a private laboratory. They should know that you get the chance to work in teams but also learn how to be an independent and confident researcher and learn important laboratory skills.
