Do not take as a core or elective
Take it only if you have to. For me, pre-med req.
Make sure to seek out help from TFs or professors' office hours when you are confused or need to learn the methods needed for problem-solving.
Take it if it is part of your concentration or for pre-med, but it is not one of those classes that you enjoy.
The readings are essential.
It is a good course for introduction to genetics and evolution, but for those with previous course experience in the subject area, it tends to be slightly on the slow/boring side.
If you have to take it, you have to take it, as is the case with most people in it, but if not, well good for you.
Take stats first.
I did not particularly enjoy this course, but it is necessary for Life Sciences concentrations and a pre-med track so you have to take it.
It is difficult to pay attention in class because the teachers and subjecst are not always engaging, and the large lecture format is definitely not for everyone.  The GDP project is too involved.  I regret taking this course.  If you took LifeSci 1a and did not like it, do not think that this class will be any better.
It's good to know the fundamentals of genetics, and this course seems to do that.  I really learned a lot.
Do the practice problems to get the gradeKnow what you want besides a good grade from the class and don't let the class push you around.
It sounds pretty cool at first, but the lack of organization of the course can drive people crazy. The GDP may also be a bit of a strain.
I enjoyed this class more than Life Sci 1b, though I know a lot of people disagreed. If you like evolution and genetics and want a good intro class, this is it; better than some of the other intro sciences because it is relatively focused in the subject material.
If you don't have to take it, don't. Take something else that's taught better, even if it sound less interesting. (Interest tends to fade when things don't make sense, I've found.)However, if you want something to convince you that LS1a wasn't so bad, then by all means, take this class!Oh, and they say there's all this "extra credit," but it's put into your grade BEFORE the curve (if there's a curve), so...it's not really extra credit.The resurrection policy's pretty helpful, though, if it doesn't make students a bit dismissive of the first two midterms and freak out on the final.
It is what it is. C'est la vie.
I would love to tell you to stay away from this course, but sadly it is a concentration/Pre-Med requirement for a lot of people.  I only took it for the requirement.  If you are into statistics, I hope you enjoy it.  I really think that this course needs to have a major overhaul or be eliminated from the concentration requirement altogher.
a lot of filler work.
It's an interesting course overall, but it does have its rough spots that will hopefully be smoothed over in the near future.
I would avoid this class if at all possible.  It was horrible and took up all of my time this semester.
Make sure you have a good TF and if you are dissatisfied, then switch.  Stay on top of the work, though the reading is not required to do well.
Don't take this class if you can possibly help it.  It is quite possibly the worst class I have ever taken and have hated every minute of it.  The lectures are boring, the practice problems do not help that much for exams, the exams are long and hard, and the lab portion is deplorable.  Worst of all, you will have write a Genetic Disorder Project that is truly a waste of time.  Unless you really want to be a geneticist, I would say stay away from LS 1b.
Life sciences 1a is very different than LS1b. LS1b is harder, not as well taught, and one must be self-reliant to do well. This self-reliance is a good thing, and even though the course could be taught a lot better, learning this skill is in some ways worth it.
Do not take this class. Change concentrations if you must. The worst class I've ever taken.
This class has a reputation for being a terrible class, but it is not true. However, I would only recommend it if it is a requirement.
Not as interesting as it sounds.
It's still a new class and it's not quite organized yet.  It can be overly confusing.  The preceptors and TFs and professors are all working on it, so maybe it will be better in the future.  It sort of frustrated me a lot though, and if you're not pre-med I wouldn't take it.
Do all the practice problems!!!
Please save yourself the pain of this course. It is absolutely terrible. Only take it if it's a requirement, otherwise stay away, please!
Be ready to do a lot of work on your own
This class needs some work but you'll get through it.
1B is a reasonable class if you do the readings and the problems, and if you practice the problems.
It's a lot of work and not very organized.
This class is very well organized and ran smoothly throughout the semester. The lectures are relevant, helpful, and engaging.
The course material is very interesting, once you understand it. A lot of attention should be paid to lectures in order to do well in this class.
Take this class because you have to
if you can get out of taking this class--do it!
I guess you kind of have to take it if you are doing pre-med, or if its required for a concentration, but if there is any way you can get out of taking this class, don't take it.
Take this course if you need to, but realize that it is a good deal of work and that you need to look for help if you are having trouble.
The only reason I would suggest for someone to take this class is to fulfill a requirement, otherwise I would avoid it.
I took it as a science core. You probably shouldn't. If you're a science major, though, it's probably quite interesting.
Take this class if you want to take the most poorly structured class I've taken at Harvard thus far.
I wouldn't tell them to take it unless they had to.
If you want to get the most out of this class, you should do as many practice problems as possible and talk to the professors.
The class is difficult and takes a lot of time, but you will come out with a thorough understanding of genetics and evolution.
It is kind of required if you are pre-med.  I wouldn't take it just for fun but I actually did learn interesting things and evolution is an interesting topic.
The course needs to be more organized and better taught.  It's not hard to get something out of the class, but the day-to-day workings of the class are not well-structured and make it hard to learn.  Often what we learn in class seems irrelevant to what we're tested on, and is full of experiments and examples that make it harder to see the bigger picture.
the material is interesting, but it is still a large intro science course with inherent flaws
Take it if needed.
If you can find a way out of taking LS1b do it.  Otherwise, prepared to be depressed.
The class fluctuates from lecture to lecture in its tolerability, but overall it is a bore.
take it only if you have to
The class is manageable, but it does still require a lot of work, especially at the end of the semester with the Genetic Disorder Project.
This course provides a fundamental background in genetics and evolutionary biology. It covers a broad range of topics that will broaden your thinking both on topics of genetics and evolution.
Only take it if you absolutely have to for a concentration that you are basically certain that you are going to follow through with.
Take it only if you have to or if you are interested.
I recommend it if you're interested enough in the material to commit to putting in a lot of work. If you don't plan to put in a fair amount of time, don't expect to learn the material just by attending lectures and sections.
The material was interesting but everything else about the course was unsatisfactory.
Work through as many problems as you can.
It is the worst class I have taken at Harvard thus far.
For someone who wants to go into health or genetic research the course offers a great introduction into how genetics and genomics affect the world we live in. But it's not easy. I would never recommend this course as an elective or as a way to discover if the sciences might interest you. This one is definately for those who are certainly interested in the sciences and need to be fulfilling requirements.
Worse class you can take as a freshman. Almost as bad as expository writing.
Only take this course if you absolutely have to for your concentration. If you can get around it you should. I know a lot of people who lost interest in science in general because of this course.
I personally found it less interesting and engaging than Life Sci 1a, and I would recommend it to those who need to take it, or have a strong interest in  genetics or evolution, but not to those on the fence about their interest in the life sciences.
Avoid at all costs!
While you learn a lot from the class, a lot is expected of you.
you learn stuff.but it's not really what i would call a "good time"i'm sorry you're pre-med.
Don't take this course unless you absolutely need to take it to fulfill a concentration requirement. If you are doing premed, but don't need this for you concentration, you would probably enjoy MCB 52, MCB 54, or pretty much any other biology course a lot more.
The class will probably be better than when I took it.
Be sure to commit and be ready to spend lots of time.
Take it only if you have to
LS 1b is a good, but not a great, course. It provides a good introduction to genetics, evolution, and that "side" of the life sciences, but although the material is very interesting, the course is not as well taught as I would have liked it to have been. The labs are good but the quality of TFs very variable.
Take it only if you absolutely have to, or if you're very interested in genetics and genomics.
Since the class is often a requirement, not many students have much of a choice in taking it, but to future students I would say I hope that through the new system they tried this year and the Q evaluations that the course is good in the future.
i wouldn't recommend it but its required so everyone will take it anyway
The material is interesting and makes the class worthwhile, in spite of the sometimes boring lecturing and the pointless assignments.
You have to take it if your are majoring in the sciences. But otherwise, stay away. Also, if you are majoring in the sciences, don't be thrown off of the sciences by this course. Try to recognize that it is only Life Sci (and Phys Sci) that suck. Everything else is awesome.
The material in the class is difficult, but it is very well taught and worth the effort. The GDP project is time consuming and at times difficult to keep up with because of exams, problem sets, and lab reports that are also due throughout the course, but in the end it is very rewarding.
I would tell students to be prepared for a class that (unfortunately) takes fascinating material and breaks it down into boring and dry components, presented in an unclear manner.
Tough class but worth it
Parts of this class weren't that interesting but overall it wasn't too bad. Also having a good TF is essential for enjoying this class.
The genetics part of this class is interesting and informative; it tails off during the second half of the course (the professors who aren't Hartl), though, when you may see astonishing percentages of the class asleep on their benches at Sanders Theater.
Although the course is not structured the best way and may not be the most interesting (on initial appearance), the material learned is absolutely necessary.
This class is improving; my experience in LS1b was not nearly as bad as some of the stories I heard about it in spring 2007.  However, it needs to become more coherent, better organized, and more useful/interesting before I would recommend it to anyone not required to take it.
It is worthwhile, but not entirely enjoyable.
Don't do the readings unless you have trouble with the concepts. Attending lecture without coffee, gum, and a friend to kick you is unwise.
You'll have to suffer through this class if you are pre-med, so you might as well suffer through it with your freshmen peers.
Although some of the material is uninteresting, overall, the class is well-taught and it provides a good introduction to genetics and biological lab techniques.
The class will help you in further science concentrations at Harvard even though the subject matter isn't inherent in the specific concentration you are looking at.
The labs are really interesting!
LS1b is poorly taught and confusing. Lecture is long. You'll learn way more from your own studying and perusing of the lecture slides after lecture than in lecture or in section.
I wouldn't recommend this course to people who just want to take a science class. However, if you are an MCB concentrator, this is required. The class was good for teaching basic genetics and was therefore useful. That said, the class is not structured for people who want to casually learn genetics "for fun."
The course presents some very interesting aspects of evolutionary biology and genetics that were enjoyable.  The problem sets are easy but the readings are dry.  Labs are fun but sometimes take a very long time.  The genetic disorder project was not tied together well.  Lectures are well done.
It is pretty poorly organized and sections are not very helpful.
Do not take as a core.  Time consuming.
The grading in this course is difficult.
I don't think it's well taught, but you will learn material that you should know.
Labs are really interesting!
Just by doing all the psets and studying claculuation, you'll probably only get a C avergae on the tests. In order to do well in this course, you must entirely focus on REALLY UNDERSTANDING the conceptual aspects of the science behind what is taught. That part is really difficult considering what is taught in lecture and section is the MINIMAL knowledge you need, but not enough to apply it unless you're some super genius.
Do the practice problems instead of reading the textbook.
Do not take this class unless you want to fall asleep during mind-numbing lectures and would enjoy seriously questioning what possibly induced you to take this class.
The labs are endless, boring, and irrelevant.  The lectures are good, although you have to teach yourself a lot of the material on your own.
Very hard exams and problem sets.  Need to put in  A LOT of effort to make a good grade.  Constantly worried about the class.
If you're not a pre-med, dealing with the pre-med atmosphere of the class can be exasperating.  That said, this paired with LS1a gives you a really good background in a body of material that is going to be increasingly relevant even to the average citizen in coming years.
Do not listen to what other students tell you--LS1b is not a terrible course.  Many say that it is worse than 1a, but I feel the complete opposite.  Do not let others prejudices alter whether or not you take the course :D.
Great course!!  What I found particularly refreshing was the midterms and exams.  Unlike many courses here at Harvard, I truely feel that your grade correlates with hoe much time and work you put into studying the material.  Unlike some courses were you take the exam and you have no idea what kind of questions they are going to throw at you and often even if you study for hours can receive a poor grade because the question itself was unclear, this course is fair.  The questions are just like the practice problems so if you study hard and do all the problems and review the questions before the exam you will do great.
Do the assigned readings before lecture!
Learn to do the problems. That's all you actually need to know how to do, all of the other knowledge is sort of optional.
This class is not riveting or fascinating, but it is a good introduction, and they give you a lot of help along the way if you need it.
The course feels unorganized and the lectures are hard to follow.
Out of everyone that I know that took this course, I can think of one person that actually enjoyed it.
Take this course if you have to, but make sure you take advantage of TF office hours and the practice problems.
Only take it if you have to. Also, if you do the practice tests you'll be fine on the midterms.
Be ready for some independent research to clear up concepts that were explained poorly.
Don't take it unless you have to.
The main thing is to Do practice problems
If you can avoid taking it, then don't take it.
It lays the foundation for genetics and evolution that you will need in your later science classes
Doing the readings will really help if you're having trouble - but doing the practice problems is essential to performing well on the exams.
This course covers a broad range of topics.
Take it only because it is absolutely required for some concentrations. It's sad that I should say this about something so interesting as genetics, but maybe so many students are turned off by Life Sciences at Harvard because these classes are not well organized or taught.
It's not an easy class, but it's worth it in the end.
Definitely take it if you need to for concentration or premed. It is a good, challenging Core. Enjoy GDP.
The material is interesting, but difficult, and the current course structure doesn't emphasize how much students need to practice and think about the materials.  Also, the one and half hour long lectures have more text and less animations than in LS1a, so they are more soporific
If you have to take it, do some mental preparations. Know that you will spend a lot of time pouring over stuff on your own. Go to lots of office hours for help. If you don't have to take it, take something else.
ONLY TAKE THIS COURSE IF YOU HAVE TO.
you must be interested in the topic to take it, if not it will be the longest/ most painful class you have ever taken
It is not very well organized. The material is interesting but it is not taught and reviewed cohesively.
It is incredibly disorganized - it jumps from one topic to the next. Do not take this course if you want to gain an understanding of genetics - only take it if you want to learn statistics.
take it only if you are sure that you can commit yourself into putting a lot of extra time - this course will certainly much more time than some others like chem 20 or chem 17 for you to get full understanding. On the other hand, what you get to learn here is simply exceptional and perhaps the broadest basic knowledge one could possibly obtain at this level
Seemed that most people who took it did so because they had to.  I would like to see a more basic biology course analogous to AP Bio for people who don't have that.  Assumes lots of knowledge that people don't necessarily have, but there is no other class available to prepare for it.
I doubt anyone would take this for fun, since people usually take it for the Life Sciences and related concentrations, so I would say enjoy it as much as you can, especially the parts that attracts you, and use your resources. The preceptors' office hours are great, and they want you to visit them because it's boring to sit in an office all day, so do if you have questions. LS 1b is a ritual process; make of it what you will, and you will get proportional benefits out of it.
Take statistics before taking this class. Period.
Take it if you have to, if you don't you won't have missed much by skipping it.
This class is geared toward freshman, and I would not advise using it as a pre-med requirement unless you are a freshman.
Take it for a Pre-med but realize that it is a class that requires a lot of work and is incredibly competitive.
Stay on top of the reading and do all the practice problems at the very least. Study groups are critical.
worst class ever taken at harvard.
find a way to waive this course
I would tell them that basically everything other than the practice problems was completely pointless.
This course is a somewhat basic and flawed introduction to genetics.  Only take this if you really want to learn about genetics or its a concentration requirement.
Lectures seemed pointless at times because of the fact so many different examples applying to the real-world were applied.
It's a good Science B core or elective if you are really interested in Genetics, but they take up a lot more of your time than is necessary.
This class was hard.  There wasn't a lot of help available and there wasn't a lot of feedback on work.  Some of the lectures will be painful.  But, you sit through it because you have to in order to get to something more interesting.
Some very interesting material--but tons of work and often boring lectures.
The course material in this class is interesting and useful, especially for science concentrators. However, students may not agree with how the material is taught, both in lecture or section. The review sessions and help for exams are not very helpful.
GDP is useless.  The textbook is sort of useless as well.
Of all of the concentration requirements that I have had to take (as intro courses), this has been the most informative and interesting of the group.  The professors know what they are talking about, and really seem to enjoy being there, my TF was very helpful, and the material itself was interesting.
LS1b is a class you should take only if you truly love biology, because the large lecture size and uncomfortable seating in Sanders Theatre makes it hard to stay awake and take notes.
Only take this class if you need it as a requirement. It is not particularly difficult if you put a decent amount of work in but it is not engaging.
More work than it's worth.
This course really highlights the potential for treatment of genetic diseases.
The course material is interesting, but the lectures can be boring sometimes, and if you want to succeed, be sure to do as many of the practice problems as often as you can.
If you find the material interesting, the class will be good, if not, it may be torture.
I felt that I was learning most of the material on my own. I felt that I was working backwards with the practice problems (looking at the answer first and then trying to figure out how to solve it).
is more difficult than you would expect, important to put in the time; lectures are a bit arbitrary, and a lot of busy work
There is some interesting material, and while the class is very manageable if you keep up with
Interesting course. Good as a pre-med requirement, and quite enjoyable.
It doesn't matter whether I would recommend LS1b to you or not - you have to take it.
The course is necessary for many concentrations, especially if you are pre-med, however, it is more of a necessary evil than anything else.
This has been the worst experience of my life.
While the class can be annoying, you do actually learn a lot and much of it is useful. Do the practice problems!!
This class is not as boring in lectures as LS 1a, but it is still an impersonal, massive intro science class. The topics are varied and not too difficult, but don't take it unless you have to for a concentration. It will not help you appreciate life sciences.
While this is a very challenging course, you will learn a lot, and have to be on top of your academic game to do well. Be prepared for a very comprehensive and seemingly hodgepodge like course.
The material is interesting but there is an unnecessary amount of work.
Be ready to spend your time on nothing else but life science.
The material is interesting!
Like everyone else, I'd say, take this course as a requirement.For interested students, make sure that 1) you're REALLY interested, 2) you look over the syllabus so you know what's going to actually be covered (don't idealize it!), and 3) You have a lot of time to devote to this course...
You think it will be an interesting science course but it's really just a math course in disguise! The exams were all pretty much problem based with perhaps a maximum of 10 conceptual questions.  It sucked.
I thought I was going to concentrate in the life sciences but now I know I will not be doing so. In a way I am thankful I took the course because otherwise I may have been stuck concentrating in something I really do not like. It is probably not the fault of the course but the material for me was uninteresting. The class is a real pain unless you are very enthusiastic about topics such as genetics and I think you should only take this if you want to concentrate in the life sciences , and that is simply because you have to. There may be other parts of the life sciences that are very interesting but now I just do not want to take the risk of taking a class I cannot stand for another semester. It was personally a chore, and classes should not be like that. However, if you love life sciences, go for it.
I'm sorry you have to take this class. Maybe, by the time you have to take it, they would have actually listened to the course evaluations and done something about how painful this class is.
The material is necessary to learn, but at times painfully acquired.
The course material is interesting but hour and and half lectures can be really difficult to get through. I would only take this class for a requirement there are most likely much better electives for science requirements.
This course is no Life Sci1a and those strictly wanting to learn about how an organism works should not take this course. However, if you are interested in working with genes, gene therapy, or medicine this course would be useful
Focus on problem solving, study conditional probability
Hit or miss - if you keep up, it's not really that bad at all.
Do the practice problems! There's a lot of material, but it's doable. If you don't need to take this class, don't.
IMPORTANT!!! If you're not planning on concentrating in the life science you do NOT have to take this class for pre-med requirements. There are other options! This is a terrible class.
Do not take this course until the ratings have improved.
This class provides great insight into genetics and evolution.
This class is not one of the more interesting classes you'll take. Only take it if you need it for your concentration.
If the professors who teach the course change or they change their style of teaching, then the class would be much better. The actual material isn't what makes this class boring - it's the way in which the material is presented!
It is paramount that you do the practice problems and the readings. The problems are your bread and butter, but it is those nit-picky fun facts in the reading that can work against you come exam time.
Take it only if it is required for your concentration.
Don't take this course unless you know you want to be a science major.
I think this class was a great introduction to the principles of genetics; however, I'd only recommend taking it if you need to fulfill a pre-med requirement or have a lot of free time and are slightly masochistic. It's too much work to be worth it otherwise. If you're interested but don't have the time, I'd audit it.
Lecture is boring, though material is interesting.  Exams are tough, but the genetic disorder project is fascinating and great practice for real-life grant proposal writing.
involves math and statistics and students should have background info to do well
It's not the best, but most kids in it have to take it so we all just power through. A good TF makes the class MUCH more bearable.
How much of your soul are you willing to cut out and sacrifice to your pre-med vision? If you hope to succeed in this course, you must be willing to sacrifice all of it.
I found this course somewhat pointless, but some interesting material was covered.
Read the book!
Only take this course if you have to. And take it conjunction with PS1, so you can kill two very painful birds with one stone.
Study and you will get results! LifeSci is not impossible! <3
If you are going to take this class, be prepared to be frustrated often. Be sure to keep on top of your work and do the practice problems as soon as you can, and always before the exams.
This is not a very good class; try to take another biology class if you need it for a premedical requirement.
This class is all about your commitment. The information is boring, and you really have to teach it to yourself if you want to do well. That being said, you can do well if you are willing to do it all yourself.
This course sucks (not because of the materials but because of the humdrum professors, who tests their students unfairly) but you have to take it anyway if you are concentrating in Life Science subjects.
I would not recommend this class unless you are interested in further pursuing science majors. The class is challenging but teaches you a lot.
Stay on top of practice problems and the readings.  Review material after class.
I profoundly regret that you have to take this course.
the material for this course is very interesting.  however, the teaching is rather confusing, so you need to study on your own to do well.  you do come away with a lot of knowledge about genetics and evolutionary biology though, and there are many people who can help you and answer questions.
You should take it if you're interested in biology or medicine, genetics in particular.  As an elective, I wouldn't recommend it.
Be prepared for a lot of math-based problems.
The course is not difficult, but it's also not very enjoyable. Just do all of the practice problems, psets, etc. and you'll be fine.
I would tell future students that LS1B does not have to be taken to fulfill the pre-med requirement they seek. Other classes like LS2 would do fine as well. That being said, don't take LS1B.
A lot of information is covered in this course in a short period of time, and the multiple choice/short answer components of exams are very difficult.  This course also requires a lot of different types of work - there are weekly problem sets, midterm exams, two short papers, a group presentation, quizzes, lab reports, a final paper, and a final exam.  The lectures often cover material too quickly and can sometimes be very boring.
Make sure to stay on top of the reading and/or attend lecture. Studying for exams actually involves a lot of time and effort. Also, take advantage of TF office hours and help sessions; Friday problem solving sessions may or may not be the best use of your time.
I didn't really enjoy it, but it wasn't terrible. Just never really clicked.
Make sure to keep up with all the material
stay away if at all possible. If that is impossible, then just focus on working with your teaching fellow to get a good grade because neither the lectures nor the textbook will help.
Generally straightforward course if you put in the effort consistently
This class is a neessity for many concentrations but it very difficult to get through.
Take it only if you have to.
The lectures in the first half of the semester before evolution are not very interesting, but it is important to keep up. If you do end up falling asleep, try to rewatch the videos. Doing practice problems are also a great way to study for midterms. The multiple choice on the midterms are dangerous though, as they are 5 points each, and they usually test on random information briefly discussed in class.
complete the practice problems, go to office hours, and bug them until you understand
Unless you absolutely have to take this class for a Pre-med requirement, or are extremely interested in genetics, this class is tough and consumes a lot of your time so I would not recommend it.
take it only if you have to; it's a very strenuous course - requires a lot of self effort and self studying.
The lectures are not very interesting but section can be helpful
Many people believe that this course is poorly taught, but I disagree. The lectures are interesting and explanations are understandable. The big problem with the class is that it is poorly organized. Questions on midterms and problem sets are often ambiguous, meaning that your grade relies on your ability to read the mind of the preceptors as well as mastery of the course material. The GDP project is highly regarded by the preceptors and they use it as one of the major selling points of the class. I found it thoroughly frustrating because it involves trawling through paper after paper looking for scraps of information. The amount learned from this project is too small for the amount of time that it takes.If at all possible try to stay away from this course!
RUN! Avoid if you can. I was lucky that I had an awesome TF, but you need to really evaluate yourself before taking this class. it's tough
You need to take it at the right time so you can ignore the typical freshmen grumblings about the class, which are really annoying and unjustified.
I really enjoyed the probability, statistics, phylogenetic tree distances, and other mathematically related areas of this course. If you don't enjoy calculating numbers and learning statistical methods, this class may not be that interesting for you.
Unless you have to take this class for a concentration requirement, CHOOSE SOMETHING ELSE. There is no reason to take it for pre-med or for general education, as there are FAR better options available that can fulfill the same requirement. The lectures are bland and professors often seem disengaged, as though they're reading off a slide. Exams are surprisingly difficult. Classic case of a large "required" class that has been allowed to exist in mediocrity for too many years.
It doesn't really matter if I reccomend it or not. If you're taking this class, it's probably because it's required for your major/pre-med plans.
You need to study a lot more than you think and you need to start studying RIGHT AWAY!
Abandon all hope ye who enter here.
Run! As fast as you can if you do not have to take this course. The only reason I would suggest this course is if you are pre-med or if this is a concentration requirement or if you really, really like genetics. This has to be the worst, uninteresting class I have take at Harvard. The work is tedious, the lectures are boring, and the professors do not make this a worthwhile class. If you are a decent student and you care, you will get through this class. It's not so difficult and most of the concepts are common sense. However, it becomes increasingly hard to care about this class as the semester wanes. Also, if you take this exam, study for the final exam, hard! Your final exam can make or break your grade.
Just take it.  But don't expect great things -- in fact, it's terrible.  If you don't know anything about biology, you'll find it very hard.  If you know a lot about biology, take it as an easy class.
How much you enjoy this class is going to be pretty strongly tied to how willing you are to do the work and pay attention, and how good your TF is. So make sure you get a good TF.
I would only recommend this course if you need it to fulfill pre-med requirements. This course is not indicative of the sciences here at Harvard, and it is sad that so many freshman judge future classes off of this one. This class is extremely difficult, since you learn most of the material and necessary problem solving strategies solely in section or by yourself.
It is a lot of tedious work.
it gives you a good foundation to genetics/evolution; do your practice problems and most of the time, you can cram for an exam if you had missed lectures.
Do all the red book problems if you want to succeed in the class!
It's an intro class that lots of people have to take--don't expect it to be anything more.
An incredibly unpleasant course. You'll need to devout so much time for it. Each week, you will have to work on its PSETs, GDP-related stuff, lab reports AND prepare for lab quizzes. Simply too annoying.
The lectures are boring, the practice problems are a lot like the midterms (they throw wrenches into the actual midterms though), and the class is not my favorite
Do not take this class unless you ABSOLUTELY have to for pre-med requirements.  It is very poorly taught and unless you are an expert at biology, you will struggle a lot in the class.  There are too many people in the class who are strong in science, so if you need help on basic concepts it is difficult to get the help.  I would definitely stay away from this class if at all possible.
Pre-meds will probably have to take it. Everyone else: avoid it at all costs! I honestly hated it.
In order to succeed in this class, make sure to do as many practice problems as possible. Try to complete all of the red book problems.
It's necessary and useful if you're majoring in it, but there's better courses to take if you just want to fulfill a gened requirement.
I would try to satisfy requirements with a different and more personal class
Try to find a way to NOT take this course, because it was possibly the worst course I have taken here. It was consistently unorganized, boring and repetitive, and yet required a lot of work.
The lecturers are not as bad as many people make it out to be.
Always do the practice problems. Try your best to keep up with the readings. Reading the book actually helps.
Way too big- and you have to teach yourself everything.
Its a necessary evil.
Its not a great course, but for the number of courses that require it, its not that bad (its better than expos).
If you take this class, be sure to do practice problems for the exam and learn the basic facts. Also find a general review article from pub med to help you with your GDP.
be prepared to be bored
This class if pretty challenging in terms of the material and the way that it is taught. You will need to put forth extra effort to pay attention and extra motivation is required on the part of the student to do well. The material is not made easier by the professors.
There'll be some fun parts if you can get through it.
This course requires that students work hard to understand many complex concepts, but, if students do this work, they will find that this course gives them an extraordinary understanding of many phenomena vitally important to humanity.
Due to the large, impersonal lecture, your experience with the course depends 100% on your section. Your TF will either make or break the course.
The material is pretty interesting when read, but is not so much in lecture (not exactly the professors' fault- hard to make evolution seem that exciting in person. Recommend that you bring your textbook to lecture and read it there.
It was a great class. I got to learn about the different components of what make each person unique, and I feel more fulfilled with this knowledge.
Studying lecture slides and practice problems are KEY for the midterms, which are pretty tricky. Reading is extensive and not always necessary with the lecture slides available.
If you don't do every single practice problem every week, you will really fall behind.
Don't take it unless you absolutely have to
It's a shame that you have to take this course for pre-med.
terrible terrible terrible you think life science 1a is bad, this is worse
This is a pre-med "weeding-out class"
Though genetics is an interesting topic, I felt like in order to do well on test, I needed to just be able to do problems, not actually understand the concepts.
A fair intro course, but -- when it comes to human genetic variation, don't swallow all of the claims uncritically.  Realize that a fully balanced treatment of this issue is impossible for any American university professor with an interest in job security, and look into "The 10,000 Year Explosion" (Gregory Cochran and Henry Harpending) and Razib Khan's GNXP blogs -- not perfect, but a good start for anyone wondering whether we really are "all the same."
Its difficult. If you need to take this class for your concentration, I would you need to stay on top of the readings and material. If you are taking this class as an elective, I would recommend you don't.
The material is interesting but the course is a lot of work.
You've gotta push yourself to stay focused in lecture and keep up with the work. If you do you'll be fine, but it's very easy to fall behind.
I only took this class because it is a pre-med requirement - otherwise, it was too overwhelming
Just bear with it, a lot of things could be worse in your life.
ONLY IF THERE'S NO COURSE THAT YOU CAN'T SUBSTITUTE IT WITH. Not well taught and professors are not presenting their lectures well.
Be prepared; it's not a joy to take this course. It's hard to stay on top of things, and the material is often boring and difficult.
The concepts taught in lecture usually require reading over multiple times; sections and office hours are very helpful
The material is very interesting, but this is on the whole not a great class. However, the vast majority of students taking it have to for their concentrations.
This courses covers lots of information, so keep up.
Not as good as I thought it would be. I was really excited by the idea of learning about genetics, but the way this course is taught does not make it interesting at all. Did not enjoy this class.
Lectures are boring. Prepare.
It made me appreciate Life Sci 1a
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. YOU WILL REGRET IT.
This class is not fun and it will constantly give you grief, but every once in a while they mention something mildly interesting and relevant to everyday life
If you are able to keep up with the class in terms of completing the textbook readings before lecture and doing the weekly extra problems, you will do well in the class and enjoy what you learn in the class.  However, this is very difficult to do considering how busy the average student is and the bulk of material that is covered.  I found I had to do a lot of catching up right before each of the midterms and finals.
Even if you loved Lifesci 1a like me, you will still hate Lifesci 1b. Don't be fooled. Or hopeful.
This class gets a lot worse rap than it probably deserves. I really was put off by some of the problem sets and labs, which treat you like you're back in high school (i.e. some trick questions that don't really test your understanding, a decent amount of busywork). However, the professors did a really nice job putting together the material, and the material (if you actually gave it a fair chance) was really interesting. This is a required course, so many will have no choice in taking it, but if you do, know that lecture is the best part.
You will have to take this course to go into the Life Sciences or if you are Pre-Med.  The course is organized, but in a way that will demand all of your time and attention just to keep track of what you have to do, let alone do it.  Good luck.
take it only if you have to
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE. It is a waste of time and effort which could be much more adequately spent in more constructive OEB/MCB classes which you can use to replace it.
This course feels like a requirement - it doesn't feel like a class you would take for fun or out of pure interest, even though the content of genetics is very interesting.
Be prepared to do a lot of busy work for the class.  Definitely go to the preceptor's or Head TF's office hours and try to do each week as lectures and the book are often unclear.  If you can identify and troubleshoot problems that are difficult for you from the beginning of the course, you'll have a much easier time preparing for the final.
Do not take this class. If you're thinking of being pre-med, try to find some way around taking this class. LifeSci 1b is the worst course I have ever taken, and if you have any respect for yourself and your sanity at all, you will not enroll in this course. It sets a new standard and performs as a paradigm for exactly how dreadful a class can possibly be.
too much information. difficult to know what is important. not well organized
You learn some interesting stuff but overall the class isn't the most exciting or engaging. GDP is pretty fun.
Interesting material, but very badly organized and covers a lot, so you have to work hard to understand how everything fits together
Much of this course seems to be more about learning to take the test rather than knowing the material.
A life sciences pre-req.
Make sure you try your best to seek help when you don't understand the material so that you can keep up in class.
Don't take it if you can avoid it. If you have to take it, well then it's not that much of a grudge. Genetics is something you have to learn, even if taught unelegantly you will learn things in this class.
only take it is you absolutely need it for the pre-med or concentration requirement
The lectures are boring. Your experience really depends on your TF. I had a fantastic TF while other people hated the course because their TFs were pretty bad...
You have to take it. Just suck it up and do it. Everyone else does.
Look, the course is difficult because it covers a lot of material that can be hard to visualize. However, it is probably THE most applicable course you can take if you are planning to study medicine, since you need a command of this material to understand medicine nowadays. My best advice is: do the practice problems and keep in mind throughout that what you are learning is really really useful and will help you in your future. You can do it!
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE. Dan Hartl is one of the worst professors, ever. As much as he may be a great researcher, his book and lectures are completely uninteresting and somewhat scatterbrained. I came into this class hoping to learn more about evolution and genetics, fascinated by the two subjects. Now, all I am left with is contempt for the subject.
n/a
This was my least favorite class at Harvard so far.  The only good thing about it was that so many freshman take it that there are lots of people to commiserate and do problem sets with.  It's not super challenging, so if you're premed or need it for your concentration and don't mind being bored out of your mind, it's okay.
Life Sciences 1b definitely has its ups and downs. On one hand, the concepts can be very engaging if one is thoroughly interested in the subject, but it can be tedious to do certain unnamed projects throughout the course. It can also be difficult to grasp concepts with a syllabus that seems to involve a lot of skipping around with only vague established connections between concepts.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS IN THE SAME SEMESTER AS PS1!!!! The lifesci 1b exam occured the day after the PS1 exam not only once, but twice! The scheduling of this classes assignments and exams were never convenient and hardly ever seem to be thought out to take into account the PS1 assignments, even though they were aware that half of the students in lifesci 1B also took PS1.
I mean, you have to take this class for almost any life sciences class. You don't have a choice. I would not take this class for my Science of Living Systems gen ed, though, if I had a chocie.
Be warned, this class seems extremely appealing as it fulfills a lot of science concentration pre-requisites and a pre-med requirement. However, if you are planning on taking other time consuming classes please be warned that this class will monopolize a lot of your time.
Try not to fall behind on the readings. Be ready to learn and figure out stuff on your own time.
The course material is very interesting and the focus on real research gives you the flavor of many different fields of science you may want to pursue later down the line.  The only downside to this course is the you only end up being tested on a small subset of what you learn, and the exams and problem sets can be rather mechanical rather than thought-provoking.
It's just not that good a class. Nothing like LS1A, which is a much better learning experience. Lectures are very dry and dull, sections are poorly run, and the GDP project seems out of place in a class like this. I recommend taking another class to fulfill the pre-med biology requirement.
Just stay on top of your sh**, and be aggressive in asking questions. You can't go wrong asking questions. And even if you don't understand all the reading, just try to do as much as you can, because it will form some sort of primer for the lectures and problem sets. Also, PSLs (peer study leaders) will be your best friends, so definitely take advantage of their hours. You can do it!
This course just doesn't work. The information could be interesting, but the way it is taught is disjointed, confusing, and not good. In the end, you'll learn a lot, but its not fun while you're going through it.
Do the red book problems. Also, don't forget about the Robertsonian translocation. Just don't.
You might hear horror stories about this class. I personally really enjoyed it. I think the professors are good lecturers though you often hear otherwise. The material is not really all that difficult if you're willing to put in some minimal effort. I would really recommend it. Just do all the practice problems before exams.
Interesting subject matter, only take the class if you are truly interested in the subject, otherwise material will seem boring and you will slack off.
Lectures are not helpful. Section and PSLs are.
Watching the lectures on line was easier than going to class but then you don't get the clicker points.
It's nothing like LS1a, but the professors mean well and the resurrection policy gives you the opportunity to do well.
That this class is one of the most ridiculous science courses.  I do not feel like I was actually taught the information.  I feel like slides were read off to me and I was expected to learn the information on my own time.  I did not find lectures useful at all.  Section was the only useful part.
Take it.  Study hard, and you will see the many ways you can apply the knowledge learned in LifeSci 1b to other areas, including your own research, if you've gotten to that stage!
The information covered in this course is pretty interesting, though fairly challenging.  The lectures are less than exciting, but the second half of the class is better than the first part, in my opinion.  I'm sure there are better OEB and HEB courses at Harvard, but this is a requirement, so suck it up and study hard.
Only take this class under two conditions: pre-med requirement and/or concentration requirement. Only take this class after you are ABSOLUTELY positive that you fulfill one of those conditions. If not, there are much better science classes that aren't as convoluted, boring and demanding.
The class is not particularly exciting, but it is something that you have to take, and it is not very difficult.
stay on top of your work and do the practice problems
You will probably learn more in this class than you have in any other class so far, but be prepared to put forth a lot of effort to succeed.
Do the practice problems. Do not take this class unless you have to.
This is the worst class I've ever taken. Ever. Do not take it unless you either have no soul or hope to lose yours.
The class is challenging.  There are a lot of problems and there is a lot of work and it requires a real time commitment to succeed, but if you do them all, you are SET for the exams.
Honestly, if you are pre-med just grin and bear it because there is a lot of genetics on the MCAT. You are in for a semester of misery and confusion. If you are not pre-med and do not have to take this course, avoid it at all costs.
Take it only if you must.
Don't take this class unless you absolutely have to.
There is a huge emphasis on memorization in this course. The first third is deceptively nice and math-based, but becomes more focused on facts as the course proceeds.
The class is not too difficult, but some parts are tedious.
Come to class and pay attention, do the redbook, and study everything, even those useless details because they will be on the midterms.
Stay on top of concepts and do practice problems.
This class is really hard to pay attention to.  The professors try to make the material more interesting but it's really a struggle to pay attention to.
This course throws a lot of material at you, but it really only asks you to learn a small part of it in a very specific way. Also, don't freak out about the GDP. The professors and the TF's may not really prepare you for the project or give any useful recommendations before you start it, but the first two predrafts are really just practice and the total project isn't even worth that much of the grade. Finally, I would recommend that students not take this course unless they are ABSOLUTELY SURE they need to. There's always time to take it later. I met plenty of sophomores and even some juniors taking it. If you're not sure that you need to take it, I really recommend taking another course you're interested in.
This class is going to be very boring and will not challenge you. The problem sets are spoon-fed to you by the PSL's. Tiny details count just as much as the broader portions of the course, which really serves as a detriment.
Only take this class if you absolutely have to.
This course is something you have to take, probably not something you want to. You are treated like a high-school student: incessant clicker questions, quizzes, boring material... There is no continuity in this course, and even in the lectures themselves. If you want to learn about genetics, I'd be much happier recommending you to go to the library, for there you will be able to learn without being bothered by the grading trivialities of this class.
Make sure that you study on your own and spend extra time learning the material...just attending lectures and doing psets will not prepare you for exams
IF you need to take this course, take it--it's certainly not difficult. If you want to be inspired to enjoy genetics and the topics of this course, I would strongly suggest against it
This class is a lot of work, and I really regretted taking it.
This class is one of those classes that you must take as a requirement for pre-med or any biology concentration. I feel that the class gets such a bad reputation because the lectures are terribly boring, which is a combination of the lecturers and the material. I mean, I actually found myself enjoying taking the exams more than sitting in lecture. Moreover, the genetic disorder project, while very useful in teaching you to how to write up a real research proposal, will have you pulling your hair out because it requires so much work. Overall, it's best to just take the course, and then forget about it.
It is so boring and uninspiring that many people never go to lecture.
It's required for everything...so....yeah.
Red book problems are essential to your success in this course- do them! Lectures are uninteresting. You can easily just review slides at home. Sections are great though it really does depend on your TF and how well he/she reviews the material. Lab experiments are pretty elementary and there's a lot of busy work involved in this course.
It is a difficult course to take with PS1
stay organized, there are so many things to keep track of.
horrible lectures, but you need to make the most of it. read the material, do the practice problems, and work hard.
It's not fun and the exams are hard. Try to keep up with practice problems and readings because if you fall behind it sucks.
LS1b is necessary if you want to be pre-med or if you want to concentrate in some sort of bio, but honestly this class was a pain. Tons of reading, the GDP takes time, and there is a lot more actual work than LS1a.
Do practice problems and you will be fine.
Look for another class if you don't absolutely need this class for your concentration.
Only take it if you have to.
This is probably one of the worst classes at Harvard.  Only take it if you absolutely have to (which, because of concentration and premed requirements, you probably do).  You can try to game it, but don't expect to learn much, despite the interesting subject matter of genetics.
Make sure you are flexible with the concepts in the test.
it'll make your life miserable and hope that something terrible happens in evolution so nobody else will ever have to take this class.
Take it if you have to. It isn't as bad as people say and is fairly well organized so that you can do well if you work hard. Although it was not my favorite class as I did not enjoy lecture, I did learn a fair amount.
Take this course because you have to. Otherwise, there isn't much reason to take it. I wasn't blown away by it. You learn some valuable things, but it won't be your favorite.
This is the type of class where if you get behind on the reading or problem sets, it is very difficult to catch up. There is a lot of memorization required but you will learn all the basics of genetics and evolution.
This class consists of two main parts: the lectures and section. Lectures, contrary to what some may think, are actually helpful if you listen carefully. Sections are also very helpful, but for different reasons. The exams this semester were mainly multiple choice on facts and then a section on problems. While section/lab helps significantly with this problem section of the exam, the lectures really help with the multiple choice portion. Beware, however...the lectures are hard to stay awake in at times...and once you fall behind, it is so, so hard to catch up again. Especially if you are taking ps1 as well! There is a lot of overlap between the two courses in terms of exam times, so be prepared! The Genetic Disorder Project can be time-consuming (in terms of when you have other classes to worry about) but it's alright. Just make sure to do things ahead of time. :)
This class is a requirement for many science concentrations. Be prepared for lots of work.
Do not ever take this class unless you absolutely have to. It makes a potentially fascinating subject into something tedious and dull. The lectures try to cover too much material in too little time (and tend to linger on concepts that are irrelevant except for a single multiple choice question on one exam). The practice book and psets are an accurate representation of the what will be on the test, but you won't learn how to do these problems unless you have a competent TF. If you have to take this class, having a strong TF is the only way you're going to do well.
The lectures were not very helpful at all, and all the learning takes place in section.
Only take if you need to.
go PSL help sessions, the PSLs are very helpful and explain how to do the problems well. also, don't fall behind in reviewing weekly material.
Be prepared to do a lot of annoying work and get surprised by the exams.
I would tell students that this class is very time consuming and that you must pay attention to all details mentioned in lectures because they can be tested on.
If you don't have to take it, then don't.
Take it if you like genetics. Don't take it if you do not like genetics.
This class is necessary if you are planning to be a pre-med.  That being said, after having taken this class, I have decided to continue on the pre-med track but to not concentrate in any type of science.  If this class is any indication of what other science classes are like, then I could never put myself through four years of misery.  Take advantage of the extra credit opportunities, because you will need them.  The class is set up in such a way that no matter how hard you try, you end up needing a curve or scale in order to receive an acceptable grade.
Take this course if you have to but it's not something to take just because you think you might want to learn some interesting things about genetics and evolution.
It's boring, difficult, not at all interesting, but necessary if you want to go into medicine
The class itself isn't so bad, the work doesn't take up too much time (although GDP had mixed reviews on its worth), but wary of the exams because if you don't prepare well it can be much more difficult than you expected.
This class, while necessary, has the potential to be very interesting. The material is oftentimes very groundbreaking and incredible in its applicability to modern science. However, lectures are given in a way that distills the information simply from the textbook in a very boring fashion, which is not helpful or engaging as a student in the course. The class is certainly less engaging than Life Sciences 1a, although it certainly could be more interesting if it were redesigned and reassessed as a course, which I believe needs to be done.
At times, this course seems like a chore to do work for.  However, try to keep as open a mind as possible.  The course material itself is very relevant and can be extremely interesting. However, some of the assignments do consist of busy work--though their intention is to introduce you to the wealth of resources out there such as NCBI and OMIM.
It is unfortunate that LS1b is taught so poorly because the course material is actually very interesting.  If the teaching staff were to increase the level at which the course is taught, the class would be improved immensely.
Only take this course, if you have to for a requirement.
Do not take this class unless you are required to. The material is really interesting but the way it is presented is extremely confusing and convoluted.
Unless you love genetics and stuff like that, don't take this class
Only take this class if you have an extreme interest in the subject or if you need to fulfill a concentration requirement.
This class has some great subject material that is interesting to study.  These methods are actually used by geneticists and lay the foundation for any study of genetics, so this is an essential class to take for any biology or life sciences concentrator.  The teaching quality is variable, but the subject is engaging and interesting to learn.
Ls1b is focused on problem solving and the quantitative aspects of genetics, which is actually really interesting. Otherwise, the class is terrible. It is a a relatively easy pre-med requirement, though. Lectures are a great way to catch up on sleep, the Genetic Disorder Project (GDP) is by far the worst assignment you'll ever do at Harvard, and no partial credit is awarded on exams.
practice problems!!!
Be ready to study and put in A LOT of time working.
It is very badly organized. The readings are not too helpful. You don learn a lot though.
You probably have to take it, it's probably good for you, but it won't be the most fun
Only take this class if you're going to do pre-med.  There are many other biology classes more interesting than this to take if you don't need it.
The material is wonderful, the lectures could be better, and you'll learn a lot, but because you'll be teaching yourself the foundations for the class. The amount of resources available for the class are tremendous and will save your life, but you have to juggle a lot of different things at different times to fit your schedule. The class was a minor headache for most of the semester, but at exam and GDP times, a big big headache. Like I said though, if you listen to evan and keep up throughout the semester, you're all set.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS UNLESS YOU ABSOLUTELY HAVE TO.
It's not a terrible course, but there is a lot of material that takes time to digest, so go to lecture and stay on top of the readings. The genetic disorder project also isn't bad if you plan ahead. The exams sometimes ask for smaller details so thorough reading is necessary to get full credit.
This class requires much work and dedication on the student's behalf; with time to teach yourself the material.
This course is great if you have a preexisting interest in biology and if you're up for the challenge, but if you're on the fence about science this class could potentially turn you off from it.
Many of you may feel like you have to take this class to fulfill a requirement... I encourage you to search for alternatives.  Do not take this class unless you absolutely have to.
I came into this class excited about the subject and interested in learning more about it and left it wishing I hadn't taken the class and hating genetics. :(
I would only recommend if you have to take the course.
This class is very boring, but it's required for a lot of concentrations and is a prerequisite for a lot of classes, so if you have to take it, you have to take it.  Definitely don't take it as an elective.  On the bright side, it's a pretty easy class, and very little work (if you pay attention in lecture, you probably won't have to do the readings, though it's a good idea to do a few of the practice problems before starting your problem set).
Only take this if you have to.  I found it easier than ls1a, but much more boring.  The material is fairly easy, and if you put the time in to work practice problems before the midterms, you'll do fine.  The GDP is a bit of a pain, especially since it's a lot of fact regurgitation.
It is okay, but not too great. Sections are somewhat painful.
It is sad that you may be required to take this course, cause it is not a reflection of what your concentration will be like. I have met few people who can honestly say they enjoyed the course. The material is interesting, but the course itself is terrible.
The class is a very comprehensive overview of genetics and evolution. I would recommend it to anyone interested in further studies in biology.
The class is not particularly difficult, but that doesn't mean that it will necessarily be painless.  The Genetic Disorder Project will always be lying in wait behind all of the other work in the class, with the deadline looming in the distance.  In addition, the lectures are hard to stay focused on.  They are not the most entertaining events, and a typical sleep-deprived college student may have trouble remaining awake and alert.  The bottom line, though, is that the course does teach some valuable information about genetics (and statistics, though stats isn't part of the course title).  If you are pre-med, this is a required course and shouldn't harm your GPA.
it is very difficult and the exams are very hard
If you don't have to take it, don't.
At times it seemed daunting, but if you read and do the study problems you will do fine!
It's like amputating your leg if it is infected. You don't want to do it, and you will be maimed in the end...but you have to do it, and you WILL come out alive -- maimed, but alive nonetheless.
Avoid this class if at all possible. It shouldn't be as difficult as it is, but with the abysmal quality of teaching, and the unhelpful texts, the material is somehow completely opaque. Good luck - you're going to need it.
You will learn a lot of interesting, applicable-to-daily-life material in this course.
The stress in this class comes from the micromanagement of the instructors. They give a million small assignments that don't count for much so you need to constantly stay on top of your material which is not easy to do.
Be prepared not for a class of challenging material but for a class jammed packed with information, so stay aware and constantly try to absorb facts.
Not a fun class.  Please take it only if you have to.
Only take it if you have to, there are probably other genetics courses that are more interesting.
Do the practice problems. Its the only way you will actually learn anything.
very boring- take only if necessary for premed requirement
It's required for Pre-Med and most of the Life Sciences concentrations, so just suck it up.
IT was poorly taught and poorly run.
Make sure you stay on top of your work and commit to at least trying to do the readings and always do the red book problems before the test.  And go to lecture, it helps.
Rock on.
Do the practice problems. They are similar to the pset questions and you'll have the answer key online to help guide you.
I have known many people tho have become disenfranchised from the sciences in general because of this class in coordination with LS1a. This does not have to happen to you! Unfortunately, this class is a requirement for nearly everything. So suck it up, grit your teeth, and put a decent amount of effort into this class and it won't be too bad.
Its difficult material and a lot of work for a class, however, its very interesting and absolutely crucial for any studies in the biological sciences.
Do not take this course unless you have to for your concentration. There are some fun labs, but the material is covered slowly, and the staff like to micromanage several of your assignments, especially your Genetic Disorder Project, where they tell you exactly how you need to do it and leave no leeway for your own thoughts. It is also highly bureaucratic and full of red tape, with the teaching staff often making you go through a chain of people to get anything done.
It is very logic-heavy as opposed to memorization-heavy.
Only take this class if you absolutely have to.
The material in the course could be quite interesting. However, with a few exceptions, lectures were rather dull and too long to maintain your interest. Though weekly expectations (labs, problem sets, practice problems) were pretty reasonable, the exams were much harder than we were prepared for and included different types of questions than we had been introduced to. If you're going to take the class, make sure to do the practice problems- they help a lot, especially because you will be left confused by the readings and occasionally lectures. Though the first part of the course is very mathematical/statistical and not the most intriguing, the second part is more interesting and understandable.
IT IS TOUGH!! the red book is very helpful! Go to your tf's office hours.
Practice problems help the most in learning the material and preparing well for exams, more so even than reading through lecture notes.
Many people will take this course because it is required for pre-med. therefore, I will not say don't take the course. However, I will warn you that you are going to have to work extremely hard to teach yourself the material because lectures can be confusing and sections can be confusing as well.
Keep up with reading.
Unless you are absolutely certain that you will be a pre-med or concentrating in any of the life sciences, do not take this course. It is crammed full of information and can seem overwhelming at times. The GDP, which provides you with a rich knowledge of genetics in action, becomes incredibly tedious and therefore loses much of its purpose. There is simply too much material taught at too rapid of a pace.
This course is tough and there's not much help unless you ASK for it. Do problems, get extra help.
You need to take it even if you don't want to.
The materials covered in this course are incredibly interesting, but the lectures are sometimes very boring and difficult to follow. Nonetheless, this class is definitely worthwhile if you want to learn the subject. With a good TF and a willingness to spend time doing some of the reading and practice problems, there is a lot you can take away from lifesci1b.
It's really useful material, but it is very detail oriented so be very careful with that.
Don't do it. Lectures are uninspiring and the class will drain you of your sanity. Lectures are read straight from the slides, the book does a horrible job of explaining concepts, and it will leave you insanely frustrated. However, the psets are super easy.
the course material is interesting if you are truly interested in genetics.
The class teaches useful information, especially in terms of the application of statistics, but do not judge the life sciences courses/concentrations based on this course...
Hopefully by the time you take this class, it will be different from my experience. Prepare to learn mostly on your own.
I would tell students to take this course only if they have to take it or if they really, REALLY like Biology. Yes, I did enjoy the course material and yes, the course staff did a very good job of being available for students throughout the semester, however, I really found the course to be a lot more stressful and a lot more difficult than it needed to be because of the Genetic Disease Project and because of the way in which the course material was tested. If I had the option of not taking this course, I am not too sure that I would have taken it; however, this class was not all that bad either, so on the other hand, I would not necessarily tell students not to take it.
Not a bad course, but the workload is a bit much.
Though the course description is appealing, lectures are dry and feel very long. If this course is not required for your concentration, look elsewhere for your SLS requirement/an interesting science elective. Labs can be redeeming, and the material is not terribly difficult, though.
Do the readings as they are assigned. They are crucial to understanding the material, especially if you don't have a strong background in sciences.
Only take it if you have to.
The Material is annoying and the exams are hard.
Plan to study and learn the majority of the course material on your own.
Deliberately take the time to do the practice problems.  This is the best way to learn the material and understand the concepts of the course.  Plus, most of the exams resemble the practice problems, so it is good test preparation.
It's interesting, but way too much work.
If you are taking this class to fill a requirement look into the other OEB/MCB possibilities before deciding. They're not very well known, but there are actually classes that can substitute, and that you may find more to your interest.
Hope you get a good TF.
The best thing about this class is that your grade is a product of your preparation. You learn to do the red book problems, you get a good grade. The worst thing about this class is that, unless you love dry lectures and superfluous labs, it takes up an absurd amount of time that you probably want to spend doing other assignments.
If you hated the material in LS1a, then you may not like this class. If you genuinely are interested in biology, though, I feel like this class is rewarding.
Do not take this class. If you are interested in HEB then pursue a different road to that goal because this class will surely end your interests in the course
It sucked.
Problem sets and exams are notoriously tricky, so make sure you pool together or else you will do poorly in this class. Go to lecture!!! Even though its boring you will benefit.
It's necessary for Life Sciences concentrations and fulfills a biology pre-med requirement.  It won't be fun, but it's not too difficult either, and you'll need to get through it to go on to better biology classes.
The material and problem solving was fun. However, with so many components to the course (weekly problem sets AND weekly labs AND semester-long project), it takes up a lot of time.
Midterms and finals are pretty tough, but the GDP project is not too hard and can be a helpful boost to your grade
Sometimes the work seems like extra leg work but it all is fine. The class is pretty good but I will admit my TF made it all worth it.
If you need it to fulfill a requirement, then you obviously have no choice. If you really like genetics, then you will probably really like this class, but if not, it's just another requirement you have to get through.
you will be bored out of your mind. but it doesn't take up much time.
Take it only if you must as a concentration/pre-med requirement.
There is a lot of very interesting work of genetics that is covered in this class. If you keep up with the reading and you attend lecture on a regular basis, you can definitely get a lot out of this course.
The class is very manageable with enough effort.
If you don't have to take this class, don't. No matter how interesting the material may be, the professors will find a way to make it much more boring and difficult than it actually is.Oh, and Christov is one of the best TFs you could ever ask for. Harness his wisdom.
This class covers the basics of genetic inheritance and disease, and if you are interested in a science concentration you should definitely take this class becuase its a requirement, but don't let it frustrate you or discourage you.
Most people take this class because they have to. The lectures are poor, and you probably won't enjoy the class. One piece of advice is that you need to be on top of the material to do well.
This course does a good job of applying math and problem solving to biology concepts, but is not a good class if you are simply interested in genetics.
Be ready to put a lot of work on your own in.
The exams are the worst part of this course. A large portion of your grade is not based on conceptual understanding, but rather memorization of random facts.
Dear children. Be organized. Do the practice problems. Lecture becomes less useful as time goes on but your TF (if you get a good one) will be indispensable, and as long as you can keep up in section each week, it'll be great.
Unless you are taking this class for a pre-medical requirement I do not recommend it.
ONLY take it if you are really interested in the material. If you have to take it for pre-med, find another class that satisfies the same biology with lab requirement.
You will learn a lot. Whether or not you enjoy it is another thing entirely.
This class is full of busy work and is a complete waste of time. Everyone in the class is taking it to move on to real life science classes in sophomore year. The lectures are boring, and Prof. Ruvolo literally reads straight off the slides. People are there to do the clicker questions, but you can learn just as much without going to class. The GDP is a pain, and sections are horribly boring.
Do practice problems.
This class will introduce you to the basics of genetics in a pain-free way. Lectures are a little boring sometimes, but easy to follow. If you go to section and really learn how to do the practice problems, there's no way to do poorly in this class.
Is not a true biology course but mostly stats; avoid if you can unless you love stats
This is a necessary hurdle if you are pre-med. But the professors and teaching staff do everything possible to make the material interesting and to find creative applications of it for course assignments.
need to do the readings in order to keep up, it's a challenging course
If you have to take it, take it.
The material is very difficult and it requires a lot of personal time and effort outside of class to teach yourself the material.
Try to keep on top of the readings if possible. You probably will not though. It helps to take notes when reading when you finally do it. Also, try not to lag behind with practice problems either.
The information content is really interesting, although in lecture it was sometimes not presented well.
Would only take if you have a serious interest in biology or want to fulfill pre-med requirements, you need to spend a considerable amount of time outside of class in order to do well but the class is manageable if you stay on top of things
This class sucks
If this class isn't a requirement for you, don't take it. Lectures are poorly delivered and the material is often poorly taught. Exams aren't that difficult, but they certainly aren't easy, and the GDP project is an incredible waste of time.
Although somewhat dryer than LifeSci 1A, 1B is an interesting, well-run genetics course.  It is not hugely difficult, although staying on top of the material is highly recommended, but covers a wide range of gene-related topics.  Obviously this is somewhat of a special interest course, but for those who like genetics, this is a very good class to take.
Be serious about science if you take this course.  This course is the first stage in weeding out the pre-meds & science majors from those who aren't serious.  If you only want to do science in college as a hobby, this is not the course for you.
The course is not great, but it isn't as horrible as the Q guide comments say in the previous years. It's a little less good than Life Sciences 1a, and the professors are much less engaging. Still, the material is interesting, and you shouldn't skip the course just because it is rated poorly; go for it, and all will be fine.
Your red book is your bible and basically the course is a disaster so do not feel bad.
Unless you are taking this class as a Pre-Med requirement, then you are better off picking an easier class on the same/similar topic
Very boring
I wouldn't recommend this course if its a GenEd choice.
LS1b tries too hard to make the students like it, and in doing so fails not only to be a good course but to generate student interest. Lecture slides are silly and cluttered, lecture time is wasted on silly activities, and it is nearly impossible to know what is actually expected of you. The class has a plethora of assignments, with numerous things due on any one date, and it's nearly impossible to keep track of all the moving parts. Finally, the class wastes time on silly activities and to compensate breezes through important concepts, making it hard to know what to do.LS1b is 70% Fraternity 30% Biology, the class needs to take itself seriously, don't expect this to be a well structured or very intellectual experience.
Unfortunately, LS1b is a requirement for pre-med and for many life sciences concentrations.  So I can't tell you not to take it, but I can tell you to be prepared for a lot of frustration.  The course is very disorganized and, while I like the subject matter, the structure (or lack thereof) really detracted for me.  Also, pset grading (at least from my TF) wasn't super fair.  Exam questions are sometimes incredibly random and specific.  Meh.
Take this class! It's awesome, regardless of the somewhat tough exams.
Don't let the bad reputation scare you - this was one of the best courses I have ever taken!  Whatever dark history this class has has been worked out.  Lecture was great, labs were great, and I thought grading was fair.  The material was very interesting, especially near the end of class.
Go to Casey's problem solving reviews and office hours WHENEVER possible. Stay on top of things--the final is a smack in the face. Do the readings if you can. Despite these comments, the class is totally doable and rewarding. Glad I took it -- it's a god overview of genetics.
it's quite difficult and you have to be willing to put in a lot of hours. But overall, the course was fairly well done.
Do not take this class unless you need to.
If you're considering the class at all, you probably have to take it for a biology concentration or premed requirement, so you'll have to just grin and bear it. It will be manageable, but very frustrating along the way. Be prepared to seek out information independently from TFs and PSLs, because there is a large disconnect between what is emphasized in lecture and what will show up on p-sets and exams.
Kevin and Hopi are great. Pardis and Maryellen not such. Not very engaging, so you have to pay lots of attention during their lectures.
If you thought LS1a was bad, do yourself a favor and find another biology class take. The best way to describe LS1b is a struggle. The Head TF's are extremely unfriendly and unwilling to work with students. They are uncooperative. In fact, when I requested a section switch, the TF told me that research proves that which TF you have does not impact how students perform. I was completely baffled and could not believe that she had made such an outrageous statement. The whole point of coming to a school like Harvard is to learn from the best. By her logic I'd be better of teaching myself. The struggle does not end there the Head TF's are also really unrealistic and plan 1,000 different things to do for each section. This not only puts tremendous stress on the TF's, but we do not really learn much. Also while Professor Hoekstra and Professor Ruvolo are amazing the other two professors are subpar. Professor Sabeti's lectures are extremely disorganized. The lecture notes make no sense.
It's not bad, it's just hard!
The subject material of LS1b is pretty interesting but the way it's presented and how the course is organized can be somewhat of a turnoff at times.
The first part of the class is relatively easy, but don't let that fool you. Keep on your game and the class will be fine - amusing even.
I really enjoyed this class. The professors were very enthusiastic about the course, and the lecture materials covered were really interesting. They did a very good job revamping it from previous years. The homework and exams interconnected really well.
go to PSLs and get extra help if you don't completely understand the material or have any questions whatsoever.
This class was much better than it was in previous years. Nothing to be too worried about. The lecturers were on the whole very passionate, and if you get a good TF you can learn a lot about genetics.
This course takes more work than it would seem, so it must no be underestimated. The collection of themes it provides, furthermore, can feel a bit dry by the end as the questions the course elicits, at the introductory level, are largely without an answer. In this way, I think the course should be reorganized and wouldn't really recommend students take it, at least point, unless ALL themes are of particular interest and you are willing to do extra reading to provide context for the ideas derived from the course.
If you are confused, ask these question immediately after class or soon after. This class has a lot of reading, which is not actually necessary or helpful. There's so much information taught in the course. Start asking early what is important, so you can learn with the right frame of mind.
Kevin Eggan and Hopi Hoekstra are the best! Ruvolo is good too. Pardis needs to explain concepts slower... Assignments are useful, and not too hard. Tests are fair. Labs are super long, but not unbearable. The most annoying part of this class is the GDP- or the semester long "project." It's just annoying to do those extra long assignments.
Don't be scared off from LS1B because of the negative reviews in previous years. With the great new team of lecturers and TFs, the class is definitely manageable. The lectures are interesting and cover most of the material that is necessary for the class. The psets sometimes contain material that was not covered extensively in lecture, so having a good study group of people doing the pset together is helpful. The exams were generally fair, but sometimes there were problems that weren't emphasized from lectures/psets. I think that for the most part, this was a fair class that could use some improvement in organization but that is still interesting and doable regardless.
The class is a lot of work for sure, but you feel like you are learning useful material that is both current and engaging.  The professors were excellent and all very knowledgable in their respective fields.  The organization of the course is great.  The major drawbacks: many hours per week (3-hour lab, 3 hours of lecture, 1.5 hours of problem solving, 1-3 hours on problem sets), and the grading breakdown was somewhat absurd (very large emphasis on the final exam at around 50% this year).  Finally, the GDP portion was a highlight.  Overall, not as bad as the hype, and better than LS1a.
It is good if you take advantage of all the resources. In general the course is demanding.
The professors in this class are great.  While the lectures aren't necessarily always the most clear, they really make an effort to make the information relevant and interesting. It covers a lot of important background concepts in biology.
You'll take this class because you have to. However, it is bad. Long labs, obnoxious psets, and boring lectures.
The material is hard but definitely manageable - don't hesitate to use resources. Lectures sometimes may be unhelpful at times - need/desirable to go to office hours
Unless you really have to, don't take Ls1b freshman spring as your interests may change and you might not have to take ls1b for a concentration requirement.
The depth of knowledge needed for the exams is a bit further than the problem sets, section problems, and practice exams would lead you to believe. Stay on top of the material in order to succeed.
Contrary to popular belief, this class is actually pretty fun and interesting...at least for the first half of the year.  The material is fascinating and you learn a lot about genetics and the molecular foundations to biology. The second half of the year is a little confusing and not very fun, but if you push through the statistics and the confusing primate phylogenic names, you should be fine.  The exams are not difficult and the problem sets are significantly easier than those in LS1a. Overall, I would recommend the course, but only if you are a science concentrator or really like genetics.
God, I wish there were an alternative to this pre-med-weeding class.
First of all, you need to teach yourself a lot of the material. The lectures go over what you need to know but then you have to actually go and make sure you know those things. I suggest getting into the habit of blocking out some time after each lecture to go over the material you learned during that lecture (google things you don't understand, write down questions, make flashcards.) Also you absolutely don't need to buy the textbook. I didn't open it once and did well in the class.
Interesting material, could be presented more clearly sometimes
It was difficult and I often found myself questioning why certain aspects of the class were necessary or important.
It doesn't matter what I say, you're going to take it anyway.
People made this class out to be the worst and super hard. But luckily, they did a massive rehaul, so the course is taught by knowledgeable professors. The tests are hard, but hey if you're premed, at least it's good practice for Orgo.
Take it if you need it as a requirement. It's not a bad course, but I wouldn't take it just if you're interested in taking genetics for the heck of it.
This course is not the old LS1b, it's a thousand times better. But it'll be hard if you're not interested in the material.
LS1b has definitely improved from previous iterations, but I still would not take this class if other options are available.
This class is definitely much better than the reputation it has. It's not nearly as hard or time consuming as LS1a, the material is actually interesting, and the labs I thought were great. I don't know if you should take it if you don't have to since you will learn a lot of technical stuff that is probably not that interesting, but if you do have to I would say it's not a bad class at all.
This is a typical intro class that covers many relevant topics (personalized genetics, ChIP assays, human evolution) but does not go into great detail about any of those topics. This class does not take up much time (you can succeed without doing most of the readings) and the tests and quizzes were all fairly predictable.
The bad news is, this class - for lack of a more polite way to say this - really sucks. The even worse news is, you probably have to take it if you're thinking about doing anything remotely related to science, or premed. So it's really like an inescapable evil. The professors are great, brilliant minds, don't get me wrong- I felt lucky to have sat in on their lectures about some truly interesting phenomena. That said though, the course is just so disorganized and I often had no clue what to hone in on as far as exams. The lab component is also terrible; there was always so much actual section material to cover, that all the steps for the actual lab work just get annoying and uninteresting. I've never felt so frustrated with a class before. I really hope that they improve this class for future years.
The best parts about this course are the all-star cast of professors and the subject matter. Your four professors are truly leaders in their fields, publishing in Science about this-and-that, becoming the youngest people to do such-and-such. They're actually famous. And for the most part, they're good lecturers. What are they lecturing about? Some of the most scintillating, up-to-date scientific advances that could affect you and your children in fantastic ways. The worst part is the exams, which are the worst part because they are weighted heavily and are very tricky. An exercise that you will have been given numerous times will be presented in a slightly-tweaked format, just barely recognizable, all-but ensuring that you will get it at least partly wrong. Also the Psets are pretty hard.
If the course is necessary for your concentration, take it.  If not, I would make sure that you have a real interest in genetics before you invest your time into the course.  It can be very fast paced and the questions can be rather frustrating, so a real interest in the material would be helpful to get through it.
Don't underestimate the bad stories. They're true however the teaching staff and PSL program are both great resources! Ruvolo has done a good job as I understand it of improving the course from past years.
This course is bad. BAD. The material is so interesting but it's ruined by the horribly made psets and exam questions, the poor organization of the course, and the wording of the questions that constantly cost people points even when they know the material very well. I'm LIVID with this class because it casts such a horrible image on science courses at Harvard, and it makes me very worried about future courses I'll take. TAKE THIS CLASS WITH CAUTION.
Despite this course's unfortunately history of Q scores, I think the professors have definitely turned it around! They present the information in a fascinating way and really try to keep the class interested and excited.
It's a good class that is well organized. I think it has definitely improved in the last couple of years.  Psets and labs are generally very doable and not difficult.  Midterms and the final Exam were all very difficult, as would be expected with this type of course.  Those take a lot of studying time.
It is a very difficult and time consuming class with a lot of work - account for that.  The material is covered very very quickly, not in much depth, and a ton of material at once, so you might not get the best understanding of it just from lectures, so you'll probably have to do outside work/reading.
This course is definitely manageable, but with work. The lectures were engaging, the problem sets were doable, and overall you can succeed in this course. One must be ready to put in work however to fully understand the material.
The office hours and preceptors' hours were an excellent resource in this class.
Avoid this course if at all possible. It's easy, but completely miserable. The course doesn't know whether it wants to teach biology or a be a frat. It's about 70:30 in favor of frat right now. You're probably much better off if you put off biology for a bit, then do MCB 52 or 54 when you have the time, in conjunction with LS2, to fulfill pre-med requirements. You'll learn a lot more there and not be made to feel like a middle schooler.
This class is definitely not as bad as it is rumored to be. Actually this was my favorite class this semester. The calculations can be difficult and there is a lot of material but it is definitely doable.
You can surely learn a lot from this course if you put the time into it (i.e. doing all the required readings, going to office hours, understanding everything completely). Many of the concepts are extremely applicable to real life, and it will be a solid foundation for any biology concentration. However, I've found that putting so much time was not very enjoyable; I always felt like there were better things to do with my time.
I think that its easy info, but their grading is just harsh and outside graders are annoying. The information is really interesting, though.
Poorly organized and poorly taught
I definitely expected it to be a lot worse than it actually was. This course was very interesting and I recommend it. However, it can be a lot of work as there are lab quizzes, problem sets, the GDP project, and studying for tests. It can be done but just be aware of the time commitment.
be prepared to work a lot. and go to problem solving lectures
This class is extremely interesting (you honestly don't even need to read the textbook). Hopi's lectures are amazing
You definitely learn about a lot of interesting stuff in this class (if you think genetics is cool). While the class is a lot of work, it's manageable if you keep up with the readings. I definitely recommend doing the readings! And go to office hours, they're fairly helpful. The professors are really nice and encouraging.
Anindya Sen best TF ever, Pardis unclear
Great class but keep up with the lectures and reading the book I am sure helps
This was a really good course for the most part. The exams and some problem sets are hard but they are manageable if you put the work in. The professors really care about the course and it is clear that they are working as hard as they can to make sure that every student understands the material and gets all the help they need. They are what makes this class great.
The material can be really interesting! Make sure to attend problem-solving lectures and pay attention in section so that you know the concepts to concentrate on since there is a lot of material!
LS1b no longer has the bad reputation that it did!  It is much better than LS1a.
The class is frustrating at times but is taught well.
The most important aspect of this class is the ability to solve application problems. If you do well on the Psets, you will do well on the exams.
Be prepared to work hard and still be confused sometimes--there is a lot of material to chew through and not a lot of time to do it based on the pace of the class. But none of the material is super difficult. All of it makes sense; you just have to do a lot of wading through information to isolate what is important.
I was really dreading taking this class after all I had heard about it from other students, but it actually ended up being one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard so far (better than LS1a in my opinion).  The lectures are interesting, the labs are for the most part pretty cool, and the workload is manageable.  The exams were relatively tough, so make sure to study for them quite a bit.
Do all the practice problems and read all the solutions to everything. Everything.
This course helped to reconfirm my dislike of genetics. It is more of a statistical science and in the level of this course deals somewhat less with the biology. I would not recommend this to people who are not fond of stats.
I have mixed feelings about this class because the professors were all clearly trying so hard and were all approachable and funny and charismatic. That being said, the course itself is 90% a repeat of LS1a and AP Bio until the first midterm (honestly, it sometimes felt like a waste of my time... I don't think anyone really paid attention in lecture ever. It became 1.5 hours for sleep/Facebook/Tumblr/Buzzfeed instead), and then suddenly it got very confusing after that. It's not as bad of a class as everyone makes it out to be, but I wasn't ever particularly excited either... Especially since labs often felt tedious (though the personalized genetics ones often had amusing results). Unless they change the course significantly, don't bother buying the textbook; it's wicked expensive and I only read one page of it. To get the most out of this class, just try to get to know the professors. I managed to get a research internship in London this summer because I talked to Kevin Eggan! The professors are all experts in their fields, so take advantage of that fact if you have to take this course anyway.
LS1b is definitely a better course now that it was in the past. All of the professors are very passionate about their work and it shows. It may not have been fantastic the whole time, but I actually found myself enjoying the course quite a bit.
The lectures, workload, and course itself is great. However, the exams are very hard.
Take it if you have to
Lectures and professors are terrific: so practical and knowledgeable and fun and helpful. The head TFs make a huge effort to help. So many great resources to succeed and have a blast doing it if you put in the time and take advantage of them!
This class has improved drastically from past years. The addition of Dr. Kevin Eggan is a huge positive, as the material he teaches is incredibly interesting and he is a great and extremely engaging lecturer. However, once the course passes Professor Hoekstra's part, the material becomes much less interesting and the quality of the lectures under Pardis Sabeti and Maryellen Ruvolo decline very quickly. However, generally I liked the class, even if it does suffer from the typical inefficiencies and unfairness that characterizes all large introductory classes at Harvard. Psets are usually fair and not that long, but exams are ridiculously long and tough. Lot of reading if you want to keep up with every detail.
I think this class improved vastly from previous years, from perception of the course this year. Personally, I loved the class. It is very applicable if you are thinking of doing lab work at Harvard, especially anything related to genetics. There are lots of opportunities to get help. I would highly recommend the peer study leader sessions before problem sets are due, and the Friday problem-solving sessions with Casey as they are extremely helpful for doing the problem set. Use these resources!
This class throws a lot of information at you at once. In addition, questions and tests are phrased in very complicated and convoluted ways that sometimes left me unable to tell what answer they wanted or how in depth I was meant to respond. Something that will help is reviewing the lecture slides and readings before class. The readings weren't always helpful, but sometimes they helped explain the more difficult concepts.
So LS1b was described to me as an absolute nightmare. I will say it was not quite as bad as I was told....but it certainly wasn't overly enjoyable either. The bottom line is it is interesting subject matter, but the course itself isn't very well designed. Section is 3 hours and always incredibly over-scheduled--we'll be expected to complete a entire lab (sometimes 2) as well as go over material from the week's lectures AND a packet's worth of practice problems. Not surprisingly, I tended to feel overwhelmed and more concerned with getting all this stuff done than actually learning the material. Overall, the course is manageable but a hassle.
Life Sciences 1b presented some of the most interesting material I learned at Harvard all year, but the ridiculous level of bureaucracy - four professors, two preceptors, and countless teaching fellows and assistants -required for such a course of even more ridiculous size made LS1b a truly painful experience. The three hours of each weekly section were rarely sufficient to complete each lab activity and the section problems without rushing.  The four lecturers (Are there not enough classes for Harvard professors to teach?) varied widely in the quality of their lecturing.  Prof. Maryellen Ruvolo and Prof. Hopi Hoekstra were excellent lecturers.  They presented the material effectively and left students well prepared to tackle problem sets and exam problems. Prof. Sabeti's lectures, however, were severely disappointing. Her lectures and demonstration were unclear and ineffective (She used at least four slides in her first lecture to present her background!); her follow-ups often obfuscated material to an even greater extent; she had someone with a Ph.D. from MIT act as a teaching assistant, doing her board work in lecture (despite the two preceptors and countless teaching fellows the course already had).  Although her lecture on infectious disease was fascinating, the bulk of her material left students confused and dissatisfied.The readings assigned in this course are quite helpful and often rather interesting, but there is simply not enough time to finish all of them in the timeframe assigned by the teaching staff (i.e., before lecture) and stay on top of other coursework.  Practice problems are extremely useful, provided you have the time to do them.  The Friday afternoon review sessions given by Dr. Casey Roehrig, one of the preceptors, were the most helpful parts of the class, and should be attended (or at least viewed online) each week.    The most disappointing thing about LS1b was that there was really no way to avoid it: if you are a Harvard undergraduate with the intent of concentrating in any field whose name ends with "biology" (or any of the other Life Sciences), you currently have no alternative to this perennially poorly rated course.  This fact makes me wonder why I am taking so much time to give such detailed responses to this questionnaire, since Harvard College clearly tends to collect as much feedback as possible and then wholly ignore it.  There should be another course that fulfills the LS1b requirement (like the LPSA/LS1a option). Should such an alternative arise, take it - barring major changes to the size and structure of this course.
It may have had bad reviews in the past, but this year LS1b was fantastic. The material is much more interesting than LS1a (in my opinion), and the professors all were good lecturers (Hopi was the best). A huge variety of resources offered and well-organized. Some psets could be moderately challenging, but never too difficult. Some were downright easy. The exams were the most difficult part, but nothing too extreme. I came in terrified because of the history this class has had, but in the end I enjoyed this much more than LS1a. Don't be afraid to try it out!
Material is awesome, class is pretty disorganized but if you can get past that and just enjoy the learning it's great.
If you're pre-med or a Life Sciences concentrator, chances are you have to take this course regardless of Q scores. That being said, I personally preferred this course to LS1a and found it genuinely interesting and engaging. The lecturers do a fantastic job, and most of the labs performed in section are really interesting as well.
They really improved this class. The assignments are reasonable, and the course material is infinitely more interesting than what LS1a covers. Furthermore, the professors are wonderful. If you go to problem solving sessions and read the textbook, you'll be fine.
Take this course only if you really want to learn about genetics.
You'll either like it a lot or hate it.
This class has the potential to be enjoyable. If you have a good TF, it will be fine. I would suggest having an interest in genetics, population genetics, and some evolution if you wish to take this course.
Make sure your TF is good.  The readings don't really help.  Dr. Roerhig's review sessions (and Dr. Roerhig herself) are AWESOME.  Do practice problems.
Go to office hours when you have questions with key concepts.  Don't allow your problems to build up until you are at a disadvantage for exams.
You are probably taking this class because you have to. Be patient with them. They are still learning.
Take if needed for concentration
You'll have to spend some time by yourself truly internalizing and understanding the material before you know how to do psets and some of the other assignments.  The GDP is cool and interesting, but is a hassle and unnecessarily drawn out.  Section is definitely more helpful than lecture, though the labs feel incredibly repetitive.  It'll take lots of time and may not feel rewarding, but you'll definitely learn a lot.
You have to take it anyway, so it doesn't really matter what I say about whether or not you should take it in the first place.  I never once looked at the textbook or did any of the required/recommended readings, and I did well enough on midterms and psets.  Go to lecture and try your best to pay attention/stay awake (or actually watch the lectures online) because once finals come around you'll hate yourself if you don't.  Don't fall behind.  This class covers a lot of material pretty quickly, and not all of it builds on each other so you have to review a lot of things for the final.
The material for this class is interesting. The professors are all interesting and most of the lectures are effective, though Professor Sabeti's lectures were sometimes confusing. The exams test your ability to answer questions exactly how the teaching staff wants, so this class requires quite a bit of memorization.
Pay attention in section and go to office hours. That's the only way to really do well in the course.
Compared to LS1a, I really came to enjoy this class a lot. The professors were great and though the work load each week was significant, the resources to get support was always available.
This class is very difficult, but I found it to be well-run.  I definitely feel that it does not deserve the horrible reputation that is has.  The subject material was really interesting, the professors were interesting, and the assignments were fair.
This was probably one of the worse classes I have ever taken at Harvard. The course material was very unorganized and I wished that the teaching fellows were the ones leading course instead. Problem sets, labs, and tests focused more on terminology than actual problem-solving and concepts, which made it very frustrating for many students.
If you have to take this class, I am sorry. It has so much potential, the material is fascinating. They just try to fit in too much information into lecture, then different information in section, with confusing p-sets. Not all of the professor are comprehensible, and some of the lecture teaching-methods are very questionable (mostly confusing). I loved the material, hated the class
It is so much better than people tell you! I took it as a senior and actually really enjoyed it.
Decent class. The professors all try to make it good, and it has improved from previous years. However, our final counted for up to 55% of our grade, while made that 3-hour period extremely important.
It was a great course, and the labs and lectures were fascinating and engaging. I especially enjoyed genotyping myself and figuring out where on the tree I fell in terms of mtDNA.
Be prepared when planning your course load that this class is harder or at least more time consuming than you might anticipate.
Someone asked me if they should take this class just for fun. For that reason, I would say no. However, if required, this class can be bearable. Maybe not the most enjoyable, but as all large classes it has both its high and low points.
Let's be real, if you're taking this course you probably have no other choice. As i understand it, the course has gotten exponentially better in the last few years and that is encouraging. Many of the lecturers in this year were teaching the course for the first time, so parts of it were shaky. Kevin's material is relatively basic and, to be honest, could be handled more efficiently in fewer lectures. Hoppi's a pro and deals well with her material, but please go to her office hours to understand some important nuances (eg. heritability, what it is and what it isnt, and the difference between cytoplasmic inheritance and maternal effect etc.) Pardis is clearly brilliant, but i found her lectures to be the most confusing, so beware. Maryellen is extremely interesting, but beware of the phylogeny diagrams which are trickier than they look.
The subject is not that bad, but the teaching did not seem to match with the tests. The lectures and sections were okay but were not that relevant.
The class has been improved a lot. I had a great time learning the materials about genetics -- they are so fascinating! If you choose to take this class, make sure you do the readings, which seem to be a lot but are very important in clarifying the concepts in lectures. Do enough practice problems as well, because sometimes you may the problems in the exams hard even though you know the concepts.
Take this course only if you have a good foundation in science and enjoy taking science courses.
When I compare the class as it was the semester, to how it was in past semesters, it has most certainly improved leaps and bounds. With new professors, a great list of TFs, and dedicated preceptors, the work they put into improving the course is laudable. The material is interesting, the lectures are engaging, and my overall course experience was fairly positive. All that being said, my strongest recommendation to students would be to not fall behind with lectures and make good friends with your TF. Also, the Friday review sessions are incredible useful. Even if you can't be there physically, I would strongly recommend reviewing those review session videos before the test.
I would say to only take this class if you need to. It's poorly graded and the information is scattered. They demand too much reading of you and, again, the grading is shit. You'll probably take this if you're premed. Just plow through it, get a good study group going, and kick some LS1b butt.
This was a great class, the subject material was incredible, but the exams and quiz were kind of a bitch.  Definitely be prepared to put work into this class and you will do well.  Lots of studying is required.
I'd highly recommend it.  If you're interested in the material, now it couldn't be better taught.  So much exciting material here.  Amazing, available professors and wonderful lectures/ lecture notes.
It's getting better. Eggan and Hoekstra are great lecturers.
Take this course only if you know you have to.
This class is easier than LS1a.
This class has interesting material and is a broad overview of genetics and evolution. The tests are fair and cover what is covered in lecture.
This class really isn't as bad as everybody says. Just do your work and keep up with the lecture material. The psets are straightforward and the tests doable. Take this class if you're interested in genetics or thinking about being a bio concentrator.
LS1b is a much, much better class than its reputation suggests. Professor Eggan and Professor Hoekstra are awesome and their lectures are really interesting. Definitely go to the Friday review sessions even if you don't think you need to because they're incredibly helpful both in terms of understanding the material and doing the psets.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time reading the book outside of class.  If you are willing to go to office hours, the problem sets are a little bit easier to do.  Lab does not require much time outside of class except for some pre-reading.
It was a decent class -- you'll learn about a diverse range of research topics, many of which are quite relevant to current work in the field.
The p-sets are not hard but expect to put a lot of time into the class. There is a lot of material to cover and a lot of work to be done. Often lecture and section aren't sufficient and office hours/problem solving sessions are a seemingly mandatory part of the coarse load.
This course was much better than I thought it was going to be. The work wasn't bad, and the material was very interesting. All of the lecturers were great, and it was overall an enjoyable course.
It's pretty good.
The class material is super interesting and you will learn a lot about genetics and its critical role and importance for the future of biology. The GDP project is an especially awesome and salient way to see how the course concepts relate to life and society. However, the course is tough and will require a considerable amount of time and work. Unfortunately, the biggest issue with the course is that you still may not do well even when you put in this time/effort because the exams don't necessarily test you on the most important concepts and they punish you unnecessarily for small details. I would say the best way to ensure success in the course is to seek out the wide variety of resources they make available to you (PSL's, TF's, professors, etc.).
The lecturers and content are both very interesting and enjoyable.
This class is a requirement, so might as well take it ASAP. It's pretty good as a whole, but make sure you put the time in. The lectures don't really reflect the Psets or exams.
If you get a good TF then I think your experience will be compltetly different than mine. Also, go to problem solving lectures. They may seem annoying becuase they are an extra lecture but they basically tell you how to do pset problems and are extremely useful when the time to study for the exam comes. The class itself hardly covers how to do problems that are on psets and exams.
It's hard, especially if you're not good at biology. It's even harder if you have an awful TF, which I did. (apparently there's a lot of bad TFs...)With that said, the professors are awesome and the material is really interesting. You cover a ton of material though, and it's hard to stay up with it. So even though I probably didn't do that well I the class, I'm glad I took it. As a class, it has improved from prior years, but it still has a long way to go...
I'd tell them that you definitely learn a lot but that it can get quite unorganized. If you keep track of your assignments, actually go to class, and keep up with readings, then it can be quite doable.
I thought this class was really interesting. However, it's definitely a lot of work and I probably wouldn't recommend it to anyone who isn't Pre-med or concentrating in a Life Science. Nevertheless, I thoroughly enjoyed the material and the labs!
LS 1b seems to have a bad reputation at Harvard. I don't know if it used to be bad or not, but I can say that Spring 2013 was a great class with great profs. It definitely deserves a better rep than it has.
This class isn't too bad, as long you keep on top of the p-sets. They are pretty intractable if you don't get help from the TFs or help sessions, so make sure to ask for help.
Good class and interesting material. You will here a lot of terrible things about this course, but I found much of it to be false (either that or the class was heavily revamped). In my opinion better than LS1A, but that may be due to my exceptional TF. Stay on top of assignments and use resources - YOU WILL BE FINE.
Make sure to keep up with lectures and go to problem solving lectures!
You pretty much need to take this course as a premed. It has the potential to be very interesting, but many of the labs are extremely long and boring, and the material is not taught in the most interesting way. A few adjustments to how the material is presented could make this course great.
LS1b is really working hard to become a better course; and you will learn a lot if you take the time to understand the material fully!
It is interesting in some regards, but if you do not need the requirement, I would recommend another biology-based course.
Very interesting class, but very work intensive and hard
It's a better class than LS1a, that's for sure, but it moves a little slowly through things like Mendelian genetics that honestly, probably everyone in the course has already seen before. Most of the lectures are really engaging, though (Maryellen's a little hit or miss; Pardis does an impressive job of making statistics almost interesting). Almost everyone who takes it does so for a requirement, so you probably can't get out of it anyway; it's really not that bad, though.
The coursework is relevant and applicable - but the course is not taught well and the lectures simply try to cram too much information. The lectures, especially those given by Dr. S, were outright confusing and made PSETs and exams very frustrating. LS1b needs new lecturers! A self-study class for sure.
Problem sets can really ask unspecific or vague questions.
Get through it for pre-med or bio fields, otherwise steer clear, it's not worth the stress.
Enjoy lecture - do problem sets early and check assumptions with preceptors.  Be agressive.
make sure to go to office hours and really understand everything you're doing or else the exams will be terrible!
Make sure you attending Casey's problem-solving review sessions. Also, take full advantage of peer study resources as well as resources offered by the staff.
Read the textbook because it clarifies the material, sometimes better than the lectures.
I absolutely loved this class.  The professors are some of the best parts about it--all 4 of them are funny, interesting, and passionate about their sections and the class as a whole.  The midterms aren't easy but they're not difficult either, and the final was manageable.  The psets are typically pretty short, and usually the labs are also, with the exception of a few weeks.  Also in the labs you get to sequence a few of your own genes to see whether you have the mutations associated with lactase persistence, being an endurance runner, and a few other traits, and these are all pretty cool to see!  Basically, you should take this class!
The Good:They're working really hard to make it better. The course material is interesting, a lot of it is about modern means of studying genetic diseases, which is really fascinating stuff. The professors are enthusiastic. The Bad:There's a lot they still need to fix. It's a poorly run class, what you learn in lecture is far simpler than what you're assigned to read in the textbook, which doesn't match what you're taught in section, which doesn't match what you need to know for exams and psets. It's SO frustrating to feel like you never know what you need to know. The Friday problem solving reviews are NOT OPTIONAL. So, either make sure you're free then and just put it on your schedule, or make sure you leave time to watch it online (it's filmed).This is yet a good/smooth course, it will be eventually. If you need to take it, take it. If you don't and you still have a few years at Harvard, then wait to take it. Also, MAKE SURE you get a good TF, ask around.
LS1b is a fantastic class,  though it is quite challenging. The faculty members are ready to answer any questions students might have. I really enjoyed the labs we did in section. If you take this class, just be ready to work hard. It is definitely worth it, and the GDP symposium is amazing.
This class is worth taking on the merit of the material alone; everyone should have the chance to learn about genetics and its relevance in our lives. The professors are really enthusiastic and engaging; they are very accessible and open and responsive to your ideas. This course still has some growing to do as half of the professors are new to the course, but overall I found it to be one of the best organized and well structured classes I have ever taken. My only real complaint is that the one and a half hour lectures can be pretty brutal to sit through...
I came into this class expecting it to terrible based on past years, but it was truly worlds apart from what it used to be.  I LOVED it and highly, highly recommend it.  There is a lot of material for sure, but it's all interesting if biology and genetics are your thing.  The GDP sounds annoying at first, but if you put effort into it, it's a lot of fun to learn about the disorder and a great opportunity to apply what you learn in lecture.
improved class, great professors, a little vague in what knowledge they expect you to know, covers too much knowledge
This course, as you'll most likely hear from many others, covers some very interesting material. You finish the course with an understanding of the genetics behind cats, dogs, people, plants, and almost everything else... and that's a good feeling. With that said, the course is challenging, especially if you don't have a strong background in biology, as I hadn't. The course is definitely doable, but to do very well, a lot of additional effort may be needed.
This has been my favorite course so far. The professors are wonderful, the lectures engaging, the material fascinating and relevant. The workload is definitely manageable. I would recommend this to anyone even considering a biology concentration. GREAT COURSE!
The material taught in this course is very interesting, even if it is not taught that well. The professors put in a lot of effort to make the material fun and engaging and always try to make themselves available to students, so definitely take advantage of that. Overall, decent course.
LS1b really isn't as bad as it is sometimes made out to be. The professors are so enthusiastic about the material, and it shows. Stay on top of the readings, as they actually do help.
This class is a hodgepodge of nonsense. Why it is required for all life sciences concentrations I will never know. You won't learn anything you don't already know and it's an absolute waste of time. If you don't HAVE to take this class, then DON'T.
-It's been fixed!
I went into LS1b pretty hesitant, but left fairly satisfied.  Q scores from past years were pretty dreadful, and I heard mostly bad things, but I thought it was a pretty decent course overall.  I think they did a great job revamping the course.  It is still a huge lecture class with 500 students, so don't expect personal attention unless you frequent office hours, but the support system and coursework are pretty solid, and I'm sure they'll continue to steadily improve when you take the course.  Keep yourself reviewed on concepts, and go to review, and you really shouldn't find LS1b as demoralizing as it's made out to be.
I think that this course needs some changes. I would recommend looking at other options for filling the gen-ed/pre-med requirements. While the material is interesting it is quite disorganized. On the positive side, I did learn a lot. However I thought that the course's disorganization made things more difficult than they needed to be.
Only take this class if you have to.
Awesome topic,  great professors for the most part
I really loved learning about genetics and I think the Ls1b staff did a great job this year changing Ls1b's previous reputation. The problem sets are like mini challenging puzzles and the course had many great lectures that had some interesting topics. Even I found the labs (though 3 hours long and very time consuming) to be interesting. They designed the problem sets and exams to be more applicable to the lectures this year and did a great job in generating enthusiasm. I would say it's a do-able class, not particuarly too hard, and mainly hard to get a good grade just because of the sheer amount of students (high concentration of pre-meds) who take the class.
If you are interested in genetics, this is an excellent class. The material is interesting, the lectures are pretty good as far as lectures go, the professors are good speakers and instructors, and the psets aren't too bad. I personally really enjoyed the class, and it was definitely a pleasant surprise after all the bad things I had heard about it. They've definitely stepped it up in the past couple years!
The exams were hard.  They were extremely nit-picky and sometimes the grading was unfair and unbalanced.  The course material is really interesting, but the lectures are very disorganized.
Lots of interesting info, you get to sequence your own DNA!!
Read assigned reading before class/lecture
This class was terribly organized. The material is interesting, but they present it in the most complicated way possible to make your life suck. There are times, my study group questioned the purpose of the class and if it was to be able to have really detailed, specific answers from super ambiguous questions.
Difficult but you learn a lot
Very large class and it'll be hard to get help from the teachers of this course. Sometimes, the teachers also have conflicting answers. The material is interesting though not always presented in a clear manner. The psets will actually help with learning while the lectures are not very helpful with problems. The Friday problem solving lectures are the best in terms of help for problem sets. Don't miss them! Choose your section wisely. If the TF is not clear, then your understanding of the material will be hazy and you'll have to make up for that later or take the consequences in an exam.
Take this class! Genetics is interesting in itself, but this class makes the material 100 times better! I went into this class expecting to hate it (at one point, the Q scores for this class were below a 2!). TAKE THIS CLASS!!!
You're probably taking this because you have to. It's a little better than it has been in the past, but it still has a long way to go.
Wonderfully engaging course with some truly brilliant lecturers. Came in expecting a terrible experience but came out inspired and excited about genetics. GDP project was great!
This has interesting lectures but you must practice problems and figure a lot out on your own
It was clear that the LS1B professors worked very hard to improve the course this year. Each professor was enthusiastic about the material that they taught, which they tried to make relevant and interesting to us. There are ups and downs to having four professors teaching a single course, but I think it works in LS1B's favor. In such a big class, it's hard to hold people's interest, and having multiple teachers, each with a unique personality and area of expertise, certainly makes things more interesting.For the most part, the genetics is all very interesting. In the middle of the course, things got a little dense when we got into quantitative genetics. But I found the material really good overall. The textbook goes into much more depth than what you're expected to know, and there can be a disconnect between the problems that are demonstrated in class and the level of difficult on the problem sets.  That being said, the exams seemed more in line with what was taught in lecture (rather than the problem sets or review session materials). My biggest complaint about the course was that problems on the psets and in labs could sometimes be very poorly written and confusing. The teaching staff did a fair job of clarifying things as problems arose but it did get a bit frustrating. Labs got a bit repetitive but the personalized genetics lab was fun, since we got to learn about our own genome in the process of learning the lab techniques.Overall, I was pleased with the course and appreciated the effort that teachers put into improving the class. So, don't shy away from LS1B because of things you might have heard! It's a very good class and gives you a good, solid foundation in genetics. Hopefully this year's Q scores will establish a good reputation for the class, since I sometimes felt like students were just looking to point out flaws because of how bad they heard the class had been in the past.
Psets are difficult, not as fulfilling as ls1a in my opinion, or as forgiving.
LS1b was better than LS1a and probably better than it has been in past years. The material was easier for me personally because I took AP Biology right before coming here. The online textbook is a MUST HAVE because literally for some topics the lectures teach you nothing but the book teaches you everything. Seriously, if the class is like this in the future the online Textbook is the best thing you can do. In terms of lecture, the professors are hit-or-miss. Kevin underwhelmed me but had great vests; HOPI WAS AMAZING and actually made me pay attention and had great slides; Maryellen was interesting but i barely went to her lectures; Pardis is a horrible teacher but a fascinating person.
It's a tough class that requires a lot of work. If you're interested in the subject, you'll like it/love it. if you're not too interested, you'll have to bear through it, which will be difficult. I still recommend it, the lecturers are good overall.
There's been a lot of bad rumors circulating around Ls1b. They may have been true in the past, but this course is moving in the right direction with much better instruction and guidance through online resources, additional lectures, and more support in general.
They're definitely trying to make the course better - all members of the teaching staff were great.  That being said, the way questions are worded is sometimes annoying, and if you don't answer things with the exact words they're looking for you might not get credit.
This class has made leaps and bounds from what I've heard from last year--the professors are so great and extremely approachable, so use office hours! Exams are pretty difficult and require a lot of studying, but it's definitely worth it.
LS1b has a really bad reputation from a few years ago, but I can easily say the class has been totally transformed. There are still some rough spots here and there, but that's typical of any class. The content is engaging (after mitosis/meiosis), the material is well-communicated, and expectations are clear. The teaching staff is very invested in answering student questions directly and tangentially related to course material. Go to office hours. Just do it.
Interesting course with some great professors. Tests can be unexpectedly tricky.
Go to Casey's problem solving, all of them!
Go to class.
A very average class overall. The professor's are all decent lecturers, the material is fairly interesting, and the Psets are reasonable, but lab section is incredibly long and tedious, often going over 3 hours.
A little disorganized, which made me uneasy, but not so bad at its core.
Most of the people who take this have to, so there's not much to say. It's much better than years past and the instructors really try to teach you something. There are too many small assignments and little things, but the material is interesting and taught well. Preceptors are great.
I find genetics interesting in general but this is probably one of the most notorious intro courses here, no joke. It's on the up and I still found it poorly organized. If you're pre-med like me, just hold your friends close and try not to weep.
LS1b can be very challenging at times, however, the teaching staff is very helpful (especially Casey) and if you go to office hours and ask for help, it's not bad. Try to go to the Friday problem solving lectures because the p-sets are essentially entirely based off those (but you can watch online if you can't make it). The professors were very engaged and they had a lot of office hours (also on different days) to make sure that you could go. First exam was very fair but second one was very tricky. Make sure to study *everything* on the lecture slides and definitely know how to do the heavy math problems for exams. Also, use the textbook- Pierce is a great reference- and it aligns well with what is being taught in lecture.
you will learn a lot, but the material is not taught extremely well
The exams are graded really hard.
It's really not that bad.  I had the impression it'd be worse; expect a pretty normal class.
LS1B is a great class.  You learn about a lot of different topics in genetics that are all interesting.  I believe this class is much better than it has been in the past based on previous Q guides.  All of the lecturers are very interesting and learning the material is very enjoyable.
First of all, I think that I learned A LOT in Ls1b. I really really enjoyed the first half of the course (Kevin and Hopi are AMAZING)! Sure, Ls1b is not an easy class, but you have to take it for science/pre-med, and it's honestly quite a good experience. My TF (Amy) was also amazing, I learned a LOT in section! Labs are sometimes annoying, but you usually don't have to write up lab reports, which is good. Ls1b is really not as bad as it used to be!!
The lab portion is overly hectic and the lectures often lack grounding, but overall the material presented is fascinating.
It's a pain pre-meds must endure.
This class has improved greatly and I am sure next year they will fix any kinks and make it better. The work is overwhelming at times, but the material is really interesting and the professors are great.
Read the textbook.Based on the lectures, the class is deceptively easy, but keeping up with the textbook readings should dispel that notion. Also, start preparing early for the final exam.
This course is a great course in terms of the material taught; however, the problem sets and test questions are often phrased in tricky ways. Watch out for that, and otherwise the professors, especially Dr. Ruvolo and Dr. Hoekstra are amazing!
Only take this course if required
Ls1b was, surprisingly, one of my favorite classes this semester. Though a lot of people have said it was poorly taught in the past, I think that they really stepped up their game this year--the lecturers were so engaging and enthusiastic, and even if you miss lecture, there are plenty of online resources and section materials that can help you understand other concepts. In general, I really enjoyed the topics that were covered in this class and the way that they were taught. One thing that I did find unnecessary was the textbook--I didn't use it at all throughout the course.
There's a lot of memorization, but you need to know this material so it's worthwhile. It's a fairly painless way to learn important concepts. I actually enjoyed the class
Your experience in this class is entirely dependent on your TF, and I unfortunately had a really incompetent TF who wasn't an effective teacher and a really harsh grader that returned assignments late (we got our first lab back on the last week of class). There's a terrible amount of busywork in this class - sometimes, there are two problem sets due a week along with lab writeups and other random things. The material can be interesting, but the disorganization of the class can make learning tough. Some of the questions written on the homework's/exams are vaguely phrased and thus, difficult to answer and do well on. Going to the PSL sessions really made the course bearable, but even then, the PSLs don't have all the answers.
Really a much better job than I expected. Can be a bit dry and confusing at times, but generally engaging and interesting.
great material, sometimes slow lecture pace but great resources/help-structures
Be careful allotting time to complete and understand psets.
This class was wonderful. The material is fascinating and well-taught and the problem sets and labs are relevant.
I hated this class, and I really don't mean to exaggerate. It was unreasonably difficult, and I often left section or lecture feeling so dumb and as if there was no way for me to get help. I think that major improvements need to be made to this class in order for it to be enjoyable by any means.
This class is a lot of work but it's a pre-req for almost all science concentrations so youj ust have to get through it.
You are probably a pre-med (props to those of you who aren't and are still going through this hell... though I wonder if you are completely sane..) and you are going to have to take this class. And Harvard knows it. Try all they might to get interesting lecturers, the class as a whole is ambiguous and no amount of studying can help if you are just bad at understanding the questions. That was my biggest failure in the class. I did understand the material, just not what LS1b wanted me to answer. That is not how a class should be.
Make it a goal to ask one question every class. The professors love it, you have a chance to converse with and be known by your brilliant professors, and it keeps you more engaged to always be searching for something that was not explained.
It's a tough class and quite a bit of work. The material is very interesting although sometimes I questioned the manner in which it was taught.
This course is not as bad as it was made out to be in previous years. It was frightening to have our entire grade depend on the final exam this year. Section and Problem Solving Lectures are your greatest assets. The book, not so much... don't worry about "required" readings. You'll waste a lot of time and energy on those. Lecture is kind of the same, but if you go and pay attention, you'll likely gain something.
The class is on an upward trend.  Q-scores from years past may be misleading.
It was hard but it was really interesting and it was fun to learn about your own genetic make up.
I think this class will continue to improve with time. The content is interesting but the presentation of materials could be improved.
This class is not as bad as everyone says! They made great improvements this year! Do not dread it at all!!
Take advantage of the PSL sessions.  Casey (one of the head TFs) did an amazing job explaining complex concepts and really helped me!
I may be biased because I really like biology and genetics is, as yet, my favorite area of biology. However, I felt like this was a very worthwhile class that taught me many interesting and exciting new concepts and was very engaging.
This class will definitely challenge your ability to both absorb large quantities of information and synthesize the main points for novel applications. This course definitely requires collaboration to complete the problem sets, but this is no way a bad thing. I sincerely believe this class is worthwhile if you want to understand the advancements that have been made in the field of genetics thus far, and also the possibilities and applications that exist in the fields of evolution and disease treatment.
This class has definitely improved from previous years. I really enjoyed the material and my TF was incredible and the professors (Hoekstra and Ruvolo especially) are fantastic lecturers, but the course still has flaws and is a big investment for time and energy. I thought the final was very fair and well written, though can't really say the same for the psets.
Don't take it if you're not a science person.
LS1b was really one of my favorite courses this semester. Dr. Eggan is super cool, spent hours at home filming videos of mitosis/meiosis demos, threw us a party/movie screening on his birthday, and, of course, is really hot. Dr. Hoekstra is adorable and sweet, answers questions outside of class and publishes them as super-helpful Q&A's in her lecture notes, and has really great office hours (like every teacher in this class). Dr. Sabeti is also super cool, made sure to bring oranges to throw at people for every question answered, and somehow made odds ratios and LOD scores make sense (with the help of Casey's problem solving sessions - on that note, those sessions are so helpful and any student should try their best to make every one. She throws chocolate too!). It was her first time teaching the class, so her part should be even better next year. Dr. Ruvolo is also great, and she is very dedicated to improving the class.
Problem sets are good to study in preparation for the exams. Overall this class is pretty fair in terms of material tested and tests themselves. Pardis' lectures could get a little dry sometimes, but I definitely recommend paying attention to them or reading the textbook/notes because Hardy-Weinberg stuff can get confusing if you don't keep up with material. Sometimes labs are annoying and the GDP project is definitely lengthy and at times feels like busywork; however the symposium at the end is really cool and worth attending. Generally I enjoyed the class, and thought it was a pretty good class given that it's also a pre-med requirement and requirement for many other biology concentrations.
Profs and TFs work extremely hard to make this enjoyable. The individual units throughout the semester are all actually really interesting, and you get to do some really cool labs. Learned a lot. Problem set questions can be a bit unclear at times but tests are quite straightforward.
This class provides the fundamentals for the material, and through it, students are introduced to various related concentrations. The professors, TFs, preceptors and PSLs are all approachable and helpful, and the sections and problem-solving lectures are good for reinforcing materials. Your individual efforts determine what you get out of the class, but you learn a lot and the class was enjoyable overall.
It's a tough class but the changes made over the years are starting to pay off and its not a particularly bad experience.
This is a class plagued with problems. Whatever reason you may have to take this class. Don't. I'm a  junior and this was by far the worst class that I have taken at Harvard. PSets have terrible grading schemes to them, exams are not representative of the course, lectures are poorly given, and (mandatory) section is the biggest waste of time. Test out of it, take other classes, do whatever you have to do. Don't take LS1b.
I came into this class expecting a boring a difficult class, but it was much better than I expected. The staff really cares about students and they definitely make it so that hard working students can do well in the class. If you put the work into it you will come out enjoying the class. The material is interesting and the lecturers are funny, which keep you awake, most of the time. Though older versions of the class have bad reputations don't let that keep you away. I am definitely glad i took the class instead of trying to get out of it.
LS1B is manageable but a lot of work.  If you keep up with the lectures and make sure you understand the material for each problem set, it is not horrible.  The tests are difficult but not unreasonable.
The course material is interesting, but the course is not taught very well. Too bad everyone concentrating in the life sciences or doing pre-med has to take it...
This course has issues, but I'd still recommend it. The readings are not necessary (except when a pset question occasionally comes straight from the reading), but can help clarify material. I know some people thought the psets asked random questions from nowhere, but I didn't get that feeling at all. I was one of those people hating on GDP and totally skeptical when the teaching staff introduced it saying that most people ended up thinking it was the best part of the course. It may not have been the best part of the course, but the symposium more than made up for the annoying parts. The course is not organized super well right now. The math is all pushed into one prof's lectures, even if it'd make sense somewhere else. It would have been much better if the math had been integrated throughout as necessitated by the material, even if it meant two profs splitting a lecture. Finally, the problem solving lectures are uber great. Use the slides and/or watch them online (I think I went to 1.5 in real time). They are not necessary for psets, but they're pretty darn helpful.
Be on top of everything and go to office hours.  There are a lot of things that you have to figure out for yourself that should probably be told to you but aren't.  Keep up with the schedule and outside of pset assignments as well.
I'd heard bad things about LS1b coming in, but I really enjoyed my time in the course.  While the course starts out very slowly, the material is very interesting and well organized.  Hopi and Maryellen are great lecturers, and Kevin and Pardis are great too but I think their material was less interesting. The GDP project was incredible as it showed me that what we were learning in class was actually being used in the real world. I found myself understanding articles for other science classes better because of the terminology we had learned in class.  I highly recommend taking this class, not only because it fulfills a lot of requirements, but also because you'll get a lot out of it without an unmanageable amount of work.
This course, although very informative and an overall enjoyable class, requires 100% of your effort throughout the entire term. To get the most out of this class, fully utilize all the resources provided. The problem solving sessions are also helpful for most units.
They improved the class this year significantly. I enjoyed it because I really enjoy genetics, but the evolution unit was kind of a drag. Work-wise it's not too terrible; there are 1-2 problems sets a week (usually one) and sometimes post-lab questions. There are two midterms, one final, and one project due in stages that's actually pretty interesting. Most of the people taking this course take it to fulfill concentration/premed requirements. I really wouldn't take it for fun because it can be kind of tedious. But if you have to take it, just get through it. It's really not that bad especially if you've had some basic biology before.
Premed Course Alert: genetics is interesting, but the course is all about fighting daily for your grade with chores and silly assignments. Never was there a truly hard problem to think about.
If you take it, you're either pre-med or psycho.  Don't take this class unless you're a masochist.  Or a pre-med.  Same thing, really.
Take advantage of office hours!
Almost everyone takes this course because it is required and sometimes it does seem like a chore.The problem sets can be a little lengthy. The exams are pretty fair.
They're working hard to improve the course, it's not at all as bad as I expected it to be. If they keep the same professors, Kevin and Hopi are great and pretty easy to learn from; Pardis and Maryellen are intelligent people but be prepared to seek outside help to supplement their lectures as they can gloss over important things that you will need to know well for exams. Casey, the preceptor, is amazing. Go to her PSLs and ask her for help, take advantage of that and it will make things a lot easier. In general, this isn't such a bad course. The real difficulty in this class is just managing workload and expectations.
It's a gateway course.  I might as well recommend it.  Plus, it's bad!  It's mostly on the student to be an active learner. This is how she learns!
It's really not as bad as I've heard it used to be; it's an informative class and you definitely learn a lot of cool stuff.
It's a lot better now. Definitely doable and you really do learn a lot! But still read and study the material.
It has its ups and downs, but considering anyone enrolled is probably only there because they have to be, it could be worse. Most of the lectures are more interesting than LS1a, but the section/lab component is much worse.
If you're interested in biology, take this course. As in any introductory course, it varies a lot as it covers a broad range of topics, but some of them can be very interesting (and others pretty dull).
Stay as far away from LS1b as you can.  Taking this course will hopefully be my largest mistake at Harvard.
Its a good class, the material is interesting and the psets are doable. Ultimately if you have to take this class for your major or pre-med, just take it, it won't be that bad. Also, you do not need to do any of the readings.
If you are interested in genetics and evolution, this is definitely a good class. Be careful of the enormous mass of information that the course covers as well as the super vague questions that never really quite articulate how one is supposed to give an answer. None of the material was really inherently difficult but there is a lot of it.
Lots of work is expected outside of class. What you learned in lectures is not enough to do well in tests. You need to read textbooks and study more, or else.
only take it if you really love bio or you are premed....otherwise you don't need the stress
Interesting class, a lot of work and material covered
LS1b had a terrible reputation in the past and I can't speak for past years, but I would definitely recommend it now. It was my favorite course this semester, and I genuinely enjoyed learning the material. The course covers a wide variety of interesting topics and lectures are fun to go to because there are videos and demonstrations. All of the professors work hard to make it an entertaining and engaging course. The professors and teaching staff are extremely accessible, so if you are committed to doing well in the course, anyone can be successful. Section is a good complement to the extremely large lecture format.
Lots of memorization. Lots of support. I liked Ls1a better.
You probably have to take this course as a requirement. It isn't too bad really. You learn a lot, the professors are really committed to making it a good experience, and there is a lot of really interesting material to cover. Labs are really long and some of them are pretty boring, but there are also some cool labs where you get to analyze your own DNA. Although genetics inevitably can be a little dry, I think this course truly does get at the big picture and is run quite well.
The class is better than it was in the past. However, I was still miserable because even though I slave away at assignments like psets, papers, and labs, in the end the exams are the only thing worth anything. No matter how well you do in any other portion of the class, there is absolutely no safety net should you do poorly on your exams.
The concepts they cover regarding genetics is very interesting and much of the staff are great to have as professors.
Conceptually, the material is really interesting and the professors are awesome. Actually, though, I was very frustrated with the structure of the course  it ended up being much more work and more stressful than I expected (with lab assignments/PSETS/the GDP project). The lab quizzes before each lab were not fun; I felt like I had to attend the extra Friday afternoon problem-solving review sessions because they covered material that wasnt covered in class but did show up on the psets; lectures were entertaining but we didnt delve deep enough into the material (and all too often we would waste class time on a fun demo but end up rushing at the end of lecture and/or barely covering the essential material); it seemed like we spent more time learning basic statistics calculations than genetics/evolution in class; it was nearly impossible to do all of the readings on top of all the other stuff they expected us to do. Also, my TF wasnt that great, so section was always a drag. We did do some cool things, though, like personalized genetics  sequencing our own DNA for genes that are associated with certain traits (such lactose intolerance, endurance running, sleep/wake tendencies, ability to taste bitter compounds, etc)  and study transgenic organisms (like glowing C. elegans and zebrafish embryos).One thing I wish I had done was go to the professors office hours  they seem like such amazing, fun people and it would be great to get to know them and the work that they do outside of class.
It has good material thats important to learn but lectures are weak and sections are just awful. Caitlin was an amazing TF but the stuff that was put in the section was too much work.
There is a lot of material and it's easy to fall behind so make sure you do the readings and practice problems. Lynne and Casey are good resources, so talk to them if you have trouble with the concepts and the learning goals make good study material.
First of all, they cover way too much material in the course. There's four professors who teach the course and each feels that it's of utmost importance to cover their own material in great depth. As a result, they attempt to cram in a lot of material without actually teaching it to you or giving it a lot of time to sink in. At one point, we were literally covering over 200 slides in each 90 minute lecture.The course is not very well organized. To do well in this course, you have to be prepared to spend a lot of time learning (memorizing) the material on your own. Friday problem sessions are an absolute requirement if you want to have any idea how to do psets. Even then, psets go over a lot of material barely covered in lecture, so you'll have to go to office hours or find student study groups. There are many TFs for this course and quality control seems to be lacking so a lot of them won't really be able to help you with learning material very well. Instead, directly email professors and go to their office hours incessantly.Section and labs are annoying. They keep you in labs for 3 hours every week, sometimes longer. During this, you will have labs with a lot of sitting around and a review of problems. If you have a TF who doesn't know his/her material, this time will be incredibly painful and prolonged.They will tell you that you have to take this course. This is a lie. You have to get credit for this course for most science requirements--and you can do that by testing out of it at the beginning of the semester. Wish I knew about that before taking this course. Seriously, study on your own and keep trying to test out until you can to avoid the mess that Ls1b is every single year.
Genetics is a fascinating field, and it is fairly well taught in this course.
This class is getting better and better, year after year.  Don't be scared of this course.  Just be prepared to devote hours to it.  I would suggest that you work on the psets alone, go to office hours, and do the practice problems AFTER you've gone through all of the material, and GONE TO CASEY'S PROBLEM SESSIONS.  Use the practice problems to STUDY for the test rather than to "learn" how to do the problems.  That will help you.  Good luck! :) Also, Kevin Eggan and Hopki are great!
If you do the work, you will do well.
If you see this comment, there are two possibilities:1. You are required to take this class.2. You are interested in genetics/HEB and want this as an elective/GenEd, etc.For 1:Well I guess you have to take this class? Here's the thing:a. Do the psets carefully. b. Learn all the lecture slides/videos right after class. Don't do this the night before exam.c. Write as much as you can in midterms even if that is redundant.d. You have to show up in lectures... they have clicker questions. BUT SERIOUSLY ATTEMPTING TO KEEP STUDENTS BY DOING CLICKER QUESTIONS IS JUST LIKE A STUPID WOMAN ATTEMPTING TO KEEP A MAN WITH PREGNANCY!e. Section TF's vary so much... I had to attend someone else's office hours before an exam, and that guy sucks... he didn't even know what the pset looks like! Sectioning is not completely random. You can request a specific TF if you know someone, and you can send an email to the preceptor. I sectioned with Eugene Gladyshev (who is also my LS1a TF and is super cool).f. Memorize the names of all those (dead) monkeys...g. If you have known a lot about evolution and genetics, try to place out of this class. There is a special placement test at the beginning of the term. Inquire is there is no announcement. For 2:You are not required to take this class? Dude then go find another class.
There is a lot of review material interspersed with new material in the lectures, so it is easy to miss out on new content if you lose focus while listening to what you think is review. Practice the problems; they help in cementing what is important to remember.
The class honestly seems a little disorganized. The topics covered are very diverse but there's not a lot of depth to anything we cover. You have to know just enough about way too many topics so solving problems on problem sets and exams can be difficult. The lectures are not very helpful.
Although the material is not hard and actually interesting LS1b is poorly taught in lecture and you're expected to learn everything outside of class. You never know what to expect on the exam because the lectures are full of unnecessary details and the lecturers don't make it clear what will be asked.also: YOU DO NOT HAVE TO TAKE THIS FOR PRE-MED. Talk to advisors and make sure you can take higher bio for your bio requirement: It will not be a  harder experience than Ls1b
Don't be afraid of this class but also be prepared to be annoyed with some organizational issues.  Overall, the material and labs are interesting, but the professors vary in teaching strength.
LS1B is notorious for being a horrible class, but it has gotten exponentially better over the past two years. The content is extraordinary (albeit confusing at times), and the class is actually very well-organized. Be ready to work hard, but it is definitely worth taking.
I took it for a requirement dreading it but it's not as bad as people say it is.  Some of the lectures were pretty dry but a lot were really interesting.  That being said, I wouldn't recommend it unless you need it.
Did not like the LS series overall, however this class is very well organized. Even though the subject matter was not really cohesive you do come out of it getting a big sense of the world of genetics. If I could I would have chosen to taken LS2 or the MCB series over it.
I took this as an 'elective.' That might have been a mistake.
this is an excellent class. the course material in sometimes hard to understand but once you do, you actually learn to appreciate it and see why Dr Berry has so much ethusiasim for the course.
Pay attention and don't underestimate it, and it'll be a good class
Take this course since it is interesting but be prepared to work.
Be prepared to work your butt off if you want to be rewarded with a decent grade.
If you don't have to take this class, I would hope you would choose not too. The instructors are a lot funnier but the information isn't more interesting and the lecture slides are disorganized. The GDP project was fun though.
The p sets are fun, but the tests are annoying.... Be prepared to answer questions about nitty gritty details
Be organized, and have a general sense of direction for yourself
Don't need to know LS1a super well to do well in the couse. Very manageable if you stay up to date on the material and understand the psets. Very interesting as well!!
The course was very well-organized and there was an influx of available resources for me to pool for, especially for exam prep.  Some lectures (especially Mary Ellen's) were rushed material-wise and though there were so many resources for exam prep, it was hard to weed through them considering the midterms seemed very problem-based as opposed to conceptually-based.
The College has done a tremendous job at improving this course. The lecturers are fantastic and the course is set up in such a way to aid the students taking it, with copious additional aid for those needing it. I would take this class even if you aren't in the sciences. The materials discussed are rather interesting and discovering just how far research has come in the last 30 years is astounding. Plus you get the humorous banter between Professor Hoekstra and Professor Berry.
It's LS1b.  Professor Berry, Hoekstra, and Ruvolo are fantastic and entertaining lecturers, but the material is covered too quickly and the psets do not reflect the difficulty of the exams.  Personally, the most challenging part of the course was my lack of background in the material.
definitely only if required
This class is not the most straightforward. I would suggest reading lecture and doing ALL the practice problems, and attending the problem review sessions. These give a better sense of the type of questions on the exams than the book, or the problem sets. Do these problems more than once if you have to.
This isn't a class you take if you aren't a science concentrator or premed. It is a lot of work and it isn't easy, but this year the improvements really seemed to pay off. The lectures were generally very good. Section was usually good because that's where you learn how to do the problems that will be on psets and tests. Overall, it wasn't very painful.
This was a horrible class.
It's hard, but the lectures are great
This is really one of the most challenging classes.
Take the course if the professors are Andrew Berry, Hopi, and Maryellen. Labs and sections are a pain, but just get through it. Lectures with these professors make up for it.
I can only see this class getting better as Dr. Berry and Hoekstra get more familiar with the course. Most people will be taking this because it's a requirement but if you have a good TF, you'll have a good time.
This class is WAY WAY WAY WAY WAAAAAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYYYYYYY too easy!  I took it as a junior (waiting for a decent change of staff) and I had covered almost every single topic from one or another biology class I have taken at Harvard and even in high school.  I did not study for a single exam, but still managed to score a standard deviation above the mean.  That being said, 50% of the class is scoring below the mean who did not find the class as easy as I did.  I think this reflects a need for even greater change: to half the course and create an LPSB for those students who have less background and feel unprepared to take LS1b.  As it is, I was bored out of my mind and completely unchallenged while others were complaining about how difficult the course is.  This course was a waste of my time (I learned almost nothing new) and would have been greatly improved with an increase in difficulty of subject material.
It's a good course.  You will learn a lot of genetics, alongside its history and the controversy it currently encompasses. It's overall an interesting course. Lecture can be hard to get through a lot of times though....
don't expect to understand anything
If you're taking this class, you probably have to take it anyway, so reviews probably don't mean much. That being said, this is a fine class. Judging from last year's Q reviews, it has improved substantially in comparison to previous years. I am pretty interested in biology and genetics myself, and I had no problems with this class. Some of the material is truly fascinating; some of it is dry and seems pretty useless. I'm not sure how much I actually gained from this class- much of it I already knew, and much of what I didn't know was equations I have a feeling I will never use again. I'm sure I gained at least something from it. Some of the labs (testing your own DNA to determine your relationship to your classmates, observing C. elegans mutants) were really cool. Problem sets were no problem. Tests were usually fair. Of course, Andrew Berry is a riot and his lectures are always hilarious, which is a plus. When the material is boring, the professors do make an effort to keep you interested with things like short video clips, some of which are really cool. This wasn't as good of a class as Ls1a, but it was perfectly acceptable for a large pre-req class.
So most science majors and premeds will have to take this class, and hopefully the instructors keep trying to improve it. To do well, you need to have a strong understanding of the terms they give you and know how to do the specific types of problems they give you. Definitely do all of the practice problems because the more you do, the faster you will do them on the midterm which are crunched for time. The final was mostly explaining as opposed to the midterms which were mostly problem solving. They give you broad meanings of the terms they want you to know, so you need to ask how they will show up on an exam. Overall, I think it improved from last near but still needs a lot of work before people start to enjoy it.
Professor Barry's lecture slides are kind of useless and Mary Ellen was pretty boring to listen to. Although all the professors generate enthusiasm for the course, it is impossible to do the problem sets without going to the Friday help sessions. These help session should not be optional!!! They are absolutely necessary to just have a basic idea of what is going on in the course. Also, the readings are not that helpful. To prepare for exams, you really need to do all the practice problems.
The lectures are very interesting, and it is advisable to check your P-sets with your classmates.
Difficult class, but the recently restructured format of it is apparently much better than what it was before - makes me glad I took it this year! Hopi was the best lecturer!
its not as bad as it used to be.  theyve done a good job fixing it
It's necessary for pre-med and you will make it through.
This will probably be the worst class you will take at Harvard, and you don't even get a medal when you're done with it.
If you're planning on taking this course it is most likely because you are very interested in the life sciences, so you will most likely find the course material super interesting. The teaching could be better.
Pretty good course for a large introductory level class. Be sure to go to the PSL sessions. They are really helpful. It's great to check your work with others and get guidance from people have been in the class before. Be prepared to see some tiny minuscule details on the midterm/final. Pay attention in lecture/ watch lecture's online.
If you space it out, it is easy to stay on top of the work and learn/understand everything.  The teachers are fun, and will keep you interested.
This class is near the worst class you'll ever take at Harvard. Sorry pre-meds. At least it's getting better...
I waited a year to see if LS1b would be "fixed" after its unfortunate reputation in past years, and I would say that it definitely has been.  All 3 lecturers were outstanding, and the course covered a vast amount of material while maintaining a very manageable workload. Don't let the midterms catch you off guard though, or it can be painful.  Work hard, do practice problems, and you won't regret taking this class.
Hard class but interesting. Seems like a lot of random topics.
very difficult
Not bad, but only take it if you need it for credit or if you are genuinely interested in genetics. Also, beware of really long exams and having to learn a lot of material.
It's quite amazing how pathetic a course at Harvard can ever be.First of all, my complaint is not out of trying to justify doing badly in a class.  I scored well above 90 in the quiz and the two midterms.  For me the class was very easy; I spent maximum 1.5 hours outside of class for this.Everything you learn in this course will be vague, ambiguous, confusing, and ill-defined.  The Psets are not enlightening but confusing.  They will present you with a concept but never actually explain it well.  Part of the reason is that the course tries to present simplified versions of these concepts, and then fails at it.  Sometimes with oversimplification comes more confusion and even wrong information.  The reasoning for the answers on psets or exams are absolutely ridiculous too; the only reason I did well was because I knew how to play games.  I considered the entire course as a game; when they mention certain words, you just use certain words and phrases to answer it.  There is no thinking nor understanding of the concepts involved.  When I asked them a question "that reasoning does not work because it assumes this and this, and the assumption is not a valid one either.  How can it yield the right answer then?" The answer was along the line of "yes, you are right. but our answer could be the case too.  So we'll just accept ours as the answer and not yours." Great. Amazing reasoning that is.Now, I do concede that I'm being a little unfair since this is really their first year teaching this course, but unless they really take time to change many aspects of the course, I can tell you that you will very likely go through what I went through.  That is, you'll come to Harvard as a biology passionate person, and by the end of the course, you'll be disgusted by it so much that you consider switching into government major.They really don't care about the course anyway.  After the first quiz, which I did very well on, I in fact sent them an email on how the course could become better.  I wrote 600 words, in detail and with specificity, how the lectures can become more helpful.  They sent an email back saying they'll take my comments into account.  The lectures got only worse.Lastly, I guarantee you that this comment will not make it to the Q-guide, although it is one of the accurate ones, but I'll share with many people on FB and email so that you will receive the right information.  I'm not complaining because of a bad grade, nor because I'm having a hard time with the course.  I'm just severely disappointed at how absolutely miserable a Harvard course can be, and I just wanted to let you know about it.
Interesting course, you will learn a fair amount. Not too much work.  However, topics are presented in a somewhat disorienting order, and labs are pretty ineffective.
Avoid this class. It is not worth the trouble. The problem sets are not difficult but the lectures are not even worth going to.
Prepare to work extremely hard outside of class.
Although it wasn't the best class I've taken at Harvard, the new professors certainly did a great job re-inventing the course and presenting the material in an engaging way. This course will only get better.
This course remains flawed, but probably better than past iterations.
I should preface this by saying that this course is inevitable for most life science concentrations, so there isn't much choice for pre-concentrators like myself. Regardless, this course has interesting material in principle, but the way in which it is presented could be improved. Because of the breadth of material covered, the lecturers move through some concepts too quickly, and thus the section component becomes critical to succeed in the class. The exams are very difficult and this is compounded with very harsh grading. Study a lot for the exams because they are meant to produce bell curves - they are made to throw people off so that the 500+ people don't all receive good grades. Keep up with the reading if possible and check problem sets with peers (same as in any other science course). Most people I have spoken to think that this class had the potential to be much better, and in the future it may reach that potential...
Do it because you have to
Run. Run far away. Then come back and enroll. The bottom line here is, this class is mandatory. You have to take it, even as much as you don't want to.
Very interesting material but terrible TF.
Don't underestimate the quizzes and exams.
Take the class very seriously, STUDY, STUDY, and STUDY some more.
Only take this class if you are premed or have to take it. Not fun or enjoyable.
It is a lot of work. Based on what i have heard in the past this course has improved A LOT. I really enjoyed it, but it is a lot of memorization and application. One should go in with the mindset that they will be putting in quite a few hours.
Everyone will probably tell you that they love Andrew Berry and think he is amazing and hilarious and a great lecturer. Yes, he is entertaining, but he does not actually teach. It was frustrating to sit through an hour and a half lecture and only receive ten minutes worth of content at most. Instead, a lot of time was spent dancing and jumping around to make students laugh. This class was definitely being test-run after the abomination it was last year so I guess it is an improvement, but it definitely was a big frustration that it was still so disorganized. Hopefully it will improve by next year.
You have to take this class if you're thinking about doing the life sciences, so there's not much wiggle room, and Dr. Berry, Dr. Hoekstra, and Dr. Ruvolo do try to make the whole class as painless as possible. With that being said, the class will be a bit of a nuisance at times. The grading is extremely inconsistent from TF to TF, and though you may feel like you did well on an exam, the preceptors will knock you points for neglecting even the most minute of details. The lectures as a whole are pretty enjoyable (except for the last several), and the section component is a great supplement to the lectures in helping you understand the problem solving portion of the class.
Don't take it unless you're pre-med.
This class is a very comprehensive overview of concepts in genetics and evolutionary biology. At times, the material can be dense and the concepts may be difficult to understand immediately, but many lectures (especially those about human evolution) were very interesting. The exams in the class tend to be difficult and can be different from your expectations. Overall, this class is a pre-med requirement that is not easy to get around, so take it and enjoy it (or try to)!
It is pretty engaging now.
Be sure to look over the lecture slides before the exams - the exam questions tend to be unfairly specific
If you have to take this for pre-med, then do. But it's a requirement. Hopefully they'll continue to improve this over time.
A good deal of this class (particularly on tests) is just trying to play the "hit-the-correct-key-word" game. I felt like the professors were mostly just looking for regurgitation of what they had taught in class, rather than applying knowledge in new ways. This can get pretty frustrating because it requires much more rote memorization, but if that's your thing, I'm sure the class would be fine.
I guess I have to recommend this class, since it's sort of a natural start to science here. But be prepared to want to die. At least Dr. Berry is cool...
It is much better than it used to be!  The lecturers are very interesting (especially Andrew Berry he is awesome, such a legend)!!!! Section leaders are all very strong in their element and the amount of practice problems available is great.  Do them! And take the practice exams! Take what they give you.
You're going to take it, because you have to, but you're going to have a bad time.
It's a great class because of the course material but be prepared to work a lot on your own to understand it all. I'd recommend to additional practice problems and discuss concepts with other people in the class to make sure you really understand the conceptual aspects of the class. Most of the problems and exams will require you to have a good understanding of concepts, not of specific questions.If you're considering taking this class as an elective or GenEd course, the material is really interesting and although I had problems with the structure, I did really enjoy the content. It was great to see why we work the way we do and Andrew Berry is an amazing lecturer! Also, the labs overall were really cool and really drove the concepts home.
it's not terrible. do not procrastinate studying and study all of the random/vague notes. know the concepts--don't just do practice problems. compared to other years it's apparently better. berry and hoekstra are amazing. ruvolo is boring and turned me off of HEB forever. what you learn is pretty interesting, but the statistics part (heritability, etc.) seemed really pointless and was incredibly boring.
This class is difficult. Make this class your focus for the semester you take it, spending most of your study time on it.
This class is a great introduction to higher level bio concepts. The tests are hard, and make sure you get a good TF; if you don't like yours, try and switch immediately, it makes a huge difference in this class because a substantial amount of the teaching gets done in section.
It's better than it was based on what I have heard from other former students. However, I found it really hard to figure out just what I was trying to take out of the material. Often I felt like a lot of information was being thrown at me without a cohesive picture.
It's a good class but be prepared to put a lot of hours into class/section/work outside of class. this is not a small commitment.
This class became enjoyable as time passed (which may be unheard of in the history of LS1B).
This class is very hard and the material covered in lectures is not exactly portrayed in the homework and tests. This made it feel that going to lecture is  a waste of time since what they tested on was on the optional Friday discussions.
The completely REVAMPED version of LS1B is really great. Truly an interesting class. While all the assessments are very difficult, it is a very doable class. The work load isn't too killer and the information is really interesting. Berry, Hoekstra, Ruvolo combo is incredible. They are usually really great lecturers and keep students engaged. Don't buy the textbook. It makes everything way more confusing than it needs to be, in my opinion. Waste of $140.
There's no way of telling what's going to be on the exam, so study everything, and expect to be disappointed.
The exams are extremely difficult.
It was extremely difficult and hard to learn the material.
You'll really enjoy this class; the revamp was quite successful.
Don't do the assigned readings in the textbook. They are completely unnecessary. Do do all the review materials available on the course website.
I assume it's better than before. Exams were half concepts half problems. They like to introduce new kinds of problems(not like practice probs or section probs)on the exam. BE PREPARED FOR THAT! The Friday reviews are really just MANDATORY. They're basically the only way to learn how to do some of the pset problems(unless your TF is awesome and teaches this)
Feel free to skip this class!  The upper-level genetics classes are completely accessible without it, and your time will be better spent elsewhere.  You can pick up all of the useful parts of this class from context at higher levels, no problem.
It takes worknot hard per say, but the details can get annoying if you aren't particularly enthused.
Life Sciences 1b was truly an incredible experience for me. What I truly enjoy about LS1b is that it is problem-solving based. I was able to gain a much better appreciation for the concepts because of this format. I think that one of the key strengths of the course was section. Section, though slightly long, really reinforced the key concepts and helped me determine which concepts were important to remember and take away from the lectures. Challenging but rewarding.
Take it because you have to. It's not great at all. Just get through it and work with friends to understand the material.
Only take this course if you need it for pre-med or for concentration, so try to figure out if you want to do the life sciences or pre-med before 2nd semester, or wait until you're sure. The class is definitely taught better than it has been in the past, but it was still my least favorite class, because I felt like I couldn't pick out the important parts of lecture. The symposium was really cool and interesting, especially for someone not into the research side because it gave a face to the disease we studied.
Put in the work and make sure you do the side readings. They're really helpful.
It is a fairly painless class-psets are weekly but short, lab reports are easy.  Midterms were predictable as well.  Even though lectures were interesting, they did not at all correlate to material tested, so make sure to pay attention in lab/section.
This course is necessary, and sometimes boring. It is manageable if you keep up with the work.
This class can have a lot of tedious, boring moments, but it also has sparks of really interesting material as well. This would be a good class to explore if you are thinking about the different evolutionary concentrations because all forms of evolution, from fossils, humans, plants, etc, are covered in at least some detail throughout the course.
Only take LS1b if you have to.  It will be frustrating, and you will regret the time you spend on this class.
Way better now with the new teaching staff. Andrew Berry is boss, Hopi is awesome, and Maryellen is great too. Cool material if you're interested in genetics, etc., and somewhat useful too. I had fun overall.
This class is slightly boring at times and difficult with tests, but pretty rewarding once completed.
Make use of the section review sessions.
don't assume it is exactly like LS1a
Interesting material with good professors but a difficult and disorganized class.
LS1B has been one of the more interesting lifesci courses I've taken at Harvard. Very well taught, the professors are great and generate great enthusiasm for the course. Do the practice problems! go to the problem solving lectures, and PSLs, they are helpful in getting through the material and p-sets. Take advantage of all the resources that are available for this course and you should be fine.
This is genuinely the worst course I have ever enrolled in throughout the entirety of my academic career.  Even if this course is a concentration requirement, DO NOT take it until it gets better Q scores or there are serious course overhauls.  This course has made me reevaluate my status as a science concentrator despite having a long history in science research.
It's a pill. If you must take it, swallow it, don't complain, and don't brag about how many hours you've spent locked in your room studying for the midterm. Be careful - it is NOT well organized... the course heads/head TFs/lab TFs all seem to be on different pages in terms of what is required/how to do genetics/what the heck is going on.
If you're reading this, you probably have no choice but to take LS1b. But still, at least be aware of what you should appreciate about this class:Strengths:1. The professors. From what I heard, previous years were utter disasters. I am grateful to have had passionate, interesting, and caring professors this year. Andrew Berry is very politically incorrect at times, incoherent often, but altogether caring and exciting to watch. Ruvulo is REALLY hard to understand and follow but a leader in her field. The way she shaped her lectures and the course has some merit. I know she has her own reasons for why and it's probably in our best interests. Hopi is the best. Appreciate her lectures for being the most coherent. They have stories with them too and are extremely fun.2. The questions on the exams and problem sets that we had never seen before. The most learning happens when memorization is not enough. It is when we are given a situation that we have never before seen and are asked to think critically and carefully about the available possibilites before justifying them with our own reasoning.3. The labs were very well-organized and interesting (ESPECIALLY THE DNA SEQUENCING. Being able to see your OWN DNA is literally the coolest thing. You get to see where YOU individually came from in the lineage of chimps, gorillas, and Neanderthals. It's awesome.)The best moments of the course are when they emphasize critical thinking. Admittedly, there were at times when there was too much memorization (i.e. memorizing the phylogeny of human ancestry). We are all going to forget the names of say, the strepsirhines and haplorhines, in about two weeks. Is that learning? No. What is learning is when we get a question about how QTL works and are asked to reason through how we would actually create the crosses. The question was challenging and required NOT ONLY a thorough understanding of QTL analysis but careful analysis, thought, and extrapolation. It is these skills that we carry on throughout our undergraduate careers and on. I feel this is what makes our professors famous in their fields. I feel this is quality learning. Savor and appreciate this.Also, dont read the book. The assigned readings are impossible to complete. If they still use it next year, just glance through the chapters before going into lecture so that you recognize and understand key terms, summaries, and diagrams. That will help you from staying too focused on writing down the slide info and more focused on actually understanding. FINALLY: People will complain regardless abut LS1b. Ultimately, remember the quality of the course is also dependent on you. If you want it to be world-class, take the initiative. Review lecture slides after lecture. Go in to office hours. Find Andrew Berry. Listen to him talk in his British accent. Solve problem sets independently if you can until you genuinely can't solve a problem. ONLY THEN should you seek collaborative help. Don't try to just copy answers. Enjoy and appreciate the exams. They can get really hard. The final was 24 pages. Crazy right? But it's a fun challenge. Savor it. Grab your education with your own hands. Don't be passive.
Only take it if you have to. The lecturers are great, but the course is unfocused and poorly planned. Ignore what they teach in lectures and pay attention in section.
This class is really hard and section is boring.
Take it only if you have to (pre-med/concentration requirement).
If you like genetics, this course will be a breeze as long as you put the work in. The new profs are great!
I doubt that anyone takes this class just to take it; it's just one of those hard pre-med courses. Make sure that you review both lectures very well each week so that you can understand the problem set. This will prepare you for the exams so that you don't have to cram as much when they come up. Be sure to do your reading for the weekly lab quizzes - they are often unpredictable.
The class butchers what ought to be interesting material. Enjoy the lectures and read through the textbook, but endure lab sections and just get through the course. It's not hard.
Lectures were very interesting but exams could be difficult.
You have to take it for pre-med and most science concentrations so just push through it.  Got much better this year.
The lectures do not really coincide with the problem sets or the exams. Also, the questions on the midterms/exams are incredibly unclear and ambiguous. It was a struggle.
I personally liked this course better than LS1a. It's true that the problems sets are vague and frustrating sometimes, but the lectures are often very engaging purely because the information in them is really cool. All 3 of the professors (Berry, Ruvolo, and Hoekstra) are good lecturers.
The subject matter is cool; the class itself is still (perhaps inevitably) massive and disorganized and full of pre-meds, and the quality of lectures varies from instructor to instructor. That said, I enjoyed working with my classmates and feel I got to know people well through the class.
This class is too difficult. It is designed to favor the gifted students, but not the dedicated ones. I came into this class with only LPSA for a Biology background, and I was tred upon. Although I am Pre-med and am dedicated to learning this material, there were too many other students who came to the class already knowing more than I had heard of and were, therefore, unduly given a leg up.
It's necessary for later science classes and the topics are interesting but not the most exciting of classes.
Though the material is difficult, as to be expected, the lectures are engaging and the topic is well taught. Of course, this doesn't mean one can get by without doing further studying outside of class.
This class should be taken if one knows that they might concentrate in science or like the material.
I'm sure this was better than it was in years past, but still not a great class. The lectures are kind of all over the place and seem unconnected.
Simply attending class is not enough to success in this course. Going to problem solving lectures and approaching it as a problem solving class is a better way to think about the course.
Brace yourself for GDP project, but the lecturers this year were awesome!
LS1b is well aware of the fact that it needs to improve, and the teaching staff are obviously working quite hard to do so.  That said, the class is still more a scattered series of data for students to learn and fails to engage critical problem-solving abilities in a meaningful way.
Avoid if possible (horrible way to "explore" an interest)
Though they made lots of changes, I would say this class still needs considerable improvement. The lectures are often interesting, and can even be entertaining, but those who run the course really need to do a better job of making clear what we need to do and what we need to know. It was so frustrating that all I had to go off of to study for a test was a list of a few hundred words, most of which were just casually mentioned during lecture. Needless to say, the exams usually threw a few curveballs at you. They made us buy a textbook, but it was always unclear as to whether we were supposed to read it or use it. I loved my TF, but many of the labs were painfully long. In the end, only take this class if you absolutely have to (for pre-med or concentration) because it will continue to frustrate you throughout the semester.
Well structured course materials. Two lectures a week, one three hour section a week, one pset per week and occasional labs/presentation. Professors are on the whole quite clear and engaging, but lecture is not necessarily helpful for all students. It can delve into excessive side-tracking or jokes (from Professor Andrew Berry, who is charismatic but often too facetious for time efficiency). Clicker questions require attendance, which is unfortunate for those who find lecture slow-paced. Entire course is focused on the various aspects of genetics, so you had better be interested in it... Midterms and finals are fair testing of material, and quizzes in section hold you accountable for basic knowledge. Course overall not overly work-intensive.
This class still needs work. Good teachers though.
They throw a ridiculous amount of information at you in this course.  The focus is not on problem solving like ls1a, but rote memorization.  Unless you have an eidetic memory, you will have trouble with the exams.  Glad it's over...
A lot of people write "only take this class if it's required." LS1b defines that sentiment. It is a decent introduction with no glaring weaknesses, but is also a testament to the fact that lectures don't matter THAT much if the section materials, exams, and other assignments are mostly the same. This class got awful Q guides last year, they improved the lecturers (a bit), and the class is...better, but not GOOD. There's still a fair bit of wasted time, a few notable moments of disjointedness, and overall not very stimulating subject matter.Still, it was decent, which is not something many people would've said last year.PS: The final is hard - study the monkey terms from the end a lot!
A very good course now that they got Andrew Berry, who is hilarious. The GDP project is very fun to do. Just keep in mind that the course is difficult (though it is possible to get an A in this course!) and that you will have to put in a lot of time and effort into the class.
It's difficult to avoid this class for science concentrators, so you just have to get it over with. It wasn't a ton of work, but some of the lectures were really boring, some of the labs were pointless, and some of the psets are extremely difficult for no real reason.
you will learn a lot but make sure to try and find your own understanding of the structure of the course because no one will give that to you
If you are more interested in molecular biology, you will probably not particularly enjoy this class, though the material can be pretty interesting. Regardless, I feel like this semester at least, the class was not particularly well organized, which made the psets sometimes a bit random and made it harder to study for the exams.
Much has improved from the past iterations of this class.
The class is not very well organized. Perhaps wait a couple years to take it until it gets figured out. The exams are unfair. Go to problem solving lectures!!
This course is logistically extremely flawed and can create a lot of frustration at times. That being said, the professors are good and teach the material well. Take advantage of professor office hours to really help understand the material. If you get put in a section with a T.F. who does not help you to understand the material and I mean really comprehend the principals then SWITCH!!!! My T.F. was the only really good thing about this course.
This class can be very entertaining, but the material is not always presented succinctly or logically.  A good TF is key
This class is not well organized, and frankly, I didn't learn very much. But it is a Life Sciences concentration requirement, so if you have to take it, then do so. I would say that if you have a strong background in biology, you should definitely try to test out of the class, because it won't be worth your time.
a difficult but interesting class. a lot of work. much MUCH better than how i have heard previous years described
This course is difficult but the material is interesting.
If you're a pre-med you don't really have a choice of whether to take this class or not. That being said, it wasn't bad at all. Andrew Berry and Hopi Hoekstra were great lecturers. Just be careful who will teach you section. If you end up with a section teacher that sucks, change as fast as possible.
Unfortunately, most people have to take this class. Be forewarned, its not fun. My best advice is to go to Casey's problem solving lectures on fridays. that is the only way to get psets and practice problems done because they don't teach you any of it during lecture.The material itself is interesting, but they really need to fix this class. still has its kinks and it added a lot more stress on me.I liked expos more than ls1b.....that says something.
This class met my expectations. Good lectures, professors are great, psets are actually helpful, etc. The only annoying things were the prelab quizzes (asked about the littlest things) and the assigned readings, which often did not match up to lecture enough for it to be actually worth doing the reading.
You have to take it, so suck it up. Even with the teaching staff, LS1B is an organizational disaster. Just get through, at least you'll be done with it in a semester.
This was a great course overall. The class size was definitely too large though.
While this course is a pre-req for a lot, be wary because it is very poorly organized and may require more time than you expect (you end up compensating for poor lectures and teaching yourself a lot of the material). The problem solving lectures that Casey held on Fridays were by far the most helpful aspect of the course (critical for many of the psets and very useful for midterm preparation). Overall, the exams were unexpected and did not seem related to a lot of what had been emphasized in lecture, problem solving and section.
Pretty good course, but watch out for ruvolo, she is TERRIBLE.
Take it because you need to. Some parts can be enjoyable but do not expect it to be outstanding in all regards.
it's a good class. make sure you attend Andrew and Hopi's lectures. make sure to skip Maryellen's lecture because they're useless. section can be helpful. labs are not always fun but they are engaging in general. readings are useless and no one does them. make sure you do the practice problems!
With the new teaching staff, the course is better than in years past. It was still a bit disorganized this year (e.g. no review sessions before midterms), but that may change in future years as the course develops.
This course covers very interesting material, and the professors are all great. There was often a strange disconnect between what we learned in lecture and what we needed to know for psets and exams - frequently making the course frustratingly and unnecessarily difficult - but I think this can be improved upon. Overall I definitely recommend!
If I didn't have to take this class, I wouldn't have. The professors have drastically improved, I'm sure, yet the class is still awful at times. Be prepared to enjoy watching Andrew Berry's lectures, but then be confused as to what you actually learned in them afterwards. Be prepared to love Hopi Hoekstra's lectures because she actually explains things clearly and gives you the main idea of each slide in a red box, which really helps. Be prepared to like Dr. Ruvolo's lectures on Tuesdays and then fall asleep during dense lectures on Thursdays. Be prepared to have a terrible TF that wastes your time in section every week for three hours. Be prepared to not have enough time to finish your first midterm. Be prepared to get no partial credit on the second midterm (although this midterm wasn't bad at all, people who missed a question, missed it completely). Lastly, be prepared to be take an extremely unfair final, which will ask you questions about videos that weren't even shown in class and ask you to recreate experiments from the one lecture that literally caused half the class to go to sleep and the other half to look dazed and confused. Be prepared to take notes, so that you can destroy them in the q guide next year, unless a miracle happens and they actually listen to the advice that students give regarding the course. All in all, the topics are actually interesting, yet they make the class very annoying and a pain to be in. The professors could  do something phenomenal if they worked with the equally great preceptors to  create something that is enjoyable for students. But until then, be prepared to loathe this class.
It's intro to genetics -- don't expect it to get all that exciting. That said, much of the material covered is very interesting.
While the information covered in the class can be genuinely intriguing if you are already interested in biology and specifically evolutionary biology, the format of this class is hardly a replacement for a more focused seminar that would be better able to provide a positive learning experience.
Better than last year. Professor Berry makes more jokes than teaches during lecture. Professor Ruvolo is dry and frankly boring. Professor Hoekstra is the one beacon of hope for this abysmal class. Also combined section and lab was extremely long and painful.
The content in the class is super interesting. However, it's easy to get discouraged. It's hard to do well on tests because there is just so much that you cover, and they like to throw in lots of questions that were briefly mentioned in one lecture. Take this class if you have to or are willing to study a lot- just know that it's likely to cause frustration.
You probably are taking this course because you have to. It's not that bad, as the lectures are okay, albeit they can be boring. Section is painfully long, but some of the labs are interesting. The problem sets take a while, and the first midterm exam was ridiculously long and was not curved to make up for it, but this is probably not a mistake they will make again. It wasn't my favorite class, but it was tolerable, and more importantly, required.
This class is very poorly organized. If you need to take this class be prepared to dedicate time toward organizing the material in the course to learn it. Go to office hours to try to find out how the course grading truly works. I feel that this class is not conducive to learning and is more of a struggle as to how to get points rather than learning the course material.
Grading for tests are heavily based on explaining definitions. Furthermore, these definitions are graded on a rubric, resulting in a grade that might not necessarily reflect your understanding.
Very difficult
Pre-meds need to take, can take as much as this class as you put in above an beyond.  Really try to clarify what you need to know as the details which seem too detailed are always tested and not the obvious concepts.
It's not that great, but you have to take it. On the plus side Andrew Berry is hilarious.
Badly structured, won't inspire any love for the material if you don't already have it and are willing to suffer through it. That being said, it's a requirement for some concentrations, so you may have no choice.
This class requires a lot of reading and thorough understanding.
Although the material is interesting, the course is poorly organized.
I would tell future students that as long as they use the resources available to them, they can do well in the course. However, they definitely cannot depend solely on the lectures to learn what they need to know. I found that I seemed to learn the most from the problem sessions and within section.
Take this class if you want to learn how to deal with classes on your own.  I didn't understand what was going on and didn't go to lecture, but I did above the mean on all the exams just by doing all the problem sets, practice problem sets, and practice midterms and researching everything on my own. The way this class is disorganized, you end up doing the same thing whether or not you go to lecture.
If you want to enjoy learning, take a higher level genetics course instead. The course still has many aspects to fix up and can be very frustrating.
you probably don't have much of a choice and have to take ls1b, but I found the course material to be very interesting and based on talking with previous students, the lectures are now much more engaging.  don't worry, it's not as bad as many people make it out to be and I enjoyed it!
If you've heard bad things about LS 1b in the past, disregard those now. The new professors are entertaining, organized, and set clear and reasonable expectations for what you are expected to learn, and I felt that I learned quite a lot about genetics in a pain-free setting. The professors also do an excellent job of integrating recently-published research (I remember seeing Hopi post a slide about stickleback fish and then seeing the results of that research published about a week later in Nature... very cool!)
Study.  Go to office hours.  The professors are cool to talk to and you don't even have to talk about the course.
Andrew Berry may draw you to this class, but Hopi is the true gem in the lecture circuit!
After years of bad Q scores they really tried to revamp the course this year. Bringing in new professors like the always entertaining Andrew Berry, it seemed like LS1b was ushering in a new era. However, despite the entertaining accents, and videos, and jokes, underneath it all LS1b was still a disorganized mess and I honestly do not feel like I learned what I should have learned. Lectures were too fast and they glossed over important concepts without really explaining the significance (i.e. how this knowledge would be applied to problems). By the last third of the course, most people had no idea what was going on and we just kind of slugged along hoping for the end. The end also seemed to appeal more to HEB-type people rather than being a general survey of genetics which could have been one of the major turnoffs for most people who weren't HEB concentrators. Maybe you'll enjoy it more than I did but I for one am not a fan of the memorization that the majority of this course ended up being. Most people who take this course feel that they have to because they're premed or doing one of the bio concentrations; it's not really something to take for fun so choose wisely.
The course is challenging, but not a huge struggle or time suck. As a humanities concentrator that isn't super science-oriented, I found that the material was pretty easy to understand and grasp, and  interesting as well.
This class will teach you a lot, and the material covered in lecture is extremely interesting. That being said, be aware of what you're getting yourself into. Section is excruciatingly long and normally pretty boring, the tests are hard, the GDP project is annoying, and the p-sets often are difficult. For the amount you learn in this class, it's worth it, but just barely.
It's a wonderful introductory course. The material is manageable, lecture is relaxing and enjoyable, and section provides every tool you need to complete psets with ease. There are no unpleasant surprises. And you cannot go wrong with the spectacular and fabulous Andrew Berry! However, nothing is not gone over in too much depth, and little mathematics rigor is involved despite numerous application opportunities (alarmingly some elementary math is deemed to suffice as "statistical analysis"), which may not satisfy those seeking something more substantial. But it does give you a good sample of the spectrum of the biological field. And, as memorization rather than problem-solving seems to be the more useful skill in this case, this course is friendly as a Ged-Ed.
It is not as bad as it has been in past years. I actually enjoyed the class much more than I expected to.
All of the professors, not just Andrew Berry, are awesome. But, the psets and exams are pretty challenging. Definitely make sure you have a good study group. The material is interesting, but frustrating to learn sometimes because you are so focused on specific types of questions that sometimes you miss the big picture.
Although Dr. Berry and Dr. Hoekstra are entertaining and the lectures may seem interesting, the class is still not well organized and the lecture material does not correlate with the exam/problem set questions. While studying for the exams, I felt like I was learning all the material instead of just reviewing it.
only take if you are seriously sure you want to concentrate in a life science
They definitely improved LS1b from the horror stories I heard about last year, but honestly, it wasn't a great class. I liked each of the lecturers, and thought that they all taught well, but the psets and lectures do not go together at all. Furthermore, the psets don't really cover the midterms and final exam material, so it was really confusing to study because the class is sort of conceptual but also analytical. So it was definitely not a fun class, just because I was always confused as to what was happening on psets and lectures, and such. Problem is, there isn't an alternative to LS1b, so if you're pre-life sciences, you're just going to have to take it.
A junior told me that changing the professor might change the tone of the class, but if the preceptors stay the same nothing will really change. And after taking LS1b I found that to be true. It is better than precious years in the sense that the professors genuinely care about the students and almost all of the statistics is gone (except for chi-square which is really    simple). However, the course still had major flaws. Andrew Berry would be phenomenal for a TEDtalk or as part of an extracurricular lecture session, where you learn for general knowledge, not tested knowledge. But his nonstop jokes and multiple pictures and videos distracted from the main content and made lectures fragmented and hard to follow. There was not enough text on the slides and going to/watching Casey's problem-solving sessions was mandatory if you wanted to know how to do the problem sets. Hopi was a better lecturer, but her slides had so much information that it was difficult to parse sometimes what was essential and what was not. Maryellen Ruvolo has no idea what is going on in the genetics portion of the course, so don't bother going to her office hours for the genetics part of the class. She teaches the last third, and her lecture slides are the best, so she definitely knows her section of the course the best. The problem sets are short (except for the last), so it is possible to do them during the PSL Help Sessions. The PSLs help as much as they can, but bear in mind they don't have the answer key available to them, so make friends with other people in the course to check problem sets with. The Exam 1 and Final are ridiculously long--25 multi-part, mostly short answer questions in 3 hours?!--so make sure not to get behind. It is possible to do well IF you stay on top of things. As this is biology, if you get behind, you will be trouble come test time. There is a lot of information to learn. Casey, while good at explaining things, can also be hard to schedule personal meetings with, and her answer keys always needed to be updated to correct mistakes. The GDP Project was okay--sort of a waste of time, but the symposium itself was great and interesting, so I guess the project was necessary for foreknowledge. The TFs were highly variable in their knowledge--some knew genetics well, while others legitimately didn't know what they were doing (e.g. if Greg Rudolph is a TF next year and you get into his section, switch). Their exam help rooms were an unhelpful mess and help rooms NEED to be improved. Overall this course was just okay--better than last year, but not by much.Definitely don't take as an elective, but since it is required for pre-meds and science concentrators, you are sort of stuck taking it at some point.
Life Sciences 1b is probably better than previous years because of the teaching staff. However, it is disorganized, vague,and not very rewarding. The tests do not show your understanding or knowledge, but how well you can play a strategic game essentially. That being said, it's a necessary course, and for what it's worth, I suppose it's not terrible.
It is very entertaining and well-taught class. Not too hard (easier than LS1A), and fairly interesting.
Lectures are awesome.  However, it's easy to fall behind, so go to office hours if you don't understand things.  Casey Loehrig was one of the preceptors, and she's incredibly effective at intimating concepts.  Her review sessions on Friday are also quite helpful.  Study hard for exams.
Be prepared to go to office hours.
The new class is amazing! So good and totally worth taking!
The key to passing this class (and the tests) is to DO AND UNDERSTAND YOUR PROBLEM SETS. Also, make sure to read the lecture notes in a timely manner. I did almost all of the problem sets using just the material I read in the lecture notes and what I learned in section that week. The practice problems also help a lot.
It was hard.
You need to have a basic background in genetics to take this class.  You also  need to be prepared to face questions on the exam that you won't feel prepared to answer.
I think this course is decent, considering its new reform. With time, I believe the lecturers will learn to give a more clear presentation of material and write less frustratingly vague problem sets and exams. Their intentions are good, but the quality of this course has been rather lackluster at best. If you must take it, you must - and it won't be exceptionally difficult - but it might be a bit confusing.
I would only take this class if you have to.  It seems like it is doomed to be one of the most disorganized and unsuccessful classes that Harvard offers.
LS1b is not a bad class- you learn a lot, and all 3 instructors were very engaging, funny, and overall good lecturers.  A lot of material is covered, so go to office hours and start studying in advance. Really understand the concepts behind experiments and problems, not just the answer. The exams were long and required working quickly.
sucks!
Very interesting class, somewhat challenging.
Hopefully the course will be better organized next year, but the lectures were very interesting for the most part. As a warning, a LOT of material is covered throughout the semester
This class is good, but it is far from perfect.  The teachers are great but the class still has some kinks it needs to work out.
It is a lot of information. Doing practice problems is much more useful than reading.
Be prepared
You're taking it because you're pre-med and you have to. Enjoy it, the professors are great and wonderful people, but the lectures seemed nearly pointless at times because I always wondered how we'd be tested on that and it was never how I expected.
So, I don't know what the course was like in previous years, but overall, I enjoyed the course, so they did a good job re-vamping it. I think genetics is an intrinsically interesting subject and the professors did a good job of bringing up interesting examples in class relating to whatever we were studying. I would reccommend students at the very least look at the slides from the review sessions; I found them helpful when studying for the exams. Oh and, I don't really think you need a textbook. I don't think I even opened mine all semester. If I felt unclear about something, I usually just googled it and that was always good enough.
Get a tutor early.
Unfortunately it's a huge lecture class required for most life science concentrations. You'll be lucky if you get a TF that knows what's going on or is willing to dish out a 30/30 on a problem set once in a while. Expect problem sets to be poorly worded, confusing, and ambiguous with answers. Just bite the bullet and do it, though it won't be enjoyable by any means. Hopi and Andrew's lectures aren't bad but good luck paying attention with Mary Ellen.
This is MUCH improved from previous years, from what I've heard. Prof. Berry and Hopi are awesome, and although Maryellen isn't as good of an educator as the other two, her lectures are definitely entertaining. Problem sets can be vague and worded badly, but overall, they are fair, and the exams aren't bad. It's definitely a fair class that gives you back what you put into it.
Be ready to teach yourself how to apply what you learn in lecture to actual problems. The lectures focus on concepts and section won't cover all of the problem solving you'll need.
You have to take it because its required for all science, but its a ton of information packed into a small amount of time, an the exams are not fair.
Make sure to go to the problem solving lectures and learn how to do the problems, because the problems will be tested more than basic knowledge of the material on the lecture slides.
Horrible but necessary class
This class was a lot better than the previous years (so I have heard) and the lecturers are awesome and next year they will have worked our the kinks even more so it will be a much better class. However, this class is much different than LS1a.
If you need the class, then take it, but keep working through out the semester. It will be challenging.
Putting in a little bit of effort and reviewing the material each week makes the problem sets and exams MUCH easier.
This class is difficult, so students should be sure to stay on top of all material taught in class and not let themselves fall behind. Also, the practice problems are a very important, helpful study tool for exams. I would strongly recommend that students use these and go to problem sessions as well.
I would tell them to utilize office hours and the Problem solving sections as they were the most helpful.
The material seems straightforward but the tests are very, very difficult if you do not truly understand the material well enough to APPLY the concepts. Practice questions only helped so much. The new instructors make lecture interesting and enjoyable, but be sure to glean the important points from the lectures.
I only took this course because I had to. It was not very well put together.
There is a lot of material. It may not all be organized in the best way. It is to your advantage to think about how all the concepts you are learning fit together.
Although the lecturers are pretty good (much better than previous years), the course itself is lacking. Perhaps it's just hard to make an introductory genetics class exciting.
Beware of exams. They can be ridiculous. The course content is interesting , just make sure to keep up with the lectures and do practice problems!
This course was really engaging and interesting...Make sure to take advantage of all the help that is available to you in it.
It doesn't matter what I tell future students, since so many people have to take it anyway.
It's a lot of work but if you already like bio you'll find it really interesting.
very unorganized course
Dr. Berry is awesome. Make sure you take a class from him before you graduate and go to his office hours! This class was super interesting if you like DNA at all. It is a good overview of evolutionary biology and human origins.
This was a really interesting class with instructors who really care. It still feels a bit like a basic science intro class, but has things (like lab quizzes) that make you more likely to keep up with required work. :)
Great lecturers.
Not as bad as its reputation!
Go to problem solving lectures. Make a collaborative study guide.
The material is interesting, but it takes a lot of work to do well.
You learn a lot of stuff about genetics and evolution, but not a big fan of how it was presented. I didn't feel like the course was consistent. However, I did love the lecturers and the lectures individually.
This course was difficult, but fun. Or so I am told.
LS1B is a perfect example of an inherently flawed course. Even with shiny new professors, professors who are the most well-liked and respected of their departments, the course still falls completely flat. Here's the deal: If you don't have to take this class for your concentration requirements, DON'T take it. It's not that it's hard--it's not; you'll be fine with the difficulty level. What's bad about it is that they literally just present you with topic after topic, as though they're a waiter carrying around a sampler with everything genetics on it, but they're all desserts and you're looking for an entree. That analogy probably didn't make much sense, but ultimately what I'm getting at is that this is a bad course overall. The professors do their best to make it fun, trying to fix the course by playing music in lectures and telling jokes. However, it needs to be fixed at the structural level--a completely re-designed LS1b is necessary for Harvard, and that remodeling must include an arch of knowledge at least attempting to connect the hundreds of independent topics dumped on you throughout the semester. Avoid this course for a few more years.
This class is one of the most poorly run classes ever.  Go to friday lectures which are the only things tested on.  Lecture is a waste since they don't cover the material necessary for the exams.  But it doesn't matter because you have to take LS1b anyway...
This course is basically and introduction to OEB and HEB. If you're interested in those fields, then there's a good chance you'll really enjoy LS1b. The tests are pretty fair. The reading is unnecessary, since the lectures are sufficient. Don't let the ethos around the class ruin it. The lecturers are pretty good.
You have to take it if you're premed, so be diligent about learning the material during lecture to retain it for the exam
This class is definitely very difficult but the key is to stay on top of your readings and take really good class notes. If you do that you'll see that by the time tests roll around, it'll be easy to put together study materials.
this class requires you to do the work but its manageable.
From what I hear, it's a lot better than it has been in the past, which is heartening. It's still not a fantastic class though, but it won't be the worst thing you've ever done.
This class is a great intro to genetics and suitable for people interested in this field.
I would have chosen 'unlikely to recommend' if it weren't for the fact that Ls1b  is the gateway class to practically all other pre-med rec science classes.
Just don't take this class if you don't have to. You'll seriously be miserable.
LS1b is a tough course to organize by virtue of its material--it's hard to organize all these facts and methods in a coherent way that doesn't seem like flooding the students with useless information. The lectures, problems, practice problems, and exams do not fit too well with each other yet. While you do learn a lot in the course, it is also a lot of memorization and you will need to do a lot of the work yourself if you desire to understand these concepts. Nonetheless, the teaching staff is quite decent (I really admire Hopi for her lecturing ability!) and if you get a good TF you can really learn quite a bit. They are all dedicated to helping you understand the material--it can just seem frustrating at times because the course doesn't have a well defined/emphasized direction yet.
Be prepared to navigate a lot of material and a lot of expectations of you as a student. There's also great competition to get help from the teaching staff because of the sheer number of students in the course. If you want individual attention, be proactive and start getting to know the teaching  staff early.
It's impossible.  No matter how hard you try, no matter how may Psets you go over, no matter how many office hours you go to and whether or not you think you know the material like the back of your hand, the exams will ruin you.  Especially the final, the questions were vague, convoluted, and awkwardly written.  If you can avoid the course, I would.  If you can't, god speed.
Lectures and course material is super interesting and the class has improved tremendously from what I hear.  However the class still is not good with p-sets being unmanageable and exams very inconsistent in standard.
I think this class's reputation makes it out to be much worse than it actually is. It's a difficult class, but if you go to lecture and make sure you understand what's going on, you'll be fine. Work with other people, go to the problem set sessions, talk to your TF, and get help if you need it! Really interesting material, and the professors are great! If you're a premed you'll enjoy this course.
LS1b is an everything bio class.  If you want to be a life sciences concentrator you pretty much have to take it, so just suck it up and accept that it'a a bit difficult.  The professors are interesting (Andrew and Hopi do an excellent job) and know what they're talking about.  The material is very interesting, but there's just a lot of it.
Not a fun course but you gotta do it if you want that MD eventually. This year was much better than years past and it really wasn't that hard during the year (psets are super easy). Exams however (especially the final) got fairly nit-picky in expecting you to memorize small (and annoying) details.
A course with really interesting material but really hard exams.
It is hard, the tests suck, but the information you gain is invaluable.
the professors and material is great, though the problems and tests, as always, can be very challenging.
This class has definitely improved over the 1.8 Q-score and it looks like its on the way up. In a few years, the structure might have been changed enough by the new course heads in order to make this a fantastic class.
Only take this if you absolutely have to for your concentration.
There is a huge disconnect between what is learned in lecture and what we are expected to know on problem sets and exams.
Only take this course if you need to fulfill a requirement.  It is a very frustrating course, due to poor organization, problem sets and exams.
Don't recommend it, but you're a pre-med, so it's not like you really have a choice...
Basically, if you are even reading this it's most likely because you have to take this class.  The subject matter is pretty dull and honestly way to "microscopic" for my liking...  We really don't cover a whole lot of evolution.  The teaching staff does a decent job at trying to make the material exciting.  But it is hard to sometimes navigate their different teaching styles.  There are resources available to help you.  Take advantage of them. AND XINDAN IS THE BEST TF I LOVE HER!!!! She is the only reason I didn't fail this class....
Though the lecturers made a clear effort to improve LS1b, there remains much work to be done.
Much better than past years, lecturers work hard to make it interesting and most of the mateiral is cool. Some of the applications though are weird, more like tricky mental exercises to mess with harvard freshmen than real problems to work through, so watch out on the MTs and final.
LS1b is an experience you likely have to have for your life sciences concentration or to satisfy pre-med requirements. It's not that bad and occasionally fun, but I wouldn't recommend it as an elective.
Although I was not a big fan of genetics to begin with, this course surprised me in a positive way. It's not quite as good as LS 1a because the different parts are less integrated and the teaching isn't as enthusiastic, but it's still a very fine class. And although the Genetic Disorder Project is not a very useful one, but it's an easy way to boost your grade.
You have to take it because it is required, but it is awful. Just please don't make your decision about being a doctor on lifesci 1a and 1b because these courses are just bad, and it's not your fault.
Prepare for exams all along; do not wait until several days beforehand to attempt to learn all the information. You need a larger grasp of the concepts, which comes only with gradual learning over time.
The material is very interesting and the teachers this year were all fantastic.
LS1b has become an amazing class especially with Dr. Berry lecturing. The problem sets help you work through the material covered in lecture and if you're comfortable with them, you'll be fine on the midterm (usually).
Don't listen to the whiners..this class is really interesting if you like genetics and if you make the effort it is not too difficult. this class is much better than it used to be
If you are interested in the material, then the class will be useful. The topics are interesting and important, even though they are difficult. But more importantly something to keep in mind is that the class itself needs a lot of changes. There are many things that do not correlate, and some of the lecturers were more effective than others.
Relatively easy course, especially if you follow lectures closely.
The subject matter is interesting but it is presented in a disorganized way
Genetics is a developing field, which makes it all the more interesting. Much of the material is based on recent developments in research, and for me that's very interesting because it's something I'd like to pursue. The lectures are dense, but the professors can teach it in a way that's memorable and interesting. Study hard for the tests, do the problem sets with minimal aid, and you should be all set for a great semester.
You have to take it. Try your best and trust me everyone else hates it just as much as you do.
Make sure to study regularly, do the practice problems, and ask for help when needed.
If you're considering LS1b, I think the important thing to realize is that the material is really really interesting, and some of it (mainly Andrew Berry's) will be taught extremely clearly and well. Some of it will be much harder to get in lecture, and you'll have to put in extra work in section and outside of class to do well. That said, as someone who's interested in genetics, I really enjoyed taking this class and loved learning the new concepts. (And labs are really fun!)Advice if you end up taking LS1b -- the problem sets aren't very hard, but it's worth it to spend some extra time every week reviewing because exams are more difficult.
you probably only take it if you have to, but the material is actually quite interesting and applicable to life, and the probsolving lectures on fridays are incredibly useful (i would recommend always going if you're at all unsure of the material).
Class has improved considerably!
Take this course if you need it for a requirement... It's not terribly difficult but can be annoying at times.
This is a fine class--not great but the teaching staff genuinely does their best to have students enjoy a huge pre-med lecture.  Go to problem solving lectures on Friday.
This is a great class!  New teaching staff, total revamping, all new and flashy.  Most of the first half or so of this course should be really straightforward if you've had a strong AP Biology and/or genetics background.  The problem sets are usually pretty simple.  The most useful resource is Casey's Friday review session.  Watch it on video if you can't make it!  She summarizes everything taught during the week very nicely and goes over the problem solving techniques in a clear way.  Being the first year teaching the course, the professors still need to get a better handle on some of the organization of the class.  It was very-well structured, but some of the pacing could have been altered--at times, they seemed to speed through difficult material, and at other times, they would drag on forever about boring stuff.  Also, I don't know if they will change this for future years, but I thought that the lab quizzes that we had every section/lab were incredibly juvenile and a waste of everyone's time.  I also found little value in the GDP project, as it was mostly just busywork.  Those are the things I have to pick on.  In general, it was an incredible class.  Going into the semester, I only knew one class that I was taking for sure, and that was a statistics class.  LS1b was on the periphery as a backup in case I didn't like another class during shopping week.  I went in the first day and was instantly captivated by the class in a way that no other class was able to do.  Andrew Berry sold that class, and he sold it well.  He is entertaining yet very knowledgeable.  Truly a phenomenal professor.  LS1b has had a major overhaul, resulting in what ended up being the best class I took this semester.
Hopi is by far the best lecturer, clear and concise, and takes feedback very well. Andrew is entertaining. Maryellen is not good. At all.
it's a rough class, but manageable and the section/lab really helps
difficult, but interesting class. if you are premed you have to take it but the information really is interesting. a lot of material, but manageable in the end
For a large introductory class, LS1b totally rocks!!!
It gives a great overview of non-molecular life science. There is a nice range of organismal and human components. While you don't go into many things in depth, it can help you find a more specific area of interest.
This was actually the most poorly organized and taught class I have ever experienced. The subject material is extremely interesting and not that hard but they somehow manage to make this class way more work and trouble than it should be.
Sections matter a lot in LS1B because the professors can't go into much detail during the actual lecture. Much of what ended up being important to know for the exams I learned either during section or from Practice Problems. Lectures in this course, I feel, are more for showing the cool side of the subject material.
Hope you have a good TF, because TFs make or beak this course.
this is a more difficult course than you think
This course is not taught well. My TF even told me that he thought it would be very difficult to get an A unless you got extra help outside of lecture and section, which I think is really unfair, but honestly probably true. The lectures did not really teach a lot. I would not take this class unless you have to, which unfortunately, many people do.
LS1b is a solid course for anyone looking to satisfy part of the pre-med biology requirement or just an interest in genetics in general. Although I took the course for the former reason (I have no unusually intense passion for genetics over any other science), I can still attest that it is an informative and well-run course.
If you're in the sciences, you've got to take it. And it is certainly WAY better than last year, from what I've heard. But I've never been good at these hard science classes, so focused on methods and memorization. If you've got a solid work ethic you'll be fine; if not, good luck...
The content was pretty cool, and you'll appreciate the content a lot more if you do the readings and work a bit to understand all of it, but the course itself was a little unorganized and not very well run.
Be prepared to study, and take advantage of office hours, help sessions, and practice exams.
Not my favorite, but not as painful as it's been in the past.  The problem sets aren't bad, get a good TF and lab won't be painful.  If you're considering taking this class, you probably are required to so just accept the gift of Andrew and Hopi and deal with Maryellen.
LS1B is a lot more fun than most people will tell you! Just keep up with the material, don't fall behind and PAY ATTENTION IN LECTURE. Seriously listening in lecture is the key to a smooth ride in this course. The readings cannot compensate for it the night before the midterm. Also go through the concept check and learning goals with a group instead of on your ownyou'll be surprised how many details a group of people can remember.
All about how many hours you put in.
Berry and Hoekstra are both great lecturers, but Ruvolo is an unsatisfactory lecturer. Her presentations were 90 slides long for a class that is less than an hour and a half long meaning that she devoted less than a minute to each slide, her explanations were often more confusing than helpful, and I had trouble seeing how the topics she taught related to each other. I was satisfied with the course, until we reached the segment she had to teach.
This is literally the worst class I've ever taken in my entire life, not just at Harvard. There is honestly no way to learn the material that is on the exams since it is not taught in lecture or section. I really think this class is some sort of sick joke. If you must take this class for a premed requirement, beware it will probably ruin your GPA for med school and maybe even persuade you to pursue another field. The professors are ruthless and don't care if everyone fails. The exams are literally marathons, no one finishes in time and I think this is very well reflected in the fact that the mean for the first midterm was a 70. The fact that everyone fails the class is a reflection of the inane teaching of this class and not of the students, but the professors don't seem to understand this. I honestly think the goal of this class is to crush as many premed students' aspirations as possible. Harvard should be embarrassed for offering such an ill-taught impossible class. I recommend this class to no one. Find another way to get the premed requirement as this is one of the the worst classes offered at Harvard.
It's an easy way to meet a bio requirement. However, for more rigor, take MCB.
Ls1b is a great course if you want to learn about evolution and many modern biological research concepts.
The material itself is not hard and the exams are not horrible, the main problem I had with this class was the GDP and the general harsh grading system.
Well-taught class, but many (sometimes tedious) assignments.
Be prepared to work.
Only take this course if you have to.
I mean it's necessary for pre-med, so I guess I would have to recommend it in that regard. I was on the fence about pre-med, and now I am not on the fence; I have plummeted from the fence and will probably crash on the comfy squishy Economics landing mat.
This class is a lot of work. You have to be really excited about the material and OK with spending hours in a lab to get through it.
Meh..... I think one of my biggest mistakes was not starting to study early enough and not attending Office Hours
It is not as bad as everyone makes it sound. The PSLs are helpful if you need a repitition of information, but they can be a bit slow.
The lectures are large and rather uninformative with regards to problem sets/ exams. The grading is terribly specific. The course seemed unnecessarily difficult.
The lecturers are amazing at their work in the lecture hall and outside. They are a really interesting group of scientists and I think that if you enjoy learning about genetics, the work you have to put into the class isn't too bad.
This is a beast of a class. Three midterms, essentially two full problem sets per week, on top of a three hour section. It's a lot of work. However, the professors are all great, especially Hopi and Pardis. Take if you want to persue biology, but know that you'll be in for a slog of a semester. If you're looking for gen ed credit, consider a more fun course.
I have to recommend it because it is a very helpful course and is required for most life sciences and is very helpful for premed. It's a good preparation for upper level science classes at Harvard.
I'm really sorry you will be forced to take this course as a biology concentrator or pre-med student. It really was awful. The material itself is interesting but not challenging, and problem sets and exams aren't that bad, but it is so poorly taught and organized. There are unnecessary readings every week (which I wouldn't recommend doing), pointless labs, and demanding GDP question sets, which are graded far too harshly. This is a bad course, but you'll survive.
I would recommend this course because it is a good base for any science concentrator but for no other reason. It was really difficult.
If you had a good AP biology course in high school, most of the first half of the course should be review, while the second half touches on some newer trends in population genetics.  However, that doesn't mean that you will do well, even if you know all of the material very well.  The questions can be asked very poorly and the grading done very unfairly.
People say it's a terrible class. But it really isn't. It is different from Ls1a, but if you just do the things they ask of you. Do the practice exams, read the lecture notes, you can actually really enjoy it.
You have to take this course, but you don't have to enjoy it. Work through the questions without thinking about their meaning and you'll do better than if you try to understand the material. Everything is based on whether or not you can do calculations, so just exhaustively do those and you'll make it to the end.
DON'T TAKE IT UNLESS YOU HAVE TO
This course, while very interesting at times, can also be quite boring. It seemed like most of the time the material we learned was quite easy, yet psets came out of nowhere and tests were bizarre.
A decent course with great information, but can be frustrating at times.
People don't really take LS1b unless it's a concentration or pre-med requirement and there is a reason for that. It won't blow your mind but it does provide a good refresher of material from AP bio and even some new interesting tidbits. It's also very easy. Take the class, but take it with something that is super interesting so you don't have a boring semester.
You'll have a lot of work due every Monday (problems sets and GDP question sets) - be sure to plan ahead
LS1b is a difficult course with a great deal of work, but it is ultimately very fulfilling. You will leave the course feeling more prepared to enter the ever-changing world of medicine and medical research. The lectures (while a bit long) are engaging and explain the material effectively, and exams are usually reasonable. The assignments will enrich your understanding of the material, but are often extremely time-consuming. There are weekly problem sets, weekly genetic disorder question sets (which require extensive research), and three midterm exams (each of which is 2 hours). There is also a weekly lab period, which is usually exciting. You have the rare opportunity to sequence your own DNA.  In summary, if you choose to take LS1b, you will have to devote a lot of your time to it. But in the end, it is worth it, especially for those who are passionate about medicine.
You probably have to take this course. You will put a lot of effort into it, for very little result. Try to go into it with a positive attitude, because that's as good as its going to get.
Not all of the professors are great, but the course material is interesting and most of the instructors are very helpful. Also, Pardis is an absolute gem.
The tests are really hard and Kevin's lectures are boring, but Pardis is AMAZING and the material is really cool.
The course is rigorous, and very different from LS1a. Some elements of the grading is unfair, especially in the GDP project. The class can be occasionally time consuming. Altogether not a very enjoyable experience.
Avoid Kevin like the plague. Pardis is a god-send
This class is highly antagonistic and frustrating. If you study more intensely than you've ever studied before, perhaps you'll eventually do well. It's very much a game you have to learn how to play. Pardis and Hopi especially improve the course, but outside of them there's not a lot of positivity.
If you have heard things about LS1b, those things are probably not true anymore. They have revamped the course and honestly, it was probably my favorite course of the semester. Each lecturer is so influential in their respective fields and having professors that are experts who are enthusiastic about the material they teach is the best way to learn something. I think it would be unnecessary for the course to change the way LS1a did. The midterms were fair as were the psets. Any issues with the material or lectures could easily be cleared up at office hours which were always incredibly helpful. The only not great thing about the class was the GDP. They did change the grading scheme in the middle of the project which made it better and the GDP symposium was actually incredibly interesting.
This class is not a fun time, but you have to take it for requirements.  There's a ridiculous amount of work (if you do everything you're actually supposed to - readings, etc.) that doesn't really pay off.  Go to office hours with your TF, do the practice problems. Don't stress about the lectures themselves though.
Do not take this course if it is not required. There are may other coursed that are much more interesting and better structured if you are interested in taking a life science course.
difficult, GDP is frustrating, but also very rewarding and interesting material
Lecture slides are very helpful and relevant to midterms and finals.
You take this because you have to. It's too big of a class, the labs are a pain and sometimes ineffective (pick beads out of yarn, SCIENCE), weekly GDP question sets were annoying and time consuming. But ultimately you can succeed in this class if you put in the work each week - review lectures so you're not cramming by exams, work with other people on psets, work through practice problems when you can. There's a ton of resources to help you succeed and get a tutor if you're struggling with the material. Hopi and Pardis should be the bookends of the course because their presentation and fields are most engaging.
The information in the class is awesome, but sometimes the way it is taught is poor.
The material is interesting while some components of the class are less engaging
Ask your TFs if you need help. Especially Rickey.
This is a good class and I found it to be a lot better than what people generally say. Make sure you get a good TF -- that's the key to doing well in this class! Joyce is the most AMAZING TF, try to be in her section if you can! In terms of lecture, Kevin's lectures are okay but Pardis's and Hopi's lectures are amazing! When you get to Maryellen's lectures, you'll be confused in class but if you go over the notes on your own time, you should be okay. Problem solving reviews were not that helpful so skip them if you need to.
not as bad as people say. just do practice problems! learn to problem-solve and you will be okay
It's a good class - it definitely isn't as bad as everyone makes it out to be. That being said, if you object strongly to pre-med classes (classes where people will work really hard for exams, where starting a pset the day before it's due means most people are done, etc), then it might be annoying. GDP also sucks.I loved the material, though, and thought that the course was really fun. Exams were fair, and I felt like I learned a ton. Don't be afraid of this class just because people say it's bad. If you go in telling yourself you hate it you'll hate it, but that's how life works.
The material in this course is actually quite interesting, but you will feel like it is a lot worse than it is because the amount of busy work required in the course. The Genetics Disorder Project is extremely annoying because every question set for it is due the same day as the problem set, giving you twice as much work, and you won't feel like you are getting much from the project simply because you'll just do it to get it done quickly rather than to learn well from it.
I think it is quite rare for anyone to take this class by choice, but even so the class really isn't that bad. People make it out to be awful, and it isn't. I thought all of the professors were pretty good lecturers, and there is a large support structure in place to help you learn the material.
Work hard from day 1 . Do all practice questions. Stay on top of things. Learn to understand what questions ask from you and what answers are expected . Dont bs.
It is not as bad as people make it seem. If you want an A, however, be prepared to spend a lot of time working through the practice problems each night.
I hope by the time you take this class it has changed substantially.
If you are interested in premed or any life sciences concentration, you will probably have to take this course, but it is actually super interesting and enjoyable! Most of the professors are great--you get to learn from people who are at the top of the their field--and the class is not too hard if you attend lectures and keep up with psets. The best part of the class is the labs in which you get to create transgenic organisms and analyze your own DNA. The worst part is something called "GDP Project" which will basically require you to do an extra pset every week. The class made me more certain that I want to study biology, and I do recommend it as an intro course.
This course will be time-consuming and challenging, but you will be exposed to very engaging material and impressive individuals, including the professors and the teaching fellows.
Begin work early, go to office hours, very detail oriented/concept based exams
This class is one of those classes that you can do well in if you put in the time or you can do average in if you do minimal work and study for exams. It's up to you.
This is a great course in which you will learn how to analyze and interpret data as well as solve problems involving the material covered in lecture. The material is interesting and you will engage in some lab-work involving said material during section.
This class was very interesting and related to real world topics.
A good introduction to genetics/genomics, but work can be tedious. The course requires a significant amount of time spent in class, section, and various assignments.
I would say that you should only take LS1b if you have to or are really interested in genetics because the experience of the class doesn't have much to offer except giving you a basic understanding of genetics. It does a good job of covering its material, though it presents it in a way that is very focused on human disease. The GDP project is painful and pretty pointless, but the problem sets and the exams do a good job of making sure you have learned the material.
You are probably taking this class because you have to. It is challenging, but mostly incredibly frustrating. Make sure you keep up with the material, and - don't forget -  there is life beyond LS1b.
Do not take this course unless it is a requirement for premed or concentration. There are many classes at Harvard that give a much better understanding of genetics and are much more rewarding than this one.
LS1b will probably be your first in-depth exposure to a specific topic in biology, unless you've done research in the past. The genetic material #nopunintended is actually really interesting. The first unit covers basic cell process/mendelian genetics stuff, but after that everything is new (for me at least, a student who took Bio and Chem AP in high school). You'll learn about actual research techniques, nuances of all the basic stuff you knew, front-line biological advances, etc. There's a lot of work, and it is a big pain in the ass sometimes, but that's to be expected from a science class. The tests are moderately challenging, but you learn everything you need to know in lecture and section. GET JOYCE AS YOUR TF. She will be your saving grace in the dark times of this class, the gleaming beacon guiding you back to shore.Read the book if you have the time too. You probably won't, but I've seen students who do excel in the class, and it's a pretty well-written text from what I've read from it.
The GDP is very time-intensive and at times stressful than the pset, for barely as much or even less payoff -- most of our answers are the same. I enjoyed this class, but sometimes wonder if the GDP is an accurate evaluation of knowledge.
It's an interesting course with tests that you often have no idea what to expect and the GDP which nobody has any idea what to do about.
It is an effective introduction to genetics, genomics and evolutionary biology, but not a very interesting one. The course material is rather dry, and you can learn most of it by just reading the book. I would suggest getting the book before the summer/winter break, reading it very well, and trying to place out.
You have to be willing to put in 110% to do well in the class
This class needs some work, especially after coming from a renewed and effective LS1a. The problem sets are tough, but could be worse, and help solidify most concepts taught in class. the GDP is awful - it takes longer to complete than the problem set & section/lab component combined, students received no training on how to complete on properly and it was extremely difficult to get anything higher than a C on one problem set. The GDP also didn't help understand what was taught in class or teach anything newer than what could be found on Google. Midterms were difficult and strictly graded - if answers didn't necessarily fit the pre-formatted idea/exam key, points were docked. Class requires a lot of work, but unfortunately it is one of those classes most students cannot opt out of. Advice: GO INTO LS1B WITH AN OPEN MIND AND A MINDSET THAT YOU WILL ENJOY/MAKE THE MOST OF IT and it will make it a lot better. ALSO, DO NOT LET YOUR EXPERIENCE/GRADE IN THIS CLASS DETER YOU FROM PURSUING SCIENCE/PRE-MED! IT IS JUST ONE CLASS AND THEY ARE NOT ALL THE SAME!!!
LS 1a was much better, but I had to take this for requirements.
This course was certainly not the most enjoyable one I have taken at Harvard. At times, this course made me question my interest in continuing to pursue life sciences. This was frustrating because I was so excited for the material, but the arbitrariness of grading and ineffectiveness in assessing students' understanding of the material, made this course a lot more stressful than I would have liked. Rather than enjoying the information, I often felt stressed trying to understand what I needed to do get a good grade according to the course staff. This was a very unpleasant experience, especially when I knew I could effectively exemplify my knowledge to my TF orally and not have this reflected in my assignment grades. The course instructors, however, are truly wonderful and there are tons of resources put in place to assist you over the course of the semester.
Compared to what I've heard about past years, this class has improved a lot and I have no doubt it will keep improving. The professors really care and are passionate about what they teach and are really accessible.
This class is a lot of work, and they really expect you to do all the work for this class even though this is not the only class students are taking. The genetic disorder project is annoying because of the harsh grading, and the professors' lectures can be disorganized.
This is not a fun science class but you do learn a lot
Ls1b is great. You learn a lot about genetics and other important concepts, but it does require you to take time outside of class to really make sure you understand concepts.
Go to the Friday Problem Solving Sessions.
Skip Eggan's lectures and go to all the other ones
Matthew 6:25...... If you choose to take this class..... just remember that everything will be ok. Room 13 exists too.
You will likely have to take it but it won't be your favorite class.
This course is poorly organized and extremely challenging. If you want to pursue a scientific concentration, you will have to take it, so just try to get what you can out of it.  The material is very interesting, but the tests do not seem to always test students' knowledge.  They seem to be oriented around subtle nuances ad trick questions, rather than the basic tenets of the material.  Make sure to put in a lot of work and utilize every possible resource.
It is a requirement to get out of the way, and it is not as bad as some people say!
This class is not easy, but it is manageable. I found the material super interesting and overall enjoyed it much more than LS1a, though not everyone felt the same. The GDP was a pain all semester.
LS1B is a great course - the material is fascinating, the lecturers are awesome, and the lab/section is great. The GDP is rough, but definitely not a reason not to take the course. The course has definitely improved from past reviews.
Only take it if you're serious in the pre-med track/genuinely interested in genetics
This class is pretty boring in the beginning but gets slightly better. The GDP problem sets take more time than you expect so start them early. Many of the concepts in ls1b are boring in lectures but you learn a lot in section and the labs are ok. Overall not a particularly fun class so only take it for premed/concentration requirement
Be prepared for a bad grade and a lot of work.
I enjoyed this class - the material was very interesting and applicable to real life. However, the course was a lot of work at times, and could feel a bit overwhelming.
It's truly a shame that a course taken by so many freshmen, and one that covers such interesting material, remains so uninspiring. The homework feels largely like busy work and the tests designed more to trip up than to promote learning. I learned far less in this course than I did in my others classes, and felt that I had to spend hours memorizing the same material so as to regurgitate it on the test. Explore ways to avoid this course unless it changes soon
It really sucks that this class is required for all biology concentrations. Just suck it up and power through, I guess.
LS1b needs fixing but it isn't entirely broken. The professors are effective lecturers even though Ruvolo still needs to refine her content. Hoekstra and Sabeti are the stars of the show, even though Sabeti pretty much only knows what she lectures on in class and isn't too helpful outside of class. The problem sets are very easy, but don't prepare you for exams. The practice problems for each lecture are definitely what prepares you for exams. Section component of the class is week, and labs are tedious and don't feel connected to the rest of the course. The GDP is just a pain you have to get through. Watch out, because it is graded very harshly. Be sure to talk to your TF for the first assignment so you know how to write up answers. Exams are challenging but nothing you can't study to do well on. The final was definitely tough though!
I know that a lot of people think this is just a "pre-med" class, and that it's just one of those courses that you "have to take," but I actually think there's a lot of interesting material to learn, and it is a far more real-life applicable course than LS1a. I don't think it is a better class than LS1a, but the lecturers are really incredible people and should be taken advantage of, and I personally didn't find the work to be that difficult. It's harder than LS1a but it's totally manageable and not that stressful most of the time.
It is a difficult course with lectures that are not very effective. Be prepared to study on your own outside of class.
Watch the PSL's. Get into the workflow of the class early.
The course material itself was manageable but the structure was disorganized and didn't flow well. The first lecturer did a poor job but Pardis and Hopi were great!
GDP and the grading will destroy you
The course material is interesting but at times this course could be super frustrating. The GDP was incredibly annoying and didn't really teach me much, and the last quarter of the semester (Ruvolo's section) was unclear and unengaging.
I feel really conflicted about this class. On the one hand, most of the material was really interesting (genetics and evolution is my favorite part of bio) and most of the lectures were pretty decent. On the other hand, parts of the class were pretty nonsensical. But it's a requirement if you want to do anything life science related, so I guess most people considering it don't really have a choice.
I did not particularly like the material in this course but that is very subjective. This is basically a statistics course in biology.
The grading is very unfair.
Do not take this unless you absolutely have to
Take it since it goes more in depth than AP Biology, but do not underestimate the class because you need to put in worm to get a good grade.
This was an awful class. The exams absolutely kill you. Lectures & materials are very interesting, but the problem solving lectures on Fridays are too long and too useless. There should be more support from the preceptors to students.
The more work you put in, the more you will get out of this class. The best tip I can give for this class would be to substitute doing readings from the book with doing practice problems.
This class is not hard material wise, but you will hate it while you're taking it. The lectures are impossible to sit through (except Pardis) and the GDP project is unreasonable and frustrating. I once, instead of doing the GDP prompt, which I found to be frustratingly vague, drafted an e-mail to my TF about the problems I have with the GDP. It goes as follows: "Before I submit my GDP Problem Set 5, I just wanted to apologize for the quality of work that I had to put my name on, and explain why it is so low. I would consider the GDP to be the worst part of not only my Harvard education thus far, but my entire experience as a student since pre-kindergarten. I understand the idealistic "relevance" this project is supposed to provide for us, however to make this project which often times feels disjointed and unrelated to the material we were learning 12% of our total grade is absolutely absurd. I find myself each week absolutely dreading the "guided research" of the GDP; I would much rather have one research paper due at the end of the semester than have this dragging responsibility over my head each week.What is more, I find that not allowing students to choose their own subject limits the enthusiasm for this project significantly. I cannot find an ounce of will power to study galactosemia in this much detail. While it would be interesting to spend a few slides of lecture learning about this topic, this overkill of something I do not have any interest in is, in itself, overwhelming. If I were able to research a topic of my interest, I believe I would look forward to this research, even in the painstaking, dragged out format that is currently in place. Lastly, this is a freshman introductory genetics course; if there is some notion that this is a way to get students excited about genetics, there is a severe disconnect in the sentiment of students and the course staff. This project taints what would otherwise be a relatively satisfactory introduction to genetics, and I strongly suggest a significant remodeling in the future. I really hate the idea of not submitting my best work, but it seems impossible to figure out the grading system, which seems to vary significantly from week to week, and has been increasingly frustrating for me as a student. I do not feel I am learning anything through this project.Through all of these reasons, you can see how it might be difficult to motivate myself to complete each of these problem sets, and might explain, in part, the poor grades I have received on the GDP, and probably in the class, as a result.I hope this rant does not come across as disrespectful; I enjoy my time in section and your teaching. I simply cannot participate in another GDP problem set and will accept what this means for my grade. I hope in the future this project is changed dramatically, or in an ideal world, completely abolished, for the sake of the future students of this course."I am pretty proud of this e-mail and I think it captures the sentiment of the student body as a whole on this project. I took orgo before ls1b because I thought I might not need ls1b for my concentration but ended up having to take it, and I found ORGANIC CHEMISTRY to be a more pleasant experience, just for a frame of reference.
This class gives you some basics in regards to genetics, genomics, and evolution. However, the material is spread and arranged in an odd manner that does not provide for a cohesive learning experience, and you may even be better off teaching the material to yourself. Don't take it unless for a biology concentration requirement, and especially do not take it to fulfill your SLS Gen Ed requirement. There are many other better options.
Loved LS1b! Genetics is fascinating, and this class gets into some of the cool details that glossed over in high school explanations.  Super cool to get to work with our own DNA and some of the lecturers are fantastic-take the class just for the chance to have Pardis Sabeti, one of Time's "100 most influential people." She's actually incredible.
GDP problem sets really suck and are not enjoyable at all. The grading scheme for them is terrible, but overall the course material is super interesting and extremely enjoyable.
Try and see if you can fulfill your Pre-med and concentration requirement with another class.
LS1b kinda sucks, but it's a good course to take if you're premed. Lots of freshmen take it. The Genetic Disorder Project sucks balls.
A lot of students take this class as a pre-med requirement. Therefore, many students find this class and its work annoying and tedious, as they are only doing it because it is required of them. As someone who was not sure if they wanted to stick with the pre-med route, I can say that this class is definitely not that bad. It made me decide not to continue with the pre-med course track, but only because I realized that these types of classes were not for me. The material was definitely interesting, but LS1b required a lot of time outside of class for someone like me for which the material did not catch on super quickly. It took me a lot of extra practice to grasp most of the concepts, which I didn't really have time for. It was very stressful at times, and I never seemed to do as well as I wanted. With that said, I don't regret taking this class. Again, the material is really fascinating, and there is a great community of students in this class, as everyone struggles together, haha. Resources outside the class are great for additional help.
Many people hate on this course, I honestly learned a ton of genetics. This course covers a lot of material and the material is very interesting.
Only take it if its required
Test out if you can.
A class that is designed to make you think inside the box. In all of your evaluations (homework, section, exams), you will very rarely be asked to think for yourself. Rather, the most difficult lesson that I had to learn in this class was that we always will have been given the right answer in lecture, and all that is expected for you is to reproduce this answer.
This course is required for my pre-med requirement. The material is extremely interesting and worth learning because it is vital to understanding the importance of research and how it applies to real world problems. However, the way the course is structured is horrible. The way work is evaluated needs serious work. There are times were I know the material cold and my TF has acknowledged that fact, yet on the exam it doesn't reflect because questions are unclear or specific in a way that the wording must be familiar. I was told to simply memorize question structures over reviewing lecture notes and material and it makes the class grading confusing and unfair in my opinion. I think grading and evaluation structure needs tremendous work.
It's frustrating, but not terribly difficult. Take it if you need to, because it'll let you take more interesting classes later on, but don't expect it to be very exciting, even if you enjoy the material. Exams are worth studying for, but can be annoyingly ambiguous--it feels like you're trying to guess what they want you to say, instead of applying what they've taught you. Pardis is awesome though!
I would only take LS1b if you need to. I'm sure there are many more interesting and less stressful ways to learn about genetics and evolution. I don't think the course is as bad as everyone says because it seems like they have made some improvement but it is by no means a good course.
I came into this class having heard so many people complaining about how bad it is, but it was totally fine.
LS1b is difficult, fast-paced, and at times frustrating due to its many assessments and challenging materials--however, you have to take it to go to medical school or take a lot of the cool MCB and OEB electives that require it as a prerequisite, and it's just one of those freshman classes you have to get through. Watch out for the GDP project, which is worth more of your grade than you think it is and is graded very harshly--without much warning at all.
Depending on your concentration, you might have to take this class. A lot of class (GDP and sections specifically) will be very frustrating. The content itself is very good. The way the course is run, however, could be better.
I would only take this class if it is required.
You don't need to go to lecture
This class is very difficult due to the GDP and the lectures being unclear. There is a lot of work and a lot of time must be put into the class. It made me realize that I didn't want to do biology due to the material. The lectures are also a bit dry. If you're not going into the sciences do not take this course.
If you do not need this for a pre-med or science requirement, do not take it! I found LS1B to be a decent class, but I imagine that it is not the best taught science class.
You just have to get through it.
This shit will suck, but you have to do it. Try to find some good people to ride it out with.
I really liked the content of the course. Genetics is a fascinating subject. That being said, I was extremely frustrated with the grading and feedback, and Maryellen's lectures were extremely boring.
Good class overall, better than I expected. LS1b has a lot of breadth, but is lacking in depth - most of the techniques and problems are simple or easy, and only some are confusing or tricky (at least for me). The Genetic Disorder Project question sets were tricky to get right at first (research, writing, and citing) and were overall time consuming, so doing them the night before was stressful for me. Overall, I think the GDP does help teach the rigors of writing and learning about a subject in depth. The professors are good. I don't think it makes too much sense to take this as a SLS gen-ed. There are a lot of resources and office hours, and I would suggest using enough for you to succeed - I went to the Sunday pset sessions, but not the Friday problem solving lectures, and I didn't read the textbook. I'm taking this as a sophomore OEB concentrator (and it's fine), because I decided to take LS100r (a research course) in freshman year instead, which I think was a good decision - consider doing that if you want to see if you like bio/research. A positive attitude helps.
It's just an okay course (for the most part. Some parts are cool A++). Wouldn't have taken it if it wasn't a concentration requirement. A lot of busy work with the GDP.
Only take this class if its a concentration requirement. Interesting material is damaged by lack of focus on understanding.
There is a fair amount of work involved in the class, but I found it to be highly interesting work. Read up a little bit on each of the professors; they are so incredibly accomplished in their fields (Pardis was named to Time's 100 Most Influential while she was our teacher) and their own modesty can prevent that from being conveyed. It's pretty remarkable to get to have them and so I would encourage trying to realize that.
The material the course is supposed to encompass is very interesting and important for those considering a career in modern medicine.  However, the course itself requires what seems like a lot of busy work, and the lectures, in general, weren't the least bit useful in succeeding in this course.
If you're on a biology or premed track, you probably have to take this class. Hopefully it will get better for you guys, because it wasn't pleasant. With all that being said, don't go into it with the wrong mindset: try to get as much out of it as possible. Also, don't waste your money on the textbooks. If you're taking this and PS1, don't start both psets on Sunday.
It is harder than LS1a, but it isn't too bad.
The course has vey interesting and poignant material for people interested in genetics. The course does move very quickly and the midterms are challenging so the class will require a lot of time studying and going to office hours. Office hours are helpful so going to them will alleviate some stress. It is a pre-med requirement, but even non pre-meds could use this class because it teaches so many cool things about research! Keep up with your work and this class will be just fine.
The material is awesome and if you're interested in these things its worth taking.
The course is challenging because it includes a lot of superfluous work.
The material covered in this course was really interesting.  Although lectures could be a bit long, they were usually interesting.  Psets weren't too bad, and exams were manageable.
Always do the practice problems, always go to office hours. This class is manageable and students can succeed as long as they stay on top of the work.
I came into this class expecting the worst after what other students had been telling me. They seem to really be working hard on improving it--just study the slides carefully for each exam, and on the psets be sure to give explanations in the wording of the lectures (read the Friday review slides!). The GDP can also be enjoyable if you give yourself enough time to do each set of questions, and it will feel rewarding at the end. Lastly, definitely go to everyone of Dr. Sabeti's lectures--she is the best lecturer by far, and you'll just have to stick out the disappointment of Ruvolo's lectures right afterwards.
LS1b is really easy. Just be willing to spend countless hours on pointless and tedious assignments.
I found the material interesting and, for the most part, the lectures were not too bad. However, the grading seemed a little specific and the GDP project was a huge time-suck compared to what I got out of it and how much it was worth.
This class isn't as showy as LS1A so don't expect it to be as fun or easy. It's interesting material and there's a lot of ways to get help, but I didn't find it especially interesting.
LS1b material is actually super fascinating! Cool to get a survey of a bunch of different topics within concepts, though the downside is that you rotate through 4 different professors and units that sometimes see disjointed. But it's okay, because material was interesting and it was cool to see things change. Exam questions can be difficult because of wording, but doing practice problems is super helpful and questions are often similar.
Don't think this is LS1A part 2. It is much more difficult and GDP is nothing like blue sky
I think this course had a lot of interesting material, but the way in which it was all integrated seemed slightly disorganized. They were a lot of different components: lecture, problem sets, section, lab, pre-lab quizzes, GDP and I wonder whether they were all necessary to learn the material in the same depth.
It's not as "controversial" as it once was. The course appears to have applied students' feedback from previous years.
Attending office hours, especially those of Casey and Amy, the preceptors, is very helpful. Reading the textbook is not really necessary. I would recommend not buying it right away, that way you avoid spending money on a book you will probably never use. Make sure you attend the Friday Problem Solving Lectures (PSLs). The sections are very useful and clue you in to whats important. They also help you with problem solving and applying the problems seen in lecture. The PSLs are very helpful for problem sets and exams.
You have to take this class if you're pre-med but it's not as bad as people say it is! Definitely is a bit of a jump/ sharp cline from LS1a but it is actually quite interesting and very pertinent for all of the medical discussions happening today! I actually quite enjoyed learning about the material in the class which was very interesting! Labs may be long but are also really fun (you get to do a bunch of genetic testing on yourself)! You also get to do a "GDP" project and intensively study a specific disease which was also super interesting and also made me very knowledgeable about a specific disease!
That it is an unfortunate experience every pre-med student must endure.
for the effort and time you put into the class, assessments aren't accurate reflections of your understanding and hard work
It's hard but worthwhile. Find a good study strategy EARLY and stick to it.
Be weary of GDP and read the textbook. Go to Office hours
Ls1b has gotten a bad rep from many students who are forced to take it as a requirement. At first, I hated this class. Unit 1 was very hard, but it gets easier as you go. If you are passionate about evolution and genetics, then this class if perfect for you. It is very interesting- we sequenced our own DNA to find out which alleles we had for certain traits. SO COOL. Definitely take this class, but know that it is a time commitment.
Good class, especially for transition into college. GDP project is no fun, but most everything else is good. It is not the class where you will get very close with professors, but all are willing to help. The Preceptors are amazing...so so helpful and nice (go to their office hours).
You'll hear a lot of people complain about it but it's really not bad. It's just a lot of material to cover, but the Friday Reviews and Practice Problems are helpful tools to review. The preceptors all go out of their way to explain things thoroughly. You get as much as you put in.
This class is terrible, and the only reason that people ever take it is to go beyond this course.
This class can be challenging, but many of the topics are very interesting and the professors and TFs are always ready to help.
The material in this class is not especially challenging, but dealing with it's tedious requirements (ex. clicker questions, GDP, labs, etc) makes it so that you end up underestimating how much time you will commit to this course.
Great introduction to genetics. Interesting subject material taught pretty well. If you go into it excited to learn about genetics you will have a good experience, despite the busywork.
Do not take this class, do whatever you can to avoid it. It was the worst experience I have had at Harvard.
Very good lectures and interesting material, don't expect this not necessarily correlate with p-sets and tests.
It is very hard and you learn almost nothing. The workload is huge and you really don't enjoy it while you are doing it. The only good part is doing section problems in section
The teaching staff is generally unhelpful and often purposefully tricky. Their lack of care for the students and our learning makes this class incredibly frustrating and more of a headache than it needs to be. The obscene amounts of homework would be acceptable were the assignments not just busy work. My TF once said that the motto of LS1b is, we never stop testing, and this is certainly true. They never stop testing to see if you rotely memorized the prescribed answers they are looking for. This type of memorization is emphasized over actual learning, which is a shame because the material taught in this class has the potential to be really interesting. Do not recommend unless you MUST take it for a concentration requirement.
Lot of work but engaging material
some of the TFs are really unflexible and disorganized, and your experience in LS1b largely depends on which TF you get (i went to a few different sections, and some are so great and others not really). pardis and hopi were amazing lectures, and made the experience worthwhile.
If you're premed you have to take it anyway. If you want to take it for gened requirement and dont have a particularly strong interest in genetics, don't. There is a lot of work associated with the class, it's not very well organized, and it honestly would not have been worth it if i didn't need  to take it.
I felt like I learned a lot in this class (I thought it was a better learning experience than LS1a), and it wasn't as painful as people (and the low rating) had led me to believe it would be. The material was very interesting, and lectures were usually pretty great (though sometimes less engaging). The hardest part was dealing with three midterms and psets every week (plus the Genetic Disorder Project, which was the worst part of this class in my opinion. Learning about genetic disorders from real doctors and patients at the end of the semester was super cool, but the GDP problems were very difficult and we didn't receive very helpful support for the most part). Overall, the class was good, and I'm glad I took it (I didn't need to in order to fulfill a requirement). I felt like I learned a lot of important material! I'd recommend it to anyone who's interested in the material/who would want to take upper-level courses in the field!
Go ahead and take LS1b.  You may not have much of a choice if it's a requirement, but you're going to end up liking it.  The lectures are interesting, the labs are pretty fun.  You have to really keep up with the lectures, though, because you won't be able to start studying a couple days before one of the midterms and expect to do well.
Memorize every slide to get an A.
It's a requirement for any life science concentration, so it's very unavoidable. I wouldn't take it if it wasn't absolutely necessary.
If in any way you can avoid taking this class, do so.
This class is not for the feint of heart and must involve numerous hours of work and studying.
This is a fascinating course that, while it requires a lot of work, it is definitely worth it.
It is a requirement for many disciplines and it covers interesting material as a course, but the material is not presented in the most organized manner and preparation for the class requires more memorization than deep understanding of concepts.
While this course is somewhat interesting, it also requires a lot of work and detail.
If you like biology at all, do not take this class.
Good if you are genuinely interested in biology, but a lot of pre-meds don't typically like it.
This course has wonderful learning resources, and the topics covered are very intriguing. One of the most amazing parts of the course is the opportunity to work with your own DNA in lab, if you so choose.
The material is very interesting, but the class is poorly run
Quite a bit of work and on the psets/tests they are looking for very specific answers. Interesting material but the way the class is run at times can be quite frustrating. GDP project is very annoying and graded very strictly.
It's not as bad as the sophomores say it is!
There's a good reason why this class gets consistently low Q scores every year. It's because it's not a great class. If there's any way you can avoid taking this class and still fulfilling the same requirements (because you're definitely only taking LS1b for some pre-req or the other) do it. The material in this class is interesting for a little while because you talk about genetic engineering and stuff but also the lecturers are boring and compared to LS1a this class is very poorly organized. Also, sections actually take 3 hours almost every week and it's awful.
Study hard, and it is a great class that you will get a lot out of
The professors in this class are generally amazing, they are SO enthusiastic and a lot of fun. There is plenty of help and guidance throughout if you are willing to put in just a little extra time and focus. This class can take a lot of time and seems to move quite quickly at points, but it's not difficult, you just have to stay on top of it, which you really have no choice but to do given the way that the class is split up into units and you are tested often along the way. The GDP is painful but you just have to plug away and get through it, realizing that everyone else hates it as much as you do.
Not great, but not bad for a required class.
If you are a bio major, it is required, so you just have to get through it. Some of the lectures are quite interesting, others much less so. It's no one's favorite class but try to get the most out of it if you can.
This is probably one of the most poorly structured classes at Harvard, which takes away so much from the learning experience, because I actually loved the material but disliked the structure of the class. But if you have to take it for either premed or your concentration, just stick with it.
You're probably taking this class because its required for premed or concentration.It's fine and the material is pretty interesting but because of certain professors and bad organization it can be pretty tedious.
Some of the assignments and labs can be a bit tedious, but overall the material is engaging and interesting.
good class, but exams can be difficult and have vague questions. if you don't like macro-type biology (populations, migration,etc) you might not enjoy this class
Unless you are required to, don't take this course. If you are taking it for a requirement though, not all hope is lost. There are certainly parts of this course that can be major highlights, especially the parts taught by Profs. Hoekstra and Sabeti, but I still would not choose to take it if I did not have to.
This is a class in which you will learn a lot, but the class itself is a bitch. In terms of work, you will have to review a lot to really understand the material, and to work through the psets. Attendance is MANDATORY (clicker questions), so that's something to also think about. Lecture itself is usually pretty boring and hard to follow; the lecturers are all amazing and well known in the field but have trouble translating that into good teaching;  the post-lecture notes are what will get you through this class. Section will basically be a 3 hour waste of your life, so think about that when choosing a time for section. The tests are very hard (everyone fails the first one (this year, the avg was 77) and then cries about it), try to do practice problems for every single lecture and start studying 1-2 weeks before.  Take advantage of Amy and Casey, the course preceptors. All-in-all, it's a class of semi-interesting material that's taught very poorly, but you will learn a lot by studying.
do not underestimate this class, and make sure you keep up with the course material
It's hard, time consuming, some interesting material, lengthy lectures, bring coffee.
This is a great class. With minimal work (psets, section problems, etc.) it is possible to do well in the class. Beware of the GDP - people tend to to poorly on the first few question sets. Not nearly as bad as people say.
It is not that bad of a course but that may be because I have a strong interest in genetics and biology. Definitely requires time to be put into the class in order to understand the concepts and succeed.
If you are planning to take this course for requirement reasons, expect to become frustrated at various times during the course of the semester. The grading involved in this course is not the clearest or most fair. Make sure that you question the teaching fellow specifics about why points were deducted on certain assignments.
The class is one that is more concerned with grades and memorization than with students learning material andbeing able to use it in real world situations.
This is a class that you pretty much have to take if you wish to further engage with the life sciences. It's not great, but it's really not that bad if you utilize the lecture slides and your TF. A course to get through that you can get a lot out of if you engage with it.
GDP sux, everything else is pretty interesting
LS1b can be a lot of work, especially if you are taking other challenging courses, so one should be prepared for that. The material and professors are very interesting, but the sheer volume of information and different kinds of work you have to do for the class may be daunting.
Disorganized lecture sequence, seems to jump from topic to topic and return to things quite randomly.
The material covered in the course is genuinely interesting, but the class structure--grading, lecture organization, etc.--really ruined it for me. It's not impossible, but it's certainly not an enjoyable class. Don't take this if you don't have significant knowledge with biological concepts, otherwise you will fall behind on the first lecture (like I did) and never be able to catch up.
Don't take it.
Ls1b is an interesting course. The lectures with Hopi and Pardis will be awesome. But sections, TF's etc are not very well suited for such a big class. Mostly everyone takes it for a bio or pre-med requirement, so the curve is pretty hard. But you will learn a lot about all aspects of genetics.
The material is really interesting but the teaching is really bad and the structure is frustrating
I mean if you're looking at this class then you probably have to take it so just take it.
It's a required class, but very very interesting. The teaching staff is enthusiastic about the course, and even if it's not the best, it's way far from being the worst.
Attending lectures is very important for this class, and don't slack on problem sets.
The class is super interesting, and the concepts can be challenging at times, but the class is still a good class from a informational perspective. In terms of grading, the course could have been a lot better.
This course covered some very interesting material and presented ethical dilemmas in a way that I believe was very beneficial; however, some aspects of the course, including the GDP, were poorly executed, which was quite frustrating.
I found this class material to really interesting and relevant. Although there was more work than LS1b, I found the work more enjoyable. The GDP symposium at the end of the year was also a very rewarding experience.
This is not a good course. The only good things are the material and Pardis.
This class teaches you a lot about different aspects of genetics/genomics that are very useful, especially population genetics and different statistical tests (I think there are great applications to these). However, it is not an easy class and it is difficult to have good "background" coming into this class because a wide variety of precise material that is taught. Nevertheless, the material is very interesting, and taught in an engaging manner.
Don't take this course unless you have to. Take an MCB 60 something as you likely don't actually need to take this class even if you think you do. I didn't actually need to, just thought I did, and really regret it. I love biology, and even genetics, but really did not enjoy this class because of how it was conducted.
Definitely not as bad as people make it out to be. Just go to class and lab and you'll be fine. Don't need to go to OH really. The only thing that sucks is the GDP because there's not much direction and they grade it pretty harshly.
The course is pretty good--it's a requirement for most people who take it, so my suggestions aren't really going to be all that helpful.
If you like biology at all, or are a life science person, the material is really cool. Yes, the class is hard and annoying sometimes, but the material makes it worth it.
This class is pretty much required if you are premed or want to be a life science concentrator. It is not the best class nor it is the most fairly organized but the material is rather interesting and you'll end up getting through it in the end.
Don't take this class unless you're 100% committed to Med School because you need to take this course as a required class, but it is structured so poorly that you will begin to strongly dislike genetics.
This class covers many broad topics and seems to pick and choose information to teach rather haphazardly. You do end up learning something, but sometimes the lectures can be very unorganized and shallow.
It's not agonizing and the content is pretty interesting, so the course doesn't really deserve as bad a reputation as it has (though perhaps it was improved this year from past years?) Focus on problem-solving, pattern recognition, and avoiding careless mistakes, and you should be fine.
While I don't recommend this course, it is a pre requisite for many other life sciences course, so there really is no choice in whether or not to take it if you want to concentrate in a life science. The material is interesting, but there are too many components within the course and these components are not organizes. There is a lot of ambiguity in terms of expectations which made psets and exams much more difficult.
Unfortunately, it is required for many things. Otherwise, it should be wholly avoided.
Take this course only if you really have to. The GDP part is bad- you spend hours working on a project, without knowing how you're supposed to do it, and without really learning anything about the disorder.The Problem Sets have questions that are not taught in class, and almost everyone either goes on Google or asks a TF for help. In the same spirit, the exams have questions that are purely statistics (what you learn is how to apply statistics in bio cases, which is neither interesting nor helpful for future classes). Also, there are questions that have not been taught in class.
Go to Problem Solving lecture.  And section is where you learn, not class.
This class gives you a good sense of what research is like if you've never had any exposure to it.
This class is flat out terrible. The lecturers are OK and the course material sometimes borders on interesting. However, the assignments, labs, and sections are a complete waste of time and just ask students to regurgitate knowledge.
If you take it with the expectation that it'll be awful and there will be a lot of work, you'll have an awful semester because that's all you'll concentrate on. However, if you take the class looking forward to learn, I think you'll get something out of it. However, be warned that there are a lot of basic statistical tests you must learn throughout the course.
Some parts are hard but if you're at all interested in life sciences, especially the more biology oriented ones then I highly reccomend this
Really interesting topics - the course also gets better as it goes on. Going to office hours really helps.
LS1b gets a bad wrap. On average, people don't do too well in this course and therefore think about it negatively. I didn't do well in the course but I still loved it. Go into this course with an open mind willing to learn and it will be enjoyable. Take advantage of office hours for sure. The GDP is a silent killer. Many people found it pointless, but for me the GDP was my favorite part of the course. It was a project dedicated to doing research and learning more about something new on your own time. It's mostly an independent thing, so you will get out of it what you put into it. The GDP really ties the ideas of the course back into reality.
It's harder than LS1a. Much different in experience.
You will love some parts of it and hate others
LS1B is tough and it's crucial that you start the course on a good foot. Try to do well on the first exam to set the tone. I messed up on the first exam and it was difficult to compensate for that even though I did fairly well on the second and third exams. Also, don't be afraid to get a tutor. I got a tutor for LS1B before I started the course and she was very helpful when I needed her. Take advantage of the Friday problem solving reviews too.
People love to complain about LS1b, but in reality it's not a bad class. There workload is steady but not difficult, and there are plenty of resources to help. That said, the GDP is terrible and completely negates all positive aspects of the course.Make sure you attend Friday problem solving lectures or at least watch the videos. Problem sets and exams are exactly like the material presented there.
The class is designed to test the academic rigour of premedical students.
Seriously, if you don't have to take this course DON'T TAKE IT. Save yourself the stress,
You will gain a lot of applicable and important knowledge about genetics from this class.
It actually wasn't that bad at the end of the day: the problem lies in how bureaucratic the day-to-day assignments are. The lecturers are experts in their fields and absolutely excellent, and your section experience, like all classes, will depend on your TF. There are two main problems with this class:1) the Genetic Disorder Project, which I would guess is intended to be a creative outlet to inspire scientific curiosity but is instead the bane of every premed and non-premed's existence. The idea is to answer a set of open-ended questions about a particular genetic disorder, but the rubric on which it is graded is completely obscure, incredibly specific, and harsh. GDP is weighted equally to your problem sets, even though 95% of the learning in this class is the problem sets (so this makes no sense). Intuitively, it becomes an after thought and nothing more than a chore where no one really learns much at all.2) the bureaucracy as a whole is suffocating when you want to change sections, need an extension on a problem set or lab assignment (hint: YOU WILL NEVER GET ONE even if you are medically incapacitated), hate your TF, or are hated by your TF.That all being said, I think the material was an excellent introduction to genetics and its modern techniques, even with the occasional busywork.
This class is definitely interesting, but be prepared to spend a lot of time on the subject matter.  For me, and many others that I know, this class was very hard, but at the same time, I did really enjoy the material.
Only take this course if you are pre-med. It's not worth the hassle.
GDP is awfully graded.
Whatever happens, you're going to lose points because of some BS. Embrace it and let yourself become a smarter person because of it. Study hard and review lectures before and after class.
Interesting material that could sometimes be clouded with the way it's taught. But probably an improvement from previous years.
If you are pre-med, you have to take this class. There is no getting out of it. But try not to fall into the trap thinking, "Well, I did super duper well in LPSA/LS1b so this class should be a breeze!" If you think like that, you'll get a 70 on your first exam, straight-up. Study hard for ALL the exams, because they don't increase/decrease in difficulty, they just seem more/less difficult depending on the amount of studying you do. Do the practice problems, go to/watch the PSLs, any materials they make available will ultimately be useful. Also, if they do keep the dreaded GDP in the same format, do your problems before Sunday night, even if they seem like they will be a quick 3 questions.
The class is awesome. A lot of kids have bad aura with it but it seems it stems from its difficulty. Theres new stuff that is really interesting if you approach it with an open mind!
LS1b was not completely awful, but it was also not exactly enjoyable. This is a course in progress. From what I've heard from students who took it in the past, it has come a long way and is still improving. It is not easy, and it's a lot of work, but the information itself is interesting and actually has a lot of real world applications. Some lecturers are better than others, but they are all well-intentioned and passionate about what they are teaching.
This class is unorganized and rather difficult. I would not take this class unless you have to.
really what you put into it- go to OHs, email TFs/preceptors/professors when needing help, get to know the staff, do the practice problems; it can be a truly rewarding experience
Not a bad class as everyone says it is. However, it still has room for improvement. There is a lot of help available (OH,PSL, etc.) Wish I reached out earlier.
The material covered by this course is really interesting, and the lecturers are engaging and make it fun! This course is challenging, and grading is often harsh, but the professors and TFs and preceptors are extremely accessible and helpful.
It will make you question whether or not you can continue being pre-med.
It just sucks, don't come in thinking that you will own just because you are good at science. It is a lot of grope memorization, So if you don't like to learn that way really dont take it. But all in all it isn't that bad if you just stay on top of all your work--dont do your psets the night before and start studying for midterms at least a week ahead.
It's a great class if you are interested in genetics, genomics or evolution, but it is SO MUCH of work. Kind of unbearable at times. If you are an athlete who is pre-med, I recommend filling the pre-med bio requirement with a different, less time-intensive class
A lot of menial memorization.
It's alright.
LS1b is a great course.  One needs a willingness to learn and work hard because the material and coursework can be demanding at times.  However, the application of genetics to medicine is very interesting, and the course definitely discusses this area well.
I haven't learned anything in this course that I will really take with me beyond the course. It confirmed that I don't want to study life sciences.
Only take this course if you have no other choice. If you can fulfill the requirement with another course, veer in that direction.
The class itself is fine but the setup of the GDP project is often difficult.  Additionally, many times you have to go ask for points back on the psets because they are graded with specific wording in mind, even though you have the right concept.
Only take this class if you have to for a science concentration or for premed requirements.  The workload is pretty ridiculous and it is pretty hard to learn all the concepts.  You can get through it if you have to, but don't do it unless you have to.
The topics covered are genuinely interesting, and the lecturers engaging. You're going to learn a lot of the material that's on the cutting edge of genetics. Just be prepared to work.
This class was the opposite of fun. The course material was actually really interesting, but, unfortunately, the professors and TFs found a way to make it dry and boring. Unfortunately, for many life sciences concentrations, this class is a requirement, so people have to take it anyway.
This class presents fairly interesting material, however the organization and quality of section and some lectures detracts from the material
It's a lot of work and be prepared to memorize many things.
LS1b is a great course to take after LS1a or LPSA, and I personally learned a lot about genetics. The TFs and professors are all really dedicated and teach the concepts very well. There are great lecture notes, practice problems, and support network available.
This class is extremely time consuming, the lectures are difficult to apply to the problem sets, and the tests are terribly difficult. That said, some of the topics covered in lecture are pretty interesting, but I wouldn't have taken it if it wasn't a requirement.
I really enjoyed this class. Lectures were interesting and made a lot of connections to the real world, and the GDP symposium was really fascinating.
This class isn't great. You don't take it to be inspired, you just have to bite the bullet and slog through the requirement.  Exams are all over the place, probably due to the professors being all over the place: some are better than others.  It's not easy, but if you put in effort you can get by.
It's a good course. I heard many negative things about LS1B but I personally really enjoyed it.
It's a requirement for premed and a bunch of concentrations, so take it I suppose.  But be prepared to be treated like a high schooler again with the amount of micromanagement they do.  While some of the material was actually interesting, the assignments are typically vague and it can be unclear how you're supposed to actually get all your points.
Most people take this class for requirement anyways, but if you're thinking of exploring it, I would recommend other biology courses.
This class is a concentration requirement for many life science concentrations, and in that sense is a sort of necessary evil. If you are not required to take it, there are many other options in the life sciences department that might provide a better fit.
This course really wasn't very difficult for me but I had taken AP Bio coming in to it. The readings were very unnecessary and I did few of them if any while still maintaining a good grade in the class. The hardest part was the GDP and PSETs slamming you sunday nights.
It's a tough course and isn't taught too well, but the material is very interesting and manageable as long as you put in the effort to do practice problems and study the material yourself.
i.	From all my friends and peers in the class that I have talked to, I get the sense that the most dissatisfying part of the course is the philosophy or attitude towards our learning. Rather than feeling encouraged to learn and being positively rewarded for our efforts, we are punished by unnecessarily strict rubrics on the GDP (which don't do anything for our learning but discourage us- when we put in effort to learn something but aren't rewarded for it because of minutia) or by no rewarding of partial credit on psets/exams (because one word is different from what was written on the rubric). The main criticism I have and that I have heard is not about lectures/section/etc, but rather that the philosophy of the course discourages rather than encourages learning and is set up for us to fail rather than succeed, which does not seem like the point of a college course or learning in general. The assignments are poorly structured, the lectures (with the exception of Pardis section) are boring and dry, which is such a shame for such interesting material and such accomplished professors, and section is laden with activities that waste time and seem geared towards middle school students. Some of the most accomplished biology students in the country come into this class excited and passionate and are leaving discouraged from concentrating in life science. What a shame that this introductory course is doing the one thing that classes should not do: taking away students passions for learning. The introductory science classes at Harvard need a major overhaul.
Psets and Lecturers are pretty good (Pardis Sabeti is the bomb dot com) but the Genetic Disorder Project kills you and preparing for exams is frustrating (since the review materials often mislead you as to what the exam is actually like)
The material is interesting and the course as a whole is engaging. Some lectures can be boring for 1 1/2 hours. Section is the most educational aspect of the class where you will actually learn how to apply concepts in lecture. Labs can feel pointless at times, but I guess they are useful for learning basic techniques. The one downside of LS1b is the amount of work required per week. The problem set alone is manageable, but combined with the weekly GDP question set, it is a lot of work. I found this to be the least enjoyable aspect of the course.
I was hesitant to take this course as I heard bad things about it, but it was my favorite class this semester. It was not easy, but the material was very interesting for me, and it really made me love biology whereas I never did before.
While the material is interesting, unless it's a requirement, this class is not worth the pain. Expectations are fuzzy all the way through and the workload is manageable but much of it feels like a waste of time.
I will tell them that it is interesting but that it is not particularly well taught for many sections.
I really liked LS1b this year. Apparently, there were a lot of changes made to the class and it seems like it was a lot better this semester. The problem sets, lab reports, GDP question sets, and exams were all reasonable.
It's a good class with interesting material but it has a lot of homework that will often feel unnecessary.
LS1b is challenging and work intensive. But if you put a lot of effort and time into it, you can learn a lot.
If you do the work and love biology, you will actually love this course.
This is one of those courses that you just have to suck it up and take because it is a prerequisite for many other courses. The lectures are very interesting but there is quite a bit of work outside of lecture. You have a problem set and a GDP question set due every Monday and then weekly lab work so just be prepared to put in a lot of time
This class isn't as bad as everyone says, although it is pretty bad. I think going into it with the idea that it was going to be horrible made it worse than it actually was though. There's a lot of work and be prepared to put a lot of time into it, but if you do you can do well on exams and psets. GDP though is a different story, good luck with that. The lectures/material can be interesting so at least there's that.
Its really not as bad as people say, first of all. It's the kind of course that you really just can't let yourself get disenchanted with because of grading/GDP or whatever. I worked really hard, learned a lot, and maybe my final grade won't reflect that but oh well-- I'm here at Harvard first and foremost to learn, and I definitely learned a whole lot about biology in a few short months, and I'm proud of myself for that. Take advantage of office hours, PSLs, and the friday problem solving lectures. Go to lecture and read the textbook for Kevin's stuff, especially if you're a bit rusty with bio. Find friends with the same disease as you for GDP and work through those together. Enjoy the course for what it's worth, and get everything you can out of it!
This class is very fun. Just let yourself enjoy it because it is class that really requires you to think. There is always something interesting going on in lecture. I think anyone who takes this class will enjoy it, just be active and ask all the questions you can. And make the most of your professors by going to office hours.
The GDP is such a waste of time and some of the lecturers are very dull.
It sucks, but you need to take it.
I wouldn't elect to take LS1b if it weren't a requirement for premed. From my own experience and those of many of my peers, this is a class that you take because you have to and try to enjoy it as much as you can.
It's a necessity for some courses and pre-med. Probably the easiest way to complete the requirements but it isn't a fun and engaging class
If you're not taking this for a pre-med requirement, there is not much reason to take the class. It's a giant lecture class with the majority of students taking it as a pre-med requirement, which can cultivate a somewhat unhealthy environment to be in.
Hard, dependent on TF, lectures are too big - but you learn a lot and it's a required prereq.
This class was horrible but there is no alternative to taking it if you want to continue in the sciences.
I used to be premed before this course. The tests are not reflective of the lectures. But take it to convince you to not be a science major anymore.
Not as bad as people say! I enjoyed the subjects we covered. Sometimes it feels like you're jumping through hoops with all the assignments they give, but 99% are very helpful for learning the material.
This class is really large and taught in lecture-style, which is often difficult to engage with and can feel impersonal. I would suggest getting to know the teaching staff well in order to make your experience in the class more personal, by attending problem solving sessions and office hours.
It's a class you have to take for OEB or pre-med, so take it.
LS1b is much more interesting than LS1a, but administered much more poorly. The psets are vague, it's often unclear what they want on exams. Prof. Hokstra and Prof. Sabeti are great, but Prof. Eggan is cursed with boring material and Prof. Ruevelo makes her really interesting material hard to follow. This class has a preponderance of very driven people, so you have to work hard not to stress out about it, because in actuality it's not that hard.
You learn important things in this class, but it's not easy at all. Be prepared to put in a lot of effort to get a good grade, including a lot of memorizing.
You have to take this class if you're premed unless you want to take MCB52, which is supposed to be pretty rough.  But unless you're in this situation don't.  You're likely to spend a lot of time frustrated at grading and not quite sure what you're supposed to be studying, and not a lot of time feeling like you're actually building a foundation of knowledge.
Lots of work!!
Although the teaching staff are brilliant and lovely people, I did not particularly enjoy this class. It was a pre-med requirement for me and nothing more.
Great class, but it is hard work and you have to be willing to put in a strong effort.
Make sure to do your math carefully on tests. Grading can be  bit cruel and arbitrary.
not too difficult but does require a lot of time sometimes (especially with lab)
While LS1B is getting better, it is still not a great class. While some material can be interesting, it covers way to much stuff, in too little time, and then unfairly assesses you on the material by asking very specific topics on concepts you barely went over. It might be because the class is just to big, but it is the epitome of an introductory class. If you take it, it is because you have to, so there is no choice, but try to come in with an open mind. It is very easy to hop on the LS1B hate wagon, but that is only going to cause you more stress down the road, so stay positive.
This is kind of a 'take it if you have to' class. I didn't particularly enjoy it.
Don't take this class.  It will be one of your biggest regrets.
This is a tough but rewarding class. Be prepared to work for it; you'll do well and enjoy it if you put forth the effort.
not as bad as people say, but take it expecting to be annoyed with it and do a lot of the heavy-lifting yourself.  it can be fun though and it's a bonding experience
It is very interesting but tedious, and an unnecessary amount of work.
It is too much but if you want to do real genetics and learn wonderful stuff, definitely take it. It teaches you what people actually do in research.
Make sure to pay attention during lecture and be engaged.
If you wade through the stuff you already know and concentrate on the stuff that's new, it's actually a pretty good course.
This class is definitely manageable and teaches the concepts well.
This class is interesting but very unstructured and not the most well taught
The material is interesting, but it's good to make sure you're prepared. I would say it is what you make it, but not going to be the best course if you're just getting it done. Most students seem to just want to get it done even though the material was interesting and you learn a lot.
There is a lot of work for this class. The material itself is interesting, but the lectures can get tedious.
I thought that the subject matter was really interesting. If you are interested in genetics and evolution, then this is a great class for you. The lectures were really interesting and engaging, and the professors tried really hard to make them easy to understand. I really enjoyed this class!
This class is great if you want to learn about genetics. That being said, it's not really a course you want to take just because you HAVE to. You need to enjoy it, too.
LS1b is definitely not that bad. I would go to the PSL sessions and look over the problem solving sessions if you need help with lecture material. They definitely have the resources to help you do well if you want to. Also, don't read the book - you don't need to at all to understand the material. Actually, always go to the problem solving sessions if you want to do well on the midterms!! Amy and Casey explain things really well.
Its a lot to deal with. There are many components that go into your grade and the ones that you spend most time on dont even count for much (like psets). Its a stressful class (and all the premeds dont help)
There is a lot of work that goes into this class. You really need to pay attention in class and find a good group to work on psets with. You also need to to start studying for midterms several days in advance. But the sections are good, especially if you have a good TF (like Tamsin). The course itself is very interesting, and I'm glad I took it.
Despite the cries of some, this is a very enjoyable class! Overall, I loved learning the material the professors lectured about, and they cover a lot of different topics, so the course is very dynamic! The difficulty of this class depends on how much of a biology background you have, but as long as you stay on top of your work and understanding the material in general, you will have a great experience.
There's a lot of information, but the Friday Review sessions are amazing and so helpful in giving you an idea of what you need to know for the class. I would definitely suggest going to those. The Head TFs, Casey and Amy, are amazing at explaining material. This class isn't as painful as some people may say.
I think this course is a decent intro-level biology course, however, most of the time it felt extremely disorganized and cluttered. Tests were not very indicative of material that was learned, and often asked for paragraph answers but seemed to only be looking for one specific term or word instead. The GDP project was interesting, but the lack of a rubric made it extremely difficult as you could obtain a variety of information from anywhere on the world wide web. The class also had a very weird timeline as they assigned problem sets and labs during awkward times like reading period when you have a variety of other finals to work on. However the material presented was interesting and the class itself is very good! I would recommend you also look into higher level biology classes that may be a bit harder but may be more manageable or beneficial in the end!
Genetics is a fascinating topic but the course does not always present information in the most fascinating way.
Don't take it unless you have to. Go to office hours.
It's extremely interesting, the course heads are great, especially Pardis. The head TF's aren't that supportive at times though and induce a lot of stress and anxiety.
I would only recommend this class if you HAVE to take it. It's a bitch, in every way possible, but you just have to get through it. Psets are hard, tests are graded harshly, and GDP is a waste of time, but you just have to get through.
This is a challenging class. Although the lessons are taught well and there is plenty of help available if needed, the midterms and final exam are difficult. You may not do as well as you may like in this class, regardless of putting enough time/effort into it.
Know that most people take this course because it is a pre-med requirement. The grading is very strict. The material is very very fascinating.
LS1b is a good course, but not a wonderful course. You will definitely learn some interesting genetics, and while the assignments can be tedious LS1b is a good addition to one's biology education. Read the textbook if you can, it adds to the course experience immensely and if I hadn't had two other science classes that took up tons of time I would have read more diligently. LS1b is not particularly challenging, and can seem like it is directed at a pre-college audience at times. At the end of the day, however, it is a positive experience. There is a sad truth that the final unit of LS1b is significantly worse than the other three, so as we all go into these evaluations we have a little bit of a bad taste in our mouths. But we must remember that LS1b had many great moments. All the professors are wonderful, and the first three are also great lecturers. Hopi and Pardis are special standouts. Maryellen is a great person, but here lectures this year were a little bit more of a fact-dump than real, engaging lectures. LS1b has a slight culture of pre-med grade craziness, which I personally found tragic but this is far from LS1b's fault. Pre-meds, please, if you don't actually care about biology then maybe medicine isn't the best career for you. Doctors are wonderful people, dedicated to caring and a better world; one would think that doctors, of all people, would see that there is more to life than grades. Anyway, LS1b is a great class. Take it, since you probably have to, enjoy the good parts (and there are many), waltz through the dreary parts with a smile on your face, and read the textbook to realize that biology might be cooler than you thought.
This class is certainely not as bad as people say it is. The staff worked really hard to improve their reputation and Q scores and their efforts payed off. However, the course is still disorganised. There is a lot of material to cover, yet I am still not exactly sure what I have learned. It was hard to keep track of the material, since lectures often had nothing to do with section and the problems we had to solve in the problem sets. The preceptors - Amy and Casey - did an amazing job and were the best part of the class. Wouldn't have made it to the end without them.
Of all the required courses, this one is pretty great. I thought I'd find a lot of the material boring, but it was actually really interesting and exciting, so go into it with an open mind!  Definitely take advantage of the Friday Problem Solving Reviews!!! The preceptors present the information in new ways and organize it differently, so it solidifies your understanding of the concepts. And one of the biggest things you can do in a class like this is get good at solving the problems, which the PSRs are aimed to do.  And you'll be REALLY glad you have the PSR notes when it comes to studying for the midterms and final.
The quality of the course largely depends on the lecturer and your TF. Kevin does an okay job of presenting the material but can be condescending. Hopi is great and entertaining; she also always interacts with students. Pardis is somewhat awkward but an okay teacher. She tried to teach way too much material at first but is receptive to students' feedback. Maryellen is just boring and completely unengaging. I was totally lost during some of her lectures. You should definitely take advantage of Amy's office hours - she's so helpful and caring. She's always willing to stay late to make sure you get the material. On the other hand, you should avoid Casey as much as possible. She is the exact opposite of Amy and is downright cold and callous. She tries to trip you up on exams and is very passive aggressive.
This course starts strong and finishes weaker. Professors Eggan and Hoekstra give informative and interesting lectures, while Professor Sabeti--while hard to follow in lecture--gives clear notes and follow-up summaries which make her information quite manageable. Professor Ruvolo's material is disorganized and it is unclear what you have to know and what is extraneous--just learn everything on her slides. Anything might be on the exam. Overall, though, this course gives a solid foundation of genetics and you really end up learning the material. I was glad this course was not a superficial overview, but really allowed me to "get into" the material on a deeper level.
Although, from what I've heard, this class has drastically improved over the past couple of years, I still think that the organization of the course needs to be worked on. I think that Kevin, Hopi, and Pardis are all pretty great lecturers (Kevin can be a little condescending in his lecturing, and I think his section is the hardest one to start with), but Dr. Ruvolo is absolutely awful. I wanted to fall asleep, I couldn't pay attention in class when she lectured, and she throws around the word "fruity" a lot, which I found offensive. Her lecture slides also make absolutely no sense, and I don't think she explained her concepts very well.
This class needs to changed once again, and once it is it will be better.
It was challenging, but worth it. It makes you think and actually work hard--but if you buy into it, you will learn a lot and be a smarter person leaving.
People were extremely competitive in this class, so that it almost felt hostile sometimes-- that's the fault of a bunch of GPA-obsessed pre-med students, not the professors. If you have any serious interest in science, it's a great window to seeing the modern developments in science and putting past knowledge in perspective, but it does require some dedication that non-science people may not be interested in.
The professors are pretty good and interesting, but the section leaders vary greatly.
Beware the premeds!!!
You're going to take the class anyway. But you can rest assured that Ls1b is a fine course. There are 400 students, so it's not going to be the most personal learning experience. However, there are so many resources for you to take advantage of --Friday problem sessions with Amy and Casey, review in lab, office hours, a place to go and ask any Pset questions the night before the problem set is due--so you can definitely do well in this class and feel satisfied with your growth by the end of the semester. LS1b is getting better.
The information is really interesting and great but you have to go to the Friday Review Lectures. They are so helpful and apply to the problem sets. Also get to know Amy and Casey. They are very informative so take advantage of their office hours. The exams tend to be long so the most important thing for prep to the practice problem solving and thinking of all the ways the topics can be made into questions.
If you're a pre-med or biology concentrator, take this class--otherwise it's not worth your time.
It's obviously a premed heavy class and that ruins it. The class becomes about jumping through the hoops to do well rather than actually learning.
Take it early if you can and get it out of the way. It's not difficult but it will require a good amount of self motivation on your part.
Its alright. Better than ls1b, not too hard but not super easy, A lot of busywork
Prepare to be bored out of your skulls. It is very easy to learn the material outside of lecture, they overcomplicate the calculations in lecture.
take it only if you have to
Time intensive class. Lecture component is iffy, material taught and application is incredible.
If you are taking this class, it's probably because you have to. Not to disappoint you, but this class is no one's favorite.  This is just one of those classes you have to grit through and deal with it.  Some sections of material are much more enjoyable than others, but this class just is what it is.
Do the readings! And don't be afraid to ask the preceptors and professors for help!!
I approached this class in the wrong way. Honestly it is not that difficult. You need to go to PSL's those are the most helpful thing, and really understand the problem sets. I wish I could redo this course because i came in thinking it was going to be impossible, but it really isn't. Pardis's lectures were the clearest in what actually showed up on the test, but Hopi's were most interesting.
If you're interested in genetics, this class does a good job of covering a lot of different aspects of the topic. They also put some emphasis on statistical methods of analyzing data which I thought was interesting and helpful.
If you are not a premed and do not have a firm passion for research, DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. It is waste of your time. But what you could learn from this class is that you don't want to pursue science. The people who interact and be taught will give a sense whether you want to work in this area. For me what I generally felt was a group of arrogant people who believe they know everything. Also the head Tf is very not accessible and somewhat very aggressive and unhelpful. But know that she is available for the formality of it. So if you do your best to get her attention, you can do okay for the class. I didn't feel the need because I do not want to go for medicine and research. Thank you for this good learning experience I think I will never regret this decision in my life.
First of all, unless you are 100% dead set on a concentration ending in "biology," do not take this course. LS1b is not required for medical schools' general biology with lab requirement. Stop reading this Q guide page and go find another course that fulfills that requirement. Or go outside or something. Literally. Stop reading. Go find a better class. Trust me, it won't be hard.Ok, you're still with me? Alright. First, don't buy the book. I made that mistake, spent $200 on it at the beginning of the semester, and never opened it. You don't need the book to do well in the class, and the money could probably be better spent on alco--wait I mean wholesome and character-building diversions. In fact, you don't really need all that much to do well except a basic understanding of biology, high school math, and the clairvoyance necessary to figure out what they're asking on psets and exams. This is where the hard part comes in - it's nearly impossible sometimes to divine what exact phrasing you'll need to get credit. Compounding this fact is that, for the most part, 80% of the material being tested comes from only 20% of the lecture. You'll end up tearing your hair out Sunday night poring through lecture notes and videos to find the 15-second segment that answers your pset question. It's also very frustrating to get exams back with lots of points marked off not lots of explanation as to why; presumably, it's because the answer written didn't correspond exactly with what was on the answer key (general tip - if your class sends your exams to someone other than your TF for grading, run). Aside from the mind-reading, though, the class is frustratingly easy. It's hard to take a class seriously when you're being told by a MacArthur Fellow how to calculate simple probabilities or by a Rhodes Scholar what a log scale is. On that note, your professors will be brilliant, but only some of them (Hopi and Pardis) can really teach. So that means for half the semester, you'll have to listen to either a boring (Kevin) or - and I'm not sure how this combination is possible, but I guess it is - boring and condescending lecturer (Maryellen). The GDP project is also pretty much a disaster. It forces you to spend inordinate amounts of time searching on the internet for the answer to questions that not even real honest-to-god scientists know the answer to, plus you're being graded 95% on how good at citation you are and 5% on the laughably vague parameter of "style." Oh, and each part is equal to several psets in credit, so, you know, don't screw up.Section was also pretty lackluster, and I LIKED my TF. You end up doing the same sequence of discussion/lab week in and week out, and neither is particularly worth the repetition. The discussion - while helpful for figuring out exactly which small fraction of lecture is actually going to be tested - drags on for far too long and ends up compressing the time you have for lab. But that's okay because, in addition to not being relevant to what's being taught in lecture after the first few weeks, lab is nothing more than pipetting liquids into other liquids (sometimes they're colored--ooh!), running what seems like a million gels, and the occasional "why am I here" exercise, like the one where you are a "predator" "hunting" for "prey", aka beads in a box, constrained by the terrible and dastardly obstacle of--yup, you guessed it--turning the lights off. Really. So, to recap: if you enjoy buying unnecessarily expensive textbooks, poorly phrased questions that don't reflect the material being taught, weirdly inexplicable grading, soporific lectures, spending lots of time with your graphing calculator, not getting to use any of the cool yet relevant functions on your graphing calculator, meaningless labs, getting to know your friendly local centrifuge, long walks on the beach, and poorly phrased questions, then LS1b may be right for you! #ohgodpleasedonttakethiscourse
Don't take this class if you don't have to, it is a lot of work.
Boring class that has some good professors and some bad professors.
Worth taking because the material is relevant but not the most interesting class. Some of the professors are better at lectures than others, but if you know the concepts on the concept checks online and are able to do the problem sets, you should be fine. The exams are doable with all the practice problems given.
You gotta take it for requirements and it won't be easy but at least you forge camaraderie with other pre-meds.
This is a great class. The lectures are exciting, and it's a much more relatable field than what was covered in ls1a.
The material was very interesting and the problem sets were manageable.  However, the exams were very difficult and graded tough.
You're pretty much screwed because this is the main way to get your pre-med requirements and it's required for some concentrations. If you can find another class though, I would take it.
If you are not interested in taking a poorly organized class with attendance of up to a couple hundred, then this class may be a struggle. Otherwise, if you are genuinely interested in learning the course material and would like to listen to lectures on big-name professors, even if teaching is not their forte, this would be an enjoyable class.
This course is truly what you make of it. If you invest your time wholeheartedly and do the readings before lecture, you will get a lot more out of it. Skipping lecture and not caring about p-sets and other assignments will not help you get anything out of LS1B. Some of the material is a bit of a chore, but if you look for interesting things, you'll find them.
Only take this class if you need to. If you're premed but not concentrating in a life science, take another class to fulfill your requirements. Some of the professors were just there to teach and didn't care about their students at all.
This course is really what you make of it.  I have heard a lot of complaints about its lecture style, however, in the end I think the lectures were more than sufficient for learning the course material and when supplemented by very good sections and optional problem solving reviews (which I highly recommend) I felt that I learned a lot.  I would recommend taking the time to do some of the assigned reading and taking advantage of extra resources that are available, but overall a really good course.
LS1b is a really fantastic course. The teaching staff is wonderful, most especially because they are so dedicated to the course.  All of the material is fascinating; rather than dissuade me from being pre-med, this course reaffirmed why I want to be a doctor. LS1b provides a really great overview of the field of genetics and the current research being done. It is a significant time commitment in terms of class time, but nothing is ever unmanageable. Exams and assignments are fair, help is always available in the form of office hours and problem solving lectures, and workload is relatively light throughout the semester (problem sets only take about 2 hours).
It's a necessary evil in the life-sciences pathway, but if you have a great TF and stay on top of the material, which isn't that difficult to do, you'll be fine. I found this material much more interesting that what was covered in LS1a, especially the modules taught by Professor Hoekstra and Professor Sabeti. It's also nice that there are 3 midterms, enabling you to test yourself more frequently throughout the term instead of only twice.
Only take this course if it is required.  Don't put yourself through it just to dabble in the sciences or for fun.
Exams are unfair, Ruvolo is terrible. Everyone else is great however
It's pretty interesting, but they don't care about you or your time. Prepare for a terrible 3 hour weekly lab and numerous assignments in reading period.
This is going to be horrible, and strong odds are that you will not enjoy this course - but you have to take this, so stick it through. Be prepared for poorly worded assignments, exams, and labs, and general uncertainty over exactly what you're supposed to know. Pardis Sabeti's unit is the only saving grace.
It is a pain but you will get through it.
I honestly would not recommend this class to anyone who does not either have to take it to graduate or for premed requirements. There is little benefit other than a huge headache. Do not expect the quality of LS1a (I cannot speak for LPSa).
Don't waste time with the textbook or the readings - they may be interesting but there is so much content in this course that your time is better spent revising material and trying to keep up
Unless the course gets better lecture wise, I would tell my friends to only take the class only if it is necessary.
Tests are graded extremely subjectively and your grade does not always reflect the amount of time you put into the class.
I really enjoyed the class and learned a lot.  That being said, the course is a lot of work.  There are a lot of assignments, some of them quite time consuming.  The exams require a lot of prep.
Overall, I liked this class. I know that LS1b is notorious for being bad, but I think actively trying to avoid the mindset of "this class sucks" can make the experience far less painful. Most of the material is interesting and, in my opinion, well organized, with the exception of the last section (Dr. Ruvolo's section). Her material was interesting but not very well-structured and it differs from the rest of the course in that it's not so much a matter of understanding but more that you have to straight up memorize the information. The material as a whole was fascinating in my opinion and as long as you keep up with the material and make sure you understand the PSETs it's not that difficult. I would recommend going to office hours because the professors are pretty friendly and help clear up misunderstandings with the material.
Unless the course is a requirement, and unavoidable, I would not recommend
LS1b is absolutely amazing, and I recommend 100% that you take this class if you have any interest in Genetics/Biology in general. The teaching staff is absolutely amazing and the preceptors are very helpful and always available for help. After LS1a I had decided life sciences as a concentration was not for me, and this course absolutely brought me back. The subject material is interesting and relevant, and the professors do an amazing job of generating excitement for the material. Upperclassmen who took the course multiple years ago likely had a very different experience than one presented here, so if you hear that don't let it dissuade you from taking the class; it has been absolutely fantastic this year.
I hated this class. It might have been because of bad preconceptions, but the problem sets were long and unnecessarily difficult, the exams were tricky in a way that I felt didn't really test whether you knew the information. The lectures were long and often quite dull. I'm still going to concentrate in a science, but not because of this class.
This class is tricky.  On exams and psets, you must have what the exactly what the answer key has as your answer, or it will be marked wrong.  I.E. no "mostly right" variation.  However, the material is enjoyable and timely.  I suggest the class because the material is worth it, but the grading is unfair.
Only take this class if you need to for your concentration. It is your basic intro science class-- pretty large and frustrating. Professors Hoekstra and Sabeti give this class an upside, but other than them it can be rough to get through.
You have to take it, so take it. Get a good study group going, especially with people in your dorm or a dorm close to you. I don't really see how you can do well in this course working solely on your own.
If you're concentrating in biology, you have to take it, so take it sooner rather than later. It's a perfectly fine class, and there were some really cool lectures.
This course has interesting topics but is very difficult to follow. I would say to only take this class if you need to for a concentration requirement.
Ls1b is good if you lack an understanding of basic biology principles and need a basis in genetics. Don't take it if you already understand basic genetics and are looking for something more.
Do not take this unless you absolutely have to
The class is very large and filled with many premed students, so, in that sense, it is similar to LS1a. I found the course material more interesting, however, and I liked my section which made for an overall okay experience in the class.
I would tell them to be prepared to donate many hours of their week to doing lengthy psets and trying to understand the class material, because oftentimes the lectures are unclear.
Although this course is a pre-med requirement, it is just not worth it. There were a few parts in which I feel like I truly learned interesting techniques for solving problems, such as in Unit 3, but overall the course was a lot of heartache, wasted effort and regret. If you do take the course, plan on waiting until sophomore year so you can weigh the decision carefully. I recommend PS 1 or PS 11 for your freshman year. I was not prepared for the course because I didn't have a strong background in Biology in high school, so you'll also want to think about that.
LS1b has the potential to be a awesome course thanks to its cool topics and world-renowned professors. However, this is far from the case. LS1b lectures were boring, the labs terrible uninteresting, and the exams and p-sets were generally based on assumption, ambiguity, and unnecessarily strict rubrics that allowed for nothing by regurgitating exactly what was explained in lecture. The overwhelming swarm of premeds made the class less than enjoyable because they are less interested in learning than they are in getting an A. Also, don't get the textbook. The readings are often less informative than lectures and don't teach anything. Exams are only based on lectures. This is definitely the worst course I've taken at Harvard and even though I did very well, was never enjoyable.
Very interesting material and professors,  but requires improvement in terms of wording on problem sets and exams.
Take it only to get rid of your Pre-Med/concentration requirement.
The topics covered in this class were very interesting, and overall I enjoyed my time in the class. It is certainly not a painless class, but it has definitely improved from years past, and I feel like I got a great deal out of it.
Its a tough class. Be prepared to put in a good amount of time, but some of it is genuinely interesting.
Unless it it necessary for your concentration, DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE.
The class is a lot of busy work, lecture isn't particularly informative or helpful, and lab is generally a waste time.
If you are pre-med or want to concentrate in pretty much any science, you have to take this class.  Chances are, though, it will be the bane of your existence for the entire semester.  The material is interesting at times, but for the most part, it is a grind.
I think that the material and the intent of the class are great--the course just lacks organization and efficacy at times. If all the lecturers were like Pardis Sabeti I would recommend the class with much more enthusiasm!
Good luck
It's a great class and a very enjoyable course if you put int he effort and keep up. It's basically what you make it to be.
Don't take this unless literally forced. Worst class pretty much ever. Made me hate science. Forcefully strayed me away from science and premed and everything. Maryellen Ruvolo is a patronizing old fashioned woman who didn't actually teach methods. Sabeti was great and was the only tiny saving grace of the class. But the class was not saved. Awful. SOS.
Although the material of the class is interesting, it is not well organized.
You should only take LS1b if you absolutely have to.  If your concentration requires it, power through and know that other courses will be better.  If you are not required to take LS1b, don't.
It's very difficult and requires a strong science background.
You have to do it as a requirement.
This course turned out to be a lot better than I expected. I actually enjoyed Pardis and Hopi's lectures greatly. Even Kevin and Maryellen had relatively interesting lectures. This course, did involve quite a bit of work, and some weeks were especially work-heavy for no apparent reason. Overall, if you do have to take it as a concentration requirement, it turns out not to be too bad! I liked the course overall, but I know many others didn't.
Really consider if you want to take the class. The tests are difficult, and the GDP is time consuming, graded harshly, and feels more pointless than integrated with the rest of the course.
LS1b is a course with the right material but implemented in a way that isn't too perfect. I've heard LS1b has improved from recent years, so it is working on getting better but it isn't perfect. The best you can do is to make the most of the opportunities afforded to you. Go to problem solving sessions. Do all the practice problems included for each lecture. Stay on top of the lectures and material--there is a lot to study for each exam. You actually don't need the textbook too much. Some people have told me it helps in solidifying information, but I found the textbook to be a useless waste of time. Attend to office hours and make use of all the opportunities the professors make to reach out to you. While I don't have a formula for success in this course, doing that will make the class a lot more bearable.
Don't tale this course unless you have to.
Study hard
If you're looking into this course, you probably have to take it, so nothing on the Q will convince you otherwise.  If you're trying to fulfill an elective, look elsewhere.  This class will take too much of your time for merely a gen ed req.
This course effectively exposes you to genetics, genomics, and evolution.
Take it if you have to by concentration requirements. If you've taken AP bio, this is a waste of time. You can learn everything on your own in two days.
Only take this class if it's absolutely required for you to do so.
This course may or may not kill your pre-med dreams.
The course is fine. It can be a little difficult to find out what they actually want you to know for exams, etc. but if you poke around on the course site you can generally find some useful tips.
It's a tough class, but many of you must take it so stay positive, make the most of it and don't be afraid to ask for and seek help.
This is just one of those courses you're going to have to take if you're premed. It's hard to get around it. Overall, lecture was great and actually entertaining. I really enjoyed some of the lectures and found the material really cool. However, section/lab ruined the course for me. Also, it is a lot of work and fairly stress-inducing. The course overall isn't that bad, but I wouldn't take it unless you are very interested in this material or premed. Don't just take it for fun.
The material is interesting and you should do the readings before going to lecture, and pay attention when your TF goes through practice problems in section
This class covers a lot of interesting material and introduces you to many interesting genetic analysis lab techniques, but it is structured very poorly, so that in the end you're not entirely sure what the overall take-home message is, which can be frustrating and make you want to quit the class if not being premed too. (I probably would've considered quitting premed if my section hadn't been full of such great people.) In the end, I would recommend taking it only if you are premed and it is a requirement.
This class has a terrible grading rubrik for all my assignments.
I wanted to like this class.  The content isn't inherently boring.  The professors are accomplished- outside of the lecture hall.  But if you thought Ls1a was bad, be prepared for a class that will have you on your knees begging for Rob Lue to come back and lecture just once.  The professors are nice people, but three out of four of them CANNOT LECTURE.  Exams and problem sets are poorly worded (literally one question on a problem set was "What are two differences between humans and chimpanzees?" No further directions given).  Little content is actually learned, and exams are graded so that you only get credit if you give the answer they want rather than any correct answer with a scientific basis.  STAY AWAY from this course unless you absolutely have to take this passion-crushing class.  If I weren't also enrolled in a far better taught and far more interesting organic chemistry class (Chem 20), I might have left the sciences because of this class.
Life Sciences 1B is one of the most challenges courses that a freshman can take, but is taught by some of the most qualified and enthusiastic professors Harvard has to offer.
Covers some of the most interesting topics in biology.
The material isn't hard to understand, but the exams are.
People like to complain about this class a lot, but it's really not bad at all. It's only annoying/frustrating if you let yourself into that mindset before giving it your best shot.
Unless you have to take this course as a concentration/pre-med requirement, STAY AWAY. The material was interesting and some of the lecturers were effective, but the way the class was graded (only 7% for problem sets... REALLY?) is ridiculous and a huge turn-off. LS 1b is the worst class I've taken at Harvard thus far.
Ls1b is strictly for a pre-med requirement. It is somewhat interesting material and isnt as hard or horrible as everyone says. The teachers take the class too seriously and give assignments out like t hey have to. As long as you do the practice you should be fine.
If you got an A in LS1a, don't take this class. If you think you're good at biology, don't take this class. It is way too easy and you'll be bored for the whole semester. You don't need this for Pre-Med requirements! You can take a different bio course! Also, don't buy the book, you won't ever read it.
Eggan, Hoekstra, and Sabeti were the most engaging teachers ever, especially Hoekstra--I really enjoyed going to lecture.
its a very cool class but you have to work a lot for it and keep on top of things. if you don't it shows very easily
Ls 1b is a fluctuating class so it's bound to change by the time you read this. What I can tell you is that the class actually does teach a good amount of basic genetics and genomic methods that are extremely useful to the budding biologist (yeah, I just said 'budding biologist'. Ugh). Dr. Sabeti is the best lecturer in this class, but the constant changing between teachers and teaching styles will be bound to confuse you. Also, the GDP is awful and overall if they keep three midterms you will hate the amount of week-to-week work you'll do in this class, but it's a bit of a necessary evil. It is what it is, and if you focus on the useful stuff you'll learn, you'll get a lot more out of this class.
Don't take this class just for fun.
This class is hard in that for certain assignments, you need to know exactly what they are looking for to get the questions right.
This course starts off easy but gets progressively harder. Make sure you stay on track with the work and don't feel like you know all the material entering the class because it starts with basic meiosis and mitosis concepts.
Sadly, this class is required for almost every life science requirement. DO NOT take this course if you don't have to. Too many people, the class takes itself way too seriously, and it's organized in a way that doesn't give students a break. Also the Genetic Disorder Project is a completely useless exercise that I would expect from a lousy high school class, not a college course.
I would tell them that most people really dislike this class, but I really enjoyed it (which was pretty dependent on my TF).
If you have to take it, take it, it's not the worst class. If you are choosing to take it look for a different class that might be more interesting.
The material is amazing. I really found that I loved learning about biology, which I was sort of not sure about before. I think Pardis especially made me really interested in genomics. I loved learning about all the different methods used as well. Overall, it was an engaging course.
This class is not constructed well. It will only cause you headaches. Avoid.
its an interesting class but be prepared for some tough problem sets
There's a lot of work for this course and it sucks, but if you're doing one of the life sciences you have to do it anyways. It's gonna suck but it's just one of those things.
I was wary of the course before taking it (I had heard the previous horror stories about this class) but I was really surprised to see how well organized the course was.  Most of the lecturers were extremely engaging and focused, and the psets followed the lectures for the most part.  The only issues I had were with the 4th section of the course, which seemed less focused and the psets had questions that were barely covered or mentioned only briefly in lecture, but the other 3 sections were very clear.  There are many resources for students, and while a certain amount of effort needs to be put in, it's very possible to do well in this course.  Special shout out to Professor Sabeti, who obviously cared so much about her students (she was the only professor who held multiple review sections before the midterm for her section, emailed the students before the exams, etc.)
If there is any possible alternative to this class I would strongly encourage a future student to take that alternative option instead. I would NOT recommend this class.
It's a decent class overall. Sometimes it's hard to sit through but you learn a lot.
LS1b is a course that has so much potential to be a great class but never really fits the bill. The concepts are interesting, and labs where we work with our own DNA to find out about ourselves were pretty fun. Just be prepared to struggle through the work - in no way is this course a breeze. It's so much to understand and not enough time. Testing is not easy either. That said, shop this course because it is indeed interesting and it opened my eyes to a whole world of science and controversy that I've never before considered. If you focus on the material and the knowledge, you will find what you learn amazing and enjoyable. Like I said, the topic is amazing, but the course is just not run in the best way possible.
This class is easy, but it's poorly organized and I sometimes question if I was using my resources properly in taking this course. It's very soft and glosses over topics that I wished were covered more in detail. The grading rubrics are ridiculously strict to the point where you could be losing points, even in writing the correct answer, just because you left out a few words. However, I've heard LS1b is the least interesting and engaging of the bio classes, so don't let this class be the end all if you are considering biology, chemistry, pre-med, etc.
A lot of people complain about LS 1b, but it was actually one of my favorite classes this semester (and I wasn't expecting it to be). A broad range of topics are covered, which was very helpful for me because I knew I wanted to concentrate in one of the life sciences, but this allowed me to determine which particular subjects I was most interested in. You get four different lecturers for six lectures each, and each has their own particular style so if you don't like one as much, you'll be moving on to the next one in a few lectures anyway. All of the teaching staff and extra resources, such as the Friday problem solving lectures were very helpful, though I didn't feel the need to go to them all that often, and I didn't use the textbook at all. Section was enjoyable because I had a great TF, but I know others who weren't as fortunate, and it was a bit disjointed from week to week and skipped around a lot. Overall though, if you're at all interested in biology, definitely take this class!!
The material made this class my favorite but how it was taught prevents me from recommending it with enthusiasm.
Not a bad class. Definitely not everything that people make it out to be. It's filled with premeds so you know what's coming. Lectures can be drawn out and boring but Eggan and Hoekstra are interesting. Sabeti tries to keep your interest by launching projectiles into the lecture hall. Bottom line: you are probably required to take it. Bite the bullet.
It's not as bad as people make it seem.
An interesting course taught in an uninteresting way. Weekly workload is not bad at all, but exams can be tough (other than Unit 3, which was a breeze).
Do practice problems. PSLs are quality and helpful for psets
Very interesting class that always felt very relevant. The material was great and the workload was manageable. It far exceeded the reputation it had coming in.
if you want to be a competent life science researcher u need to know genetics and stuff taught in this class. if you dont know this stuff youll have a hard time in upper division courses. The course staff do their best with the huge amount of information they cover in the class IMO
I don't know anyone who takes this just for fun, it's more of a required course for sciencey people. It's a fair amount of work to understand some of the material, but some of it does get pretty interesting. The exams were a bit tough, and I could never really do the psets (and get them right) by myself. But if you go to all the resources they give you and have people explain things to you, you'll end up okay. They definitely improved it from past years. Still a little frustrating though.
Unfortunately LS1b is a requirement for many life sciences majors. However, if you can avoid taking this class, you really should avoid it. The material is not that interesting and you are assigned a lot of time-consuming work. If you need to fulfill a biology pre-med requirement, LS2 is a much much much better option. If you have to take it, try to find a group of friends to work on psets together because its gonna be a long and bumpy semester.
It is difficult, there is no easy way out of this class.
Frustrating but fine.
Honestly, what everyone says about LS1b is a bit overhyped. If you keep a level head and study diligently you should be a bit better off. Don't be disheartened by the incongruous assignments, the illogical grading standards, and conflicting information you will inevitably be presented with in this course. Yes, it's unfair. Yes, it's a requirement. No, you should not let this course discourage you from biology at Harvard.
The class was terrible.  Unless you need to take it, DON'T.  Literally any other genetics course will teach this material to you better and will be infinitely more enjoyable.  Lectures were three times as long as they needed to be and the assessments are insulting.  Your performance in the class is independent of how well you learn the material.  Honestly, you have to test mindless.  Just memorize the answers they give you and regurgitate them.
It's not the best run course. Its status as bio concentration/premed requirement makes it a messy cobbling together of all the things they don't teach you in LS1a/LPSA that they still need to fit in. Some professor's modules are better than othersSabeti's was especially good in comparison to the others.
The material in this class is amazing, the organization is terrible. The lecturers themselves aren't too bad- Eggan's alright, Hoekstra and Sabeti are AMAZING, but Ruvolo kinda throws a lot of information at you without explaining it too well. You'll get through it though. However, BEWARE OF GDP. It seems like a pretty cool project when you start out, but is realistically nothing more than pointless busywork that should not be worth 10% of the grade. The professors and the Peer Study Leaders are very helpful, but do not expect much support from the preceptors/TF's. If you're a Life Sciences concentrator you pretty much have to take this course, but don't expect much. Very disappointing overall.
This course is an intro class so it is necessary to take. The lecturers are good and the material is interesting. The class feels very impersonal, though, and I found it difficult to get help. Also, understanding material and enjoying the section component is very dependent on the particular teaching fellow you get.
It's a necessary evil but they have revamped it since the past to make it really accessible for students to get help.
Good luck - I am sorry if you have to take this course. If you don't have to take it then DON'T. It is the worst class I (and everyone else) have ever taken at Harvard.
I was not excited to enroll into this course but I ended up enjoying it a lot. The material is much more interesting than LS1a and the teaching staff does a good job for the most part. The workload and difficulty are similar to LS1a, but the course staff does a good job of showing how concepts apply outside of the classroom, and there are many resources to help students clear up confusion and get practice on problems. Professors Hoekstra and Sabeti are the best lecturers and they both went into extremely interesting topics. However, the labs in this course are very repetitive and eat up a lot of time, even though they are basically the same techniques being used every week. Overall though, I thought this was a good course that is very applicable and gives a deeper appreciation for genetics.
This course is a good way to learn more about molecular genetics. It is useful for understanding the genetic basis of disease.
It's really not as bad as people say. If you study and prepare well for exams, you will do well.
Unless you absolutely have to take this course, avoid it. There is a lot of busy work, psets are easy but exams are hard, there's a lot of material and it's not filtered well, hard work in this class is not rewarded
LS1b is just another introductory course you need to get through. If you're not sure if you're interested in science, it also is a good survey course to see if the topic intrigues you at all.
course is poorly organized but the material is pretty interesting and it's a premed requirement.
This class covers a very fascinating topic. Unfortunately, the academic value of the course is lost amidst the excess of tedious assignments and examinations. If exams are the focus, as reflected by the syllabus, then the other assignments should decrease in capacity so that we have time to actually prepare for them! I would have liked to focus on mastery and test taking improvements but instead I had to juggle weeks where I had a pset, GDP set, lab, and an impending exam. The other assignments were interesting but it is simply overwhelming to do them all at once without the grade being adjusted to reflect all of the work being put in. As is, this class is stressful for students who do not excel in test taking and frustrating for all who are simply interested in the material. The class has obviously improved and Casey and Amy work hard to help us out. Sadly, this great topic is blemished by the frustrating structure of the course. Very disappointed that the reviews given by my peers who had already taken the class were true. I was hoping to be pleasantly surprised.
This class was actually pretty interesting, and they've been working to improve this class every year. Many of the topics covered were interesting, such as quantitative genomics and deviations from normal Mendelian inheritance. However, the class is a bureaucracy and lab/section takes a good chunk of time, there are clicker questions, and the GDP project is a huge pain.
The class tries to accomplish too much, it has apparently become better in past years but the material in lecture is not really related to the labs and the tests are rather hard. As for the reading, they assign a huge amount that was not really useful so i know many chose not to do any, perhaps if they cut down their suggested reading to only material that is relevant to the course material. The GDP is a project that looks good on paper but is a waste of time that is graded harshly and counts for a large part of your grade.
Some units were better than others but overall it was very interesting and you will learn a lot about several different areas of organismal and evolutionary biology.
The experience with LS1b is similar to LS1a in terms of learning atmosphere, student makeup, and enjoyment. Most take it as a pre-med or concentration requirement rather than out of actual interest in the course material. That being said, some of the lectures were great and enjoyable and it's an overall solid class that most interesting in the life sciences will inevitably take.
The class is okay but definitely not great. Just push through it. And watch out for the GDP Psets. Start on them early because they are time consuming!
This course is one of the courses you just need to push through. parts of it suck, others not so much. I didn't have a horror story from this class but I didn't have a great time either. I wouldn't say I'm the smartest guy at harvard and I think I did fairly all right in this class.
For being basically a requirement for all premed or life science concentrators, this class is actually really great. The material is very interesting and presented in such a way that all the units relate and build upon one another. There is only one pset a week, and they aren't too bad. Labs are actually really interesting and fun to do, and they relate to the material in class.
Hopi and Pardis are good lecturers, while the other two were meh. Definitely did not make me as enthusiastic about genetics as I could have been.
This class has its strong points and downsides. Professors Hoekstra and Sabeti are phenomenal, the material they taught was fascinating and they generated a lot of enthusiasm for their topics. The material itself is very fascinating. The GDP project is great for learning about a new disease, but you will find yourself spending a lot of time following strict arbitrary guidelines. The psets and exams are graded very fairly. The lab component is not exciting, very time consuming and draining.
It's hard, you'll hate it, there's a lot of work, but it's also required for almost any science concentrator  and pre-meds
This course is REALLY cool. Better than lpsa or ls1a.  Good introduction to how all the molecular biology can be applied to the real world and evolution.
The material itself is interesting in my opinion, and the professors are all great, incredibly intelligent people who really care about the course and want you to do well. I learned things that will probably be very helpful in later/other related courses. That said, it's just not an enjoyable class. Probably best not to take it if you don't have to.
Very annoying class. Hoekstra and Sabeti's sections are great, but they're unique in that compared to the other two sections. Some sections are unclear, and at times the workload will feel like a bit too much (especially when you have psets due while you're studying for a test). Go to as my PSLs as you can or watch the videos online. Staying on top of practice problems every week rather than doing them all before a test is the best way to go.
This class is a good course, but at times it felt like more of a genetics statistics course than more of the biology behind genetics.
Ls1b is a necessary course for most science concentrations but it is not a very well structured course at all.
if you have any hesitation about taking this class, I'd suggest you not take it. it is absolutely terrible. when I first took it, I thought I would grind my teeth through it because "it can't be THAT bad!" This was probably one of the worst decisions of my freshman year.
requires many hours a week
It's really just a basic requirement, not a very fun topic depending on where your interests lie but it certainly forms a fundamental base for moving forward with any science involving the human body.
Ls1b is great! I really like genetics and genetic engineering, and this class introduced me to a lot of fun concepts! The multiple professors is also fun, as you get a varied exposure to different work different professors are doing.
Though there are still improvements to be made in certain areas, this course is way better than some of the nightmare stories of LS1b in past years. The professors are great and the material is relatively interesting.
The class felt very disorganized and most of the lectures had an abnormal pace. Although the material was interesting, the way in which the class was conducted took away from this. There are a lot of little assignments, but the material isn't very hard in general (it's often unclear though what is expected of you).
It's the worst and the best class I have taken so far.  It is an eye-opener to how cutthroat pre-med kids can be and the material is very interesting.  However, if the material does not appeal to you, do not take this course because it is a boring nightmare otherwise.
I learned a great deal of interesting information in this course. It is a genetics course from beginning to end - not really an introduction to biology. If you are interested in genetics, try this course. It is a very time-consuming and work-intensive course with difficult problem sets and weekly lab sections. But I'm happy I took it.
This is a pretty decent class as far as pre-med requirements go. I really liked it more than LS1A, if you like biology and genetics then you will find the course material really interesting --because it is.
If you are currently reading this message, that means you are considering this class. Let me tell you: if you know for a CERTAINTY that you do NOT have to take this class, RUN THE OTHER DIRECTION. If you HAVE to take this class, I'm sorry.
You've got to take it, so just get through. Try to find what you find interesting to carry you through as certain things you certainly wont enjoy but don't let that discourage you.
This course, while serving its purpose as a primer to genetics, is terribly managed, disorganized, and asks too much of its students between 3-hour unproductive labs and hyper-frequent assignments.
Not as bad as everyone says it is; it definitely requires hard work, but personally I think the material that you learn is very interesting. Don't come in with a negative mindset. Go to office hours if you need it.
This course is a requirement for most science concentrations, but you probably won't like taking it that much at all. The lectures are not interesting and the first two sections are incredibly micro- focused.
Enjoyed the course content a lot, somewhat of a time intensive class
You have to take it for most science concentrations, so it makes sense to get it out of the way early.
This class has many interesting components including fascinating lecturers and powerful opportunities to hear for specialists and patients in several different genetic disorders. The other components of the course are fairly standard for an intro level course.
The preceptors are really great and the problem solving lectures are probably the most helpful component of the course. The section/lab component is really painful. The labs seem unnecessary and some tfs seem to believe that they need to fill up the whole 3 hours even if there isn't that much material. Also, it's basically impossible to get an A in the course unless you're getting 93 and up on the midterms, which is not an easy feat. oh and the genetic disorder project is completely miserable. I mean, like, really really miserable. It's worth 10% of your grade and graded very harshly.
Avoid this class by all means. It is, by far, the very worst course I've ever taken in my life. There is no organization or structure, and assignments are graded solely on use of buzzwords. Terrible class.
Such a hard class- but you have to take it
You can know the material for this class, and even enjoy the material, but still get a terrible grade.
Don't take this class unless you have to. Some units are interesting but overall it is dry material.
Be prepared to struggle/be bored at times. The lectures, especially the last few, are very boring and move quickly which is a shame considering the material is interesting
The class is pretty dry and the work is rather painful. It is ineffectively taught and content is crammed in.
If you want to take this course, be prepared to study a lot and try to go to as many office hours as you can.
This class is hard, but you will learn a lot after taking it.
I think the course was pretty much like what you expect from a survey science class. Some of the content is boring, but they do a reasonable job of making it engaging.
This class teaches you a lot, and the material covered is interesting. The lectures are good, but there is a fair amount of work associated with this course.
Do not take this class unless you have absolutely no understanding of genomics. Opt for a higher genomics class, it will most likely be more engaging and academically fulfilling than LS1b.
This class was actually wonderful. Although there were definitely some drawbacks (including the GDP project which really wasn't very great at all...) I thoroughly enjoyed the class. The material was covered well in lecture, and the lecturers had a great enthusiasm for the topic. The friday lectures really made the psets doable in a timely fashion. They were great. Also, the content in the class is just amazing and very interesting. I loved LS1b!
This class did teach me about genetics and ways to calculate different inheritances, but there was little support in comparison to classes like LS1a.
This is a difficult class. You need to put lots of hours reviewing material. The lectures are not helpful. Problem sets often have material to covered in section. Though there is a lot of material, it is very interesting and broadens your perspective on genetics.
Consider taking a different class in MCB unless you are trying to fulfill pre-med requirements
Very interesting and useful material. Can be frustrating because exams feel like they are trying to trick you and not just see what you know.
Only take this if you need to for a concentration/premed requirement.
Eh
The course material is very interesting and something that is interesting if you are interested in science. Hopi and Pardis are very interesting people and great lecturers.
This course is a good course for learning basic genetics.
Only take this class if you are sure to be pre-med.
The class is very challenging and you won't get great grades if you just do what you need to do to get by. In order to do well, you must put in work outside of class to develop a deep comprehension of the material and how it is applied in different scenarios.
I had heard overwhelmingly negative comments about this course before enrolling, but honestly, after taking it, I have very few complaints about it. It went by so quickly! The problem sets are reasonable, the exams are very similar to the practice exams, and the material is certainly interesting. Also, certain of the professors are truly gems and go above and beyond to provide resources to help students succeed. The lab component can be improved, but overall, just grind through this class- it won't be too bad, so just come in with an open mind.
This class is graded very harshly and the lectures are not that relevant to the material you need to know for quizzes and tests. The material itself is very interesting though, especially if you are interested in going into genetics research in the future.
It is an interesting course about genetics/evolution but as a basic intro/gen Ed it is a lot more difficult than anticipated (especially the exams).
THIS COURSE WAS THE WORST COURSE I'VE TAKEN AT HARVARD. I am a junior and this course is not only unorganized, but the lectures rarely apply to exam material and you're often expected to know various topics that are used on exams as well.
The teaching staff expects VERY specific answers and will take off points for the slightest things.
good stuff, get Phong as ur TF
LS1b is an absolutely amazing class! I learned so much by taking this class. By taking LS1b, I learned how our genes and our environment can influence our health. I learned how certain genetic factors can put one at risk for developing certain traits or diseases. This class taught me so many things that I can use and apply in my every day life. This class also taught me important laboratory skills, and how to design experiments to study different scientific questions. I really believe this class has prepared me for future science classes, as well as for future interactions with other scientists, researchers, and doctors. I am so glad that I took LS1b. LS1b is amazing!
While much of the material we learn is very interesting, the course often focuses on much less intriguing material.
This is a really interesting class that covers a lot of topics in genetics. The teaching staff is very helpful and the material is very engaging.
This course is alright, but there are so many little assignments to keep up with, it's almost impossible not to slip up here and there. The course heads would do well to cut back on how many things are factored into the grade. Get good with your gcal. Pardis and Hopi were excellent lecturers, but Kevin's lectures left me lost more than once.
LS1B is a really cool course for people interested in bio (who may have never taken bio before, like myself)
I know that as premed students, everyone has to take this class, so there is no avoiding this. I would not recommend taking this if this is not a requirement, but since you do, this is what I have to say:1. Get the textbook. I found the book very helpful for when things were not explained in a clear manner. 2. Go to office hours with your TF so they could help you become more aware of the language/ answers they are looking for3. Lectures are not helpful, but I guess just go so you can see that there are other people in the class that are suffering too. The lecture videos are painful to watch alone, so honestly just go. 4. Hopi is amazing so go to all of her lectures and make sure you are confident in unit 2 because it is the backbone for unit 3. For unit 1, office hours is the best bet because Kevin is an amazing researcher, but he is never available and is not a good teacher. 5. Go to Joyce's office hours. She explains things clearly and has amazing slides on the section handouts page (no one tells you this, but check it out)6. Collaboration is key in this class. Do not go through this course alone. It really is not possible7. Cross your fingers, hope, pray, etc, you will need this to stay sane and even get close to being successful
I mean, you pretty much have to take this course if you're a premed, but that's actually a good thing because this course is awesome! The content is very interesting and not too difficult to learn. Most of my classmates disagree, but I think the grading is pretty fair. Then, they also have a curve! (Why they do but PS11 doesn't is beyond me.) I think the lecturers get progressively more interesting as the year continues, ending with Pardis who throws clementines at us, teaches us yoga, and makes us study playlists. I really enjoyed this course!
Be prepared for inconsistent and, in most instances, frustrating grading in the class. That being said, if you're here on the course search and you've reached this comment, you probably have to take it either way (for concentration or pre-med), so I won't discourage you from taking it. You'll learn a lot, but get frustrated along the way. Go to office hours and you'll get through the course.
This class was actually the bane of my existence in the Spring semester. I didn't take AP Bio, so I feel like I was always playing catch up. The actual subject matter of the course is so interesting, but the course staff don't really deliver the information well. Lecture is basically useless especially when Kevin is teaching. The problem sets are pretty fair, but the grading is so harsh! This class is all about the buzzwords, so start memorizing early! Also, the instructions on literally every assignment, frankly suck. They assume that you can read their mind, and they will continue to take off points even if the instructions didn't explicitly say what they want. The try and twist questions to make students miss them. Honestly, I wouldn't recommend this class to anyone, but since you have to take it, good luck.
Make sure to give this class the time it needs. When combined with the workload of other classes, it can easily become very difficult. The material itself is very manageable.
Try to find any alternative possible.
Just be ready to work your butt off not because you don't understand the material but because they can basically throw anything at you on exams and quizzes and since it's basically a premed course everyone else is probably trying to get an A in too. Definitely read the lecture notes and do the practice problems & most importantly make sure you do well on the quizzes so that you can have something to depend on the boost your grade at the end since +/- is up to the discretion of course heads.
It's really hard to stay focused in this class. The lecture notes posted online are extremely helpful and if you go to the sunday night psl you should be fine on psets but the lectures were painfully long to sit through.
This course will be required if you are concentrating in one of the life sciences or pre-med. However, I would not recommend taking this course if it is not required. The lectures and section are solid, but the grading seems very petty at times and several assignments do not seem very worthwhile for building knowledge in the field.
If you want an intro bio class, take LS1a. Only take this class if you are specifically interested in this type of biology and are willing to put effort into answering questions in a very specific and detailed way. (The material itself is fairly interesting though, the way the class is structured is frustrating at times)
it is a useful class for the biological studies, but lab is a serious commitment and the course could be better done. I would not recommend it for people not considering pre-med
Nothing about this course is genuinely incredible, just passable. That being said, much probably has to do with the fact that the course is the second half of one of the largest general introductory courses, meaning there's alot to be introduced.
Engaging lecturers, straightforward material, plenty of resources and accessibility
I really enjoyed this class and I thought it was very well-taught, though I am (probably going to be) a biology concentrator, so I may be a little biased.
Grading in LS1b is very harsh and the labs are generally unhelpful. In particular, the first midterm was quite difficult and graded harshly, and the Microbiome lab project took lots of time but did not teach anything. In comparison to LS1a, LS1b made me much more stressed even though I felt like I understood the course material. Do not take this class unless you need it for a concentration or pre-med requirement.
This is not going to be your favorite course ever, but the material is engaging and for the most part so are the profs. You will make it through just fine.
:) i liked genetics!
This class is very interesting. The course material is not complex and easy to understand but the evaluations, the hw, quizzes, and exams are more challenging. I think that the skills and tools that you learn in the class are very important for other bio classes.
This class is much easier than LS1a, but harder to get a good grade in than LS1a. Psets were extremely manageable (max length was 8 pages, while the max length in LS1a was 17 or 18). Feedback on exams was great, and there are plenty of practice materials/office hours available to you. I learned a lot about genetics/heredity, and I enjoyed the material much more than LS1a.
It is an interesting class that if the assessments were restructured would be a very effective introductory biology class.
LS1B covers incredibly interesting material, and has some phenomenal labs and discussions. However, the assignment / logistical side of the course can be confusing and frustrating at times.
I found this course to be less well-organized than its counterpart of LS1a. I do not think the course slides are comprehensive and enough to understand the material, but the lecture notes often provide extraneous information.
Be on top of things.  Start the pset early.  Use section hand outs to complete psets.  Go to professor office hours.
This class is mandatory for many pre-meds and biology concentrators. While the material may be interesting the course is more of a burden than anything else. I recommend going to office hours as much as possible and finding a TF whose teaching style works for you. Some of the lecturers are more responsive and helpful than others. You will need to be careful because they often take points of for little things so make sure you know what i being asked on you. This class isn't great but it isn't awful, just get through it and find people to help you along the way.
lots of random work
they try to trick you on exams.
This class is really poorly structured and the professors are not that great. I learned the most in the section component of the class and lectures were bad. Would not recommend unless you absolutely need it for pre-med or your concentration.
soo much better than LS1A
This class is most likely a gateway course for many of you life science concentrators/pre-med students, so you don't really have a choice about whether or not to take it. Compared to LS1a, I liked LS1b a whole lot better. The psets are very manageable and the course material is very interesting. The labs are also very enriching and help you understand the course material better.
I loved the content of this course.  It was very informative and provided great insight into the current field of biology; we were able to discuss profound and current research.  While it definitely takes time and work to be successful in the course, it is very enjoyable, and I felt I learn a lot - it was one of my favorite courses this year.
Make sure you pay meticulous attention to the details--they will often show up in unexpected ways on quizzes and exams.
Utilize office hours and meeting with professors. They are all very helpful and willing to meet with you outside of class.
While I did at times enjoy this course, its enormous size and the way the information of is taught made it very difficult. At times I felt that some of the individuals who were supposed to be providing instruction in the course were also overwhelmed by the content being taught.
Content isn't that hard, but exams and problem sets can be quite tricky.  Often on problem sets/exams looking for very specific answers.  Going to the PSL study network to check your pset is very helpful.
It's a good class and the information is interesting. It was hard though, and I did struggle. But I loved the lecturers and my TF and all of the labs were really fascinating.
If you love genetics and science you should take this course.
It's a very structured course, so you'll never feel lost.
A lot of material is covered in the corse
Graded hard and unrewarding
Prof. Hoekstra is a great lecturer, and the TAs are friendly and want to see you succeed. However, the course material is quite broad, and it can become unwieldy if you're not keeping up. What I would recommend: try your best to get some pre-readings before the lecture, try to rewrite everything in your own words, start the p-sets before the weekend, and send questions/attend office hours every week so you don't get stuck on p-sets with confusions about little mechanical details (that still matter oh so much!).
Take advantage of the resources offered and you'll do just fine. Stress will be your enemy, but if you can overcome stress, it's really not all that bad and you might just end up having a little fun.
Get ready to deal with the most nit-picky, frustrating grading you've ever dealt with before in your life. Every single one of my LS1B friends agrees that they've NEVER dealt with a class that graded in the petty and trivial way as LS1B: unless you match the praeceptor's answer key to the letter, you're gonna get dinged, and you'd have better luck finding gold than arguing for a half of a point back with the terrifying praeceptors. I'm a second semester sophomore, and I've NEVER dealt with a class that grades in such a harsh and arbitrary way as LS1B. Only take this class if you - like me - are absolutely forced to, and be prepared for your GPA suffer. I don't have a 3.83 GPA anymore...Thanks Cristina.Besides the grading, which definitely ruined the entire course for me, the material was fun and interesting, and the professors were incredible: they all care a lot about their LS1B students. If the hell-spawn praeceptors weren't factored into my evaluations, I'd say it's an awesome course.
This class is hard but doable if you put the work in. Expect psets and tests that are poorly worded.
If you are planning on concentrating in the life sciences, then you will sadly have to take this course for credit. If you are not a life sciences concentrator, then avoid this class at all costs. The preceptors make this class difficult to an unnecessary extent and will invent any number of pretenses to give you a worse grade. The lecture material is actually quite interesting but becomes incredibly boring when it gets regurgitated in excessively long section. Labs are not fun.
It's a class of 400 people so of course it's not great. Just take it if you have to.
You probably are looking at this Q guide despite the fact that you have to take this course anyways for your pre-med requirements. As someone who took it who is not pre-med (getting an HEB secondary), it was challenging because I felt I didn't have the appropriate background. But since it's a freshman class, they structure it so it helps you learn. It takes up a lot of time, but the course material is interesting.
You will do much better if you just put in the work and take advantage of the help provided by the amazing staff.
The lectures are the most important part of this course, and they are engaging and interesting so make sure to pay attention, even if at times its hard to keep up with the notes. The quizzes are much harder than you'll be expecting, but you get to drop one of the quiz grades which is a huge help.
if you're pre-med, you're going to have to take it regardless
This class is interesting if you like genetics, but can also be very irritating at times with its ambiguity and occasional disorganization.  Overall, decent class, but if you can, take a more comprehensive genetics class in its place (which you can often do, even if LS1b is a specific requirement as it is for CPB and MCB).
The class is a necessity for someone trying to move on to biology, but be warned the class is a bit disorganized. Lectures for the most part are interesting, but they vary heavily in the amount learned.
I did not like this course
It's not a difficult class and psets only take an hour to complete. However, the grading can be inconsistent across sections and scrutinizes minor details excessively. Point deductions often don't fit the crime. Often points are deducted even though the rubric clearly states at least partial credit should be given for stating X.
This class is not super-easy, but I found the material much easier and straightforward than Ls1a. That being said, I enjoy genetics and biology much more than biochem. Again, the material you learn in class I feel is very learnable, however sometimes on tests and quizzes (especially the quizzes) they ask questions that  you do not feel prepared for, even after understanding everything in lecture.
It's not the best class, but it's not the worst. The psets are manageable and so are the exams and quizzes. Just realize that a lot of lab work will be boring, frustrating busy work. But get it done, and you'll be fine. The TF you get for the class will also really affect your experience. I had a fantastic, understanding TF who really helped make the course run more smoothly.
Genetics is so interesting-it really is. And the application of it is even more incredible, so learning the (fundamental) intricacies of this field of study is super cool. That being said, I didn't appreciate how mechanical all the labs were. I never once had to think about why I was pipetting something into a small flip-cap tube, and I would have appreciated more independence in that sense--perhaps being part of the procedure-preparation. Maybe students could be assigned a certain week's procedure and TFs would correct it in front of the section (anonymously) to have students peer-review these procedures.
run. run far and away. take a higher level class for your pre-med requirement
Be ready to put in the hours, as this course deals with concepts that aren't always easy to digest immediately. And do practice problems!
very interesting
Devote a lot of time to studying for exams and quizzes-- the first quiz in 2017 (on circadian rhythm, mutagens and mutation detection, etc.) was particularly difficult.
The lecturers really know their stuff, the preceptors keep everything super organized, and it moves at a good pace. While it's a large class that takes focus to keep up in, it's really manageable and still interesting overall.
You probable have to take this class regardless of the feedback, so...The class is super interesting if you like more large scale biology rather than micro/molecular biology. I was a big fan because I love genetics, and only the first third was really on the molecular side with mitosis and gene activation/repression. The psets were pretty easy, and there are like 50 billion help sessions and TFs. The lecturers are a lot more accessible than in LS1a in my opinion. Depending on your TF, grading can be a little ridiculous because the psets and quizzes (those are graded by the preceptors) are such low-valued points. Tests are really nit-picky, but lecture notes, practice problems, and slides should get you through it (I didn't go to half of the last unit's lectures and still averaged around a 95 on psets). If your TF doesn't do their own section stuff look at Joyce's slides in Section Materials. Joyce was head TF this year, and my TF, and her slides were SO helpful with condensing the information you needed for problem solving. Labs are alright, and the microbiome takes up so many weeks, and you have to write two research papers for them over the semester. Good Luck
Only take as a requirement.
It's probably a requirement for you, but it's not terrible.
A lot of effort has to be put in for the psets and to learn the materials, but the field might be interesting once you understand more of it.
You just have to get through it; you may not like it, and you may not appreciate it, but just make the most of it and get through it.
The professors are amazing and generate enthusiasm.
If you are looking here, its probably to satisfy your premed or concentration requirement. material is interesting, just your class is going to depend on your TF, so make sure you get a good one. Also, midterms are hard, and final is known to be hard.
Be prepared to work really hard at memorizing and mastering concepts, yet still feel like you don't understand it after walking out of a test. Accept that your understanding of material is likely not going to be well reflected in your assessments -- and that there's nothing much you can do about it.
Ls1b is not as bad as its notorious reputation. I has gotten A LOT better, so so fret too much!
Grade pretty hard, a lot of content, lectures not great, but got to take so doesn't really matter
Effective class -- does its job well
This course, while not suited for everyone's interests, rubbed off well with me.
Use the lecture notes in conjunction with the slides when doing a pset, and be sure to be as detailed as possible in your answers.
This class was extremely interesting and applicable to a future career in research. The material is difficult, but that it is only because it really forces you to think about genetics and biology in a very in-depth and analytical way. I would highly recommend this class if you have any interest in genetics/biology/medicine in any way, whether or not you would like to major in any of these areas.
One of the best classes I took my freshman year. You come out of the coarse having throughly learned the material. The lecture notes, problem sets, and practice problems were invaluable when it came to studying for exams. The exams were also very fair and it wasn't hard to do well on them. However, I will say the graders were ridiculously nitpicky in a way where it seemed that the exams were testing wording rather than knowledge. Microbiomes were torturous but thankfully not a huge part of the coarse. Hopi was the shining star of the class in my opinion, whereas Pardis and Kevin were subpar. Pardis taught lectures ridiculously quickly because she spent too much time making the class sing. Kevin Eggan just seems to be a great person that is a mediocre lecturer.
The class is tough as advertised but is definitely. Unfortunately, a big part of your pset and most of your lab grade will depend on how hard your TF grades, the differences between tf's is pretty big. Make sure you stay up on all the topics, tests require a great deal of studying. Best thing you can do for your grade is go to the PSL hours and get help on psets and check your answers as they know what the TF's will be looking for and can offer guidance on the problems.
be ready to work hard, and be frustrated sometimes but the material is cool
This class takes up a lot of hours and it's often ambiguous what's being asked of you. TF's vary a TON in quality and grading so try to get a good one. Finding a good TF to go to their office hours is really important.
Do not take this course unless you absolutely have to. This is by far the worst class that I have taken at Harvard so far. The biggest problem with the course is that it is completely unorganized. The grading is completely unfair. Credit is given for very specific wordings, rather than understanding of topics at large. Sometimes, they expect extremely long answers with very specific wording, and other times, the accepted answer is only a phrase or two. Expectations for answer lengths, quality, and content are not communicated well. The answer keys and lecture notes are always riddled with mistakes. There have been several occasions where I have been very confused on either a practice problem or a problem set question, and then asked about it at the PSL office hours and have them tell me that the information I had been studying was incorrect. Many times, the solutions to practice problems either only state the answer (with no explanation or work shown) or have the wrong answers, which makes learning from the practice problems very challenging. Essentially, this defeats the purpose of doing the problems. I felt like I could not trust the material that I was learning in the course. I was never confident that the information that I was learning was accurate, which is infuriating considering the amount of money that I am paying for this class. The only strengths of this course were the lecturers (especially Pardis) and the material that we were learning. However, this is not saying much because LS1b has nothing to do with creating the science itself. The only good parts about this course had nothing to do with course itself.
It's annoying, but (mostly) fair. If you're premed, you have to take it anyways. I took LPSA, but from what I heard, LS1b is very much like LS1a, so don't take it if you didn't like that. That said, it could have been worse.
Unnecessarily difficult for such simple topics.
required so you're gonna have to take it
As long as you work every week, it shouldn't be that hard. This is a demanding class, but if you like biology/genetics you will actually love studying for it and the material is incredibly interesting.
This class has interesting material; however, many people do not like the class.  The quizzes are super short and do not test your knowledge of the material; they test how fast you can answer questions.
I think that anyone who enjoys biology will enjoy this class. However, it is a fair amount of work that should not be taken lightly.
It's a class you take for the requirement, not the joy.
If you're premed you have to take this course. If you don't have to take it then don't. It's pretty challenging and the material moves very fast. Most of the time it seemed like the professors assumed students knew the material. The material is interesting, but definitely could be taught more effectively.
This is a classic pre-med intro class requirement. Painful, but you'll get through it. Read the lecture notes online religiously, it's where most of the memorization exam questions come from.
The course is still not the best but it's a pre-med requirement so nothing I say will change your decision to take it. However, I guess I can prepare you for what's ahead. Anyone who has taken LS1a probably remembers the three-hour combined section and lab none too fondly. Guess whatthey're baaack and no less painful. Lab assignments felt sporadic and kind of a waste of time; they also seemed to be graded weirdly harshly? I only got 90s on psets and assessments but my labs were riddled with 60s and 70s. Even though you thought you escaped the ICEs of LS1a, they're essentially still here, since this class has three big assessments (2 midterms and a final) as well as three quizzes, so you feel like you're always studying for something. Quizzes are actually even more stressful than the ICEs, in my opinion, because they're 20 minutes instead of 30 and yet just as long in terms of number of questions. Preceptors also seemed pretty unapproachable, at least just judging by their demeanor during lecture; I never got around to approaching them one-on-one. The two redeeming factors are Hopi and Pardis. They're great lecturers and seem like super fun, chill people.
It was a great course in genetics. The course staff is great
Most likely a pre-med requirement or concentration requirement so you have take it no matter what. But the topics are fairly good and interesting so its not too bad
Make sure you find a good study plan early on. It will help on the exams and quizzes.
This course is a good introduction to genetics. It is a worthwhile course in terms of material. The logistical aspects of the course may be frustrating. A lot depends on the TFs, and there is perhaps an over-emphasis on wording and minutiae when it comes to completing assignments and exams.
I did not expect to enjoy this class as much as I did - highly recommended!
The material taught in the class is extremely interesting, and the class does a good job of explaining the concepts. The lecturers are great and the problems sets are MUCH better than the ones in LS1a. However, the class does feel a bit unorganized at times. Some weeks you will have almost no work for the class, but some weeks you might have a pset, quiz, midterm, and lab assignment at the same time.
Be ready to work hard but learn a lot.
Honestly I thought that this class/the topics were much more interesting than Ls1a and a lot less work (less suffering). Professors are better lecturers too (just wished that Dr. Berry was teaching still). The grading can be a bit unclear sometimes and is pretty nitpicky. I think section experience really depends on the TF.
This class is required so you have to take it but you'll be miserable every second. The assessments do not gauge your understanding of the material and lecture notes are very poorly written often containing incorrect or inconsistent material. Labs and psets are graded in a very nitpicky fashion, and TFs are instructed by the rubric to take off points for formatting things incorrectly or not writing them in the right way. Lab itself is extremely boring and probably the single most useless aspect of my week. You learn absolutely nothing of actual use in this class. It is just memorization. You learn how to do one type of calculation, have no actual conceptual understanding it, and just do it over and over on the assessments. Unlike LS1a, lectures are uninteresting and not worth attending, just watch them on 2x speed later. Every aspect of this class is actually just insufferable. (I liked Hopi)
Only take this class if you absolutely need to. I did not enjoy it and it actually made me decide to study Chemistry instead of MCB or another biology. Unless the course changes, its frustrating aspects such as ambiguous questions and disparate topics make it less than ideal.
Ok I have very mixed opinions for this class. The material overall I found very fascinating and was arguably one of my favorite classes of the year, BUT the preceptors made this class unnecessarily difficult. I attended Friday reviews for the first few months but I swear I only came out frustrated and more confused each time it ended. The exams for the most part were fair but the quizzes were pretty hard (the average for the first quiz was like a 75). I didn't like how little preparation material was provided for the quizzes (there was plenty though for midterms). Your experience also depends on your TF because some TFs follow the answer key religiously which can really hurt your grade. The labs were pretty interesting though and made me appreciate the material even more. PSets are not bad and pretty easy overall, but having said that, you might find yourself getting deducted a lot of points depending on your TF for forgeting to mention a specific word, or explaining "too much." Overall, the class was interesting but poorly structured with terrible exam evaluations that don't reflect what you have truly learned in the class.
Only take it if you truly want to pursue a field of biology. If you aren't planning on it, LS1a will get you the credit for SLS and I would highly recommend not taking LS1B.
The grading is going to feel unfair. But most of the professors and staff are really cool and helpful, and if you're interested in genetics you'll enjoy the material. Basically you'll like the class but you'll do badly in it.
This class is definitely a difficult class but at the same time the lectures were extremely interesting. Just make sure to stay on top of the work and attend office hours when working the problem sets.
You have to take it, and it's interesting, but lecture isn't that helpful. Pay attention in section and your scores will go up, no doubt.
Only take it if you have to
Use lecture notes to help study for assessments and for doing problem sets. Think carefully about conceptual topics as these will come up on the exams.
Overall, this class is well run. It is a life sciences requirement, so you will have to it anyways. I liked the topics covered in this class, and most of the assignments were useful but not all. At times, the lab assignments were rather pointless, and could have been adapted to be of more actual use.
This class' material is not necessarily difficult, it is the grading that is what makes it difficult.
You have to do it, sorry. Enjoy the great lecturers and interesting material. The labs will be annoying but not too bad. Don't get caught up in the grading if you can. Sometimes you'll work really hard and still not get a good grade.
All the "docking-of-points" that befits a difficult class, but without the rigor of one. However, it is a great introduction to genetics, and really does help you learn relevant stuff.
This course is hard, but the material is really interesting. Also, after the restructuring that apparently happened a few years ago, I believe the only real problem with this course is the harsh grading. On exams and quizzes, they look for very specific answers and sometimes will take off points for certain answers.
I think you basically should take this class if you're pre-med. I feel like the topic matter isn't actually that challenging but the grading system is really harsh.
It's worth taking so you can take future classes. It's no LS1a, which I loved.
LS1B is extremely interesting and very well taught. The class is difficult, but not impossible to do well. If you take advantage of the resources that they provide, you will succeed.
only take this if it's required, or if you're an auditory learner
While the lectures and course material of this class are incredibly interesting, the way that exams and quizzes are done makes it difficult to feel like you are actually progressing in the class. Office hours and extra preparation is necessary in order to pass.
Anally explain everything with as many words as possible so that the grader can find the trigger word needed for your points
I'd recommend strongly because you have to take it to concentrate in IB, which I think is a great concentration.
This class is very useful but just run badly.
I thought overall that I liked this class, because as requirements go, the lectures were really interesting and I genuinely enjoyed the material. But, since it is a big intro class, it does have its flaws, and some of the more systematic things about the class can get annoying. For example, problem sets were due on Mondays at 12pm exactly, and even if you were 10 minutes late turning in a fully completed problem set, they wouldn't take it for credit. Things like that to me felt petty, and I think focusing on little things takes away from the big picture of learning in the class. But overall I think the class is useful and for me it wasn't as terrible as people made it seem like it would be.
be ready to be answering puzzles more often than real questions.
Take it!
You need this class if you're premed. It's a lot of work if you don't need to take it (I'm not sure why you'd take it if it's not a requirement) but the topics are interesting and getting through this class is very do-able.
The class is really fine but the quizzes and exams are tough.
The material of this class is very interesting and the professors are all great teachers, but this class is very coy about what it expects of you.  If you're like most people who take this class, you will probably end up very frustrated by what you get docked off for on psets and by the questions on the exams that you might have no idea how you could've possibly predicted/studied for.  At times, this class feels really petty about what it takes points off for, and coupled by occasionally unclear instructions/unexpectedly stringent grading rubrics, this class, as interesting as it may be, gets ruined by this game of trying to predict how you get fucked with.  Hopefully they improve on this by the time you take it.
This is an awful class. The psets, quizzes, exams, section handouts etc. are written by different people with VERY different understanding of the class. Its annoying how a question as simple as writing a null hypothesis, which has a formulated consistent answer, is written in 7 different ways by 7 different people in the assignments leading up to the exam. The exams are written to trick you based on the patterns that show up in practice problems. They know you will recognize the question, and then take advantage of this by twisting some minor detail in half of a sentence in the page-long question setup and you'll end up getting 0 credit. The practice exams are WAY easier than the actual exams. 15 minutes for the quizzes is simply not enough. This class' material is not hard, its the high level of reading comprehension, fast working, test taking skills under pressure, and luck that will help you.
Just don't.
Only take it if you have to take it for premed
Please only take this course if you are pre-med of if it's a concentration requirement. The whole time I felt like the staff were out to drop as many  points from your score as possible, and were not encouraging or provided an explanation.
Terribly taught, assignments are not fun or interesting and the class is very difficult. out to get you with bad grades.
The class is hard, but doable. Pay very close attention in section because that is where the material is taught in the most detail.
Its a good course, some lecturers are better than other. Its up to the student to keep up with the work, but there are plenty of resources for those who need help. Everyone on the teaching staff is friendly and approachable.
If you are pre med, you are most likely going to take it. It is a hard class, so make sure to go to office hours!
I would tell students that a lot of the learning is in section and on their own. Lecture moves very quickly and it doesn't cover all of the material you need to know; section does.
The material this course covers is very interesting.  The course itself will likely take about 10 hours a week out of class.  Lab sections are extremely helpful, and the questions we cover during section are useful for solving problem sets later on.  Attend office hours - especially for clarification questions regarding problem sets.  I would highly recommend using the lecture notes and practice problems (online) to study for assessments.
Take it if you think you want to do some bio, it's required. If you don't have to take it, don't.
It is a great class with a very interesting material and amazing professors, which will make you discover so much about genetics in so many different ways.
The workload to this class is very reasonable, and much of the content is understandable. I think the way they evaluate us is a little unfair, but we have a lot of easy PSETS and the labs are fairly easy and relevant to the ongoing lecture material, so they're easy as well. Not all the professors who teach are equal, so some units may be easier/worse depending on who is teaching you. It was an overall manageable class.
H-O-R-R-I-B-L-E. This class was an absolute s**t show. Kevin was one of the worst professors I've ever had, the exams were unnecessarily hard and asked questions that were very unreasonable, the grading on the exams was beyond ridiculous and you were only awarded points if you had the exact word for word phrase of an answer, the preceptors did not know what they were doing, and the labs were long and drawn out. The only good things about LS1b were Hopi and Pardis's lectures, and Drago as a TF. And the fact that everyone was in the same boat so we could all complain and cry together. Otherwise, my only advice is to study the practice exams and practice problems, see your TF, and pray.
don't take as a gen ed. also Nava is a gem
This is a good lecture class! Section is hit and miss because of how large this class is, but I enjoyed the overall experience.
If you're looking for an interesting elective, look for your specific interests, this class will not delve deep enough into topics to pique your interest.
LS1B is a requirement for many life science concentrations, and while it may be required, it still manages to capture interests in the relation of genetics and our modern lives. I will say though that because it is an introductory level course, it covers a broad range of topics that may be difficult to fully grasp.
Overall it was a good class. The lecturers were all pretty good, and section/lab is good too. I think the topics were very interesting and not hard to understand; that said, the grading was fairly picky. I definitely enjoyed the class much more than LS1a, as the topics were easier to understand conceptually, and the problem-solving involved some fun, simple math. All in all, a good class.
The material is very interesting, and totally necessary to be familiar with if you want to go into the life sciences. And even if you don't, it's definitely important general education to demystify common misconceptions about the burgeoning world of genetics, which popular media can sometimes portray in a scary, science-fiction like manner. It does require a lot of personal investment in doing the course work, but it is worth it, I think!Be nice to your TF and they will be nice to you back! If they like you they give you better feeback on your problem sets. Also, don't forget to collaborate, so many things I couldn't figure out unless I was bouncing ideas around with another person!
All of the course staff are nice (the head TFs are not super approachable though), but the assessments are not that great - especially the first midterm. I think that they realized that most people were struggling, so the second midterm was a lot more reasonable.
It's hard work but the material is super interesting and applicable to the real world.
10/10 good content. The content of the course is extremely interesting. I loved everything we learned. Really cool to learn about real diseases and connect them to modes of inheritance and then be able to analyze and calculate information about genes. With that said, despite how interesting I found it, I did find it to be difficult and was frustrated with the course many times throughout the semester. The worst part was really just the tests (especially the final) and the quizzes (first quiz), which were HARD, as well as the lab assignments that included writing. Make sure you have a good TF. The grading for lab write-ups was extremely different among TFs. The general expectations were not the same. I had Adam was my TF, and he graded the write-ups and the group presentations harsher than other TFs which was frustrating given how little instruction we were given yet how much of the lab portion the write-ups count for. Really make sure you take those assignments that could be subjective seriously and go hard with them in terms of including as much information (example--if they ask for you to include percent identify of the bacterial colonies, also include what that means, how to find percent identify and as many citations). This course fails to emphasize how seriously they take the writing and need to have greater instruction or go over the expectations explicitly during section, or they need to be more transparent about the grading rubric and how they assign points. However, I did enjoy lab and the experiments they had us do (got do cheekswabs and stuff to look at personal genetics!). In general, there is a ton of academic support, including lots of office hours (though it was frustrating how many TFs would cancel them or move them around so that they were not always consistent). Be sure to look at notes and practice problems that go along with each lecture--those are extremely helpful and carried me through the course. To study for quizzes and finals I just went through the notes, did all the problems, and did the practice tests.The psets are not bad, and even though they do fluctuate in difficulty sometimes, they are much easier than the LS1a psets and shorter (around 6-7 pages compared to 12-14). I did find LS1a to be easier--LS1b is much more conceptual and a lot more memorization so you really had it know concepts well as they often twist things around on tests to make you think and the wording of questions didn't really help as well. Also wish that there were review sessions for quizzes like LS1a and the ICE review sessions. I felt like lectures weren't all that helpful. They were ok but I learned the most from the notes. Overall, you have to take this class anyway so just take it. It could be worse but tbh never want to see another phylogenetic tree ever again.
It is not an easy class, but it is very doable if you have a good memory. Cramming for exams sucks, but with two or three days of work, you can crush the exams.
LS1b is much better than LS1a -- the professors are super engaging and incredibly easy to talk to. Go to Classroom to Table with all of them, especially Hopi!
Objectively, LS1b is a great course: it has professors who are really engaged in the material they're teaching, interesting and relevant labs, well-structured sections that cover everything you need to know from the lectures, and fair exams that don't test anything beyond the course material. If you're a pre-med, you have to take this class anyway. But I feel confident in recommending it to my fellow non-pre-meds: it's a great way to fulfill your science gen. ed. requirement, and although you do have to put in the work if you want an A, this course is worth the effort. By the way, when they say that the textbook is optional, they truly do mean it everything you need to know is covered in lectures. I didn't buy the book, and I never felt like I was at any kind of disadvantage. So don't worry about having to buy an expensive textbook.
Do all the practice problems early.You'll need to work in a group for the Microbiome assignement, so find a groups of students early that are engaged and that you can work with. Read the entire Microbiome assignment before you start so you can plan.
Don't take this if you don't have to; there are much more interesting biology electives. This is just geneticists telling you genetics can solve everything; it's cutting against the grain of modern biology, and it's not a fun course.
It's kinda a necessity but also kinda lame. You'll mostly learn different calculations to do after given a family tree and their genotypes etc. There were 3 lecturers my year, and only was of them was good. The others would have 2/3rds of the class on facebook or doing other work because they weren't useful or they were so basic. It's not hard AT ALL, just tedious.
Time Management is essential
I liked this class a lot better than LS1a - it was a lot more straightforward and less contrived, and all of the lecturers were engaging. The exams are kind of ridiculous compared to the psets.
Harsh grading. Lose points unless the answer matches the answer specified by the answer key. Fair, but a more flexible grading would be nice.
This class is a great intro to genetics. The psets aren't too time consuming, but they teach you everything you need to know. Go to office hours if you need help, they're very helpful.
This class is very disconnected.
The course sometimes gets difficult but you need to be able to push through it. The material ranges from ridiculously easy to very difficult. However, the material in the course is quite interesting.
It's an amazing class if you're interested in genetics
Stay on top of your work. The final is ridiculously hard, study a lot.
The content is really interesting and the Hopi and Pardis are great lectures and inspiring people. The psets are easier than in ls1a so the workload was not as bad, but tests seemed to be extra picky
this gen ed is definitely not a gem. I find 90 minute lectures pretty difficult to pay attention after the hour mark, and there is a lot of material to cover in this course. Section is super helpful, and the lecture notes are also super helpful.
This course is intellectually fulfilling and is worth the workload.
This class requires you to keep up with the lecture materials. Make sure to ask questions whenever you are unclear about something, as it will help you approach the problem sets, quizzes, and exams in a more organied manner.
This is a good course for students interested in biology and looking for an introductory level course. For those who need to fulfill premed or concentration requirements, I think this is still a fairly engaging course. The material is relatively fair given the number of practice problems and office hours that are available; however, there are times when there are a lot of assignments.
material is fantastic and lecturers only get better as they go, heavy in genetics, evolution, and statistics, seen through the lens of diseases. Great material. Challenging, so really, really study for the in class quizzes and midterms, you won't regret it. Attend PSL Sunday night help room, life-saving.hard to take notes, make a plan from the get-go
Must put time into this class, a lot of work, challenging assignments and exams, but there is a lot of help available- office hours and help rooms
This class is a lot of work but interesting material!
AWFUL I hate LS1B. This course could not be more anal about grading and policies if it tried. The material is interesting and some of the people (Hopi, Pardis, Hadar, Rickey) are beautiful, amazing persons. But I will most definitely not look back and miss ls1b.
This class taught me to be a lot more independent and take more initiative in my learning.
This class has a lot of random assignments that don't really further your understanding of what you are supposed to be learned. Problem sets are mildly helpful.
LS1B although a difficult course is a great class to learn more in depth about genetic how they form who we are today.
If I did not know for sure that I wanted to concentrate in a STEM field this would have turned me away from science all together. This class was awful. Had to take it for premed. Try to test out if you can.
This class is a bit more difficult than LS1a, but (too me) it is significantly more interesting. The professors are great, my TF was great, and its not too difficult to get a good grade if you're willing to study.
If you have to take this course, it won't be too bad.
If there is any way you can avoid taking this class, don't take it. It is the reason I am no longer pursuing biology. It helped me to realize biology is a menial science without intellectual engagement.
This course will test your mental toughness. The content gets easier as the semester goes along, but there will be a lot of statistical calculations. Compared to LS1a, this course is very much about rote memorization and the course is not as organized as LS1a.
This course definitely had some organizational issues this year (especially because they got new preceptors), but overall it was a worthwhile experience. Professor Hoekstra's lectures were wonderful, and in general I learned a lot of interesting new concepts about genetics and genomics. Half of this course will basically be a repeat of AP Biology with some new terms/definitions thrown in, and then the other half will be entirely new material (especially the last half, in which you learn about studies used to track certain genetic causes for diseases). The course gets off to a bit of a slow start, but it does get better by the end! The tests are a bit memorization-heavy, but they are definitely manageable. The problem sets are not as difficult as in LS1a and you can usually finish most of them without much need for office hours. There are a couple of very time-consuming lab writing assignments, but in general the section/lab component of this course is really good!
The subject material is great and the topics are very engaging, but the course grading system is very messed up. They don't grade based on your understanding and command of the material, but rather on whether you spelled things correctly or used the exact words that are in the grading manual. These nit-picky grading deductions were ridiculous and unfair.
I didn't like LS1b at first because it had this weird unit that focused a lot on very specific technologies in genetics that felt better suited for an advanced class, but then it got really interesting when we started learning about biological bases for sex, natural selection, and family genetics.
The grading in this class is frustrating at times but overall the content makes it worthwhile.
You should be pretty serious about your concentration or becoming premed to do this class.
if you haven't taken LPSA or Ls1a (or equivalent or higher), this will probably be pretty challenging. If you haven't taken AP biology, or other higher-level high school biology courses, this will almost definitely be very challenging. Grading of assignments is meticulous and can seem kind of random, so talk to TFs and/or preceptors before submitting any assignments, so they can guide you.
While the concepts themselves will seem easy it is not easy to gain full credit on any assignment because questions require that you clearly articulate an answer to every question. While you may think you already do this, this class will teach you that you are quite mistaken. In the end your ability to articulate scientific information will improve but at the cost of lost time and/or points on your psets.
The material is really interesting, the class itself is hard but worth it!
This class is kind of hard, and they find ways to make easy concepts difficult. You have to take it if you want to be pre-med, though.
Although people complain about the grading of this course I think many agree that the class itself was interesting and informative. The professors are awesome. Its just how the class is run that can be frustrating.
This was a decent intro science course. If your're in a stem concentration or are pre-med you probably have to take this class and the material is very interesting and cool so its not that bad. With that being said, the lectures can often be boring and it felt like the class limited creativity with very strict grading standards.
be prepared to ask for help
Get ready to learn from some wonderful professors that really want you to do big things in the world.
This course is the requirement of many biology concentrations, and it does not merit such importance. The exams and problem sets have conflicting answers and teaching fellows are not competent enough. In short, this course is very disorganized. To give you an example, in the practice exam of the Final exam, one question was deleted in the answer key, saying "this material is not relevant to the requirement". However, in the final exam, there is a similar question. I do not want to believe that whoever responsible for this mistake is out of malicious intention, but this does reflect the disorganization of this course. I hope this course can be improved significantly, or the concentration requirement may be changed so that you do not need to go through this confusion.
This class requires you to put in the effort outside of class to read the pre-lecture slides. you should also do the p sets earlier than a few days before it's due so that you can have time to go to office hours and help centers to understand how the p set is actually asking.
Ok, so LS1b is NOT as horrible as everyone says and previous years' comments write! Yes, the grading is sometimes unfair (especially on the three, 15 minute quizzes), and you may feel like questions are written in a confusing way (meant to trick you up) but the exams were pretty applicable to what we learned in class. The information we learned and genetic calculations were very INTERESTING and applicable. Labs were a lot of pipetting but you learn a lot of important lab techniques! I think this class is a great intro to genetics with problem sets that were kind of fun to do. This class takes a lot of work but I really believe if you put in the time and STAY ON TOP OF MATERIAL, you will do well! You will not get a 100% on every assignment because grading is tough in both lab assignments and assessments, but you WILL learn!
Unfortunately, this course followed through with its bad reputation. The grading was tough and the lectures were sub-par. The information is super interesting, it's just unfortunate that it was taught in such a bad way.
It's a fair class as a prereq for all the bio science concentrations but not something I would recommend for fun
I wouldn't recommend this class unless people require it for their concentration
The professors are are really great, the material is interesting and the assessments are fair. Lab activities can be a bit tedious at times, but overall I enjoyed the class!
This is similar to a high school course in that there are a lot of small assignments in between. Make sure to keep up with the material in order to do well!
If you can avoid, do so!!! Very hard grading.
It takes a good amount of work but is totally worth it
A class you need to take- I wouldn't take it unless you had to.  Just a very disorganized class but at least material is interesting
The class and the material covered were interesting but sometimes the teaching and assignments were frustrating
Not as bad as many say, preceptors are very willing to alter the course throughout the semester
You probably have to take this class for concentration/pre-med req's. Be prepared for the weekly problem set, 3 quizzes, 2 midterms, and a final. The quizzes don't really test general knowledge, just if you can think quickly. Also, a lot of time spent in section/lab. It's all sort of necessary to learn basic genetics (I actually did find the material itself interesting), but the way it's presented/taught was sort of lackluster.
Get ready for a lot of frustration. You think you'll know the material pretty well because the preceptors/professors are quite good at teaching and showing problem-solving examples. However, whoever writes the quizzes and tests has absolutely no skill in writing test questions. The questions themselves will have a very odd format, or will be asked in a way that could imply many answers and yet they only want one specific answer with all the buzz words. In addition, the class, trying to make itself a more legitimate pre-med requirement (despite the fact that the material is already extremely important for pre-meds), forces you to do a ton of really random lab assignments that don't have really anything to do with the material. Overall, the class results in a never-ending onslaught of assignments, many of which don't seem pertinent to the material.
It just sucks, too big of a class to get one-on-one attention that you need to properly learn this new material.  Wish it was smaller so I could get more help. Also, there is so much work that if you do go to office hours, the TFs can't answer you're question because they're focused on answering questions from other students about 3 other assignments that the class has.
This course was difficult. Though the material was interesting, the first exam was really long, and was not a good reflection of the material actually taught in the class and thus, it put a dampen on my spirit for the course. The class kind of got better towards the end.
Its horrible, unorganized but  its required for most science concentrations so you have to suffer through it.  I wouldnt recommend taking this course unless you have to.
Compared to LS1a, I did not like this class. The preceptors are not very helpful and the grading is quite strict, so it seems like the class is designed in a way that is not supportive and accommodating towards students. The subject material is interesting, though pretty basic biology. And make sure you try to get to know the professors! I ignorantly did not realize this during the beginning of the semester, but all of the lecturers are quite well-recognized in their respective fields and are generally nice people.
Although I love biology and found much of the content interesting, they do make it difficult to get a perfect grade in the class. Things are graded very specifically and I never really adjusted or figured out how they wanted things to be worded in order for you to get full credit. Lectures were very dry as well, which I found interesting as biology can be so intriguing.
Go to Friday reviews and TF sections/office hours!
Do all the practice problems and redo all the problem set problems before quizzes and exams.
Although I enjoyed the content and teaching of the course, the grades are very hard to attain making the class overall a big source of stress if you want to maintain a high grade.
This is a pre-req for a lot of classes and/or necessary for premed, so most people don't take this class for "fun", but it's not a bad class. Generally, the information in the class is interesting (if you enjoy genetics), the problem sets weren't unbearable, and the lab component was pretty good. My biggest issue with the class is that the way they graded the problem sets and exams is weirdly stringent, but as long as your answers have enough depth, you'll be fine. There were also two major writing/research assignments for the lab for this class which were a bit of a grind, but doable.
It's an easier workload than LS1a, though the topics can be somewhat noticeably more challenging.
The class is difficult but it is a concentration and pre-med requirement. Do not procrastinate with studying but stay on top of the lectures and lecture questions.
Take it only if you have to take it. It's not bad, but if you don't have to take it, save yourself the headache.
This course sucks
It's a requirement for a lot of concentrations, so gotta get through it. Not terrible but also not amazing.
This class is not nearly as painful as people make it out to be and the staff is legitimately amazing.  So much more enjoyable than I found LPS A.  The class seems to get a bad reputation because so many of the students are pre-med and taking it out of requirement, not interest.  If you go in with a good attitude, you can learn a lot.
I would not recommend this class until it has been heavily restructured. The grading of psets, labs, and midterms does not accurately reflect students' mastery of the material. No course-wide review sessions are held for quizzes or midterms. The preceptors are not encouraging or accessible. There is very little cohesiveness or guidance in the class. Since people interested in sciences will probably take this class because they have to, learn to memorize key phrases and buzz words to regurgitate them on exams.
Interesting material. Terrible class.
It's kinda hard, but this an amazing class (especially if you're lucky with your TF)
This class was much better than I was expecting based on past Q scores.I found the professors to be interesting and engaging in lectures. The work load is not that bad if you are inserted in this field or are considering pursuing either a pre-med or biology based track here. Definitely shop the class for more than one lecture if you are unsure about whether or not to take the class. There is a lot of resources for help if you are confused and the teaching staff is very responsive. There is a consistent relatively heavy workload because there is a lot of information to take in. So besides Psets, you have to remember to study for quizzes/exams and not just learn the material for the week but try to understand it as a whole.
As much as I was warned that I would hate this class, I actually really enjoyed. I found the material very interesting!! Furthermore, Andrew and Pardis are very enthusiastic and engaging professors, while Kevin is a good teacher but kind of egotistic. I would recommend this class even though most of you are probably taking it because it is a pre-med requirement. I thoroughly enjoyed the semester.
Genetics is a fascinating field and LS1B is a great class for people who want to learn more about the field or obtain a background in genetics.
This class has gone through many changes in recent years, and I think all for the better! The class was extremely well run this year, and it seems like they really took student's feedback into account.
This class is just so awful. The professors teach as though we know absolutely nothing. Problem sets and exams are frustrating because of the poorly-written questions. It sucks that this class is a requirement/prerequisite for so many classes/concentrations. If you can find a way to avoid this class, do.
When doing psets and exams remember to put down as many buzzwords and write down information that may seem obvious.  Also the class required you to know a lot of small details so don't forget to study those too.
The course is very picky about how it grades and assesses its students. Prepare to feel that points were unfairly docked on both problem sets and exams.
You probably need to take it. Its not as bad as everyone says it is.
Take this class only if you need to. I was told this advice and ignored it. Big mistake.
LS1b seemed to have dramatically improved from the way it was taught in the past.
Very time consuming and very difficult to do well. Boring material, especially if you don't love genetics.
Take this course only if you have to. Grading is extremely unfair. The lectures are interesting and engaging but the tests are unreasonable.
It's a tough but really rewarding class!
This class was so much better than I was expecting based on previous student experiences! I think they have done an awesome job of revamping the course because I found it very manageable. The amount of work was reasonable, the exams were fair, and the course staff was always available for help.
Go to PSL
It is very interesting but a difficult course with a lot of work.
AMAZING. This course used to be horrible apparently but they changed it and now I think it is incredible. The teaching staff is top notch, Kevin, Pardis and Andrew are all INCREDIBLE. Learned a lot. They dropped the GDP which is why people used to hate the course. Also they upload detailed summary notes for each lecture which makes it a decently easy course
It is tough to get a good grade in the class, but it is rewarding and interesting if you are interested in genetics.
I would recommend this course solely because it is a requirement as a biology major.  The lectures are far from the keys to success for this class.  It is important to pay attention in section and the labs are really cool as well.  The largest downsides are the lectures and the grading.  The lectures contain lots of information that are not pertinent to your success in the class.  Also,the grading is quite arbitrary.  I did fine in the course, but I don't think it did a very good job grading by your knowledge of the course materail.
Interesting class but be careful with the grading, they expect very specific answers.
This a very rewarding but challenging course. If you are interested in the life sciences, this is likely a course that you'll have to take. However, to get the most out of it, it is important to do a few things: review all of the lecture materials as soon after lecture as possible (especially the practice problems), work ahead on the p-sets, and make sure to maintain a good grasp of the material throughout the semester--which will prove very helpful leading up to exams. Andrew and Pardis are great, and they make clear what is important to know. However, Kevin's material is much more conceptual and tougher to understand how it will be evaluated, so it is important to be very vigilant on staying up-to-date with this material and asking questions of the preceptors/TFs. Overall, a great course, but you'll get through this requirement in the best manner possible if you plan to put in a lot of time and work very hard.
A lot depends on how harshly your TF grades. There's not much standardization across the board. This is also a system with very little forgiveness (I guess in other words, I'm used to having the opportunity to drop a lowest PSET or exam), because everything counts. From what I've heard from a lot of people, it's easy to do well in the class for the semester, and then the exam is pretty difficult with a lot of tricky questions
You're probably taking this because you don't really have a choice. So yay. LS1b wasn't too bad. The material is pretty straight forward, and it's explained pretty well. I'd say definitely make sure you go to a good TF. I loved my TF and he was really helpful, and I'm pretty sure that if I hadn't had him to explain things to me, I would've done much worse in the class.
The lecturers are super good and the lab component is much better than LS1a's
This class covers interesting material, but can be very frustrating in terms of how helpful the teaching staff is outside of class.
LS1B is very close to my idea of the ideal class. The material was fascinating, the professors entertaining (for the most part) and leaders in their respective fields, and there was always an incredible support network of section leaders and peer volunteers to help sort out any of my confusion. Given its previously low rankings, I was blown away at how great this class was! I definitely recommend it!
If you're a pre-med, you likely have to take this course, and in that case it's not so bad. If you're not a pre-med, however, I wouldn't recommend taking it just because there are so many other courses that are more interesting.
Practice problems should be your holy grail. Just do as many as you can. Don't lose hope. It's hard for a lot of people, not just you, and there's help if you need it
The content is so interesting but the class itself has some busy work and grading is not consistent between TFs.
The last portion of the class is very boring, but Andrew Berry's middle section is amazing.
Ls1b was great!  It's definitely a changed a lot from past years.  Lectures were mostly interesting.  Dr. Berry is a great lecturer, Kevin is ok, and Pardis is also ok (although she does all kinds of crazy things in class, so that's interesting).  Labs were all interesting (especially personalized genetics and the microbiome).  The class is not that hard, there is basically just one problem set a week, along with exams and the occasional lab assignment.  Overall, very manageable, interesting subject, and worth taking even if you're not sure you're a bio concentrator.
This class was really well taught, and I really don't have anything bad to say about it, (as opposed to the year previous, when there were GDP projects). The coursework was very manageable, lectures interesting, and the exams and quizzes weren't too difficult. I wouldn't recommend taking this course to fulfill a Gen Ed, but it is a very good introductory course for those going into the life sciences.
This class is a necessary evil. I think that LS1b did a great job of providing the resources needed to do well in the course, but if you want to do well, studying definitely takes time. Based on what I've heard from students who took it last year, the staff did a great job of improving the course for this year. I don't have any major complaints, so I think that they did a good job.
I'm a bit weird because I took this course for fun, but I really enjoyed it. It has been completely overhauled from the previously reviled and much maligned iteration of LS1b, and is so much better off for the modifications. I had a lot of fun taking this course. The content was interesting and lecturers were fantastic.
The course is relatively organized and smoothly run. It is definitely not the most exciting class, but if you are considering a life sciences concentration, you most likely have no choice but to take it. The class starts from the basics but does cover some useful concepts and applications of genetics toward the end, especially how genetics is applied to study disease in current research.
Great class
Just like in all courses, having a great TF can really make a difference. My TF wasn't bad--he was willing to answer questions--but section wasn't very engaging.
This course is a lot better now with Andrew Berry teaching and with the long and tedious project from previous years taken away. Marking can be a little difficult, but the material isn't hard to understand. The lecturers were enthusiastic and section was helpful, depending on your TF. Labs were average.
This class has improved a lot since past years. The teaching staff is really great. Andrew Berry and Pardis Sabeti in particular are really engaging. The labs were a bit repetitive - we did PCR basically every time. Your section really depends on your TF and whether you get a good one or not. The class itself wasn't super difficult but you definitely have to put some effort into it. They also got rid of the GDP project but they replaced it with the microbiome project. I don't think it was nearly as time consuming as GDP but it was still kind of unnecessary and felt like busy work to do a project and write a paper on essentially the same thing.
As requirements go not bad
Great class! It's a little tough but if you do the practice problems posted after each lecture, you will succeed.
Overall, this class is definitely worth taking.  You just have to be prepared to work very hard.  The good news is that everything in the class is legitimately interesting.  However, grading is very harsh and it seems at times as if more points are taken away for incorrect answers than are rewarded for correct ones, which is unfair.  Definitely take the class if you like biology because overall, it is a good class.
I really enjoyed the class. Pardis and Andrew Berry are amazing lecturers and Amy and all of the TF staff are very supportive. I was not very interested in the science prior to taking this course but after doing so I am much more interested in the subject material and what to pursue it further!
It's not an easy class by any means but you learn a lot, most of the lectures are fairly interesting, and allows you to continue on the pre-med track if that is what you want to do.
In this course, you have all the resources available for you to do well--you just have to make use of them. This is a challenging course, but if you seek help, you can be successful. I found the material and problems in this course to be very applicable. If you are interested in medicine, you will probably enjoy this course. Also, you will love Andrew Berry!
Knowledge of genetics is important but lecture is a waste of time. Don't go to lecture. Start problems sets as soon as possible and go to office hours to synthesize. Great material, poorly taught course. Office hours are invaluable.
Take a different pre-med course. Even if you love biology, you won't want to take this.
The lectures are amazing. Pardis and Andrew are incredible lecturers, and generate lots of enthusiasm for the material. Andrew has some unique perspectives on biology and spirituality, and Pardis is an inspirational woman and absolutely brilliant. Do not be scared of this course, I liked it a lot more than LS1a.
Study. Go to office hours.
LS1B when I took it (Spring 2016) was not nearly as painful as some of the other course evaluations here make it sound. You have to keep up with the lecture materials and study regularly, using the study skills and methods you know work for you. They post a lot of materials for review and practice, like lecture slides, lecture notes, FAQ, review lecture videos if you can't go to the reviews themselves, and a lot of practice problems. Do all or most of the practice problems, do the practice quizzes and practice exams, review all the stuff you get wrong on quizzes/exams and ask questions if you don't know why you got something wrong. Also, definitely find people to check the P-sets with, and go to the Sunday night PSL office hours or earlier office hours to check your answers -- it'll help you learn faster if you're behind on that week's stuff, and it'll give you way more peace of mind on the almost-weekly P-sets. Don't be scared of LS1B, it might not be the breeziest course in the world but it is manageable if you're putting in the work regularly, and the actual material is often interesting.
I was pleasantly surprised by LS1b based on what I had previously heard. I liked LS1b significantly better than LS1a, I thought that the material covered was far more interesting and relevant to a range of fields (not just premed) and I thought that the course was very well structured. I also found the examinations (quizzes and exams) to be far more reasonable than the LS1a ICE system, and I felt that they more accurately tested my understanding of the material. It does take a significant commitment of time to stay on top of things, but I didn't find the course nearly as frustrating as LS1a.
It's a good class for learning the content. It is very much an intro-level class, however, with all of the accompanying broadness.
Great labs that will teach you a ton and let you use some of the latest bio technologies! Unfortunately, the exams and problem sets are quite terrible, not because of difficulty but because they are graded unfairly and have bad questions.
Make sure that you're on top of the course material because you have to know it really well for the tests. Go to the Friday review sessions, TF and preceptor office hours, just always be doing genetics.
This class is a good introductory class to many crucial genomics and laboratory concepts. The lectures, for the most part, are informative and engaging, and section is very helpful. There are many resources (including the teaching staff, PSLs, and course materials) that really help with learning the material, and the teaching staff are very invested in the course.
I came into this class after listening to a lot of negative comments about the class. I find that most of that negativity is unjustified. I enjoyed the class and found the concept to be not too difficult. The work was manageable and the professors are great. Some materials may be a bit dry and not completely interesting, but overall the course is decent. It can be challenging at times, but more overwhelming. So if you hear any negative comments about the course, I would take it with a grain of salt because I found the course to be decent and relatively enjoyable.
This class is hard, and you have to put work in.  Even if you do that, you probably won't see your grades where you feel they should be.  Reach out to teaching fellows, and do it earlier.  Do your problem sets with friends or you might not make it.
Taking this course as a sophomore- wow, it's a breeze. Doesn't even compare to orgo or Gchem. But all the freshman somehow manage to freak out about this course even though its pretty simple. This class got a lot better this year! No GDP was a big plus and the quizzes were helpful. Lecture wasn't always the most helpful. Pardis Sabeti is AMAZING. Lover her. Kevin doesn't care about the course at all, and Andrew Berry was pretty cool. Exams are a bit tricky and could be redesigned to make the course better, and lectures could be more focused.
Contrary to what I expected, I really enjoyed this class.  The material was really interesting, lecturers excellent, and section a useful way to review problem-solving.  Take the time to review the lecture slides and notes (which we had instead of a textbook this semester) after class to fill in your understanding, and this class should not be especially difficult.  Definitely a class that freshmen whine about for no reason.
It's really fascinating--but figure out how to work your clicker quickly, or else you'll lose points (like I did) in the first few lectures.
It has gotten a lot better than what you might have heard about it.
LS1b has changed a lot since years past. It seems a lot more fun, engaging, and smoothly run compared to previous semesters.
This class is challenging, but very worth while as the professors are great and the material is fascinating.
This class is pretty difficult. Exam problems were tricky and often had problems that were nothing like practice questions/psets. The microbiome project wasn't particularly scintillating but was manageable work-wise. I think a lot of your class experience depends on your TF. The only redeeming part of the class was my TF (Rickey). He was awesome!
While the material covered in this course is fascinating and the professors are wonderful people and lecturers, ultimately some areas of unclarity in this course make it difficult to succeed in.
This class is very interesting and taught by excellent professors.
This class has improved significantly from last year. Andrew Berry is hilarious and Pardis has a great positive attitude and is really fun. The material is difficult and the ICEs from LS 1a were a better way of testing instead of the midterms in LS 1b. The material is also very interesting and it is taught well but is tested poorly.
It's a good class to do, teaches you a lot of foundations. Probably only good for life science concentrators, not sure why you would take it if you aren't.
This class is very interesting and the lecturers are all very engaging. I would definitely recommend taking this course if you are interested at all in the life sciences.
Most likely you will be required to take this course.
This course is not easy but the material is very interesting and the professors try to make it exciting.
Great class, much improved from previous years to my knowledge, instructors are great, lectures are great, and section is really helpful. Thought all the midterms and quizzes were fair but the final was difficult.
Only because you have to
The course and material is not terrible. I found the material pretty interesting at times. Overall the three different lecturers were engaging although lectures could drag on at times. There is a lot to manage in this class from psets, to labs, to quizzes and then the midterm/final and final lab project.  Grading on the midterms and final is extremely picky for wording (as a warning).
I loved the information presented in the class. However, I disliked the class itself. Aside from the instructors, the only person who knows anything in-depth is Amy. I disliked the tests, which seemed not really difficult but extremely picky in grading (like you had to have exact wording). Joyce knows the most of the section leaders and is a great section leader. Additionally, she knew the material, so her grading was more informed from what I heard. I did not have Joyce, but get her if you can.
Reviewing weekly will be a tremendous help for midterms and finals. Although the class may seem difficult at times, the help you receive throughout the week will get you through it.
dont take it if youre not required to
This class was honestly my favorite course at Harvard so far. It's really well taught and organized, and the material is so interesting. It's not very time consuming either.
From what I've heard from students who have taken this class in previous years, this class seems to have greatly improved. I found the class very interesting and manageable. Use all of the resources available to you on Canvas in order to succeed. The labs are fun, and you get to learn about your own genome through them.
this course requires a lot of time and commitment to the subject material. be prepared to spend hours in order to understand the material and apply the learned concepts effectively. this course is all about application not memorization.
Do not take this class. If possible take an OEB alternative. This class is poorly taught, the preceptors are condescending and terrible instructors and overall, you will not be evaluated on your ability to be successful in STEM, only on how well you can memorize and regurgitate information.
Andrew and Pardis are amazing people and lecturers. Section is extremely tedious and boring, and if your TF doesn't have good time management you may end up going 30 min-1 hour over time. However, the section problems are really helpful for understanding the material and how to do the problem sets. Each TF grades the problem set very differently, which was annoying. It's doable, but it's not going to be a pleasant experience.
Go to the Annenburg office hours! They are incredibly helpful, even if not necessarily for the assignments, but just for understanding the lectures or getting to know the faculty.
Not bad if you are planning to concentrate in life sciences/go into med school, as it is a prerequisite. Would not recommend as a gen ed for other students, however.
It's a good class. It has it's hard parts.
The first section will suck but stick with it. though you may not do as well as you'd like, the content is really interesting and time management is very important.
Most people say "poor you" when they hear you are taking LS1b. I really didn't find it that bad. It wasn't my favorite class at Harvard, but it covered interesting things and was a manageable workload. As far as a giant intro class goes, it was pretty good.
This class has improved a lot. The quizzes are very fast-paced, and the first lecturer (Dr. Eggan) isn't very good, but the rest of the class is great.
Lecturers are really great. Very reasonable workload and difficulty.
I actually enjoyed LS1B! Genetics is a really interesting and rapidly evolving field, and LS1B does a great job of giving students an enjoyable and informative introduction to the field.
The professors are really cool, which makes the rather boring material bearable.
This class is as enjoyable as LS1A and the grading makes it very fair. The labs are also much more interesting.
I mean i don't recommend it but you gotta take it
The course material is not terribly engaging or interesting, especially if you have taken AP biology before. That being said, the workload is very reasonable and not difficult either.
It was a much better class than in years past. It starts off more slowly, but picks up in interesting things as the semester goes on.
If you are not currently in a lab and have never seen expressions/PCR cloning, mini preps...you will have to spend extra time learning that stuff on your own. A useful tool is the New England Biolabs website: neb.com--they have great material there to explain all this stuff. Remember: neb.com. Don't just depend on the lecture notes. It won't be enough.
This is a fair course and necessary for many concentrations in the life sciences. The grading can sometimes be a bit unfair but there is a large amount of review material and help if you need it.
This class has some interesting information and amazing professors. However, the class itself is poorly structured, and the expectations of the faculty clash with perceived expectations of the students. This class needs a lot of work to make sure students are more informed about what is needed of them. Overall, a good class and not a bad introduction into the life sciences.
I really enjoyed this class!
It's a difficult class to do well in, because the exams are difficult. However, there are a lot of resources available, so use them! Psets also help significantly with exams.
There's really not a good reason to take this course if you aren't a pre-med.
I would say that you need to take this course in order to obtain a solid foundation in genetics. However, I do believe the course is pretty poorly executed with variable grading and very different section experiences.
Although this class is a general requirement for a lot of concentrations, it is actually pretty interesting. The topics covered are always clearly tied with current issues in society, like different diseases caused by the specific kind of inheritance pattern you are learning about. The exams and problem sets are fair. The lectures are variable; Kevin is the most boring, but Andrew and Pardis are a lot of fun and genuinely care about the students.
It is really great and fun but can be really difficult. you have to be super thorough with the readings and make sure you understand EVERYTHING.
Ls1b was really nicely organized this year! All of the lecturers were great, and the check in quizzes were a great way to encourage students to stay on top of the material. The psets weren't too much work.
This course is moderately difficult; however, you learn a lot about the genetics and the labs help you develop basic lab skills.
Be prepared
LS1b had fantastic lecturers this semester- Kevin Eggans was great at explaining introductory concepts in a clear manner, Andrew Berry was hilarious, and Pardis Sabetti was daring and passionate- and the removal of the GDP in favor of the microbiome project was a great success. The class was not too much work and PSL office hours made  problem sets so much easier. Labs were also not too difficult and included analysis of our own genes as well as the culturing of bacteria we collected from the environment. I really enjoyed this class and got a good feel for what the field of genetics involves.
Only take it if you have to. This class is really really difficult.
Better than LS1a--lots of detailed information, and my section leader (Chris Schubert) was amazing. Made the material easy to digest. Of course, if you need to take this class for concentration or pre-med requirements, you don't really have much choice there.
LS1B (I took it spring 2016) is not nearly as bad as all the Q-scores made it out to be. They got rid of the GDP project that everyone hated before, and they replaced it with the Microbiome Project which is an extended lab (lasts a few weeks) with a group presentation component and an individual paper (1500 words). The workload is very reasonable. The grading seemed harsher than for LS1a, and there is more pressure to do well on midterms and the final since there is no ICE system like in LS1a. Also, the professors are a lot of fun. Dr. Barry is very personable, and Dr. Sabeti is so much fun!
LS1B is an interesting course, but with a few major flaws. A few assignments seemed unnecessary and like overkill, such as when we had to do a personal write-up for a lab that contained practically the same information as the presentation we did in class a week before on the same exact lab. The Peer Study Leaders were extremely unhelpful and unwilling to aid students with psets, and the exams sometimes felt like the writers were trying to trick the students - something I never appreciate as one of those students. However, the material is interesting and the professors are fun, so I believe it is worthwhile despite its flaws.
This class is challenging, so I would advise to stay on everything and not slack. Print out all section notes, assignments, section notes, and every type of resources that LS1b provides
Most people take the classes regardless of whether they want to or not because it meets certain requirements for them. This class is super interesting and fun, so I would recommend you to take it. However, it is not going to be easy--there's a lot of studying to be done.
I learned a lot and enjoyed this class.
Big time commitment. I would probably only recommend this class for people seriously considering a biology major or secondary
The course is very difficult and challenging, however the course material is really interesting and the professors are amazing!
The class was a lot better this semester than it has been in the past. I did not think it was horrible and actually enjoyed the material and subject matter. There was nothing especially difficult about the course although it does require a lot more work than LS1a. Office hours with the preceptors are really helpful, as well as the Friday Problem-Solving Lectures. The practice quizzes and exams are also very indicative of the level of difficulty on the actual exams so they are very good practice. The lab portion was alright. I found the Microbiome presentation to be a bit pointless but conducting the characterization assay on the bacteria was interesting. Overall, the class has improved a lot from last I heard and it is definitely not as bad as people say.
This year, LS1b did a lot of good restructuring that made the class more enjoyable as a whole. However, there will still be many moments where you wonder why on earth you decided to take the class, and realize it's because you have to as a life sciences concentrator/premed seeking a bio class. Kudos to the people who decide to take this class as a fun GenEd (RUN AWAY). While the material is interesting, you're going to be surrounded by a lot of grade-obsessed premeds who will ruin the curve for you.
This is a really interesting course!
You probably have to take this class. It's not great, it's not horrible. Lab will drag on
Office hours are pretty helpful when doing problem sets. Sometimes it's unclear what the questions are asking you to do so attending TF office hours can be helpful to clear up any uncertainty.
only take it if you have to. if you don't avoid at all costs.
Best class! Ls1b has a reputation of being horrible before. But now, they added Dr. Berry and took out the written project. This class will make you learn so much and you'll enjoy the very fun labs! My favorite class so far!
The course presents interesting material overall, but this is sometimes lost in the flaky logistics of the course in terms of section activities/grading.
This course has been improved ENORMOUSLY this year. I honestly can't believe how far they have come. Numerous people LOVED LS1b; it was the most interesting class I have taken at Harvard so far. I learned the material so well as a result of the course's organization. There are so many ways to get help. The lecturers are also amazing. Kevin was the worst of the 3, though he was still pretty good. Andrew Berry and Pardis Sabeti were vying for first place in my eyes, Berry being the funnier and more interesting lecturer and Pardis being extremely organized/more medically oriented. Overall, TAKE THIS CLASS, you are going to end up loving it.
Don't knock it till you try it. Its not too much work and the staff is great.
Only take it if you have to.
If you're pre-med, you have to take this class anyway, so these comments are useless for you. Anyways:LS1b has a pretty bad reputation on campus, maybe because in prior years it wasn't very good, but this year I felt like it was fine -- quite similar to LS1a, actually. PSETs aren't bad at all. The exams are kind of difficult. Lab is super long and tiring. Lecture notes are great, and the lecturers are all pretty good.
LS1B is quite interesting and worthwhile to take. Not a bad class for a requirement. The psets are moderately difficult and midterms/exams not too hard. All lecturers were very interesting and super accomplished in their fields!
Its an enjoyable class. The labs can be boring and the p-sets long, but in the end you learn a lot about some pretty fascinating topics.
This class is about as fair as they come. The course is challenging, but if you keep practicing and stay on top of the material, you'll be okay for sure. Definitely make use of all of the practice problems for each lecture, and read the lecture notes. I found the practice problems very necessary, and I would encourage you to make them mandatory for yourself instead of optional. Practice exams for us seemed to pretty accurately reflect what was on the actual exam. Everyone involved in the course that I interacted with was very friendly, and the professors gave entertaining lectures.
Most likely have to take, one of the worst classes you will take. Just survive.
A pain but you gotta do it, I'm guessing.
While at times the work can be tedious, the concepts you learn are really intriguing and I found it interesting to be able to decipher the history and mystery surrounding diseases and traits.
Take this course. Upperclassmen (students who took this course before 2016) may tell you the course is awful. it was completely changed and most students including myself enjoyed it.
We got great lecturers this year and overall I thought this was a very very worthwhile course (for an intro science class). The topics covered were super interesting and the lecturers were truly exceptional. I will honestly miss sitting in this class and in lab section.
LS1b was my favorite course this semester. The subject material was extremely interesting and the lecturers are amazing (Kevin Eggan is fantastic, Andrew Berry is AMAZING, Pardis Sabeti is a rock star). You will definitely enjoy this class- even if you didn't like LS1a, LS1b is much more comprehensible and you will learn a lot. The psets are very very manageable, and the workload isn't intense at all. The exams are very fair and the materials provided (post-lecture notes, practice problems, etc.) are great.
I enjoyed the content of this class much more than LS1a. However be prepared for more stringent standards in this class.
Most likely to have to take it, but it is not as bad as some people make it out to be! I really enjoyed lectures and found the content to be interesting.
Lots of work, and probably will be one of your least favorite classes, but you have no choice but to take it.
I would not recommend this course to any student who does not have to take it for a concentration/pre-med requirement. Although students will learn some useful techniques for modern research, the examinations in the course need some reforms and reassessments. For this reason, the course can sometimes become frustrating.
The course material was fun, and Andrew and Pardis's lectures were really engaging. Also, the Friday reviews were extremely helpful in going over concepts for problem sets and exams, so definitely go to those!
Start studying EARLY on
LS1b has a negative reputation, but it's not bad. There are plenty of resources available and it's definitely possible to get questions answered
Though there is a heavy workload and it can seem overwhelming at times, really dig into the information and material because it is very interesting.
The lecturers were good this year (especially Sabeti cause she's a boss), but the exams and labs can tend to be unexpectedly difficult. Section problems and psets were the most helpful, while sometimes lecture could tend to be a bit of a waste of time.
Difficult but manageable, know what is expected of you, many resources to succeed, and lecturers are very interesting and energetic!
To my surprise, LS1b was actually a very enjoyable and organized course (for the most part), which means whatever changes they made to the course paid off. As a pre-med requirement and a requirement for nearly every life science concentration (if not all), you can't really avoid this class, but it's actually become a pretty great course. The lecturers this semester were all pretty great, better than the LS1a lecturers in my opinions, and if you're into genetics or general biology, you do get to learn a lot of cool stuff.
This course's reputation is overblown. It's somewhat challenging, but rewarding.
This class sucks.  If you don't have to take it don't.
It is a good class. Material is interesting and it is well taught. For me, there were certain subjects that I just did not really enjoy.
Do the practice problems and practice exams and you'll be fine. Section/lab was the most boring three hour stretch of my week.
It was a good class and definitely makes you think.  Make sure you take advantage of the practice problems.  Overall, a good course.  Teaching staff is very helpful.
Review the post lecture notes to study for quizzes and exams.
Overall I really enjoyed this class. It is much better than how it was before compared to what previous years' students have told me. The practice problems from each lecture are an excellent way to study for exams. The exams are very fair, and if you do enough problems and ask questions about what you don't understand, you will do fine in this class. This is the kind of class where the exam questions are not much different from the homework questions.
Most people who take this class are doing so because they need to, like for a Life Sciences concentration requirement (me!) in addition to the pre-med requirement (basically everyone else), so if you are looking at the Q score comments section, you're probably going to end up taking the class anyways because there is no getting out of it, for the most part. Overall, I think this course was okay and relatively pain-free, so  you should be fine. If you are taking this class for other reasons: 1) why? 2) Andrew Berry's lectures are fascinating, so of he's lecturing again this year, take it, otherwise it's a bit risky imo.
A fun course that is not your typical biology class where you memorize basic facts. Big focus on problem solving, which makes the whole class more fun and engaging. You will learn skills in this class that can be immediately applied to work in the lab (phylogenetics, GWAS)
This class is very rewarding and is very interesting. You do learn a lot but the lab components, especially the paper needs to have quite the effort put into it.
This course requires you to fully, deeply understand all details of the material and be able to apply it in order to solve the problems. If you feel unable to do that, you will struggle in this course.
Work hard in this course and you will see results. Pay attention in lecture, do the practice problems, stay on top of notes, attend office hours, and you should be very prepared to succeed.
This course has a bad reputation overall at Harvard, with record low Q scores in the past. However, I think it's actually turned into quite a decent course. Berry and Sabeti are freaking amazing lecturers, and Eggan isn't bad either. Also, Sabeti is insanely cool. Another thing - a lot of the course is focused on statistical methods in biology. This is nice, but they don't go into as much explanation of the math as you might like. This was a little annoying, but it's whatever.
If you're premed, this is an experience that you'll have regardless, so learn to enjoy its combination of bitterness and sweetness. Kevin's lectures were a little less engaging because the fundamental principles he talked about were mostly review, but Andrew and Pardis are funny, engaging, and fascinating
Take it if you have to. Some people find it interesting and fun. There are definitely cool things in the class.
Alright here's the thing. I thought LS1B was going to be terrible, the Q scores sucked. But this year they totally revamped the course and it's actually genuinely good now. I don't know what it was like in past years, but it is the bomb now. Don't be scared of taking it, just do it it's actually good.
LS1b used to have a really bad reputation for being terrible, but that definitely wasn't my experience. Though it was difficult at times, I thought LS1b was well-taught and was interesting. I don't know that I would take this class if it wasn't a requirement, but I didn't mind that it was a requirement.
It's not like LS1A where everything builds on the previous modules. The lectures within modules are connected, but beyond that, there is not much between modules.
This was a very reasonable class.  Lectures are interesting, professors are amazing, problem sets aren't too long, and help was easily obtained.  Labs sometimes ran a little too long, but the class wasn't too demanding of time overall.  Definitely learned a lot from this class, and it made me excited to pursue biology as a concentration!
Great teachers!  Will enjoy if you enjoy genetics.
This class will take work but it is interesting and the professors do a good job of making the material interesting.
This class is a necessary requirement for many bio majors. It is not overwhelmingly difficult, but not always very stimulating. The lectures can be long and a little-fast paced, but some lectures are too slow. Overall, it's not a bad course but will not be your favorite class.
I mean, you have to take this course if you want to do anything life sciences. The material can be interesting, it can also be confusing. You might have a really great TF or a really bad one. The tests are hard but not impossible, and the class itself (with psets, labs, etc) is do-able. Quizzes, which are supposed to be
This course is nice if you want to learn more Biology, but the culture behind it is overwhelming. This is a course designed for freshman pre-meds. If you do not fall into that category, this is probably not the best class to take. Take a class in the MCB department if you want to learn more Biology.
LS1b was a fascinating course and would be a great choice for anyone who is interested in human-based scientific concepts, such as genetics and disease. If you did not love LS1a, don't assume that LS1b will be the same; I wasn't a huge fan of LS1a but ended up loving LS1b. The course is taught by three professors with very distinct and diverse teaching styles, but the amount of work remains relatively constant and manageable throughout the course.
study
Just make sure you pay attention to details.
This class can be interesting at times but is usually a struggle.
Ls1b is a pretty interesting background in genetics. The workload is manageable and the topics are interesting and relevant.
The topics in this class are super interesting. Midterms are pretty hard, but lectures are interesting and you'll come out feeling like you know more about genetics.
This is a really interesting class; however, it is easy to fall behind. Make use of all of the resources that are available so that you stay on top of the material.
While the course is challenging, the topic is super interesting and the professors keep the class relevant by introducing many cutting edge technologies.
This class is not particularly difficult or time consuming, but complete assignments carefully as one can lose a lot of points for careless errors.
From what I heard from upperclassmen, this class has made huge improvements. The material is super interesting and all the lecturers are phenomenal! Unfortunately, the TF you get will affect your experience quite a bit and it is very difficult to switch your section in this class unlike what you may be used to in Math or Stat classes which caused a lot of frustration for me early in the semester. This class is quite a bit of work, but go to class, read the lecture notes, do the practice problems, and you should have a sound understanding of the material.
You aren't taking this class for fun: you are either pre-med or it is a concentration requirement. That said, I didn't think it was as terrible as what I had heard in years past.
Though challenging, this course is incredibly informative and interesting. It is a brilliant introduction into the world of genetics and evolution, and it definitely offers a solid preview of certain paths in the pre-medical and medical worlds.
This class should be taken seriously. It is not an easy class, especially as many of the problems are non-intuitive.
Unless you absolutely have to for your concentration, do not take LS1A and LS1B. As a non-scientist or non-biologist, you will hate everything about it. You will probably hate everything about it even as a scientist or biologist, but in that case you can console yourself knowing you pretty much had to take it.
This class covers a lot of really fascinating topics if you're interested in computational bio or genetics in general. Lectures are always pretty entertaining, though I enjoyed Professor Berry's lectures the most. Lab is fun and not stressful, especially if you make friends with your lab group early on. Lots of opportunities to collaborate and study together for psets and exams. Most people take this class as a requirement, but I would strongly recommend it as an awesome course in itself.
Go to lunch office hours because it really makes you feel less anonymous in this gigantic course and the professors are lovely to talk to in person. Definitely chat with Andrew Berry, he is hilarious and really easy to get to know personally. He can be a great advising source as well because of his broad knowledge of Harvard's biology departments.
If you're considering studying medicine, you're going to need to take LS1b at some point.  Unfortunately, despite engaging lectures by Pardis Sabeti and Andrew Berry, the course is still unreasonably challenging due to the fact that answers are graded by how much they correspond to the answer key and not the student's understanding of the course material. If you are not pre-med and are just taking this course for a gen-ed requirement, please do not take and take literally any other life science course to fulfill it.
It's a fair class and you have to take it for med school, so you might as well take it. It's not the most intellectually inspiring class and certainly not the best bio course I've taken, but it does teach you genetics and is a relatively light workload.
This class is definitely a lot of work. The teaching staff is wonderful and they are willing to help you; they even had office hours over lunch. The only drawback is that there are hundreds of students in the class, so it is sometimes difficult to get help effectively at office hours.
LS1b has really interesting material, but it is a lot of work. It will not be an easy fifth class. The class is predominantly freshmen, so if it is a requirement for you and you want to know a lot of people in the class, take it freshman year. The professors are really cool and interesting people, so I highly recommend you get to know them all.
This class is important as a foundational course for a life sciences concentration, which is why I took it. It is especially important not to take the check-in quiz lightly. In addition, you should actually do the practice problems each week and go to office hours right away when you need help. Don't wait until the last minute. I didn't personally do this, but this is a great opportunity to eat with Professors Pardis and Berry. They seem like very interesting, charismatic people with a lot of advice to give in their field.
This class is very informative. It's heavy on math and statistic techniques.
To be honest, the most prevalent complaint for this course is the grading which is inevitable especially in a class with a lot of pre-meds. I personally found the grading very fair and not a qualm. If you really want to do well and understand the topics, it will definitely take some combination of office hour attendance, Friday Problem Solving Lecture, reading the notes, doing practice problems which for me is not overwhelming. However, I did have a lot of previous comfort with the sciences. Most importantly, as someone who did not take LS1A/LPSA first semester I was absolutely comfortable in the course (and didn't feel I was missing any essential information), and if you are not in this situation, it should NOT be a deterrent to taking the course (if you heed my advice above). I really enjoyed the professors and felt they were engaged with the course in different ways. Dr. Eggan kind of is a slow and methodical lecturer who is not extremely exciting when he speaks, but he did a good job of bringing in questions of scientific ethics with things like genetic sequencing and transgenesis. Dr. Berry is the most engaging lecturer of the three, and office hours from my experience were rewarding. Dr. Sabeti's lectures were the most difficult for me to listen to, as there were too slow for and relied way too heavily on the slides, but she provides perspective on careers in science especially towards the end.
Sucks
It can be very interesting at times, very boring and hard at othersit is worth your time if you are premed or need the requirement for somethingotherwise, don't take it
There are much better classes with which to learn this material
Unless you either love genetics or absolutely have to take this course, don't. I had to take LS1B for premed and concentration requirements and now wish I just hadn't . If I could go back to my past self I would say switch/alter my concentration rather than going through the agony of this course. The projects are a lot of work that sometimes feel like busy work. The worst part however is how unfair the questions in the class are. Psets ask questions that are difficult to answer without going to office hours. Even if you understand the concept, the way LS1B asks it and the unnecessary background info they give makes it difficult. The exams cover a wide degree of breath, and the material is just so much to cover in an exam. You could know the concepts in an exam but the way they were presented just made it difficult to portray this, and the amount of work makes tests difficult to prepare for. The course will take a lot of time, but the main part I did not like about it was how unfair the questions were. Also, if you do not have a strong genetics background/ your high school did not teach it like me, you are in for a really hard time. It is super easy to fall behind and never catch up. The lectures are fine and the instructors make an effort to make it interesting, but the actual material and your grade can be unbearable if you do not really love genetics or have some familiarity. If I could go back, I would not take LS1B and choose some other biology class, literally any other class, to fulfill that requirement for medical school. Even if the grading hadn't been harsh, the soul-suckingness of the class and the struggle of getting through just isn't worth it to me. Also, you have to buy a $15 course pack at the beginning of the semester for lab, which came as a surprise to me.
The preceptors of the course undertook a lot of work this year to improve the course, as many students in precious year absolutely hated the course-- and the work was overall successful. You'll have to put in time to understand the material, but it's completely manageable. The course is also forgiving in your attendance to lectures, being able to drop a PSET, and being able to drop the lowest of your quizzes. I you put the work into this course, you WILL do well.
Read lecture notes and find a good study group.
Go to the lunches with the professors!
This course is super hard but the material is really interesting. Nearly impossible to get an A depending on your TF. Take if necessary.
LISTEN IN LECTURE
If it's not absolutely necessary to take this class, don't do it.
Really loved this class.  It was challenging and time-consuming, yes, but it has been markedly improved compared to previous years.  There is no infamous GDP project (genetic disorders project) that sucks up extra time every weekend, and the course material is really interesting: cutting edge discoveries in genetics paired with basic biology material.  I felt the course was fair if you put in the time.
The course is great but it definitely requires a lot of hard work.
This was a great class!  The material is very interesting and engaging.
It isn't very difficult but you learn a lot and it's a great experience.
When I breathe in, I breathe in Peace When I breathe out, I breathe out Love
Get a good tf
Material is not particularly difficult, but they expect scripted answers that foster memorization rather than conceptual understanding of the topics covered.
It is harder than LPSA or LS1A and the exams are much more difficult
Very interesting and worth while but does require a good amount of work.
Study everything. Little things that you think don't matter will matter on the exam. Don't let the curveballs get you.
Take this course if you have to, but prepare yourself for a mixture of strict preceptors, great lecturers, challenging quizzes and psets
This class was actually pretty good and I would recommend it.
Stay on top of the online notes, do the practice problems, go over the problem solving strategies in the friday problem solving slides online and it will be your easiest class of the semester. As long as you designate an hour or so to go over the notes and practice problems for each lecture (not even the lecture itself) the problem sets and exams are not hard at all
If you use the resources given to you, you are very capable of doing well.
This class is not nearly as bad as people make it out to be. Labs were fun, teaching staff excellent, I loved Andrew. But the grading was harsh and arbitrary and assignments were often tedious and unhelpful for the exam. Still not my favorite class ever but definitely not the worst.
Take it as a freshman. The class is not designed for non-freshmen.
Great class that will teach you a lot about genetics
This class has come a great way from last year. I've read every single comment available for last year and in comparison, this course has already improved so much. However, it still has a long way to go:1. I love the material. It's so fascinating and really affirms my wish to study genetics. The lecturers are funny, and I enjoy being in class. 2. Grading for exams, quizzes, and psets are so arbitrary. Sometimes, it doesn't make sense. Other times, they give you trick questions, i.e. "Which is right, A or B?" The answer would be "neither"Another time, I emailed both my TF and head TF to make sure my pset answer is right; they both said it's right 100%, and my TF took off a point (out of 20) because my "wording does not exactly adhere to that of the rubric's" That is incredibly frustrating.Personal genetics lab is not completely eliminated. There's still a 50 point lab write-up for that, and they still give a rubric that is not complete. Overall, I feel like the course is set for students to memorize phrases to get good grades rather than for students to understand concepts to be successful.Take it, but know that grading is random at best.
This course only further convinced me that the life sciences is the place for me. I was truly interested by the material and was always excited for lecture.
This class manages to be pretty interesting considering it is a pre-med intro class with a lot of students. The professors have worked very hard to make the material interesting and student-friendly, and I think they have succeeded. The lab write-ups may seem like a lot of work but they seemed more like real world research than in previous courses.
While this class seemed to be extremely difficult and overwhelming in the past, it has been revised severely. It is now very manageable (but still not easy!). The labs are engaging and all of the lecturers are just so accomplished and interesting. The course material is some of the greatest I've encountered so far and it covers so many fantastic topics. You definitely need to utilize all of the help offered to do very well in this class and that means attending problem-solving lectures, going to office hours, doing practice problems, etc. Study, study, study for the exams because they can throw you off in their difficulty. Overall, this is a great course that will give you some struggles but if you are a hard worker you will persevere.
That you should try to make your p-sets perfect (which is really difficult)
Not a fun class; just a requirement you have to get through.
I personally found it much more interesting and enjoyable overall than LS1B but there is a ton of work and the labs are terrible
Only take this class if you need it for pre-med or concentration requirements. It's like AP Bio but less focused on memorizing information and more on applying what you've learned to solve problems. Andrew Berry is awesome and a lot of fun.
The material in the course is interesting and the labs are somewhat fun, but the grading is stricut.
Most people taking LS1b are not taking it as an elective, but rather as a requirement. If it is any solace, the class is actually fun and you can learn a great deal if you pay attention (and memorize like crazy)
