The professors of this course use it as a mean to fulfill their teaching requirement without putting forth any effort. The attitude of the professors is apparent in the disorganization of the course and the their lack of enthusiasm.
unless this course gets some serious revamping... no one should take this course.
Interesting class as an elective if you're ready to learn a bevy of cool facts without a cohesive theme.
Take this class! The confluence of professors involved in its teaching make it unique among the science courses that I have taken at Harvard, and I've really enjoyed being able to absorb all of their different perspectives.
This class was one of the best classes in the Biology department I have taken so far. It helped me decide what I wanted to study in graduate school.
it's a lot of fun, great opportunity to meet really interesting professors and get a fascinating, well rounded look at microbiology
This is a relaxing and enjoyable course. I honestly learned so much, just sit back and enjoy three great lecturers discussing topics that they clearly love and are passionate about.
This class introduces everything you ever wanted to know and more about Bacteria and Archaea, especially outside the stereotypical role of Bacteria as human pathogens.  All of the professors are amazing teachers.  Very fun if you are interested in microbes.
This is an excellent course on really interesting material.
A great introduction to microbiology. The professors are seriously amazing.
great chance to get lots of personal contact with awesome professors
This course was a fun class, in that it addressed interesting and diverse topics in microbiology (especially in the second half of the course).
it's early in the morningit's very little workgood chance to interact with professorsprofessors are all great lecturers
Drag your ass out of bed early.  It'll be worth it.
a fantastic class but be prepared to enter uncertain ground
It introduces a very important but much-neglected topic in the life sciences - that alone should make it important. But the instructors on this course are also perhaps the friendliest and most accessible group of professors I've ever had, and really want to infect (pun intended) students with their love for microbes.
