Incredible class.  Great chance to learn from the top research minds in the global health field.
This is one of the best global health classes that seeks to study threats from more than just an ethics or policy perspective, but also add in the research component to get an overall sense of how to combat diseases from all angles. The lecturers are super-stars in their fields, and the teaching staff is amazing.
Great combination of global health and research material
This class was phenomenal.  It provides an inside scientific look into infectious diseases and other Global Health threats that no other Harvard College class provides! As a non-science concentrator, this class made me love science again.
Amazing class. Probably will only get better after the first year.
Not as easy as it looks.
Fantastic course that promises to become even better. I wish there were more Harvard courses like this--rigorous in the basic science component, with applications to the real world.
awesome class. very low key yet you learn a decent amount about some really interesting stuff
LS 120 is honestly one of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard.  For the most part, the lectures were incredible.  I definitely learned a lot about the 5 diseases covered in class, and I will take this knowledge with me in the future.
Great way to look at global health issues from the more scientific perspective instead of just the effects. I would highly recommend this class to anyway who is interested in global health from the scientific point of view. Also the class requirements are not difficult, but you should get started early on the final project in order to put a lot of effort into it.
This class is unique because it focuses on the scientific aspect of global health rather than the social. No other class at Harvard allows you to explore this aspect of global health with some of the best professors.
This is an excellent class, especially for science concentrators interested in public health.
Really great course if you have an interest in medicine/infectious disease! Great exposure to different major diseases and expert in each field.
If you like molecular bio and want to learn more about infectious diseases, this class is great!
The course was really interesting and I enjoyed going to lectures, but you are best off taking this course only if you have a pretty solid understanding of basics of molecular biology and immunology.
This class is unbelievable and if you dont take it, you are making the worst mistake of your Harvard college career.  I cannot recommend it more highly.  Prof. Bloom loves the students and the TFs are probably the best TFs you could imagine.   Section was a pleasure to go to and the classes were so interesting. If you have any interest in learning in infectious diseases and the science behind them you should not have a second doubt about taking this class! if you have not had any previous experience in reading and evaluating scientific papers then you will need to work pretty hard in the first couple of weeks but the work is so worth it. TAKE TAKE TAKE TAKE IT_ you will not regret it ever.
This class takes what you've learned in MCB etc. etc. and applies it to the real world and real life situations. I love that we go into molecular mechanism for flu/TB/malaria, and its brought to life in the global context. Lectures vary depending on the professor, but assignments/exams/papers are totally reasonable. Don't sweat it to much. Take this class!
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard! It really helped to me connect my interest in basic research with medicine and public heath. The TFs were amazing, the lectures were really interesting, and the workload was pretty light. If you're interested in health and biology, take this course!!
Take this class if you are at all interested in global health, diseases, biology, etc.!! The TFs and professors are fantastic, and the guest lecturers are carefully selected and are leaders in their fields. It really teaches you how to synthesize biological aspects of diseases with social, economic and policy issues to really start thinking about practical solutions to global health issues.
Don't take this for fun.  Largely geared toward MCB people.
If you are looking for a global health class that teaches you the biology behind global health threats, it is a fine class and is different from other global health classes taught at Harvard. But it won't teach you the skills needed to understand how to implement changes or how health policy works. I guess there is no class that is a good middle between teaching policy and biology.
Take this class if you're considering it at all. It integrates the different necessary components of global health in a very comprehensive way: molecular biology of the disease, pathology, epidemiology, and policy, and leaves you wanting to learn more.
LS 120 has most definitely been one of the few truly life-changing classes that you can encounter in college - it is wonderfully unique from any other undergraduate classes offered at Harvard in the amazing introduction to epidemiology and infectious diseases that it provides. The resources that the professors and teaching staff bring are also an amazing experience, and one that has made me reconsider what specific path I want to take with my future. If you don't take this class, you are seriously missing out on not only one of the best experiences of your undergraduate career, but also on a chance to see what you could do with your molecular/cellular biology knowledge in an application to infectious disease and global health! And you definitely don't have to be a global health person before taking the class - I wasn't and still am not, but I now look at my other passions in biochemistry through a different, more engaging and hopeful lens, of what exists out there for me to apply my knowledge and skills from the areas I love in a way that can help so many people.
Amazing class! Really opened my eyes to a lot of different topics. Generally interesting and engaging lecturers. Difficult but doable with little bio background. Supportive teaching fellows.
This is a great capstone for the information you've learned in previous science classes
This course's approach to integrating MCB, human biology, and population treatment/control policy is unique among courses at Harvard. The course is based on guest lecturers, who can really be hit-or-miss, but overall, I'm so glad I took this course. (For non-biology concentrators - you may have to put in some extra work to understand the details about pathogenesis, but the course staff are generally happy to meet to discuss any questions you might have.)
Good introduction into global health for those with little to no experience in the field. Basic biology knowledge needed, but a good solid introduction.
This class is very interesting, and I would definitely recommend it if you are interested in medicine, global health or public health, and also have a pretty strong background in biology. The lectures were almost all given by expert guest lecturers from HMS or HSPH, which I thought was a really great component of the class.I would say that taking MCB52 or MCB54 either before this class or concurrently would be extremely helpful, but not necessary if you are willing to put in some extra time to read and understand the assigned weekly journal articles. Overall, the class isn't a huge amount of work, and the TFs were amazing. Again, I'd definitely recommend if you are interested in medicine and global health, although the class is more heavily focused on biology and basic science research than policy.
If interested in the material, you will enjoy the class. It wasn't a heavy work load.
It's advertised as global health but the section component and the final project actually require decent molecular/cell biological knowledge. Great class, great section, the quality of lectures vary since they bring different professors for each topic.
Everyone who wants to work in the fields of natural sciences / life sciences should take this course
This class was really interesting in its approach to global health, looking at the scientific aspects of many of the diseases that have major global impacts. The class teaches you novel ways of approaching these problems. It is very unique in its approach, and having taken SW25, I did not think there was overlap. Most of the lecturers were great, however there were a few who were difficult to learn from.
If you are pre-med or have any interest in medicine, epidemiology, or biology research, I would highly recommend this class. You learn about diseases ranging from diabetes to malaria to influenza from leading professionals in the field. Even though at times the material was challenging and overwhelming, I learned so much from this class and came out more excited about pursuing a career in medicine/research. Take this class!!
Great class.  Gives you a wider perspective on global health issues while still getting into the science of the diseases.
Really great class; just make sure that you have the right background or you may find yourself struggling.
Very interesting course! The toughest assignment is by far the final paper, but writing it was still quite interesting and rewarding. The section TFs are also fantastic.
This course was much more difficult than I expected.  It definitely pushes you, and a lot of my peers in my section were seniors who were working on theses in bench sciences, which made the science-heavy weeks very overwhelming.  But the faculty definitely works with you, and you will have learned an amazing amount of material by the end without even realizing it.  I would definitely recommend this to anyone considering working in global or public health (or just human health).
This class is great and you learn about 5 major global health threats.  You will learn from leading experts in the field in doing so!  In the process, consistency is difficult, but the TF's do a good job of tying things together.
this is a fabulous course with a wide spectrum of incredible scientists who come and lecture to youlots of variety so you will never be bored. take it!
Pretty easy class that is both interesting and informative. Main advice would be to actually go to class, and to spend time on the response papers.
This is such a hidden gem of a class. The professors and section leaders truly care about whether or not you understand and enjoy the material. I would even say that this was the best class that I have taken here at Harvard. I truly looked forward to each lecture from a different expert in the field and the professors in charge were yet another asset to the class. They're unbelievable helpful and welcoming; I've never been so impressed and happy to have taken a course here at Harvard. Ls 120 is potentially one of the best classes offered here; don't make the mistake of not taking it.
Great class! You study each disease with a really integrated approach (molecular biology of the disease, pathology, epidemiology, and policy), which is really cool. You'll also learn how to think critically about and analyze scientific papers and research. Make sure to keep up with the material so that you can participate in section, and putting in the time to really understand the papers each week really pays off.
It was one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Definitely walked away with a lot of knowledge on disease and epidemiology.
It's a great class, but quite difficult and molecular.
The class is phenomenal. Any science concentrator interested in global health class should take this course. You don't just learn about the problems - you learn to identify potential solutions. This type of thinking is the only way to ultimately improve global health.
Great introductory course for people unfamiliar with global health threats, also gets people's feet wet in terms of delving into academic papers
Grreat global health class that does a great job of situating the science into the various global health problems and challenges we face. Course is def more science heavy than many other global health courses, so keep that in mind but was a very enjoyable class for me
Great class - disjointed. Be prepared for scattered readings.
Wonderful lectures curated by Barry and Rich.  An amazing introduction to human resources if you would like to be in the global health sphere.  Also very interesting and not too much of a workload.  Great TFs too!
-grading can be weird, get close to the professors,
This course truly is phenomenal!!! Don't just read this...sign up to take the course.
This is a wonderful class, I would highly recommend. The invited speakers are (for the most part) very interesting and distinguished, and you learn plenty about global health threats.
It's awesome! Be sure to go to office hours at least once because they are such a valuable part of the course!
LS120 is a great way to learn about five infectious diseases from multiple perspectives, especially useful for anyone with a background in science and wanting to see how their work might actually make an impact. However, the midterms this year were quite memorization-based rather than challenging us to apply concepts/design experiments. Regardless, writing the final paper was an incredibly fun experience!
Great exposure and understanding, very bio based (more than policy)
Hands down my favorite course at Harvard! It's certainly not easy and requires quite a bit of studying if you want to get the most out of the class and do well on the exams. However, the course is nevertheless very rewarding. A science background (particularly in laboratory techniques) is helpful.
This class has interesting material, but the lectures and assignments are highly disorganized. Although the class is technically "run" by Rich Losick and Barry Bloom, these professors only give 1-2 lectures for the entire semester. The rest are given by other lecturers from various Harvard institutions, which were very hit-or-miss. Rich and Barry also had little (if any) involvement in the assignments themselves, leaving the TFs to organize all of the homework and exams, as well as the online course site, all of which were highly disorganized. If you choose to take this class, expect to devote a lot of time to dealing with managerial things, like sifting through piles of complex and unrelated lecture material to determine what is actually important for exams.
Really great class; well-run and engaging. You get out what you put in, so definitely make the effort to keep up on readings + go to office hours with Professors Bloom and Losick.
Keep up with the material. The material is super interesting, but there is a lot of it.
Good class, though as a LS class you should expect it to be rather science heavy. There is much focus on the molecular biology of diseases  though the course does a good job of tying in epidemiology and policy, biology is still the foundation.
Great way to see the science behind several global diseases. Really cool fusion of public health and molecular and cellular biology. Unique course here at the College. SCRB 175: Glucose was sort of similar in its fusion, but had more narrow topic.
If you are interested in how diseases attack, you will love this course. Lots of interesting topics. Amazing guest lecturers. Section was worthless, but hopefully that will change for next year.
This course can be challenging, especially if you're not from a science background/concentration, but if you have any interest in Global Health, this could will teach you a lot about the molecular biology behind some of the world's biggest health threats.
Professors Bloom and Losick invite some of the leading professors around Harvard to lecture about TB, malaria, intestinal diseases, epidemiology, obesity, and clinical trial design, making this course a truly unique opportunity to sample the cutting-edge research being done all over the University on infectious diseases and global health.
hopefully suggestions are taken into account, if not, be ready for a disorganized course
The material is really interesting, pay more attention in class and engage in the top-notch guest speakers. Disclaimer: Because this class is mostly delivered by guest lectures, some will be better than others.
This is a wonderful course and I would recommend it to anyone who is interested in public health, medicine, epidemiology, or just would like to learn more about the pathology of five key diseases that contribute significantly to the global disease burden. The lecturers are all leaders in their field and have so much to offer students. Section and the teaching fellows are definitely your best resource for understanding the more difficult molecular biology details of these diseases, but don't let that scare you. This course is amazing and the final term paper is an amazing opportunity to come up with your own unique solution to some of the greatest public health challenges of our day.
This can be a cool way to get introduced to five major public health threats worldwide, six if you count the final research paper. The lectures are sometimes lackluster and sometimes wonderful, that's what you get in a course largely made up of guest lectures. It's a little scattered though--it doesn't all "come to together" in some deductive way, but rather you just get a better feel for the scientific public health landscape. Cool class though!
Take this class with the understanding that you will cover a broad range of information (and be expected to know it on midterms). You will not really have the chance to hone in on what specifically interests you.
If you're even moderatley interested in some of the health problems that plague the world, this is a great class! The line up of guest lecturers is fantastic, and section is a great place to develop scientific literature reading and discussion skills. As a chemistry concentrator, I was able to follow along with the material just fine. It's very manageable in terms of time and assignments (2 midterms and an open-ended, proposal-like final paper), and I would recommend it!
There's alot of info that gets dispersed in this class so be ready to deal with difficult material
There are too many global health threats, but there is hope for the future
Good topics, you'll learn a lot, but the lecturers are hit or miss, and there's not many organized assignments
I thought this was going to be an LS course while it has some science, there would be an equal mix of global health strategies. But it was definitely more MCB 120 than LS 120. So I would recommend it for someone who can handle that.
This class wasn't, as I had originally expected, an epidemiology class. Instead, it focused on four health problems in a more broad sense, since pretty much every lecture was given by a different lecturer. Some lecturers were really awesome, some were boring, some focused on molecular pathogenesis, and some focused on medical history. It was a fairly light course overall during the semester, but the 15-20 page paper due at the end was tough. I recommend the course, but it honestly wasn't as amazing as I'd thought it would be.
