This class is a large time commitment, but its perspective on biology is fascinating and its instructors are top-notch.
This class is essentially the most amazing survey course you will ever take. It will rewire your brain to think in models and applications to problem solving, and will show you how to apply concepts from class to actual research situations.  The small size and collaborative atmosphere of the class, along with the large number of faculty, create a very supportive environment that accurately reflects the collaborative nature of science.  Lets put all the cards on the table- this class will teach you a bit of everything, but all of nothing (except LS1a/b and Math 19a/b equivalent (check the course guide to see if that changed since I wrote this)).  You will learn portions of E/M physics, Molecular Orbital chemistry, Statistical Mechanics, etc, but this will not replace any of those courses.  What it will do, however, it teach you how to put all of them in context, which will make it much easier to learn them later, as well as use them in actual research during and after college.  It will take a massive amount of time and a large chunk of your schedule.  You can get over this- it's okay not to have every course immediately.  Give it a try- it is an amazing way to start your freshman year, and sets you up for success in future science courses and research.  Also, it gives EXCELLENT commendation to labs about your research skills, as well as directly ensuring that every student has a lab for the following summer, if they want one.
Many saw that it was equal to LS1a and Math 19a but that equivalence was only skin deep. The majority of the course felt much harder as it was a focused on physics and statistical mechanics. This class is designed for students aspiring to study biophysics, computational biology, or if a student wants to explore an interdisciplinary integrated science. I learned material that I probably wouldn't have taken a class in (statical mechanics, thermodynamics). I also gained valuable work ethic that I wouldn't have needed in an easier class.
This class is a lot of work, and will definitely take a lot of time out of your life: in addition to lecture every day and weekly problem sets, there is a required 3 hour session of lab every week plus additional lab time on your own to finish the week's experiments, and 11 hours of lab bootcamp every week for the first 4 weeks of the semester. That being said, this class was incredible, and I would highly recommend it to anyone who is really interested in science and wants to get a great introduction to scientific research.
This class requires a lot of commitment - in terms of time, effort, and schedule space. You will learn how to look at science in new ways, like modeling biology with calculus and physics. It is very difficult, as many topics feel out of place and almost irrelevant, but gradually this class teaches you to think about biology in new ways. I think the extent to which the class is "worth it" depends on the individual. Some of us didn't expect the commitment required and didn't like it, while others loved the experience. A decent background in physics (honors), calculus (BC) and biology/chemistry (AP) are recommended. I think the biggest mistake in any decisions to take this course is to take it because it's the hardest class available, and that's what we've done all through high school. You should take this course if you want a new way to think about science.You'll have to put a lot of faith in the faculty - there are times where you will feel behind even those in LS1a, and many of the things we learn seem too high level to be applicable. The faculty, however, are amazing - they are scientists and teachers at the forefront of biology research, and they are extremely open to concerns about the course and are very flexible. They also help securing research positions (although they are plentiful without this course - Harvard is amazing like that), and the lab we do is incredible. We do actual research, which is an amazing experience. We followed a college fellow in his research on alternative RNA splicing (even if it was hard to understand) and I've learned a lot about research.In the end, the biggest advice I can offer is to be committed to the class. You are part of an experiment to teach an integrated mindset that is needed for a future generation of scientists. If you feel like you should take this class because you'll be ahead of your peers, don't (because you won't be). You will however, be part of a new development within Harvard and the larger scientific community to teach students how science actually works, as opposed to contrived examples. Good luck with your decision!
The integration of math, physics, and computer science to model and understand biological phenomena actually happens in this class. It just takes an incredibly large amount of your personal time to fully appreciate the integration. At times, lecture materials felt superficial because of the extensive amount of topics we had to cover during a short period of time. To students who apply and get in this class, I would recommend with reservations. If you are serious about biology and math, take this class. LS50 should be a course meant for more phD oriented students, instead of pre-med students.
If you're super excited about science and research and wouldn't mind spending your freshman year doing lab work and studying a lot more than others, then this is the course for you! The course will provide you with an entirely different way of looking at biology, a more computational and mathematical way. If you're bored by memorizing facts in biology, then this is also the course for you! The camaraderie that results from the tight-knit community of the class is also very rewarding and the professors are some of the best you can find at Harvard.
I have gotten a ton out of this class and really enjoyed it, but you have to be prepared to commit about half of your time to it. If you're excited about going all out and learning really deeply about science, this is the place for you -- but you will be unhappy if you aren't prepared to invest a lot of hours.
This class is a huge time commitment, between lectures and lab sessions and working on psets, so only take this class if you're up for a challenge. If you are up for a challenge and are geniunely excited about science, then I can't recommend this class enough. It has been incredibly rewarding. I've learned so much and all of the professors are amazing!
This has been my favorite class so far. The lectures might be confusing sometimes and the psets might look ridiculously hard, but pset sessions and other impromptu collaboration sessions with my classmates have been very helpful and very fun!
This class can be extremely rewarding as long as you are able and eager (not just willing) to put in incredible amounts of time and effort to learn advanced mathematical and scientific concepts in depth. It's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity with a workload to match.It is important to have a strong background in both math and science. Specifically, a working knowledge in calculus, statistics, and chemistry are advantageous (and some programming experience is helpful, albeit not necessary).A few tips for this class: you need to be very willing to meet with all of your teaching fellows early and often -- in my experience, the TFs were extremely helpful, friendly, and willing to go the extra mile to get good information to you if you ask nicely. Starting problem sets early is also a must, and an ability to keep on top of all your work will be the best habit you will develop from taking this class. Take every opportunity you can to collaborate with other students (of course to the extent which the faculty and honor code will allow you). Your classmates will be some of your best friends, so make sure to work on problem sets together, give credit to your collaboration, and support each other -- no single student knows enough to finish a problem set on their own, so you and your classmates will constantly be filling in gaps in each other's knowledge and helping each other out. I had an amazing experience in the laboratory component of this class, so I would also recommend doing what you can to learn from the wealth of information that the laboratory instructors will offer to you.This class involves extremely hard work at times, but at the end of the day, you will learn an enviable amount of "how to think like a scientist," especially by collaboration. If you are good with the former and desire the latter, I would encourage you to consider taking this class.
If you are a pre med, definitely do not take this course, unless you have an extensive science background. When I was accepted to LS 50, I realized that it was a huge undertaking on my part and the staff's, but I did not realize how intense it could get. Before a new course launches, it needs to spend a year in advance preparing course material like exams, problem sets, and supplementary material. The current staff was making this material as they went along. The practice midterms and finals never reflected the intensity of the actual ones. It seemed as if they threw together problems that didn't quite make the psets on these practice exams. You will be surrounded by ambitious students who are ready to collaborate. But be prepared to deal with an incredible amount of frustration and stress. The course is difficult enough; make sure you have enough background that you are not doing double duty, trying to learn things that are needed to learn what is being in taught in class. Also, this is your freshman year. Make sure you make time to get involved on campus. This course took up an enormous, disproportionate amount of my time. I spent more hours in class and lab in this course than the total hours most people spent in all of their classes. If you get in this course, you will get in mainly because you selected yourself. But please make sure you deliberate carefully before making this decision. I wholeheartedly believe that this course was "right" for 50% of the people who took it, but for the other half, it was an unreasonable undertaking.
LS50 is the best class I took this semester. You should be aware that it will take up most of your time, that you will have to work a lot and that it is not going to be easy. However, you will get to work with some amazing people - both colleagues and professors, which will be very close to you considering the size of this class. You will learn many things from them, from concrete knowledge to ways of thinking about different concepts. Interesting, captivating, difficult, humorous, demanding - it will be impossible not to enjoy this course once you get involved in it. However, you should be sure that you'll enjoy the topics and the general areas of study, else it will just too hard to go through it. I definitely loved it.
The most challenging yet most rewarding academic experience I've had in my life so far. If you love pursuing knowledge for its own sake, this class is wonderful.
This is a very challenging class, and you have to be very dedicated to enjoy it. So if it is right for you, I strongly recommend it, but I don't think that it is right for everyone. You have to be willing to invest a lot of time, and it is hard, but if you are willing, it will be amazing!
LS50 is a class for risk takers. LS50 is a class for people who love science - both learning and doing it. LS50 is a class for people who are willing to struggle, and struggle together, because the bonds formed between classmates are unbreakable after many caffeinated nights in Lamont. But the things you learn, and the things you learn that you're capable of, are invaluable. If you want to learn to do science (i.e. research), take LS50.
It is probably one of the toughest courses offered at Harvard, so if you think you are up for a challenge, you'd better really mean it. As a student who never felt challenged academically, I welcomed the challenge, and while I do not regret taking the course, and never would even think about dropping it, it has been unequivocally the most difficult challenge I have ever undertaken. However, if you are up for it, it is also most likely one of the best courses I will take during my 4 years here. All of the professors, TFs, and lab PIs are super passionate about their work, and they are committed to helping us learn as much as possible. My peers are the most amazing people, and all the time spent with them has been one of the best things about the semester. And of course, the feeling when you finish a pset that you thought was impossible earlier in the week is a feeling that everyone should experience at least once in their life.
