Definitely quite a bit of work. Lab and class feel like two different courses, but the lab expands on course topics in really helpful ways so you understand the material better, just the assignments separate the two parts the most.
It's terrible, but if you're pre-med you don't exactly have a ton of options.
This class will probably be useful if you're pre-health or thinking of taking the MCAT since it really forces you to learn the anatomy inside and out if you want to get a passing grade. No amount of motivation could make you self-study this much anatomy. That being said, it is a *lot* of anatomy. The labs are brutal and force you to learn entire systems (for example, one week we had a practical on the entire muscular system along with origins and insertions) in just under a week. Still, the labs are very interesting, hands on and informative. The physiology part of the class is doable and not too difficult. The main downside to this class is the workload, but it is interesting and useful. The exams are fair (everything can be found on the lecture slides) and there are lots of office hours for you to come in and study for the practical.
This course is very fast paced, the material is often difficult and overwhelming as there is always a lot of it. That being said: it is an amazing class. If you're premed, this class is so useful for information for the mcat. The labs are really fun and interesting. This class taught a lot of useful information in a short amount of time, there was never a dull week, never a time when I didn't have an assignment or something to study for. I highly recommend this class, but also understand that the only way to succeed in LS2 is to go to office hours as much as possible and stay on top of the material. It is so worth it in the end.
You put in the hard work and you come away learning a lot. I took this class as non-pre-med and survived just fine among the pre-med sharks. It's interesting material and the labs are so cool.
You will learn SO MUCH. As a non-pre-med, non-science concentrator, I took this class for fun and am so glad I did! It was surprisingly accessible to someone with a limited science background but genuine interest. However, this course covers a VAST amount of material in one short semester, and at times it can be overwhelming the density of how much you've covered. Go to TF office hours to study for practicals! Practice drawing every diagram and graph in the slides for the exams! Practice explaining the physiology of how different organs etc work to your friends, roommates, family! Beyond passing the class, it is useful knowledge to have with you for life.
Take it if you want to learn just about everything about the human body, but be prepared to work. Perfect for future doctors.
I would tell future students that this class is a lot of work. Although the material is not extremely challenging, there is a huge amount of information that you are responsible for knowing for practicals, exams, etc... So be prepared to put time into this class, but the results for doing so are incredibly rewarding.
This has been the most informative and relevant class I've taken while at Harvard. Take it!!!! Granted, it's A LOT of work. And if you take this, make sure you balance out your schedule because you'll have to devote a lot of hours week-to-week, by studying for lab practicals, going to office hours (which is really necessary for the lab tests), and studying for tests is NOT easy. But it literally tells you how the body works and what you need to do to be healthy, which is incredibly interesting, enlightening, and relevant to how I live my life.
It can be a lot of work at times and it can be frustrating because the people enrolled tend to be very grade obsessed, but you do truly learn a lot.
This class requires a lot of daily memorization and review. It's really fun if you are ready to put in a lot of work and time into it!
I absolutely do not recommend taking this course. This course was, by far, the most disorganized course that I have taken at Harvard. The combined lecture and lab components are the equivalent of being enrolled in two courses simultaneously. These two components of the course are not at all integrated, and each of the two components for this one course has a workload equivalent to a whole course (i.e. this one course has the workload and content of two courses).
If you are interested in physiology, this class will be so rewarding! However, it is a lot of work, and I found it difficult to do well in the anatomy lab, which is the source of all assignments/practicals (there are not physiology psets or assignments, only exams). I wish I could have devoted more time to studying physiology concepts rather than memorizing anatomy terms. If you are okay with spending many, many hours memorizing body parts and going to office hours for the weekly labs, then I recommend this course since I enjoyed lectures so much.
Even though the subject of human anatomy and physiology seems very niche and seems only relevant to pre-med students, I highly recommend anyone who has any interest to take this class. The material, unlike other upper level math and science classes, doesn't build upon any pre-requisites, and even someone who has never taken a science class before can jump right in. The content itself is excellent; from learning about how we move to how we digest, it's so incredibly relevant to everyone's lives and is so important to know. By the way, the class also happens to be taught by THREE of my FAVORITE professors of all time, just in case the content is not incentive enough... definitely my favorite class at Harvard so far.
It's hard, but it's not cripplingly hard. Take labs seriously, take lectures seriously week-to-week, and you really won't find yourself committing that much time to it outside of designated class hours except in the run-up to exams. It's just lots and lots of memorization, and if you pay attention in lecture (and go to lecture) and take good notes, you'll just be doing some relatively laid-back reviewing when exam time comes around.
this is without a doubt the most savage class at harvard. the lab is as hard as most harvard science classes, as is the lecture/exam portion. this class will fuck your shit up, you will be so stressed out the whole time but also learn a lot.
Don't take this class in conjunction with other super difficult courses because regardless of your intelligence, this class is a major time commitment. But it is absolutely worth it if you are interested. This is probably the only course that is relevant for med school.
Just be warned that this class is a lot of work, and that even with studying a lot for exams, it's unlikely that you'll know all the information they ask of you.
put in the work
Great class in that it's probably more representative of medical school than any other class, but it's far from perfect: I think the two most common grievances are that 1) lecture and lab are essentially two different courses, and the discontinuity can be a bit overwhelming and frustrating, especially when they don't coordinate and you end up with a lab practical and midterm in the same week; and 2) you almost never finish lab in the allotted 3 hours and have to go to office hours at some point if you want any chance of doing reasonably well on the practical. It's a great class in terms of material covered, but it's organizationally a mess.
This course is the most work you will ever have to do. It is a great course that taught me a lot about the human body and how we evolved. But the lab component of the class is like a separate course on its own. The hours you will have to put in to this class is astronomical and the hours you put in you do get back in the great material and amount you learn but may not necessarily be displayed in your grade.
It's incredibly hard. I had to go to multiple sets of office hours before every practical and re-watch most lectures. The tests are also way more detailed then you expect and there are few applicable practice problems to practice on. That being said I learned an immense amount and the staff was incredibly nice and helpful.
You don't need boatloads of time and an extensive background for LS2, you just need to be excited. I took this class as a VES concentrator interested in gaining a scientific understanding of the body before taking a figure painting course. I was not disappointed! This class will change the way you think about your body and how you take care of it. If you're willing to work hard to understand the material, you will remember what you learn in this class forever because it is so applicable to your daily life. This is one of those classes that everyone should take if they can-- it really revolutionizes your understanding and appreciation of the processes in your body. Go to office hours for practicals on dissections, draw diagrams to study for the midterms and final, and come up with mnemonics to memorize terms so you can devote more time to the deeper, way more interesting concepts the course covers.
Definitely take this class over MCB60 or some other requirement you can use to fill the biology premed requirement--the feeling you'll get after truly learning how your own body works is worth it. Just be prepared to put the time in (both studying and meeting with Dr. Carr or whoever the preceptor is that takes over from her) to succeed.
This course is amazing and yet one of the hardest. There is just so much content which is amazing as you sit in the dining hall at the end of the semester with your friends and someone brings up something about eyes and you describe the pathway and everyone is impressed. But then again you realize that that was just 5 minutes of 1 lecture. Also if you take this and MCB 80 you will notice that they go through several lectures of MCB 80 in a few minutes of 1 lecture.You will know so much though it will feel great. You also get to skin a cat, dissect a shark and cat, memorize everything basically on a cat, do a project on a skeleton in the museum and reflect on how much you learned about the body and how it works. Don't take this with a heavy workload already. You should definitely take this just to learn all about the body. in 10 years you won't care about your grade, you'll look at the experience, and this class is definitely a great experience!
The most interesting class I've taken while at Harvard. Answered so many questions about the quirks of the human body with science. Why are bones tubular? Why do we get rigor mortis after we die? Why do we bloat when we're stressed? This class is a lot to learn, but you'll genuinely have fun while you're learning it!
lots of info to memorize.
This class is A LOT of work. Office hours are an absolute must if you want to do well on practicals, and this is time you'll be dedicating to learn material that isn't actually covered in lectures. This course is basically two classes in one: what you learn in lab and what you learn in lecture, with often little overlap. If you want to go to med school, this class is very helpful in teaching you a lot of information that will be incredibly useful, but you really have to commit to this class and be aware of the significant time it will require you to devote to it.
When taking this class, the workload is absurd, yet the unfortunate part is that this workload does virtually nothing in order to prepare you for the midterms and final exam. The class affords literally zero satisfaction despite the content being some of the most applicable to a career in medicine which is quite a feat on the part of the teaching staff who, it appears, actively works to make the course more unapproachable. The teaching staff seems utterly disinterested in the students of their class and their success in understanding and grappling with the course material.
Only take this class if you are either really well prepared and able to deal with time consuming classes, or if you don't mind getting a B.
This class is very interesting (if you are interested in how the human body works) and presented from helpful frameworks (development, evolution, homeostasis, segmentation). It's also a lot of work. Basically like two classes (lecture and lab each seem like their own thing).
Unless you need to take it for a pre-med or concentration requirement, I would not recommend taking this class and would instead just suggest that you go to the lectures if you're interested in learning human physiology.
If you take this class, be prepared to work hard. Make the rest of your schedule easier so you have enough time to devote to this class. Review each lecture either after it's given or each weekend so that you aren't left cramming at the end of the module when there's a midterm. Go to office hours for lab to study for the practicals, and definitely befriend your lab partners and others in the class so you can study together! Be prepared to memorize a lot of information, and be aware that the exams from previous years often cover different material from the year you're taking it so they aren't as helpful as you might assume.
Its really hard and takes a lot of work but it's worth it with all you learn
This class is super interesting and you'll learn a ton about the human body, but DO NOT UNDERESTIMATE the amount of time and energy it will require. Lots of memorization. Stressful lab practicals. Fast-paced exams where you need to essentially memorize all lecture slides. Lectures and labs are almost two separate courses. However, if you're up for all that, it is definitely worth it. Very fast class, but you cover so much material that it really gives you a comprehensive understanding of the body. Plus, you get to do some cool labs.
This is a very tough class. Very interesting material, especially for pre med students, but a ton of work. Lab and lecture are like 2 separate courses, and they teach very different things. Only take it if you are can (and want to) put in the work.
You come out  of this class knowing much more than you would have ever imagined.
LS2 is a fantastic class for an introduction to human (and animal) anatomy and physiology, as well as dissection. There is a lot of material, but it's definitely worth it!
This course was very interesting, but absurdly difficult.  Be prepared to get your butt kicked on this one.
If you keep up with the material the midterms aren't bad. Lauder and Lieberman are great lecturers and the material is really interesting. However, the lab portion is not fun and can be tedious/stressful, and it's a significant part of your grade. It's really interesting and you learn a lot but I wouldn't take it for fun.
This is a great course. It is a lot of work, but if you are interested in medicine, it is definitely worth taking. The teaching staff are very supportive and available to help with any questions that you may have. Also, as someone who was initially hesitant about doing dissections, it really wasn't that bad. I actually ended up really enjoying that part of the course.
This is not a course to be taken lightly. The work load is high, but the payoff is great. Put a lot of effort in, and you will get a lot out. Probably my favorite class at Harvard so far.
Definitely an amazing class if you have any interest in anatomy and especially for pre-meds. It's not a lot of work weekly, only when you have midterms, which is a ton of memorization. But the good thing about all the information is it felt really relevant, so studying it didn't feel like a waste of my time. Definitely get started studying for those midterms early/keep up with the course. I really felt like I got so much out of the class and really enjoyed the topics we covered
Be prepared to memorize a seemingly impossible amount of information.
LS2 is one of the most rewarding courses you will take at Harvard. Unlike many classes in college where most of your knowledge is somewhat passive, LS2 is all about active, hands on learning and true dedication as a student. You will have to memorize, and going to office hours is absolutely key for success, at least in lab. The practical exams in lab will not come naturally - you have to dig your hands into the cat, pick up the heart pluck, cut open the dogfish shark and tough ever bone to learn what you need to learn. However, no other class will make you feel as accomplished as when you get something in LS2.  You're learning information that is of utmost relevance. Every lecture, in some way, shape or form, explains how you are alive, move and function. You also explore larger evolutionary trends, how structure and function are intimately connected, and that integration of the physiological systems is key for their proper function. Not only will this class without a doubt serve me in medical school, I think LS2 really got me exited about being pre med again.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Though it can sometimes feel like the lab and lecture portions are 2 separate classes (intensive lab practicals the day before midterms were rough), both portions were very cool and I feel like I've come away with a body of knowledge that is both well-rounded and in-depth.
This class is a TON of work but very rewarding.  Great introduction to information that you will eventually see in med school.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. I learned so so much but you really have to put a lot of time into it to do well and understand the material. Be ready to go to office hours for lab and definitely start studying early for the tests.
This course is quite a bit of work, but very rewarding. I actually feel as though I learned a great deal that will be useful for my future - especially since I aspire to apply to medical school. I most certainly recommend this class for the second portion of the biology medical school requirement, over other courses that fulfill the same requirement.
it is a huge amount of time put into sheer memorization but you learn a ton
LS2 is the class that premeds that started with chemistry/orgo can finally breathe in. It's actually relevant! Also, although there is a lot of materal in lecture and lab, it is totally possible to do well! It's not particularly hard, it just requires you spending time with the material to understand/memorize. Re: three professors... It  works much better than say LPSA, where someone teaches for half the semester, and then someone else for the rest of the semester. They are continuously cycling through the 3 of them and I thought it worked well.The teaching staff really wants to see you succeed and will meet with you in office hours and independently until you understand the material. Dr. Carr in particular will even meet with you to go over concepts and essentially study with you. She also looks over exams and you can make a case for why you should get points back on your exam.
This is probably the most challenging class I've taken at Harvard, but I'm very glad I took it. You will learn so much. During the semester, the course sometimes felt a bit too ambitious, but at the end of it, you'll be proud that you made it through, and you will definitely have a stronger understanding of the human body. Understand, though, that the class is pretty much two in one, with both the anatomy (lab) and physiology (lecture) components each requiring the workload of a normal class.
This class is so time-consuming and it requires exponential amounts of memorization.  But memorization isn't sufficient because you also have to make sure you understand the course material really well.  Coming out of LS2 I feel like I know SO much about the human body works, which I find extremely interesting, and for me it is one of the only pre-med classes I have taken so far that has a direct application to medicine.  That being said, it was definitely helpful to take classes that are less demanding while taking this course; you have to dedicate large blocks of time to spend exclusively on LS2.  The lab component is like taking a separate class, and going to office hours is not optional, it is mandatory if you want to do well on the weekly practicals.
This course is a comprehensive overview of human anatomy and physiology. Expect to be bowled over with a fire hose of material.
Do not take this class unless you absolutely have to.
This is a challenging course that will require you to put in a lot of time and effort. However, if you are willing to do so--and find some good study buddies--it will be very rewarding.
This course is extraordinarily rewarding if done wholeheartedly. I was in office hours for about four hours on weeks with practicals, and lab assignments were extremely time consuming as well. Yes, it's difficult, and if you don't have this kind of time or plan to take other high demand classes concurrently, I would definitely advise you to put this off for another semester. That being said, I am so so happy I took this course, as I feel much better prepared for med school and very comfortable with the material we learned due to the amount of time I poured into studying. It's so cool and the information is extremely relevant and applicable, so I would definitely recommend carving out a semester to take this at some point. Plus, the labs make you feel like a surgeon.
This course takes a LOT of time. Don't overload yourself with other hard courses if you choose to take this one as well.
This is an unbelievable class. It is a lot of work, but extremely rewarding.
Great class but A LOT OF WORK!
LS2 is a substantial amount of work - I took it among 5 classes and I probably spent the most time on it.You will learn a lot.  The anatomy and physiology is fascinating, and I'm really glad that they integrate it as much as they do.  When you go back and review for the final exam, you see all the cool integration/bigger things that they hint at during the beginning of the course (but that you don't really understand yet).I wasn't as big a fan of the assessments.  The lab practicals were pretty well-run, and everyone gets kinda used to it at the beginning (it's a new way of assessment for basically everyone).  Learning 206 bones (in one week) in addition to regular class sounds daunting at first, but it's not as bad as you think (actually though).My primary gripe is with exams - in order to differentiate students who really know the material, they will snipe out particularly details that are completely irrelevant to understanding the actual physiology of an organ, etc.  The only way you will answer that question right is if you re-watch the lecture and remember that particular detail.  Seems like they might be overfitting on people who are memorizing details (that they will promptly forget) instead of understanding.Oh, and the lab paper, lab presentation, 11 page "optional" research project, and cumulative final exam within a one week period.  Seems a little unnecessary.
The subject material is interesting and you will learn a lot and enjoy the material. But this class requires a lot of time, studying, and memorization. So you should have a good reason to take it and be excited about the subject. Go to office hours and get to know your TF!
Honestly this is a great course. Yes its difficult but I think its super interesting and taught well.
It is VERY difficult, but also rewarding.
Lectures amazing, labs not so much
Do not. Take this. Course. You're asking for unnecessary stress. Sure, the animal dissections were fun. But are they worth the obscure parameters yet specific demands of the lab practicals? The midterms were fair, although you do lose points easily and it adds up quickly. A lot of my time outside of class is spent making flashcards to memorize the different little bones and all of their tiny little fossa and foramen. I'm not going to lie; I learned a lot, but through self-study and little guidance from the teaching staff. It's frustrating because there are so many things to manage within this class. It's just not worth it. The professors are so sweet, and my TF was great, but holistically, this class left a sour taste in my mouth. I'm sorry, improvements are needed.
This course is a lot of work. The lab component is like a whole other class in and of itself with its own assignments and exams (you still have lab the week of midterms). That said, if you are okay with taking on a class that is likely more work than your other classes, the material is very interesting and I'm really glad I took it.
This class is really challenging because there is just so much information to learn. With that said, regardless of the difficulty of this class, you should take it. The material you learn is fascinating, and the teaching staff is so competent and supportive. I took this class as an elective, and while it did take up a lot of my time, I'm so happy I decided to stay in. The dissections are phenomenal and so fun, and the lectures are always engaging and interesting. Don't let the fear of getting a bad grade keep you from this class, because it's so interesting that you'll want to study the material and learn it well. Also, Neil is the best TF in the world, so try to get him!
LS2 is a really amazing course. It's one of the most difficult courses at Harvard because of the amount of work it requires, but it was really rewarding. I learned so much about the human body and all of the lectures are so interesting. Beware, between the exams and the lab practicals, it is like two classes in one. The exams and lab practicals are difficult and they require a lot of studying and office hours to be successful. I really enjoyed this class though and I would definitely recommend taking it. I regret not being able to put as much time as I would have liked to into this course, because I think I could have done really well in it if I didn't have three other classes to take. Take it though!! You'll learn so much!
Be prepared to work! But the subject is interesting and teaching staff is accessible.
It is very interesting but would be better to take with an easy semester; do not recommend taking with organic chemistry at the same time. The lab is similar to taking a fifth class. Going to office hours is necessary to do well.
LS2 is definitely a significant time commitment, but it's the class that makes you want to commit time to it. The labs (dissections mostly) are so cool, and practicals are tough but make you feel proud of how much studying you did and knowledgeable about the body. Lectures are immersive and interesting, and though there isn't much class participation, lectures are so engaging and fast-paced that you find yourself scrambling to write down all of the information being thrown at you. LS2 was my favorite class at Harvard so far, and played a big part in convincing me to stay pre-med. I also know so much more about how my body works because LS2 does a lot of myth busting when it comes to commonly held assumptions about health. I highly, highly recommend this course to anyone interested in biology!
This is by far the best science class I have taken at Harvard. It is hard and requires a lot of your time but you will learn so much about your body and how it works. Nothing in the class felt out of place or unnecessary, it was all presented in a way that made sense in light of everything else. The laboratory component is substantial but can be fun. The class requires a lot of memorization but the final is more integrative and requires more critical thinking and integration of material. The professors really care about the material and put in a lot of time to make it interesting and to make students think deeply about it. Cannot recommend this class more for anyone remotely interested in medicine.
Prepare to work hard in a class where the pre-med vibe is strongest. You can feel the stress exuding from students because the grading scheme of the class is largely secret. Practicals make lab so much less fun and entirely stressful. The material itself is awesome, and the teaching staff is extremely accessible.
This is a very interesting course and if you have a down semester where you can dedicate some more time to this class it's a great choice.
It is hard, and it takes a ton of work, but if you are willing to put in the time you will learn an unbelievable amount about the human body.
This course is difficult but WILL be the most helpful and impactful  course you have ever taken if you are interested in medicine or entering a health sciences career.
Interesting material, but it's hard to stay on top of without regular feedback/homework assignments.  Also, the grading is very difficult.
good class for freshmen, not so much for upperclassmen.  much of the material overlaps with other popular courses like MCB 52, 54, and 80
Beware that this is a hard class to take if you are not on the pre-med track.
It's was a great class with a horrible head TF.
There is a significant amount of material to learn.  Be prepared to memorize a lot.
interesting, easy course
extremely disorganized, not specific in what you should learn from text
This class is good for achieving general knowledge concerning the human body, however it is not a fun course, and is not presented as well as it should have been.
lecture on physiology present very interesting and useful material about humans and how we operate, wish that section would be like that as well
A fascinating introduction to the human body.
I absolutely loved the material we learned- it was by far the most interesting I've had in college thus far. The problem was the amount of detail required to be memorized and also a certain head TF who seemed to not like the students at all and assumed they were all going to medical school.
Very interesting with cool, interactive labs, but difficult.
Course lectures were relative interesting, combining straight-forward human anatomy and physiology with topics of interest to the professors.  Relatively fun and interesting have 4 professors.  Lab component of the class was interesting, albeit disorganized.  Felt unclear sometimes what we were expected to know and tests were not terribly well-written.  Course struggled with what level of generality or specificity we were suppose to learn things -- sometimes felt too general and it wasn't clear sometimes how specific we should know things for tests.
GO TO THE LECTURES.  it's very important that you're there.
Lets hope they changed the lab component!
This course is definitely a great prep for the MCAT and for med school.
Hopefully the tests and labs are revised. You learn a lot of information, but sometimes they expect you to learn too many random, currently unnecessary things (i.e. bones of a skull, muscles of a leg).
Bah!! It's so good and fun!
I really enjoyed most aspects of this course and given that this was its first time being taught, I think it will only get better.
The course covers a lot of material presented in an unorganized manner.
This class provides a good general overview of the body. The labs are fun and the workload is low... very low for an anatomy class in my opinion. Its a little frustrating at times because of how much they jump around, and they don't go into very much detail, but its good for grasping basic concepts.
if you like biology, this is an awesome class.  it is not painless, but it is certainly worth it.
Take only if you're ready to memorize A LOT of stuff.
Interesting material, but dislike the tests.
If you are into anatomy at all, take this course! I personally really enjoyed it. I thought the topics were always fascinating. More than any other 'pre-med' class, it has made me excited to be a doctor. And the knowledge gained in it is more pertinent than any other.
Get a tutor, try to stay on top of everything since there is a lot of material.
The subject material of this class has definitely been amongst the most interesting i have encountered while at harvard. The class could just use more organization.
It's a great way to fulfill a biology premed requirement, but there's a lot of material so you have to be on top of it.
Absolutely spectacular course.  Whirlwind tour of how the body works, with a fun bit of evolution thrown in as well.  You will learn:  a.  lot.  Don't stress the details too much... the fun (and the focus) is the big picture.  Lab is fantastic... overall an outstanding, fun course.
I would highly recommend taking this class at the same time as Physical Sciences 2. The two classes overlap and complement each other very well, especially when it came to material properties and biomechanics, and I felt that taking both at once improved my experience in each.
Needs a lot of work on the organizational/administrative side, but beyond that the material was quite interesting.
This class is not easy, but if you are interested in physiology and anatomy and/or thinking about concentrating in Human Evolutionary Biology.
You learn a lot, but it is pretty tough.
The class expectations were completely unclear and because the professors kept switching off lectures, it was impossible to tell who you needed to talk to about things. Also, the head tf was the worst tf I have ever had and he was completely unapproachable.
Definitely use the TFs as resources before all exams and assigments - there may be a lot about them that you are missing out on by just reading assigment guidelines or practice exams.
Be sure to study each section as you learn it. It is too much to try to learn it right at the end. Review, review, review!
Take a different anatomy course - it will probably be better organized than this one.
I really enjoyed this class, but there were definitely some kinks that needed to be worked out.
The material that you learn is interesting but the assignments really take away from the overall enjoyment of the course.
Great class, every day was interesting and I think its one of the few classes where the labs actually enhance the material.
This class is a great introduction to anatomy and physiology. The professors are great and interesting, and the labs are not too painful.
The course material is very interesting, but it is not connected well.  Future students should only take this class if they are very interested in the material.
the class was very well-taught and offered very good exposure to topics related to human biology; good for students who wish to become doctors
Good intro to anatomy, helpful prep for MCATs and it's almost uncanny how much of the material overlaps with PS2
take if interested in topic or if pre-med
This course has the potential to be absolutely amazing. Given that this was the first year that the course was offered, I am fairly confident in the ability of the LS2 staff to improve the course for future years. There are parts of the course that are very satisfying and interesting to learn about even if guidance is poor and the structure has not been perfected yet.
That if you want to be a doctor this is the course for you!
A very good way to fulfill a pre-med requirement.  The material will be especially useful for the MCAT.
you get to dissect cats!!!
Make sure they work out the kinks!  Because I want to see this class work out, but right now it is just chaotic.
This is a good class if you can get yourself to put the time into it despite that there are not many assignments.  There is also a lot of material covered on the tests, which makes them incredibly difficult to study for.
The course is challenging but really interesting if you like human anatomy and physiology.
Don't take this course if Andrew Carroll is still head TF.
This course was horrible.  Pre-meds, and all students for that matter - YOU WILL REGRET IT IF YOU TAKE THIS COURSE.
This class is very useful for pre-meds and people who are interested in the body. If you actually keep up with your readings this class won't be that hard but if you don't you'll have a lot of cramming to do before the exam.
the class is great but you may do poorly in it, but exams are very difficult
With the enthusiasm of the professors and more organization, I think this course has potential to be really good.
You MUST be interested in the material, you have to love it in order to enjoy this class, it;s a lot of work and it's something you have to be committed to every day to actually learn it.
The course tried to pack too much information in to too little time.  The amount of information we were expected to know was overwhelming.
All 4 professors are great lecturers! The material is engaging and constantly changing. It's a great survey course to all aspects of the body.
Unless the course gets a complete overhaul and Andrew Carroll is not involved, don't take the class.
This was the class's first year and despite that it was very good. There's definitely some things to improve, but I think with time this class will get even better.
A solid introduction into physiology and anatomy.  A good course to take before proceeding to upper level physio/anatomy courses.
There wasn't a ton of work overall, but there is a lot of material to learn and the tests are difficult.  All four professors gave good lectures.
The professors and their clear and interesting lectures are the best part of this class. The subject material is also very interesting. My reservation is with how the sections and labs are organized. TFs did to be integrated more, helping out Andrew Carroll because at times it felt like Andrew did all the work by himself (which is not very efficient or wise of a structure for a class with 200 students).
it's a lot of information given in a short time period. i would not recommend it as a core but i guess its good for premeds. for other bio anthro people i would say take the HEB human anatomy or human structure class cause its probably easier.
Good opportunity to take a class with several great professors who are very knowledgeable in their fields.
Interesting and undeniably relevant for any human living on earth.
- It's an excellent course, but you really need to have a genuine interest in the subject matter to really excel in it.
It was one of the most interesting science classes I've taken at harvard; lab is really fun; they present the material well and don't demand an impossible amount of knowledge/understanding for exams; great class to take for pre-med.
alot of memorization
It's a fantastic class, but watch out for the exam grading.
The lab was terrible and because of its disconnect from the rest of the class you must rely on Andrew Carroll to answer questions for you.  Therein lies the problem of his ineptitude.  Andrew Carroll is a terrible teacher who has no idea how to explain concepts.  Also, he is insensitive to student concerns and questions.
It was a good class with interesting material. However, it is certainly challenging, so be ready to work hard.
The course material and professors are absolutely incredible, but be weary of the lab component.
This course provides an excellent introduction into the world of anatomy while simultaneously providing an excellent introduction into the experimental models used to acquire data in the field of evolutionary biology. If you have any interest in anatomy, take this course, you'll cherish the experience.
Great way to cover an array of anatomy topics in an interesting way.
course taught in a engaging way by excellent professors. doesn't challenge students who don't know much physiology but otherwise have a strong biology background.
It is an interesting class if you enjoy learning about human anatomy and physiology.
a good class to prepare for the mcat, but organization of the class was not too impressive.
Only take this class knowing that you will have to do all the work yourself. Think of it as LS1a without the problem sets, and with less helpful instruction and more convolted logic from the teaching fellows.
THE ONE CLASS THAT ACTUALLY PERTAINS TO PRE-MED!
I would tell them that the course covers fascinating information, but it is somewhat disorganized and will required lots of time memorizing information and the grading is somewhat ambiguous.
It's a great class and you learn a LOT and all the information is very interesting and relevant, the class is structured very clearly and very well, and you get a lot of experience in the labs. The more work you put in, the more you'll get out. But even if you don't do a lot of work (like me) you'll still get a lot out of the class.
Between lab write-ups and practicals this class takes up a lot of time. Go to office hours, it can be really helpful.
Probably my favorite pre-med course that I've taken. There is a lot of material, and a lot of memorization, but at the end of the semester it was amazing how much you know about the human body. I enjoyed labs a lot but definitely found it more helpful to OHs to actually learn the material for the practicals.
It's a LOT of information to learn but it's really cool on the final to be able to put it all together. Dr. Carr is a really great resource and will make your life better if you go in to her to try to learn things.
It's a miserable grind but at the end, you find it pretty rewarding for what you have learned.
Take LS 2! People kept telling me that it was oh do hard and so terrible but I have no idea where they got that from. I've really, really enjoyed this course and felt like I learned so much from it. The professors give you absolutely everything you need to succeed in the course. Don't be afraid, take LS 2! You'll really love it.
Be aware that this class is really like taking two classes. I had heard this before I took it, but this class definitely could be two classes, in terms of structure and sheer volume of information. The structure of the class is such that information covered in lab does not overlap well with information covered in section. There are lab practical exams and exams on lecture material, so taking this class is really like taking a lab course and a regular lecture course. There was one point in the class where we had a lab practical on the skeletal system where we had to memorize many of the bones in the body (and individual parts of the bones) and the next week we had an exam on the entire first third of the class's lecture material. Needless to say, this class is a lot of brute memorization, which can be frustrating sometimes. All of that being said, this is a good class. The information is interesting and the teaching staff is passionate about teaching. There will be some weeks where you have to manufacture time to study for a lab practical or write a lab report or study for an LS2 test, but most students always find a way. I enjoyed this class, and would recommend it with the condition that each person taking it knows how much time it will take and how much information they need to learn.
Make sure you have the time to go to office hours. You need to go to OH to get good grades on the practicals. Do not take this class with Orgo, it would be too much work, but that being said, it has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard, and I am glad I had the time to invest in it!
It's hard work, but it's fair in its rewards.
LS 2 is an extremely comprehensive overview of human anatomy as physiology in an evolutionary context. The course covers the development, structure, and function of all the major human body systems. Thusly, the course is very intensive, and requires you to keep up with every lecture. Lab was equally intensive with the numerous anatomy practically we had to do weekly. Overall, you will learn a GREAT deal about the human body and how the human body has come to be, but be warned about the sheer amount of material you will cover and be expected to master.
This class is extremely hard, but just as interesting.
This is a wonderful course! It's fascinating to learn about how the body works! The professors and TFs are all really willing to help and the assignments are quite reasonable (though lab takes a lot of time).
The material is incredibly interesting and the course overall is very rewarding.  I felt like I was genuinely engaged in learning for the course rather than only pushing for a grade.  The lectures are fascinating and well done.  The course will require a very high amount of time and work to do well though.  The work is rewarding, but it is sometimes an overwhelming amount of material.  The course overall though was one of my favorites at Harvard.
The topics are interesting, but the course at its core is a set of memorization exercises.
This class is a must for pre-meds!
This class definitely requires a lot of work, but you learn so much along the way, and get a lot of awesome lab experiences.
Challenging but manageable if you put in the effort. Extremely interesting lectures and professors
The course material is fascinating. However, the course is not well-organized and the lab assignments (questions) are not always clear. The practicals (especially the muscle one) require a lot of time, but are satisfying. The MCZ project is way cool, but a time suck. The real problem with this course is that it tries to pack a million interesting things which really require years to fully understand (which is to say as fully understand as science knows right now) into one semester. If you have a problem with dissections, don't take this class. If you think it'd be cool to look at fetal cats, take this class. If you don't like memorization, you're in trouble. There's a lot of it. There's also some physics which I didn't see coming and was a bit challenging. Go to office hours. The TFs are great (or were great). They have tips for the practicals and help think things out for the rest of it.
Very interesting but a lot of work
Very very good.
This is a great course for those interested in biology, anatomy, and learning how the human body works.  For those interested in going to medical school, this is a great introduction to the information that will be taught in medical school.  The course does require a lot of time, so make sure that you have enough time to memorize 12 sets of lectures slides for each exam with very detailed information.  Also, make sure that you have enough time to study and prepare for lab and the lab practicals.  The lab component is almost like taking a second class, so I would recommend only taking this as a science class if you are thinking about taking it.
too much time commitment, very lecture-specific
All the hard work is worth it. If you are pre-med and don't enjoy this class, you are not heading into the right field. The material is fascinating and the teaching staff is fantastic. Lab and lecture are indeed like two different classes, so it is a considerable amount of work. Make sure you have adequate time to study for exams and practicals as well as for assignments, but from what I have heard about MCB52 and MCB54, this is a much better and applicable pre-med alternative.
This is a really, really hard class. Be forewarned, you will not do well as well as you hope to, but if you find it interesting, that's ok. Do not take this class unless you enjoy anatomy, want to be a doctor one day, or like dissecting (best part of the course!).
It's a great course to give a glimpse into what real med school is going to be like and all the subject matter is super interesting. However, do keep in mind that it is a LOT to memorize, so don't wait until the night (or even a few days) before the midterms and finals to get started. Biewiener's lectures are really scattered and hard to understand, but Lauder, Lieberman, and Ellison are all great.
It is a very memorization heavy course. be prepared to put in a lot of work and go to office hours.
Material is cool; Jennifer and most TFs are great. However, lab is a mess - you get little instruction on how to dissect, respiratory labs are inefficient, and people are constantly stressed about practicals - and you have to be prepared to put in a lot of hours even in weeks without explicit assignments. Very much a pre-med atmosphere.
Though it is not extremely difficult critically, it is somewhat unnecessarily difficult.
Office hours are where you will do the bulk of your most effective studying for the lab practicals, just go there, the TF's will be very helpful in clarifying things and even helping with lab write ups. It's helpful to study exams by going over the lecture videos sped up but making sure you know the names of everything.
There is a LOT of work for this class. Not only is lab almost a separate course with the amount of memorization that occurs and the
It is A LOT of work. Do not take this class unless you have the time to commit to it
This class is amazing! It is such a reward to know as much about the human body as you will by the end of this class. So much depth AND breadth. Lab is so much fun (dissecting cats and running on treadmills and MCZ field trips, oh my!) and lecture is very interesting. You can't say the human body isn't applicable to you! Definitely take this class if you're interested in the material, though, not just to fill a requirement. You will enjoy it MUCH more.
While the way in which the class is organized can be frustrating, the material is absolutely incredible and the labs are awesome, making the class definitely worth it.
This class is hard. It is 100% memorization and very little deeper understanding of the material. Make a list of terms to memorize an a list of hard concepts as you go. It will make a world of a difference later on!
There is A LOT of material to cover, but you'll end up proud of how much you learned, just make sure you keep up with the lectures and take notes. Dissections are interesting and generally explorative which makes them pretty exciting.
This was one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard, and if you are thinking about medical school I would highly recommend it is an amazing experience and also a good opportunity to see if you are truly interested in this stuff (cause there will be a lot more of it in med school)The course takes a lot more time than you'd think, and be prepared to spend a lot of time in office hours preparing for the lab practicals. (As time consuming as a p-set course)
This class is really two classes: lab and lecture.
Class is difficult and requires a lot of work but very interesting and worth learning.
Definitely the best pre-med course I've taken so far, but you've got to be so on top of your stuff from day 1. It's so much material and getting behind is not an option. If you review your notes every weekend and make study guides, you'll be fine. But it can feel overwhelming at test time.
You know what you're getting into. You have to take this class for pre-med also. It's a lot of material. It's interesting, but it's a lot. I also think the class could be organized better. Firstly the labs don't correspond well to the lectures -- we had a lab covering the heart after the midterm which tested us on heart material. I also think the course should have annotated lecture slides like LS1a and Chem 17 do, especially considering the huge amounts of material we have to learn. Thirdly I think that some of the questions in the exams are out to trick you, which is especially unfair considering, again, the huge amounts of material you have to learn for this class.
This is a great class taught by great professors! Although the second midterm and final caught many people by surprise, the value of what you learn in this class is what really matters. The class goes through all of the major body systems very quickly but you learn so much in each class! I would recommend that you stay on top of the material as best as you can and do not leave studying until right before the test.
This class is tough. Don't take it unless you absolutely have to. It is nearly impossible to stay on top of lecture material for the exams because every week there is a lab practical to study for. Also, Jenn Carr is terrifying and incredibly condescending. She was rude, and even our TF was scared of her. That's not what you want in a class that's already frustrating. I definitely wouldn't recommend it, especially if you have any other difficult classes.
Definitely the best class I've ever taken!!! No exaggeration, I've never been so excited about a class in my life.  I was on the fence about being pre-med and this class completely convinced me. It is a LOT of work but completely worth it. Even if you're not pre-med or a biology concentrator I could not recommend this class more strongly.
I'm one of those kids who struggled through ls1a/b, died through orgo (actually though..), and wasn't particularly fond of physics, so if that sounds like you, keep reading. I have to say though, LS2 was an amazing class with wonderful professors and a wonderful teaching staff. Some say it's because LS2 is "all memorization" while the others are much more application-based, and while that is true to some extent, I would say that LS2 also involved quite a bit of integrated physiology which requires some serious critical thinking and synthesis of material. In fact, that's what I loved about the course material. Also, the fact that you CAN do well if you put in the time..be sure to go to office hours at least a few times before the practicals (which usually end up being pretty straightforward), and start studying days in advance for the exams (which are often graded in a pretty nitpicky manner, but you can still do pretty well if you give yourself time). That's really all this class requires -- time. Time to digest the material and "spit it out," but spit it out in a deliciously synthesized, stylized, complete sort of way. Take the class (most of you have to anyway) and don't worry about what others say.
I loved this class. The teaching staff is incredible -- i learned more in this class than in most of my other bio classes. The labs are amazing and really interesting, and the assignments that go along with them actually help understand the material.
You do have to memorize a lot of things for lab/section but it's so rewarding. There are so many applications for this course and it helps you understand your body so much more.
This class is enjoyable but be sure to study from the beginning. The textbook isn't very helpful. Reach out to the teaching staff; they are amazing! It can be frustrating at times but this course is very fulfilling.
Labs are a lot of work but the work ranges from practicals to lab reports to essays which keeps things interesting. The exams are just memorization (and understanding your memorization for the final). Very interesting material. Definitely take this class- it is fascinating.
A great course with interesting material and well taught. The professors prepare interesting lectures and really cover a lot over the semester. Though, this does mean there's a lot of material to remember for the exams. No psets is great, though memorizing for lab quizzes takes their place each week. Didn't buy the book and shared a lab manual (save the money).
This is an awesome way to fulfill the bio requirement for pre-med and probably a course that is most indicative of the pace and material that med school classes will cover. It's a lot of information and requires a lot of attention but the exams are fair and the labs are fun. Take this class!!! And go to office hours a lot
It's a difficult course. Lecture and lab are basically separate entities, so it feels a bit like taking two classes. Sometimes lectures are very broad and it's difficult to predict what might show up on an exam. You'll learn a little about a lot of different topics. But overall the material is enjoyable and you'll get a lot out of the course if you have the time to put in the effort required.
LS2 is an amazingly rewarding class. It is tough, but it's a really great challenge. I came out of the course feeling so knowledgeable about the way the human body works. Here is how to succeed in LS2: 1. Go to every single lecture. You'll have to watch the videos at some point anyway and it is important to be exposed to the material as many times as possible. 2. Review a little bit every single day. I didn't actually do this all the time, but it would have made the class much easier. Only review the lectures (don't read the book, it is never tested and is way too specific). 3. Start preparing early for lab practicals and exams. For practicals, start a few days before. The muscle and bone practicals in particular had a huge amount of material that needed to be memorized. For exams, start at least 10 days before and memorize everything you can from the lectures. 4. Go meet with the professors, Jenn Carr, and your TF. The professors are all really awesome and accomplished. Lauder is a wonderfully caring teacher. Lieberman does really cool research. Jenn Carr knows EVERYTHING about the human body and will help you prepare for exams. The class is mostly (~85%) premeds, so it's intense. But you definitely don't need to be a premed to succeed in LS2 and enjoy the material.
Amazing class. Be prepared to work incredibly hard but you will learn so much information. The class is actually very well organized and the lectures smoothly run into each other. The tests are hard but fair (minus the occasional bs question) and you can do well on them if you put the time in.
This is a great class, but definitely be ready for the amount of material you'll be covering in a short amount of time. There is a lot of memorization involved and the hourly midterms definitely can't cover all of the material that you'll be expected to learn--if you keep up with it though, it's definitely worth it!
A lot of work is required, but the information is really interesting and presented in a manageable way.
Study to keep up. Do not cram
The best class I've ever taken at Harvard.  It can be a bit challenging, class and lab sometimes seem like two separate classes so you have to do double the amount of work, but the material is interesting and most of the lecturers are extremely clear and engaging.  Lab was the best part of this course, and Steve has been the best TF I've ever had at Harvard.  You're lucky if you manage to get him!  Definitely study a LOT for the exams, there's just so much material that it's pretty much impossible to cram.  Practicals were also intimidating at first, but you get the hang of them pretty quickly.  A great way to fulfill a pre-med requirement.
This class is wonderful prep for med school - trial by fire! Be prepared for tons of memorization (and application of those facts in "synthesis" questions on the final exam). It's worth it, though - the professors are stellar, the TFs are fun, friendly, and very knowledgeable, and the labs and lectures are incredibly applicable.
Best class ever. Not kidding. The lectures are incredibly engaging - they did a great job of highlighting common themes throughout, such as how your boy functions during exercise. Go to office hours as much as possible, and not just for lab-related stuff - the TF's are great.If you don't like rote memorization though, this might not be a class for you.
This class is the closest you will get at Harvard to being applicable to medical school. It is interesting and it's ACTUALLY ABOUT THE HUMAN BODY. It's also difficult, prepare for a lot of work. And DO the comparative morphology report if you want a good grade.
This is a difficult class, but really rewarding and extremely interesting. Lab is so cool! You will learn a ton!
The class has some of the most interesting topics if you are interested in anatomy at all. However, the amount of memorization is frustrating because they ask you the small details that don't test your knowledge of how a particular system works.
Take it. Excellent class. Practicals are hard, the exams are a little unbalanced, but the material is fantastic and it is all manageable.
Very interesting material and a lot to cover for both the lectures and practicals, but very rewarding. Totally worth taking this course even if you are not a pre-med
LS 2, as a senior, is hands down the best pre-med class I've taken at Harvard. Largely because it is fair. IF you put in the time and work, you will reap the benefits of your effort (unlike other courses). The exams aren't trying to trick you, the TFs and Dr. Carr are very knowledgable, and you actually come out of it feeling like you've learned a lot of useful information. It IS a time-consuming course, so I wouldn't recommend taking it with other time-consuming courses. In terms of lecturers, Ellison and Lauder are absolutely AMAZING! As a neuro concentrator, Prof. Lauder's explanation of action potentials is the clearest I've ever heard--much better than in MCB 80! Biewener was OK (although he tends to run over time), but Lieberman always ran over time, largely because he loved to go on tangents about running or evolution; he was the least effective lecturer of the 4. Overall though, this was a good class, even if grades tend to be lower, because you actually learn--and learn a lot. I would encourage anyone interested in anatomy & physiology (pre-med or not) to take the course. Also, as a pre-med, this course will be extremely helpful for MCAT prep!
Definitely a lot of work, but you learn a lot. It's technically the workload of two classes towards the beginning because you are learning two different things in lecture and in lab. That can be time consuming. The professors and teaching staff are awesome and accessible though, so the resources for help in this course are amazing in spite of its difficulty.
Be prepared to spend hours in TF OH and hours on hours outside of class memorizing.
There is a lot of information covered in this course - that being said, be prepared to do some  serious memorization. Otherwise, enjoy the dissections! They are a lot of fun
this class is a lot of fun and you will learn so much, but it requires an incredible amount of memorization. you really need to go back and watch the lecture videos, you will be tested on every small detail.
Take this class instead of the MCB52/54 alternative. I learned a lot, the professors are all super awesome. love love love Prof Ellison's lectures, especially.
DISSECTIONS ARE AWESOME - think best snapchats of your life. This class is not straight up regurgitation but definitely requires both memorization and understanding - would agree that it's the most med-school-like class I've taken (and I'm a senior!). Don't have to go to class, as long as you watch the lectures online at some point. Must go to lab office hours for practicals.
Students should be prepared to do a lot of work. You will learn a lot and do well if you put the work in. Labs require a lot of preparation, and students should definitely go to office hours for lab practicals. The staff is very eager to help, so definitely reach out to them.
This course is absolutely brilliant. Take it. You will not regret it at all. Lectures are filled with case studies and examples and each professor and TF loves what they're studying and teaching. The enthusiasm is infectious, making each lecture an enjoyable and rewarding presentation, not a bland bunch of facts. There are no problem sets! You get to learn at your own pace and can focus weekly on the labs and general themes of the course. And the labs are amazing, especially if Katie is your TF! I've never actively looked forward to labs, but I did in PS2. You dissect a cat for several weeks! And there's also sheep brains, and cow lungs and hearts, and EKGs, and running on a treadmill. But you can work at your own pace, as long as you're prepared for the practicals. Independence is the name of the game. I can't say enough good things about the course - take it!
Very good class, has an emphasis on exercise physiology which is interesting and different than a normal anatomy course.  The class is not much work, there are no problem sets or weekly assignments only midterms and a final but the lab component of the class is a lot of work and most of that is just a lot of memorizing.
This class is everything you've probably already heard about it--twice the workload of a normal class, hours of pointless memorization, sprint-pace midterms. Lecture isn't too bad, although somewhat disorganized, but labs just plain suck. And there's nothing you can do about it. You receive basically 0 guidance so you're stuck trying to figure out how to skin a cat and then dissect out muscles that have 0 visible divisions. So, be prepared to come to office hours where things are already dissected, if you want a good grade on the practicals. The material isn't difficult. This course is 100% a function of how much time you put into it. Since this course is a necessary evil for premeds, make sure your schedule isn't already heavily loaded. Just get through it--you actually learn a lot.
LS2 is an amazing course. Between lecture and lab, you learn an incredible amount of information about human physiology and anatomy. Definitely go to OH to study for practicals (they aren't too bad if you're good at memorizing). I would recommend this class to anybody who wants to learn more about how the human body works. I just wish LS2 was a full year course.
The material of this course is excellent, but its scope is immense. Because there are no p-sets, make sure you review lectures weekly! Then you will be prepared for exams. Go to office hours when studying for lab practicals! Good luck; you can do it!
One of the most rewarding Life Sci courses I've taken. Absolutely necessary if you're even considering pre-med, and thoroughly fascinating even if you're not.
This class is a lot of work but definitely worthwhile, especially if you are pre-med (it really gives you a taste of what material you'll learn in med school). The labs are super interesting, although a little gross at times and require much memorization. Overall a great class but you must be willing to put in the time and effort.
It is possible to do very well in this class if you start your assignments early enough and ask questions about them. Not everything about the assignments was clear to me at the outset, and at times I started them at a point when it would have been difficult to ask questions.
Try to keep up week by week with what's going on. Review the material constantly.
hard but worth it
I went into LS2 with a healthy dose of apprehension.  I'd heard it was a nightmare and extremely difficult.  However, LS2 ended up being my favorite class of the semester: the information of the human body really fits with my personal interests and I'm so glad to have taken this course.  That being said, this is a class that you need to make sure you keep up on studying and reviewing.  There are no psets or hw assignments, so if you slack off until test time you will have SO MUCH information to study and memorize.  Just a bit of review each or every other day will keep you in good standing.  The lab component of LS2 is a bit strange, as it's almost like a separate class.  The labs only vaguely match up with what you cover in lecture, and most labs (which are weekly) come with practicals the following week that require office hours and lots of studying outside of lab to be prepared for. However, the dissections were so interesting (if that sort of thing makes you squeamish I would not recommend this class).  The 2 exams in LS2 are only worth 50 pts each (bummer, since one tiny mistake costs quite a few percentage points) and are a bit difficult (the second exam being much more tricky than the first).  All in all, I'd highly recommend the class.
It is what it is. You learn a bit about a lot of different systems in the body. The lectures are more conceptual and what the exams were based on, while the labs are almost strictly about dissection and memorizing anatomy. It's almost like the lectures and labs are two different courses.
Lab and lecture should really be treated s two different courses - you are responsible for different material in each and have to commit an appreciable amount of time to both
LS2 is a pretty amazing class. You'll have access to some of the finest instructors at the College, who genuinely love their areas of research and interacting with undergraduates. You have probably already heard that this class requires a huge time commitment-that is a real thing. If you can avoid it, don't take this class at the same time as another class with a huge time commitment (like PS2). The material in this class is super interesting, so give yourself a schedule in which you can really engage with it. It's likely that you, too, will have to learn lecture material with little/no reinforcement in lab (which is like another class). But this class is great and is also one of best courses one can take on the path to fulfilling premed requirements. You can do it!
LS2 is a great class that is different from many of the other introductory biology classes- your work ethic and effort directly correlates with how well you do in the class, as it is mostly memorization of concepts that are not too difficult to understand.
LS2 is a really demanding class, but also incredibly rewarding. The professors are all great, labs are engaging, and the material is super interesting. Teaching staff have office hours pretty much every hour of the day, which kind of sets the tone that they want you to succeed.
This class is highly work-intensive but worth every minute of it. It is no doubt the best course I've taken at Harvard. It requires a certain amount of self-discipline to learn the material throughout the course as there are no problem sets, but you will learn so much about human anatomy and physiology.
The material itself is super interesting and you get a lot out of each lecture. But besides the exams, there's not a lot you can do to hold yourself to studying the material. Exams themselves are a bit tricky and it's not just about memorization at the surface level. Practicals can be a bit annoying with how much they're having you to memorize given the lack of organization during lab. Definitely take advantage of office hours prior to your practical.
It's an amazing class, but be ready to put in the hard work of memorizing everything mentioned in lecture. The TFs are generally really good, and the material is fairly straightforward, but do take it seriously. The human body is fascinating! And dissections are the coolest. You will learn a lot.
This is an excellent course, not only for people planning to attend medical school (for whom this course will be highly useful, even for the MCAT) but also for anyone else with the most remote interest in human physiology. I came out of this class realizing that I understand (and can explain to peers) a huge amount of interesting human phenomena. There is, of course, a lot of memorization required (especially for lab), but the class is much more than just memorization of facts.
There is a lot of memorizing that is necessary for this course but the material that is covered is thrilling. If you want to be a doctor and think this course is a drag, YOU DO NOT WANT TO BE A DOCTOR. DON"T BE A PREMED if you don't like this course. It is a very honest test. Will you pass it? Take this course and find out.
I enjoyed LS2 more than all the other premed classes. It is the work of two classes. I studied for each lab practical over 7 hours a week but there are no psets. I learned SOOO much! GREAT prep for the mcat.
This course will kill you, but you will love it so much. Taking this course is incredibly taxing and time-consuming, but it also has been my favorite class so far at Harvard. Make sure you have enough time in your semester schedule to devote to this class. Go to TF office hours before the big practicals. You'll leave so much more knowledgeable and aware of your body; it's inspiring, and it really strengthened my conviction to become a doctor. (Try not to think too much about the curve being destroyed by some 'psycho-premeds' though)
This class covers a lot of material but it is interesting and very applicable for the MCAT.
This class is incredibly interesting, but it is a huge amount of work. The labs always require several hours on the weekend to prepare for, in addition to going to office hours to get ready for the practicals. The amount of information presented on the finals is immense. Ultimately, though, you will learn a ton about anatomy.
It is one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard
This is an incredibly practical class for anyone who has an interest in actually understanding HOW the body works. I'm actually surprised this is not a required course for bio concentrators or pre-meds. While practical is a pain to study for, there is an abundance of help available to you should you make the effort. TF office hours are held almost everyday. It's a lot of memorization, but overall the class is manageable and well worth the amount you learn. As a senior HEB concentrator, I wish I had taken this class earlier because I think it would have helped me in other courses.
Labs are so much fun!
LS2 is incredible! It's definitely the best pre-med class I've taken at Harvard. I was slightly disillusioned by pre-med courses and this class reminded me how much I like science and how much I wanted to be a doctor. It's supposedly the most medical-school-like experience here and I think every pre-med should take it. Also, I shopped both this class and MCB 52. MCB 52 is a waste of time and terrible in comparison to this. Take LS2 to fulfill one of your bio requirements! That is all. Well, maybe not all, I guess I should tell you a little about the course. It honestly is one of the most time consuming classes I've ever taken so make sure you plan a balanced schedule. The lab and the lectures each have their own tests/practicals so sometimes it feels like you're in two courses. The material is super interesting though and I'm sure will be directly applicable to medical school and life in general. My favorite class at Harvard so far I'm getting nolstagic writing this TAKE LS22222222. Also the Tfs are actually helpful if you go to office hours so if you don't understand something do that.
LS2 is an amazing introduction to anatomy and physiology. I learned so much in this course-- it is a fantastic foundational course that lays the groundwork really well. My favorite thing about this course was the way in which we were pushed to look at evolutionary trends and how we are a product of our evolutionary history.
Make sure to keep up with the work! Go to office hours and speak with the TFs, they really help you learn the things you are confused with. Go to all the lectures, they're way better then watching them online.
At first, you think this class is manageable. Then you take the second midterm and you don't know what happened. This class should be two separate classes entirely. The lab is basically a second class. Get Stephen Novak as your TF. He really is an awesome person. The preceptor is the most vile and wretched woman I've ever had the displeasure of meeting. She is rude and the most unapproachable teacher I've ever had. Calling your students stupid is never okay. There is no need to be that offensive. So if you take this class. BEWARE. Oh and by the way, you have to study really hard for this class. KNOW EVERYTHING.
This class was really good overall. Lab was always wonderful, and the professors and lectures are great. Just know going into the class that it is a very significant amount of work - it almost seems like lab and lecture are two separate courses.
Make sure you have the time to dedicate to this course.
A ton of work but very interesting subject matter.
Lots of memorization, especially for the lab practicals, but it is all stuff you will have to memorize later for Med school anyway. At least having done it in LS2, you will be familiar with many of the terms later on. If you put in the time memorizing, you will be fine. Labs are actually fun too.
This course is necessary preparation for the MCAT and a pretty good pre-med course to take. It is difficult though, so you will need to spend time learning the material thoroughly.
This has been my favorite "pre-med" course at Harvard. The professors are wonderful, section is a lot of fun (a wide variety of dissection!), and the material is presented in a fascinating manner.
The lab practicals are tough, but really satisfying.  This course will teach you so much about the body, and the dissections are extremely interesting.  The exams are tough.  Memorization is key.  This will really help you decide if being pre-med is for you.
This course can be a tremendous amount of work; however, it is all presented in a straightforward manner and you know that you can safely focus on lecture material to do well on these exams. Focus your efforts, work hard, and you should be all right.
The class is great, but be prepared to memorize tons of information.
This class, while a lot of work, is SUCH a good course to learn about the anatomy and physiology of the body.
It is especially true for LS2 that how much you learn is how much effort you put in. Without weekly problem sets, the learning in this class must be done on your own, and review of the material from lecture is a voluntary process. That said, while there is a lot of material covered, understanding almost all of it is not a difficult process and simply requires time.
You will spend a lot of hours in this class but it is definitely worth it, especially if you are a premed. The instructors are all very engaging and the TFs are super nice. The entire LS 2 staff is very supportive in general, although Dr. Carr can be a little intimidating. If you are squeamish about dissections, beware. However, there are certainly other students who won't mind taking over the dissection portions. Course covers A LOT of material and you will have to memorize all of it.
LS2 covers a lot of material and does a great job of balancing depth and breadth. I feel as though I learned a lot over the course of the semester. However, lecture and lab could be considered two classes; both take an equal amount of time and are minimally related. It is definitely a time commitment, but it is an interesting and fulfilling class.
The lab is very time-consuming and disorganized. However, lecture material is extremely interesting, and all the lecturers are enthusiastic and competent. It's one of the best pre-med classes I've taken. It IS a lot of work, especially the lab component, which is sometimes tedious. There are practical tests almost every week for lab, and on weeks without a practical, there is a time-consuming lab report assignment. Overall, I recommend this course.
There is a ton of material covered in this course. If you put in the time, however, the course can be incredibly rewarding. The material is interesting, and the professors are incredibly enthusiastic. Labs can be a lot of fun, and overall, this course is a great choice.
This is a fantastic biology class!  Very demanding, yes, but it is completely FAIR.  This course will not try to trick you just to have a perfect bell curve, all the questions and exams are very straightforward given the massive magnitude of the material.  I HIGHLY recommend this course, but make sure that you have the time in your schedule to devote to it because it requires hours of work to do well.  That being said, the material is extremely interesting, relevant, and if you are pre-med or in the biology field, you will need to know it and use it for the rest of your life.  TALK TO DR. CARR.  She is fantastic, clear, helpful, and very nice.  Don't be afraid to ask her about studying for the exams, techniques, anything, she is a fantastic resource; do not be intimidated by her. Overall, great course, demanding, challenging but totally worthwhile. :)
There is a lot of memorization so a lot of time should be put in regarding this. Having a more in depth understanding of human (as well as other species) anatomy is extremely empowering. The lectures were also a blast!
The teaching staff is awesome. My biggest regret is not having gone to more office hours. Attend as many as you can! They're very knowledgeable and the information you can gather from them in person will help immensely in the assignments you have to do, especially the written assignments for lab (frankly, they're impossible to do without having gone to your TFs' office hours).
Be ready for really interesting material but a ton of work.  The professors are incredibly enthusiastic and wonderful.  Be aware that the work you have to do for lab takes as much time as an entirely separate course--you will have a big assignment for lab every week (practical exam, lab report, etc.)  I would strongly recommend this course because it is so interesting and well-taught, BUT when you are scheduling your lab, be sure that you will have time to spend hours the day before memorizing bones or writing a lab report.
This class takes a lot of time. It is all memorization so put the time in.
This course is really well organized and well run. There is a vast amount of material, but the way that it is taught in a very interconnected and tangible way makes it more approachable. The more work you put in reviewing lectures and preparing for lab, the more you will get out of the course. It stays interesting especially because it incorporates the evolutionary aspect.
That the course requires a lot of work and memorization.
Take it. You will learn more in one semester than you ever dreamed possible, and be fascinated the whole time.
LS 2 has been probably my favorite course at Harvard so far. By far, its labs have been the best - you get to do dissections and interact with anatomy and physiology in a meaningful way. Exams and practicals are exactly what the instructors say what they'll be like, which spares a lot of stress, but you'll probably need to put in some time to do the memorization that will be required to do well on them.
difficult but enjoyable
Incredible course! If you are thinking about medical school, definitely take this course as it will give you a good idea if medicine is the right career. The teaching staff is phenomenal and the dissections are a great way to learn the material hands-on. Be prepared to put in many hours, however, to prepare for exams and practicals as the course is very memorization heavy.
Best class at Harvard for those who are genuinely curious about the human body and how it works. I learned so much and also so many fun facts to share (some disgusting, mainly from Professor Hinde - thanks for that poop particle tidbit!!!). The professors were all great, though I found Professor Lauder (for his awesome diagrams) and Professor Hinde (for her hilarious jokes - "let's skip the foreplay and get straight to copulation") to be the most engaging and easy to pay attention to. Dissecting the cat was so fun, even if skinning it was a tad disturbing since you get fur everywhere. Don't take this class if you can't deal with dissections (but if you can't deal with dissections, why are you premed?...) BUT TAKE IT IF YOU LOVE BIOLOGY!!!! Be prepared to put in a lot, but you'll get out so much.
STUDY! From day 1
You have to have the time for it. And it is not all memorization.
Unless you're pre-med don't take this class. It could easy be a GPA killer if you don't dedicate a lot of time and effort. This is the equivalent of taking two classes. There is so much material to know it is nearly impossible to know it all. MAKE FLASH CARDS!!! The hardest thing to remember in tests and practicals is vocabulary(and they will take off points if you don't use the exact word)
I would tell future students that this class is a lot of fun and is a great way to fulfill a Pre-med requirement. However, in order to do well, you have to invest a lot of work into knowing the material really well. (Get to know the lecture slides really well!)
Do the readings, review the notes, take the time to memorize the details and you'll be fine.
it's a great class--i've never learned so much in a single class before, however be prepared to put lots of time into preparing for tests and lab. do not buy the book--it is a waste of money
It's a lot of memorization. If you can't sit down and put in the time to memorize, don't take it.
While the course material is incredibly dense, it is manageable if you review your lectures notes immediately after class and be sure that you understand all of the material. Be vary of scheduling the lab on days that you have lots of other classwork, because the lab component for this course is very time-consuming and demanding. Nevertheless, you will exit this course having learned a tremendous amount about the human development and the ways in which humans differ from other animals.
If you want to be awed for an entire semester at how absolutely amazing the human body is, take this class. It's a big time commitment, but it's worth it. The class is run very well. The lectures are interesting, and the lab is a ton of fun. Sometimes I think this class gets a bad rep because it's perceived as just a lot of memorization, but learning the bones and muscles is kind of fun, and there are plenty of chances to engage in deeper thinking. The human body is amazing, and this course captures that well!
This class is very rewarding. I honestly don't think I've learned so much in a class. Lauder and Hinde are great. Biwener is quite verbose and not the best lecturer, but you can tell all of them really love to teach the class. You'll learn so much stuff about the body. Yeah, it's A LOT of memorization (especially for the labs--bones, muscles, vessels...) but if you keep up on your studying the exams aren't terrible. DO NOT BUY THE BOOK. It's honestly not worth it. Or save yourself a lot of money and buy it from someone in a previous year. They charge you almost $300 for it, and it's not even well made--chapters are out of order, etc. This class is great and the lecturers are fantastic. If you're premed or just interested in the human body, it's really worth it. As long as you study, you'll be fine. It's nothing too difficult to understand. The concepts are basic, but there are many concepts. Just do a weekly review of the classes and by the midterms/exams you'll be fine.
LS2 is a very good class to take to prepare for the MCAT if you are looking to improve on the Bio section.  Most of the material that is covered in class seems to be on the MCAT as well, which essentially gives you a semester's worth of prep on it.  That being said, the class is a great deal of work.  Lab is functionally a separate course, and a lot of time is required to prepare for and do well on the practicals.  It was very rewarding overall though.
This is a great course for science students and for non-students alike. I think it's important to understand how our bodies work, and if there is one course that teaches such a topic well, it is this course. Be prepared for a lot of memorization and independent work for the practicals. Be prepared for tough and sometimes capricious grading on the exams and lab reports. But be prepared to love the material and lectures.
It's a llot if work but definitely worth it. It's a great course
Exams are very fair, a lot of material but nothing too complex, go to lecture and take notes as you go so that you don't have to watch everything right before the midterms! Lab is like a separate class -- you have to cram before the practicals but dissections are usually fun
This class was a lot of work but every bit of it felt like it was worth it. Lab and assignments helped you expand on your knowledge from lecture and it felt like a "real" college class. It was very hands on and a lot of fun. There was A LOT of support. You can tell they really care. Even if you are not pre-med this class is great for anyone interested in human anatomy and physiology. The topic can be dry but they make it exciting and meaningful!
This class is hard. It's all memorization; you do not need to do the reading at all. Know the lectures inside and out. It's a good pre-med course for Harvard though. There are no surprises on the exams. In order to do well on the exams, however, you need to know specific terms and words. You don't even need full sentences! Phrases are enough for each answer. Review every day and you should be fine. There is no connection between lab and lecture so you will need to go to office hours quite often to know all the anatomy.
The information in the class is very interesting, but it is one of those large Harvard classes that people tend to become faceless in. If you have a bunch of difficult classes in one semester I wouldn't take it since there are some weeks where you're like, "crap I forgot I have to memorize 100 or so muscle names, origins, and insertions." Exam grading is very picky.
loved the class, but you really gotta work your butt off. go to office hours for lab it really makes a difference. and, if you want to do well, you NEED to do well in lab.
Lots of people take LS2 because they have to, and in light of that fact, it's actually a pretty good class.  It's not quite as much work as people say, but it might be if you take a long time to memorize things.  Also if you haven't taken other bio classes at Harvard, because there's a lot of overlap with neuro/OEB/HEB/lifesci.  Lab was actually pretty interesting and low-key, and we learned a ton, with an awesome trip to the natural history museum at the end.  Lectures can be disorganized, and exam/lab questions can be frustratingly unclear, but you can always ask your TF or one of the many other people on staff for the class.  I'd definitely recommend this class if you're legitimately interested in anatomy and physiology - not as an elective or gen ed or anything.
I'm a bit divided on this course. I LOVED the material. As a pre-med, I felt like I finally had the opportunity to study and learn about the human body. I enjoyed the dissections and the biomechanics. That being said, it definitely takes time (go to office hours ALL THE TIME) to master the lab practical material and for the final. The tests have a tendency to test memorization rather than understanding. The class was not extremely well taught this year, but I bet they will improve this in coming years.
its a lot of work and the material spans a number of topics but its great material. you get out of it what you put in.
Great Class and is taught very well.  One problem is the structure of labs and lectures is often a little confusing. However professors are lovely and dissecting is a lot of fun.  If you enjoy the comparative aspect of the course, then I would recommend doing the extra project on your animal of choice- gave a different perspective to the class!
If you are willing to put in the time and effort this class requires (which is by no means trivial), definitely go for it.  You'll learn some amazing things about the human body.  What is different about this pre-med class is that not only are you studying for lecture but lab really takes a LOT of effort.  You'll have lab practicals that require you going into office hours the week before and studying muscle structures, bones, etc.  The only down side is that sometimes there will be a dissected, smelly cat surrounded by 20 intense pre-meds...good luck.
If you're interested in anatomy or physiology, take this course. If you aren't, then don't. Also, treat the lab and lecture as two different classes each with its own time commitment.
If you need to take it, you need to take it. It is a lot of good information, but particularly the lab is really painful. They don't seem like they are trying to help you succeed but rather like they are trying to convince you that their class is hardcore. I missed the "learning focused" environment that many other classes have.
Take if you are pre-med. ESPECIALLY IF YOU HAVENT TAKEN THE MCAT. YOUR BIO SCORE WILL THANK YOU!!
This class covers incredibly valuable information for anyone considering med school.  The material is very interesting and lecture are outstanding (for the most part).  Lab also provides a great anatomy foundation, especially if you've never taken it before.  Be prepared to put in a good amount of work, but it's nice not to have problem sets and your biggest responsibility is keeping up with material.
The course staff is generally engaging and the TFs are all incredibly knowledgeable. However, they intentionally do not flag what information is important and there are no weekly psets so in terms of preparing for exams, the onus is on you to blindly memorize hundreds of pages of lecture information and notice patterns that reveal helpful organizing themes.
This is a great class for learning about fascinating topics relating to the human body and other animals as well. The lab practicals are difficult but rewarding. The lab written assignments can be more time-consuming than they should be. Taking this class is almost like taking two smaller classes together with the class itself plus lab.
Give yourself the time you need to do well in this course. It is constant work throughout the semester, but if you are interested in the human body you will learn a lot of very useful and interesting material.
LS2 is a great introduction to human physiology and anatomy. You will look at different systems in the body, and you will learn how their function is related to their evolutionary history. If you have any interest in the human body, I recommend this course. You will put in a lot of work, but you will see great returns. Doctor Carr is a truly wonderful resource, as well as the TFs. There are open office hours many times a week, so you can get all the support and practice you need.
Really comprehensive and really interesting material. Most of it isn't even too difficult to understand, it's just a lot of material, so the class does take quite a bit of time - it's worth it though!
The material in LS2 is really interesting and fun to know. I am not pre-med and took the course and enjoyed it. The majority of the class, however, is pre-med and an interest in science is definitely necessary.
It is a good class
Don't take this class unless you need to. It's decently well taught, and the material itself is fairly interesting, but the lab and lecture material are poorly integrated, and the assignments and exams are often obtuse and presented in such a way that makes them more difficult than they need to be.
I wish I knew about LS2 as a freshman. I think that it would have been a great introduction to science at Harvard!
I believe this class is a good example of what med school will be like.
This class is REALLY HARD. That being said, though, it is an incredible course. Leading up to exams you will probably be cursing LS2 for having to know everything about everything, but every test is incredibly fair and the material itself is SO INTERESTING! If you are interested in biology/physiology DEFINITELY TAKE THIS COURSE! It is worth all of the blood, sweat, and tears.
This is a wonderful class that I would recommend to everyone. Like others will say, the lab component of the class makes it seem as though LS2 is really 2 classes. Be aware that you will have to put in the effort if you want to get a good grade, particularly when it comes time for the practicals. For students thinking about taking this with PS2, I would not suggest it. I took PS2 as a junior and this class as a senior; that was definitely a good decision since both required a heavy time commitment. Overall, this was really an awesome class to take!
it's a lot of work, but it's not intellectually difficult whatsoever. prepare to spend time on the lab practicals (it's basically a second class), but as long as you work hard and memorize everything (EVERYTHING), you will be fine. hopefully katie hinde isn't teaching next year because 1) she reads off the slides and 2) she doesn't actually understand the material herself
You learn as much as you want to! Yeah there's a lot of material, but if you study it and keep up with lectures you'll be fine.
If you have an interest in learning about human anatomy this is an excellent class. I really recommend this class!!
Interesting class but a lot of information
While you may not enjoy the hours spent studying for exams or labs, once it's over, you'll realize this was a wonderful class to take.
Review each lecture many times.
LS 2 can seem superficial because it covers such a breadth of material, but if you study in groups, go beyond what's covered in lecture by reading the textbook, and ask questions of your instructors, it can be extremely rewarding. The labs are truly a lot of fun. I would especially recommend this course to pre-meds or those on the fence about medical school. If you do take the course, be sure to form a study group to go over lecture material and to go to lab office hours every week.
It's super helpful to go over slides after the lecture and relisten to lectures while taking notes. The class covers fascinating material and make sure you go to office hours to study for lab practicals!
It is a good class, it really is. It is a faced paced lecture, but don't get disappointed. There is very little work and if you can just put the required time in to memorize the stuff, you'll be fine.
This class is a lot of work, but you learn a great amount and the material covered is interesting.
It's a lot of memorization but pretty interesting stuff. At the end you should be able to get a big picture of the human body
This is a great class, but a ton of work.  You learn a lot in a very short period of time.  The staff is great and totally willing to help you succeed.  Reach out to them.  Labs are really interesting, but post-labs can be a bit confusing.  Office hours.  You essentially just have to memorize for practicals.  Flashcards are helpful, office hours are essential.  The exams are all really fair.  The content itself is not particularly difficult, it's the shear amount of information that you have to learn that makes this class difficult.
If people are sure they want to be pre-med, then they should take this class. If they have doubts, though, I'd avoid it. Also, do not take this unless you either are really seriously interested in the material or are required to take it; it would make a terrible elective.
This course is very difficult and requires a lot of time! Though it is mostly memorization, it was hard for me to figure out exactly what I had to know for exams and felt like most of the work for this course culminated in preparation for each exam. It was quite overwhelming and requires a big time commitment during the semester!
The class requires lots of memorization but is doable. That being said, it is best to memorize the material ahead of time or as much as possible ahead of time. Also, the memorization should be focused on almost every aspect of the lecture slides - everything is fair game - which threw me off for the first midterm. Other than that, just memorize as much as possible ahead of time!
This is an absolutely fantastic course!  Both the lectures and labs are engaging. Be prepared to put in quite a bit of work, but this was definitely one of my favorite classes at Harvard.
This course is a great intro to the workings of the various systems of the human body. You'll find yourself thinking of various principles after taking the class in daily life, such as biomechanical principles of walking that you'll notice in the way that you walk, or reasons why exercise and abstinence from smoking are incredibly important for health. It's one thing to know the general idea and another thing to understand some of the mechanics.
This class is the most useful pre-med course I've taken thus far. The material is excellent and applicable. However, be prepared to work a lot - much of this is memorization and requires lots of time.
It isn't a difficult course per se - the material isn't itself challenging, and it is very interesting, it's just a lot to memorize.  As long as you're prepared for that, you'll enjoy the class.
I would only recommend this class to pre-med students because the alternatives for a second semester of biology are so poor. There is nothing elegant about the organization of the course; it seems mostly like a jumble of overviews of body systems combined with pet areas of interest from the professors. I found the class to be not at all difficult conceptually while rather annoying in terms of the amount of memorization required. The worst part is how disjointed the lab component is from the rest of the class. You'll memorize literally every bone in the human body and almost every blood vessel in the cat but never build on that knowledge. Because the lab has that much work, there are no problem sets. Consequently, there is almost nothing to reinforce the material covered in lecture, which means all you can do before the midterms is try to memorize the slides and your notes.
This is an excellent course. It takes hard work, because it is quite a lot of information and rather difficult, but it's well taught, well put together, and really great. If you put in the effort, you'll enjoy the class. It's not a class you can put 75% into, though.
Great course, but very intense.
This class taught me a ton about anatomy and physiology, however it also required a lot of tedious work. It was not necessarily difficult, it's just that the shear quantity of information presented is substantial. Overall I gained a much greater appreciation for how living beings survive and function on a daily basis.
It's A LOT of information. Mostly memorizing (especially for the lab component, but also for the exams to a certain extent).
You really need to study and memorize. It's a big time committment.
If you're pre-med, DEFINITELY take this class.
This class was one of the more interesting classes I've taken at Harvard.  I loved learning about the human body and it was a great course to take to remember why you are pre-med!  Make sure you have lots of time to dedicate to this class because it requires lots of memorization!
About the materials: The textbook was really, really expensive (only available at the Coop and once opened could not be returned, also only new copies available and no renting options). If you really want the book, buy it from a former student - it likely has everything the current edition of it has. APRCat is a great program with potential, but currently has too much excess information outside of what LS2 lab practicals cover. I ended up not using it very much and you're probably best off studying the material by going to office hours and handling the specimen directly.About the actual course: I loved it! It was really interesting though it covered a LOT. I learned so much. The weekly labs/lab practicals at first were stressful, but in the end were actually rather fun. There are so many office hours - the TFs and course staff are all really helpful and available.
This class is really interesting, especially if you're a pre-med. It's a lot of pretty straight-forward memorization if you're good at that. The labs are fun but the lab reports are kind of long for the amount of points that they're worth.
This class is extremely interesting as it surveys the various unique body systems and discusses how they integrate and connect to form a functioning human. It has both a lecture component and lab component, which complement each other nicely. Although it is a demanding course, with a substantial amount of work each week, it is definitely rewarding.
This was a great class.  I came away feeling like I had a really great understanding of the basics of all human anatomy and physiology and I imagine that will be super useful as a med student in a few years.
It is really micromanaged. You will learn a lot, but there is so much "upkeeping" that is necessary. It it probably worth it though, because the material is super interesting, and the lectures are amazing.
This course requires a lot of memorization and lab is essentially a separate class to be prepared to put in the effort.
Study very hard for the lab practicals, and look out for anything in the lecture slides that includes a list of reasons/functions or a graph, because those are the things you'll most often need to remember on exams.
Like many have said, it's like two classes in one. DO NOT take if you are not prepared to put in the work. Office hours help tremendously with practicals, the textbook not so much with exams. Exams are very straightforward -- one minute for every point -- but sometimes test on very minor details.
This was a great class if interested in anatomy. The labs were very interesting, limited work, no psets, only at most a practical once a week and a few lab reports, but nothing more than a few graphs. It is a lot of work and studying though before exams, but it is worth it for everything that you learn and it is very interesting to learn.
It is a great class; the professors and TFs are amazing, but be ready to constantly be studying for this class throughout the week. Lab and office hours take up a large amount of your time, so it feels like you have an exam even during weeks that you don't (practicals or lab reports).
I really would have loved to have more time in this course. There was a lot of information and it was overwhelming at times. It was almost impossible to study all the material for the exams. I think that this class is full of interesting information-particularly to those interested in science and pre-med but it isn't the most fun course.
This is a really good course if you like and want to learn the material. There's a lot of work but it's worth it if you're passionate about it. It will teach you a lot about the human body, which is useful information for medical related interests and future intentions.
This class is taught really well, but it tries to have students do too much. Most students often felt overwhelmed from trying to balance lab practicals, lecture notes, and exam review. This class is really good for mcat prep (since it covers a lot of the info on the bio component), but it requires an enormous amount of time. Do not take it if you are also writing a thesis, taking another intensive premed course, etc.
LS2 is a challenging course in that you have to be able to memorize a lot of information in a short time span. The class is very rewarding though. The material is great, the professors are very approachable, and the support network is very well put together.
You will be astounded at how much you'll learn by the end of the semester. Be prepared, however, for incredible amounts of memorization. If at all possible, make sure you have a good TF. That can make all the difference.
Be sure to devote a substantial amount of time studying for lab practicals. All material you need to know for exams can be found in slides.
LS2 is a great class. It truly takes the meaning of life sciences to heart. Lectures are interesting, and mostly organized. To be successful, here is what you need to do: (1) start studying for the practicals early (believe me, you won't regret it) (2) Go to office hours to study for practical (3) Study the material on a week to week basis because there's a lot of it, and you'll feel really swamped for the midterms/finals if you don't (it's something I wish I had done) (4) Visit Dr. Carr - she's great at laying down exactly what you need to do to succeed. (5) Watch the videos again to go over what you missed in lecture (the professors are able to squeeze information that would otherwise take 1.5 hours to teach, into a 1 hour class, so you tend to miss information the first time).
This is my favorite premed course at Harvard so far - great professors, hands on lab, and interesting material. I say take it!
study for the practicals by going into office hours at least for an hour each time. study a lot for the exams...
This class is not an overly difficult class. There are a couple of tough concepts, but by and large, you just need to memorize all of the slides and you'll do well on exams. However, if you want to actually learn and integrate the material, the tests aren't going to help you do that: both midterms are pure tests in regurgitating information. Also be prepared for inconsistent lectures. During some lectures, the professor would do nothing more than read each slide out loud; this was a complete waste of time. During others, the pace would be so fast that I would give up on taking notes, knowing I would have to just go back and watch it later online and pause/rewind repeatedly. (Doing this later would take around 90 minutes; lectures were about 50 minutes). Furthermore, the information is not always taught well; there were many factual errors throughout the course. The TFs are GREAT and so is Professor Lauder, so take advantage of those resources. Do NOT buy the book, because you'll barely need it - just rent one from a library if you happen to need it. Ultimately the content is interesting, but it is often not taught well, and it is rarely tested well.
Be ready to put in the work and face tough exams
A very interesting course because of its subject material, but definitely a 'pre-med' course. Of all the classes I have taken (and I am now a second semester, pre-med senior), this is the one that felt the most like it was out to get me. Points are deducted on lab write-ups and especially exams for very small details--it sometimes felt extremely frustrating. It might be the result of the fact that a course based on memorization has to be picky. The labs were pretty interesting with the dissections since it was fun to do them, and you're not graded on how good you do the dissection. You must attend office hours to do well in the course. I also recommend meeting with Dr. Carr or whomever the preceptor is before exams to ask questions.
It's an awesome class, you learn a lot but it's a lot of work and you have to be willing to put in the time. It's been my favorite lab/pre-med class and isn't any more work than taking orgo or physics.
If you're interested in this stuff, this is a very interesting and satisfying course. You will learn a lot, though the journey may sometimes be rough. Practicals are pretty fun, though the muscle one was a bit hard.
You really need to be serious about this course. You will fall behind on lectures, but you need to pick it back up. Do not fall too behind!
this class in not easy, but very worth taking if you're willing to put in the work. they cover a lot of information, but it's an awesome class and very interesting. would recommend to pre-meds and non pre-meds alike. best course I've taken at Harvard.
Not very difficult if you stay on top of the material. Go to office hours before the practicals!
It's an amazing class! Very well taught and organized. Dr. Carr and the professors are phenomenal, and all in all, the class is a great experience.
Covers most of what you need to know for the bio part of the MCAT, but some of the lectures were taught pretty poorly.  It's a case of the curse of knowledge whereby the professors overestimate students' level of understanding sometimes, and aren't very attuned to the needs of the students.
Although the material is very interesting and useful, it is not tested in a manner requiring understanding. To do well in this course, all you need is a good memory and if memorization is not your strong suit, this course will be a struggle for you.
It's a LOT of information, be ready to start studying and memorizing weeks in advance for exams
Tough but cool. More anatomy and less evolutionary than I thought it would be.
It is a very good class although it requires a lot of memorization and hours of work. Overall the material is not that difficult, I would recommend taking this course with classes that do not demand a lot of time and dedication like orgo.
You will get out of it what you put in it!
This is my favorite premed class at Harvard! You should definitely take it if you have the chance. It is a solid workload, but the topics are extremely interesting, so studying isn't that bad. Be prepared for the last practical because it can sneak up on you if you don't prepare for it like you did for the first three practicals. Overall, go to office hours! They help tremendously for the practicals. Additionally, get to know Dr. Carr. She is the best preceptor here at Harvard. She genuinely cares about the students in the course and is always willing to help.
Interesting matter for a pre-med, but definitely a pre-med class in terms of grading. The emphasis on medical school in the class itself is rather off-putting.
This course is very information dense. Be prepared to memorize a lot of information. Lectures are engaging and as long as you pay attention and review them before the exams you should be fine. The exam questions are very specific so at times it helped to cram a few days before the exam. Lab is absolute hell. Yes, its cool to learn all the bone names and the muscle origin and insertion but learning them was very difficult. Be prepared to spend countless hours in office hours learning all this information. This is by far one of the most time-consuming courses at Harvard.
A lot of these comments will tell you all about how you need to know every single seemingly insignificant detail - these comments are true. Other comments will talk about the great teaching staff (or perhaps will talk about how Professor Hinde was either phenomenal or a little *unorthodox* at times) - these comments as well (while a bit opinionated as far as critiquing individual teaching styles - are founded in certain truths. What I'd like to let you know is that while you learn every detail (and you will), and while you pick your favorite lecturers out of the assigned LS2 faculty (and you will), you will also undergo a mental metamorphosis (#Kafka). If any class is going to change your life at Harvard - it is going to be this class. You will learn more about your body than you ever thought you would. You will classify what determinant of gait is alluding to the sway of Beyonce's hips as she struts to All the Single Ladies. While you remain uncertain as to what you or any other student at Harvard will become in the future you can become certain that at one point in life we were all just a few layers of germ. You can also become certain that LS2 is in fact the greatest course that you will ever take. The only sad part about this course is finishing it and knowing that the bar has been eternally set. Nothing can touch it. Nothing will ever come close.
While LS 2 requires a lot of work and memorization, the course is taught very well and is rewarding.
A lot of memorizing. Labs are fun but practicals are brutal.
This class is really fun and interesting. Just be prepared to study A LOT, even for lab practicals that are worth 3-4% of your grade.
Beware, LS = 2 Life Science classes! The lab component should be a class by itself with the amount of assignments they make students do. The material is interesting but in the majority of the lectures, they seem to be more worried about jamming information in rather than thoroughly explaining the important concepts. Take the class if you are really interested in the materials but prepare to be frustrated by the questions and the amount of time you need to study for exams.
Even for those who really enjoy rote memorization, like me, some of the practicals require a very large amount of memorization (as in, all the major bones of the human body as well as the parts of these bones; all the major muscles of the human body; etc.). Tests are an exercise in directly memorizing lecture slides (textbook material isn't covered, and the textbook is completely unnecessary), and they are graded quite harshly. Still, the material is fairly thorough for an intro course in physiology, and the lecturers range from good to excellent. The TFs all seem to be good. If you're interested in the material and don't mind memorization, it's a good course.
Great course; solid introduction to anatomy; definitely the best of the life sciences/traditional pre-med courses I've taken here.
it was a solid class
What a great class! -- my favorite premed class by far. Really great lecturers (especially Professor Lieberman) and helpful TF staff. If you're interested in human biology at all, this class is so interesting. Also, not that much work, and not too difficult if you study.
Great class-- lectures are very interesting and cat dissections are a lot of fun. A lot of work though, mostly memorization but lab often felt like an additional class rather than supplementary learning
The material in the class is very interesting, but it is a lot of work and a ton of topics to cover and understand. The professors are great but the lab can seem really tedious.
Rewatch all of the lectures as many times as you can because you need to memorize (word for word) what the professors say. Please take the lab component of the class very seriously--take at least three days to go over all the material on the practicals. I worked my butt off, learned a lot, but my midterms did not reflect that.
be on top of your game, this class is just a points game and memorization
This class is a great way to learn all about how the human body works. It is really enjoyable as every lecture involves something that we do without even thinking in our everyday lives. The professors are really interesting lecturers and the labs offer the opportunity to see with your own eyes the concepts discussed in lecture. A lot of the work for the class is based on pure memorization of anatomy but the class tries to ground all the anatomy with a more physiological understanding of the body so you understand why the human anatomy is structured in the way that it is and thus it is easier to remember.
It's just a lot of memorization and even if you fall behind you can cram for it.  And it's not bad, the body is a very interesting thing.
There is some what of a disjunction with lab and lecture stuff. Definitely consider regrades, the TF can be pressured to grade fast and might give you less credit that deserved.  It feel like it is a survey of everything, but lacks concepts that might tie together different processes and functions.
Take it to avoid MCB52. It's probably really helpful for med school preparation. The instructors assume that everyone in the class is premed and make comments like, "You'll have to memorize this in med school..." DON'T BUY THE TEXTBOOK!! Such a waste of $250. Lab is AWFUL, as in I spent a lot of unpleasant hours learning origin and insertion of muscles and looking at pictures of dead cats. Don't take this course unless you're prepared to spend a lot of time on it. Go to office hours before the lab practicals---I never learned anything in lab itself, but office hours were helpful.
LS2 is an incredible course -- a lot of work (especially in studying for practicals), but so interesting, well taught and useful! The lecturers really love their material and it shows.
Not too bad, just memorization of processes. Kind of arbitrary, though.
It's challenging, but highly rewarding; do not take at the same time as organic chemistry.
The lab component of the course is like another entire course in and of itself. This class is hard in that it requires a ton of memorization, be prepared.
Exams are graded pretty harshly. Even if you have a great understanding of the material, you could bomb an exam if you don't mention every specific detail for every questions. I think they grade a little too hard actually. I once lost points for spelling something incorrectly. Drill all of the correct terminology and practice forming concise descriptions of everything you learn. Know any and everything that is on the lecture slides. Study well in advance.
SO COOL. LABS ARE AMAZING. But takes a lot of work and time
During the week, you don't have anything like problem sets to work on so the only thing during the week is studying for a lab practical or doing a lab write up or pre lab (which takes a long time) but it's only once a week.  It's a great class, but takes a lot of time to study for midterms and lab practicals. The cat dissections were great! You learn a lot about the body and things you should know about humans that a lot of people don't.
This class is so much fun if you like learning about how and why the body works. The professors are really engaging and sweet and passionate about what they do, the topics are diverse and wide-ranging, the cat dissections are...memorable, and staff are all top notch and make use of those lab office hours, and go into the professors office hours if just to say hi! They are all great, seriously. Also Prof. Carr is invaluable source so ask lots of questions. Stay on top of the lectures because the material can be overwhelming, but its most important to get the big concepts than to be bogged down with all the details (which are fascinating in themselves but may be more relevant in med school than on these exams)
After taking LS2, you'll know the human body through and through. Whether or not you'll be able to retain the knowledge after the final exam is questionable.
worst elective choice ever. don't take it if you just want to study for the mcats, it's not worth your time. it's fairly well taught for an intro level course but the material covers so much ground that concepts are barely touched on before you have to move on. if you're used to the pace and depth of a higher level science course, this course will not be satisfying to you.
Life Sciences 2 is fantastic. The teachers are excellent, TFs are accessible, and the material truly teaches you about how your body and the world around you function.
There is a lot of information to digest and memorize, but all of it is quite interesting. Make sure to start studying for exams and writing lab reports ahead of time so you can go to office hours if you have questions. The exam material will not be too difficult if you study the lecture materials very well and very thoroughly.
This was a wonderful course.  The professors are really enthusiastic and engaging, and the material is really interesting and applicable.  Especially for premeds, it will teach you so much about anatomy and physiology and other topics related to how your body works.  The lab practicals are stressful and time-consuming to prepare for, but they are also great training for med school.  For anyone, you'll learn a lot about exercise and its effects, and this class will make you want to exercise more, exercise right, and stay healthy.
Great class, but a lot of work and a lot of memorization
Shop this class when you shop LS1a. If I had known about this class, I would have taken LS2 instead of LS1a.
Very exciting course, difficult but totally worth taking!
This is the best pre-med class I've every taken. The knowledge set gained is comprehensive and impressive. It will take time to learn all the course materials, but this is truly one of those classes you walk out of ten times more knowledgeable than you were when it began. DO NOT buy the textbook. You will not use it a single time and it is SO expensive. Also, don't spend all week in lab office hours. The practicals are always fair and it is not worth it to spend your whole week memorizing cat anatomy. Take a few hours with it and then chill. They're never as hard as they could be.
very useful. interesting especially for pre-meds (most applicable pre-med class at harvard?)
I loved this course. If you are particularly interested in it, prepare to give up time for other class work to focus on LS2 because you will enjoy studying it. It is the first class that made me certain I want to be a doctor one day.
This is a great class! It will kick your butt and you'll smell like dissection juice, but in the end it will be very rewarding.
LS2 is a wonderful class for people generally interested in biology/anatomy. I loved every minute of the anatomy, the dissections, and the broad overview of locomotion/biomechanics. However, this class is difficult as it takes a lot of hard work, memorizing, and dedication time. Do not take this with more than 1 other science class or something like CS50 as this class is a GPA sink if you are not careful. However, the lectures and the materials are great!
This class demands more of you than most biology classes I've taken at Harvard, but it's well worth it.  It's very well taught, the lectures are information-packed but still quite interesting, and it's a very solid course.  Be warned that the lab and lecture are almost like two different classes, with complete separate exams/practicals for each.  This class is the best biology class I've taken at Harvard.  Be prepared to study hard, but take this class!
prepare to put a LOT of time into this class, as well as the lab. it's a ton of material, and the exams leave no room for error or hazy understanding.
This class requires a lot of work and a lot of memorization. It is really interesting material, but the stress of the labs practicals, reports, and exams can often overshadow that. I would not recommend taking it simultaneously with Chem 17 because the exams fall in the same week and it may be hard to invest enough energy to do well in both.
I took LS2 solely as an elective to force me to prepare for MCATs.  That said, the class is very short-term memory oriented and tests are practically designed for you to cram the day before.  The lab is a little intense, as are the other students taking the class.
This is a great course and you learn a lot of awesome things.  Be prepared to work very hard and spend a lot of time memorizing things.  There is a large volume of information that you are expected to know.
I never thought I would say this, but I actually enjoyed lab.  After large intro courses like LS1a and PS1, I expected lab to be a major hurdle in my week, but it turned out to be very relaxed and interesting.  If you're interested in biology, I think it's one of the best courses you're going to find.  You will memorize a great deal, but you'll be glad you took it.
While LS2 covers a ton of material and can seem overwhelming, as long as you pay attention in lecture and really review your notes, the exams are very fair. It's also important to start preparing for the lab practicals early.
The lab component is really great. If you are at all interested in anatomy you will really enjoy this class.
Such a great class if you have any interest in the human body!
You will learn a lot, but it's a lot of work!
You are going to learn a ton in this class and the material is super interesting. However, the course requires a lot of work and you must be willing to put in the time to do well.
Be aware that the lab portion of this class is VERY intense. It is almost, in itself, another class. If you put in the effort, this class is very rewarding. If not, you will not do well and you'll feel defeated.
If you put in the requisite work, this course is a comprehensive introduction to evolutionary anatomy
A very informative and well taught class that really can change the way you think. It's tedious at parts and the material is overwhelming, but overall a good experience. Also, there's literally no need to buy the textbook.
Lots of material, but it's all very interesting. This course seems like it's the only undergrad course that is reflective of how medical school courses actually are. When studying for the final, make sure you integrate/group all the various topics together and see if you can find any common motifs that link all the things you learned.
This class is great! You cover a lot, but in the end, you'll be glad to realize just how much you learned.
LS2 is like any other science course: it's tough. But you don't have to have a pre-med mentality (or even be pre-med!) to love this course. It is a better option than many other premed requirements. but don't take the course only because of that. Take the course because you want to have three amazing professors who love what they do in their own departments and because the body is truly one of the most amazing creations and you should learn about it.
Be ready to put in some work. Be ready to put in a lot of work. But also be ready to learn some of the coolest stuff that you have ever learned in your life. Lectures are AMAZING and interesting and you learn something every class. Also, you get to dissect things and see what they look like on the inside, which is awesome.
LS2 is an awesome class to fulfill both concentration and pre-med requirements. It requires a lot of work, as there is a lot of material to learn, but is very interesting and relevant. The lab component of the class was great. Expect to work hard, but you will get a lot out of it.
I gave this class a "likely to recommend" only because the material was so interesting and I learned quite a bit, but it should really be "recommend with reservations," given that, for as much as you learn, you may not do well in the end, because huge emphasis is given to the most minute of details, which can ruin your grade on an exam. Also, the section aspect of this course might as well be another class. The material doesn't aid the course material learning at all. The course should do better at coordinating the laboratory assignments with the midterms. It is an almost insurmountable task, given the difficulty of every other class that is taken in conjunction with this course, to memorize both the extensive and incredibly detailed information necessary for the midterm exams and memorize every bone in the human body within the span of 5 days.
This will be the hardest class you will take at Harvard, but it will also be the most rewarding. You have 2 midterms, 1 final exam, and 4 practicals, totaling to 7 tests over the course of the semester. You study for the practicals as much as if they are midterms. Soooo prepared for to study for midterms for 6 of the weekends of the semester. This class definitely took over my life. However, this class is very much like a class you would take in medical school, so it was good to know whether or not I would succeed in that type of intense learning environment.
This class is quite demanding, so don't take it with a busy schedule! Also be prepared to teach yourself most of the material, because most of it will only be mentioned once with not much reinforcement.
I think this is a very good class and I learned a lot, but it requires a lot of work.
office hours. office hours. office hours.
This class is so interesting, but you NEED to stay on top of the material. Seriously, review the lecture notes constantly, not just for the exams. There is almost an impossible amount of information, so really, spend some time on it.
Study hard for the practicals! Do not push things off until the last minute! Seriously! BUT REALLY! Dedicate enough time to this class and it can be a great experience. Without the right amount of time, you will be sorry!
Great course - a lot of material, a lot of time needs to be spent in office hours if you want to do well.  Don't do like me and not go to lecture - go to lecture and before exams, rewatch them take good notes.  Labs are a different animal completely.  Practicals are memorization drills.
This course is difficult in that the amount of material you are required to know is large and spread out. Be prepared to spend a lot of time memorizing anatomical structures and reviewing the lecture slides.
This class is tons of work, but the lab component is interesting and a helpful supplement to lectures. The lectures are well taught, but they do cover a lot of material. Overall, a good, broad bio or pre-med class.
It's hard work, but it's really worth it!
Very few classes teach you so much in such a comprehensive way. Labs are a bit of work, but it is so worth it and very doable if you are diligent in memorizing what they tell you. Excellent material.
Lots of work but worth it
Its a great course if you want to learn a lot about the human body, and are willing to put in the time to study for practicals.
This is an incredible class, but you have to come ready to commit to the workload.  Be wary of lab practicals (go to office hours!) and go to all lectures, but you will enjoy both lab and lecture, because this is a fantastically well taught, well staffed course.  Hands down, my favorite science here so far.
There are times when this feels like two simultaneous classes, lecture and lab.  It's very interesting, but pretty demanding.
Most interesting pre-med course you will take
This class was a lot of work, but well worth it
It's a great course to take. Lot of memorization.
Take it! Do it! If you are pre-med, take this over the MCBs. I am serious.
This class is a large workload, it's true.  But the material itself isn't really difficult to understand, it's just that there is a lot of it.  I really enjoyed how much I learned, but I wish that I could have spent more time devoted to this class, since it takes a lot of time to learn all the material.
It is well-taught, and the material is engaging, both of which are vital in a large lecture setting
This is definitely a course for people interested in medicine and biology, so don't take it if you aren't. There is not really a lot of work for the class during the semester, but there is a lot of work and memorization for lab. Then, there is so much lecture material to learn for the exams, so be willing to put in time to understand and just absorb everything. Overall, the class was really interesting and worthwhile.
So. much. memorization. But the material is really interesting and it's great preparation for the type of studying you'll need to do in your first two years of medical school. It's also a great overview of a lot of topics so you get a flavor for a bunch of different fields that are out there.
This is a great class, but requires you to know a lot of information. Start studying early, and make sure you really know the content down pat. If you are not willing to put in the effort (to remember the material, etc.), you should probably not take this class.
This course requires a TON of work, but is worth it because it is so interesting
This is a terrific class. The material is interesting, and hte course is very well organized. The key, however, is to not become overwhelmed with the volume of material that we cover, both in lecture, and in lab. Lab will require you to work and study regularly. It will be extremely useful to do the same for the material covered in lecture. But again, a great class for premeds and non premeds alike. If you are interested in learning about how the human body works, take this class and work.
This class is really interesting, and the professors are great. However, be prepared to put in a LOT of time studying for it. A lot of the studying is pure memorization as well, especially for the lab practicals. Make sure you go to the office hours for those. This is a great course but do not take it if you do not have enough time to study for it.
This class is a solid anatomy and physiology class. The labs, although they require tons of memorization, are the most fun out of any bio class I've taken at Harvard (and I've taken quite a few). The lectures are enjoyable and structured well. Just be warned that you should take notes, because sometimes the lecture slides have nothing but pictures on them... Other than that, the exams are fair and not too hard. Basically, if you're a premed and/or love human anatomy, then this is a great class to take! Note: lots of overlap with the MCAT bio section, which is an added bonus
Stay focused and up to date with all the lectures; each lecture conveys a lot of information and it's helpful both to keep up with it and review from time to time. Also look at post-labs ahead of time to get you thinking about questions and things to look out for when you are in the middle of the lab.
The level of difficulty for this course is very high and can be overwhelming.
Very memorization heavy - everything mentioned in class (every little detail) is game for the exams. Less emphasis on high level synthesis.
Be very careful before signing up to take this class. You will study dozens of hours for lab practicals, and after the lab practicals you will never need to know the information again. If you want to memorize every muscle in the cat, bone in the human body, and organ in a parasitic fish, take this class. Otherwise, save yourself all the pain and suffering.
The material is interesting, but there's a lot of busywork and this is a very typical premed class so the curve is never generous. Lab is probably more exciting than your typical biology lab, what with dissections and all.
This class is the best course I've taken at Harvard. It is a lot of work, but it's really rewarding, and the material is extremely interesting, if you are pre-med.
LS 2 is well-taught and covers really interesting material.  The labs are difficult but intriguing.  The course require a lot of time but if you study hard throughout you will get a lot out of it.
It's hard but in retrospect you appreciate it, even if you hate it while you're there.
This class is really fun; the material that you are learning is incredibly exciting and if you want to do medicine in the future, definitely a class to take. However, in terms of exams, it is A LOT of material, so don't take it with too many other heavy courses.
This course is extremely interesting.  Definitely put the time in for the lab practicals.
This class will challenge you; don't be afraid to go to office hours frequently.  Meeting with the professors and preceptor is KEY.  This class is difficult but if you put in the effort you will do well.
Awesome class! One of my favorites of my time here so far, but be prepared for a lot of work and memorization. Very rewarding though!
This class is a great overview of the different parts and systems of the body, and goes into enough detail without being too heavy. Lectures are enjoyable and always interesting, and the professors are all fantastic. However, the lab component involves enough work to be considered a class in itself, and the amount of material on the practicals makes them almost like midterms. But if you are interested in the subject, the work will be worth it and the class will be very rewarding.
LAB IS A LOT OF WORK. Stay on top of everything.
good
I recommend this class, but it is a very challenging class. It requires a lot of work. We learn a huge amount of material spanning a comprehensive range of systems in the human body. You have to be interested in the material, otherwise the work would be very unpleasant. Lab is virtually a second class in addition to the course component.
If you're prepared for a lot of work this class is great to take. The content is very interesting.
Very well taught and structured in a sensible way.
definitely very interesting! i learned a lot about the human body. there is a lot of memorization for the midterms/exams, but if you keep up with the lectures it shouldn't be a problem.
This course made me realize how cool the human body is. The lectures are generally very interesting and fascinating. It's a lot of frantic memorization before the exams and the practicals and labs can be sort of tough but everything is pretty manageable, even if you're not a super-freak pre-med. Definitely the most pre-med course though.
You learn A LOT of information in this class. This can be a good thing (for the MCAT and for general knowledge of anatomy), but be prepared to have to cram so much information into your head for exams/the final that this class takes up a tremendous amount of time. Also, studying for lab practicals is very time consuming and you have to go to lab office hours in order to do well. The professors vary in their effectiveness as teachers, but overall the lectures are well taught.
You learn a lot. Don't procrastinate anything for lab. It always takes longer than it should. Procrastinate for class if you want. There are not problem sets. Be aware though that there is a lot of information and you need to be able to explain lots of things on exams, so start studying early enough. If a practical and exam are on the same week, study for the exam. If there is no exam, do stuff for lab. It's a delicate balance between the course and the lab. If you get it right you will love every moment of both. Serious, Dissecting a fresh calf lung and learning about concurrent flow both rock!!!
For those of you interested in human biology, this course is honestly worth the stress of all the memorization. Labs are awesome and all the TFs are good picks.  I loved this course!! It ties for my favorite course at Harvard.
Make sure that you are ready to devote the necessary time to this course. This course is pure memorization!!! At least 40 minutes a day to ensure an A.
Great course, and it's really tough. The lectures are fantastic as are the professors. TFs are all also great. Tests are graded incredibly hard... they want you to phrase things exactly as they are stated in lecture. But lab is fun (dissections) and you will certainly learn a lot. Just be ready to put in the time, memorize for practical, and review the material often.
great class! lots of work, but very interesting. practicals seem scary, but they aren't too bad
Awesome course. Spend time learning for the practicals.
This is an outstanding class, but it has a high volume of work/material to memorize. It's basically like taking two classes, your lecture is physiology and your lab is anatomy.
This class has great lectures and not a very strong lab component (unless you like the dissections so much that you don't mind that lab is otherwise not well-run, which is the case for some people). The exams are very fair--but please be aware that they require a LOT of time to do well on. This class, though not super hard, had by far the most overall material of any class I've taken at Harvard (I'm a junior premed). Make sure you have the time to devote to it--because lab and lecture are essentially two disparate full-sized courses.
If you are looking for a survey class on systems biology, LS2 is a great choice. There aren't many other courses that have such a large dissection component, which I thought was the strength of the course. Lectures are overall very good, though if you are looking for a very in depth look at the material, this falls a bit short. I took this for my intermediate bio req for Neuro, and the material is basically what you need to know for the MCAT, so if that is what you are looking for LS2 will be very helpful.
TAKE THIS CLASS. YOU WILL NOT REGRET IT. THE MATERIAL IS SOOO INTERESTING AND SOOOO RELEVANT!! The class is also really well structured, and all the professors are absolutely great! Also, the labs are really well run by great TFs and complement the course extremely well (definitely better than any other science class I have taken)!But, beware, because of the labs, the workload of this course is essentially equivalent to that of a class and a half, or two classes. The lectures and midterms make up a course in and of themselves. But then the labs, and the difficult lab practicals that require heavy amounts of memorization, as well as lab assignments that take a surprisingly long amount of time, make up the workload of essentially a whole other class complete with class time, tests, and assignments. That being said, as long as you can handle the workload without extreme stress, this should by NO WAY deter you from taking this course because it is honestly PHENOMENAL. BEST SCIENCE CLASS AT HARVARD!!!!
This class is difficult and rather unfair - don't be fooled by the first few lectures given by Professor Lieberman (or by the fact that there are no problem sets). Although Professor Lieberman is excellent, this course is NOT; it focuses way too much on biomechanics in detail and doesn't spend any time teaching about the digestive system's physiology, it is graded on a harsh, unforgiving curve in which students who ARE LEARNING but can't keep up with the curve get punished, and Professor Biewener's lectures are absolutely terrible! Students who insist on taking this class for Premed will find that this class does give them good review over material they need to know for the MCAT - but if you must take this class, consider this: you can take it at anytime during your college career. Shop it several times and consider who your classmates are before you enroll: if the students all around you are cutthroat juniors who are want to go into Med School straight out of college (and who have probably taken a whole year of MCB prior to taking LS2) then DO NOT ENROLL and wait another year; if the students taking this class, however, are mostly sophomores who don't want to face MCB 52, the audience is composed mostly of athletes  or people who party hard on weekends and the overall atmosphere of the class seems "chill" then by all means enroll. Perhaps one of the biggest reasons why I was so miserable in this class was because I chose to take it at the wrong time. This class is often taken by students who do not want to take MCB 52 and who want to be pre-med/science concentrators, but still have a good time - but other years, it is also taken by cutthroat students (typically juniors) who simply want another A on their transcript as well as free preparation for the Biology portion of the MCAT right before they take the exam and apply for Medical School.
Stay up with the material to get the most out of the class.
If you are pre-med and/or interested in anatomy at all, you will really enjoy this class.
This class was taught extremely well by some amazing professors. Unfortunately, the workload and difficulty of work was also very significant.
Overall, it is a very good class.  All three lecturers are great, Carr is a good preceptor, and all the material is simply fascinating if you're into anatomy or physiology.  However, you need to make sure you are on top of studying at all times; the lab practicals have a lot of information to learn in relatively short time frames, and the midterm exams cover ~11 separate lectures worth of material.
Pay attention in lectures; make sure you keep up with the work and don't fall behind.
It's hard, there is a lot of information, but lectures are interesting and it's so much more enjoyable than LS1a/LS1b, even though grading is just as harsh.
This class is very time consuming, but if you're willing to put in the work to study for lab practicals and learn the material, it is not extremely hard.
The lab practicals and exams have a good amount of straight memorization but the topics covered are interesting and its cool to learn about the human body. A good class overall, and a good way to fill a premed requirement.
This is a great class. Extremely well-taught, and very interesting.
This course is 1) awesome and 2) extremely hard.  The lectures are like watching the discovery channel at times.  The problem is, you have to memorize an ungodly amount of information.  One of my favorite but also one of my most difficult classes at Harvard.
This is a really interesting class that changes your perspective on how humans function and how we should take care of ourselves.  It is a lot of work and memorization, though, so be sure to factor that in your class schedule.
You better be comfortable with dissecting... you will have to skin a cat and spend many weeks working on various internal systems - its lots of fun, but you have to be comfortable with it.
The professors are great. Midterms are difficult due to the significant memorization necessary. Exams are graded harshly but fairly, and curves are generous. Labs are hit or miss depending upon your TF, who can range from pleasantly helpful to, in my case, completely hostile to assisting students.
Print out the lecture slides in good color, not too many a page, and take notes on those.  It will make studying much easier.  Also get to know the professors because they are great.
This class is my favorite thus far at Harvard. The teaching staff is awesome, and the material is incredibly cool.
Lab practicals will be challenging- spend LOTS of time in TF office hours- you need to see things in person, not just in books. Don't bother buying the textbook, it's not worth it for the number of times you will use it. Definitely get the lab manual, though.Great course, excellent teaching staff.
This class is probably the most applicable to medical school that I have taken at Harvard. The instructors and labs instilled in us an appreciation for the marvels of the human body, and I am so glad I got the chance to take the course before entering med school!
very interesting, but be ready to put in a lot of work. it is very rewarding; you leave class feeling like you learned a lot.
Loads of material that is super interesting. Be ready for this to be your most demanding class.
You will learn so much in this class. Know, however, that exams can be somewhat arbitrarily graded and that the midterms and final make you have to cram like you wouldn't believe.
Be prepared to work your jolly behind off
Study for practicals. Memorize everything for exams.
If you want to go to medical school, take this class.  It is easily one of the most applicable/enjoyable pre-med classes at Harvard.  This doesn't mean that the class is easy, but it is definitely worth every hour you spend studying.
If you are a pre-med, you should take this.
Take this rather than an MCB or OEB class if you're pre-med and interested being a physician or surgeon rather than an MD-PhD researcher. You learn a lot about the human anatomy and it really prepares you for that portion of medical school.
The class is interesting! Unfortunately, there is a lot to memorize so while lectures and labs are fascinating, studying for lab practicals and exams can be quite tedious.
great course if you are very interested in understanding how and why your body works.interesting lectures, lots of dissections.be prepared: SO MUCH INFORMATION will have to be memorized.  the essential pre-med course.
Great course.
Good way to fulfill a pre-med requirement for bio if you are interested in the more hands-on aspect of medicine rather than science at the level of the cell. In other words, take this course over mcb 52 if you plan on going to medical school to be a medical doctor.
This class is extremely difficult but you learn a LOT.  You must trust yourself to be able to memorize vast quantities of information every week.
This class is excellent and will definitely make you appreciate the complexity of the human body!
You'll be challenged and rewarded.
A lot of work, but worth it in every way.
Don't think that some things are details - they are all important and may be tested.
It's really interesting but you have to be prepared to do a lot of work
Study hard for the practicals. Take the midterms extremely seriously. Because the concepts are fairly easy, to differentiate between students, the exams test on the obscurest details that appear in one slide, or they ask you to reproduce a diagram that they never explained. That being said, the material is very relevant, and I came away from this class with a much better understanding of how the human body functions.
This is the best premed class I've ever taken. It's A LOT of memorization, though.
A lot of work
Great course if you're willing to put in the time because its tough but interesting. Don't expect to breeze through. If you enjoy the material it'll make it easier but you'll still have to work hard.
This class requires a LOT of memorization - for practical and exams, but it's still very doable.  Make sure you go to office hours to prepare for the practicals.  Don't bother buying or reading the textbook, since the exams only cover the lectures.
The exams require a lot of memorization and are graded harshly. That said, the material is fascinating and lecture is super interesting. I really enjoyed this class. It's a lot less work than most pre-med classes also because there are no problem sets.
You'll learn a lot and really enjoy the material, but be prepared for a workload!
This is a fantastic biology course!  The material is incredibly relevant and interesting, and the professors are pretty amazing.  Professor Lauder's lectures are always remarkably clear and well-explained, Professor Ellison takes you beyond basics to look at some more anthropologically-based questions about human reproduction and growth, and Professor Lieberman does a great job of introducing you to his unique research on running and evolution, among other topics.  The course will require a lot of time and effort, especially in studying for lab practicals and doing lab reports, but if you put in the time you will get a ton out of the course.  If you're pre-med, the dissections will be a great glimpse of med school, but if you're not pre-med the course will still teach you a ton of important information that actually relates to your life.  Learning about the body is really fascinating, and the evolutionary spin the course puts on the curriculum is super interesting.  The exams are hard and will require a lot of studying, but if you work hard it will pay off.  It's definitely worth it to learn from such accomplished professors who always make themselves available for help outside of class.  Definitely take advantage of their resources and of the lab TFs!  This is one of the best taught and most interesting science classes I've ever taken - but be warned, you have to be motivated and work hard to succeed!  I also made a lot of friends in office hours and working on labs for this course, which is always good.  I highly recommend it, and you'll learn so much.  Good luck!
The professors and lectures are amazing, but the labs and lectures aren't coordinated well.
This class covers interesting material but it is EXTREMELY time consuming and has pre- and post-labs due almost every week, plus a practical almost every week, plus 2 midterms. It makes you memorize A TON of information and that can be really frustrating at times. Only take this if you are really interested in the material and can devote the time that the class requires to get a good grade. Start studying for the exams really early - it's too much to try to memorize in a short amount of time.
Awesome lectures however the reading is a bit dense and you do read things you do not even need to know
it is very pre-medicine-oriented and there is a great deal of material to get through. that said, you learn a lot of the fundamentals and much of the material is interesting.
If you are going to medical school you can learn all of this there. If you aren't going to medical school, don't take this class. It is unnecessarily detailed and demanding, designed to put students in direct competition with each other. Unless you are really driven and want to use this class to get a leg up in medical school, don't take it. It's just too much.
Very well taught course. It was my favorite pre-med requirement course and i generally enjoyed going to lecture and listening
start lab assignments early, as some answers are hard to find. review as you go, because i've never had to memorize this much material for any other course.
If you have enough time to do the readings (or not even, but just to make sure you can understand the material), then consider taking it. The lectures are interesting, but the labs are insanely boring if you don't love this.
This is the best Pre-Med class I've taken so far because the material is much more engaging, the professors are all very effective in their teaching styles, and the labs (even though they usually take the entire 3 hours)are much more interesting and allow for more creativity than usual science courses. I've enjoyed it (and that's VERY rare to say about a Pre-Med class)!
You learn a lot about the human body from this course. It's great for people who like biology. It does require a lot of studying though, because there is a lot of material to memorize.
The practicals and lab require lots of memorization, and you need to go to lot of office hours if you want to do well, but this is really a great life sci class. You'll learn a lot but you'll have to work hard for it, so just as long as you keep up and study you'll do well and walk away feeling like you've accomplished something. Also, reading the book is unnecessary if you understand the lecture.
Do the reading and TAKE YOUR TIME STUDYING FOR THE EXAMS! The class is worth it and is easily the best of the three LS classes but you also have the most to learn in this one. Slow down and don't try to rush through it. Also, us office hours to study for the practicals. They helped immensely.
If you like Anatomy the work required is well worth it!
Class is time intensive, but you learn worthwhile information.
This class was difficult and requires lots of time memorizing. However, I really loved the material--I think it's so cool to learn how the different parts of the body connect to overall functions. The professors are great, especially Professor Lieberman.
It's a great introduction to anatomy and physiology if you are willing to put in a lot of effort memorizing and learning.  The course is difficult but you can get a lot out of it if you put the time in.
This is a great course, the labs are a lot of fun, lectures are very interesting, and the course provides a great foundation in anatomy and physiology.
Only take this class if it is important for your academic goals. It is not "enjoyable" and does not make learning readily accessible. If you do want to learn the material though, you will come out of the class with a wide amount of deep knowledge.
The class is very challenging but one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard.
If you are taking PS2 with this class, you probably won't have time to study for tests because exams for those two classes are always back to back.
Sort of difficult to get around if you're a pre-med, but take people's warnings seriously - LS2 requires a serious time commitment. Never in my life have I been required to memorize so much information, and the exams are truly 100% based on memorization. Very little emphasis is placed on comprehension, which can be very frustrating. Also keep in mind that BOTH exams were placed on the same week as a large lab practical, which means that around exam time you can plan to spend 30+ hours in a week studying for LS2.
It's actually a lot more work than it sounds like at first, but it's amazing and definitely worth it.
LifeSci2 is a great class that actually teaches you interesting and useful material. Labs are entertaining and the lecturers are pretty great. Also, the workload is pretty low, except for right before the exams. Studying for exams is at times rough, but the interesting material and the applicability of the material to your own life offsets the frustration of studying for such detail-orientated exams. Overall though, LifeSci2 is loads better than other LifeSci classes and is so worth taking.
Great class. Except for lab.
Although I am not pre-med, I really enjoyed this class. The professors do a good job of tying concepts to things we see every day, and I learned a lot. The teaching staff is very supportive and available. Lectures are for the most part really engaging! This was great!Hot tip: you don't really need the textbook, since exams are based only on material in the slides. Also, Dr. Carr is extremely, extremely helpful. Take advantage!
This is a course that can probably prepare you really well for med school. The professors are entertaining and the lab TFs are really awesome. Be prepared for some really nitpicky grading though. The lab practicals/ write-ups are much too tedious and time-consuming for how much they're worth. Also, be sure to get to know the preceptor (Dr. Carr). She can be quite helpful in helping you study for exams.
It Is the best science class I have ever taken at Harvard. Take it, especially if you're premed and feeling a little discouraged - you'll enjoy the material and the course for a change.
You have to take this class at the risk of your grade. But it's fun.
Don't do the reading until after the lecture.  Or skim the lecture notes before the reading.
Be prepared to do a whole lot of memorizing and schedule in time to go to lab office hours before lab practicals. Trust me--it helps.
LS2 is a great course that covers a lot of material very quickly.
This class is super interesting if you like biology or anatomy, but if you are not a science person I wouldn't recommend it.  It requires a lot of memorization, so be prepared for that, but I really loved the course! The dissections are really great too.
Take this and not mcb 52! You would be crazy not to. Gives you a good idea of what med school is like but everyone I knew liked tbhe course. Professors are awesome, dr. Carr knows everything.although there is a lot of work in labs and memorizing for tests material is very useful. Make sure you @an dedicate time. Book useless.  Use lecture slides and dr. Carr for tests. Lab practicals can be a drag but labs are actually what ppl do in real medicine and are worth it.
You must be prepared for this course to be your hard course for the semester and must be ready to devote several hours to studying and preparing for this course.
Don't be surprised by the humongous amount of memorization... Not everyone is that good at regurgitation... Also, study the diagrams, as you will be expected to reproduce them.
It's a premed class, so you'll have to take it, and you definitely learn a lot. But it's poorly designed, labs are a HUGE time drain (preparing for lab quizzes was sometimes 20+ hours per week), and the exams are tough even if you feel prepared. The lectures are sometimes mind-numbing, and they purposely put hard lab quizzes in the same weeks as a midterm so expect to spend 50+ hours on LifeSci in those weeks. Don't take it with other hard classes, and if you can avoid it don't take it at all. A great example of a "decent" pre-med class; sucks, but a little less than others. Still really hard.
This is a great course! All the professors are great, the material is interesting, and sections are fun. No problem sets!
Dissection is lots of fun, material is incredibly interesting (for the most part), you'll want to skip the lectures on energy metabolism and growth though...
LS2 is difficult, but its a great class.  The professors are great.
It's a fun class! Even though the labs/practicals can require a bit of extra work, the lectures are quirky and very interesting. It's a great introduction to the human body.
This was a really good class - of course, a lot of work had to go into it, but it is taught well and the staff really make an effort to make this a good class. It was interesting and fun!
This class covers a lot of useful content for premeds and anyone interested in learning a lot about the body. It is mostly memorization-based, so it is not too difficult as long as you put the time in.
This course may be a microcosm of a first-year med school class.
Really interesting class!
This class requires a lot of memorization, but the material comes together elegantly in the end.
This has been probably my favorite class at Harvard. I'm not sure I've ever done this much work period, but especially not this much with such excitement.
The topics are very interesting and the work is manageable.
SO MUCH FUN!!! It's like medical school and the dissections are AWESOME!
Lab requires lots of preparation. The tests are difficult and there's a lot of material. So keep up with it.
There is a lot of material so if you're going to fall asleep in class it might be better to not bother going and watch the lecture video intently so you don't miss anything. If you are going to take half-hearted notes it's not worth it. But it is a great class and the amount that you learn is really impressive especially when you consider that you go through almost every system in the body in one semester. One of my favorite courses so far.
Make sure you have time and energy to do this course properly. Schedule your section carefully - you will have tons
It is very difficult but very worthwhile, especially if you intend to go into the medical field.
Take the practicals very seriously - they require serious study every week. And they're worth a decent portion of your grade.
A bigger time commitment then  you would think. A lot of memorization. Subject material was really interesting, but I didn't have the time to engage with it.
This class was so interesting, the lectures are amazingly taught and lab is awesome. If you are not a science-y person though, its hard and the exams are graded tough.
It is a lot of work and you have to do a ton of memorizing.  Other than that, thought it was the most interesting course I have taken at Harvard and really enjoyed it.  Useful class to take if you're pre-med.
Best premed class. Interesting and applicable
I ABSOLUTELY LOVED THIS CLASS!! Take it, take it, take it.If you hear people complaining about how hard it is because of the memorizing, stop and realize that they are probably the people who procrastinated to the bitter end and did not take the adequate time to sit down and spend some quality time with the textbook.Physiology is conceptually very natural to understand. Anatomy is the part that you should be ready to study and know which structures in the body are what. Everything in this class was extremely enjoyable- especially dissecting a cat! The labs were great, just had to come prepared. The tests were very straightforward- nothing we hadn't seen or been taught before. And the lectures are SO much fun! Some people put the lectures on their iPod because they enjoyed them so much. I highly recommend this class. It really stretches people who just want formulas for things, and is a breeze for anatomy/physiology fanatics like me. I didn't need to buy the textbood- I just used my notes from high school and I was fine.
great course, but be ready to do a lot of work for it and possibly not be rewarded for it
Make sure you well in lab because the tests are REALLY hard.
Lifesciences 2 has some excellent aspects and some very lacking ones. Hopefully as the course continues to change, it will find a more effective way to present the interesting topics it covers.
Make sure you work on remembering the material throughout the course.
This course is great.  The material is fascinating and really makes you appreciate the amazing intricacies of the human body.  It is the only course at Harvard where I actually learned material in lab that helped me understand the class material better.
Overall, an excellent corp of lecturers. Be prepared to work and learn copious amounts of information in short periods of time.
This class is awesome. You learn so much about your body and how it works and also how it develops, evolutionarily and individually. The labs are also really fun; you get to cut up a cat the entire semester. You learn a lot in lab, and you get a head start on some med school knowledge (names of muscles and bones).Even if you're not interested in science, this is good class for GenEd, and just in general. Just about all of the learning is what you get in lecture, so the outside work isn't too bad.
You really have to keep up with the reading! The professors move very fast.
Do work.  My problem was that I didn't devote enough time to the course.  You literally cannot save the work for the last minute.  Also, everyone in this course studies a ton- if you don't, you will be way at the bottom of the curve.  And make sure you truly understand the lab work- the labs are difficult and time-consuming.  I got burn out.
this class requires a lot of work but is definitely worth it. reminds you why you want to be a doctor. also - i thought the textbook was a total ripoff, but i ended up using it a fair amount, so i would actually suggest buying it.
This class is very demanding for both time and memory but is very much worth it if you are interested in how the human body works.
One of the best classes I've taken here at Harvard. If you fascinated with the material, you are in for a treat. Many lectures  are incredibly fascinating and enjoyable. You walk out of class realizing you learned something really cool about how the human body works.
The subject matter is very interesting and is well-taught.  The course is a lot of work, but is definitely worth taking.
Great biology class to take to satisfy pre-med requirements! Study hard for the lab practicals and midterms, and it'll pay off. The best way to study is to rewatch the lectures, and understand the material in lecture slides. The textbook is great to read to explore some specific concepts but don't spend all of your time reading all of the assigned pages.
As you learn more, you will begin to think about physiological processes all the time as you go about the activities of daily life.
Do not take it!  The grading scale is wrong.  The lectures are brilliant, but whoever wrote the exams obviously did not factor in the time to take them or the material on them.  If you are pre-med, this class will count for biology, but there are other better classes than this one with better grading scales and organization.
very informative, takes a fair bit of work
This is such a fun and interesting course!  The three professors are each fantastic lecturers in their own right and having them all alternate lectures keeps an interesting variety going.  You definitely need to work hard to prepare for the midterms and final because there is a ton of information to cover, and the lab practicals require a lot of memorization and extra time spent in office hours looking at the muscles/bones/etc.  However, overall it is a very enjoyable and moderately difficult science course, and one that I would recommend to non-science concentrators (assuming their course load allows for this moderate commitment) because you learn cool stuff about how the human body works that is just good common knowledge to have.
This class is a lot of memorization! Make sure you pay attention, go over notes, and keep up with the lectures every week. Readings aren't really that important, only if you have time. If you don't study in depth and memorize every little detail, you'll end up with mediocre grades. Grading is really difficult and last minute cramming doesn't really help with the amount that you need to cover.
Great course! It's a ridiculous amount of information, but you come away knowing a lot more than you'd expect. It's not easy, but the information is interesting, which makes it all the much easier to get through lecture from day to day.
This course is all about memorization. There are NO tricks on the exams--everything is from the lecture slides. If you are willing to put in the time to memorize every little thing on the slides, you WILL do well. The only reason for not doing well in this class is not spending enough time studying.
This class provides very basic intro to biology, which can be helpful for the MCATs. The labs are not too terrible and could be interesting if you enjoy dissections. The midterms are way too specific though.
just study hard for the midterms/exams/practicals
It's a great class taught by great professors, but you better be ready to get to work.
I LOVED this class -- it is SO relevant to everyday life, and so interesting! The professors are all good lecturers, and if you put the time in, you will definitely get a lot out of the class. It has been my favorite class at Harvard so far.
This is a great class for pre-medical students or anyone who is interested in learning more about how the human body works. The labs are particularly interesting and the cat dissections were a lot of fun! However, this class is very memorization intensive!
Be prepared to learn a lot of material.
While it was highly interesting, the administrative weaknesses make it very stressful and tenuous
It is difficult and there are some bad aspects of the course, but the content is fascinating and the professors are amazing.
Really interesting material, all three professors are great lecturers, but the exams and lab practicals are killer.  Don't take unless you're prepared to do ton of work/cut open cats
I think if you're planning on taking the MCATs this is a great introduction to anatomy and physiology. Studying for the practicals can be somewhat time intensive, but they aren't too bad and the material is interesting. Even though between the volume of material that we cover in lecture and the amount of memorizing necessary for lab, this class seems initially overwhelming, it really isn't horrible once you learn how to study for everything. There are a lot of already made anatomy quizzes online that are easy to find via google that make studying a lot easier.
You will come out with much greater appreciation for how complex and intricate the systems of the body work together to maintain a properly functioning human being. You will realize how humans are so uniquely designed, yet also constrained by evolution.
This is the best way to fulfill a pre-med requirement for bio because it actually focuses on HUMANS. Focus on lectures; that's where all the important material comes from.
If you put in the time, you will see results for this class. Take time to learn each section of material, as the class will build on prior information. Be prepared to work hard.
definitely take this class regardless of what you're interested in.
great preparation for the MCAT, fun hands on labs
It's a great class, and lab is fun. But study for those practicals
stay on top of small details!
This is a fantastic class and I would highly recommend it. The three professors have different styles but all are so wonderful in different ways. There is a lot of information, so be prepared to watch and re-watch the lecture videos to become more familiar with the material. The lab practicals involve a lot of memorization so make sure to use office hours to learn the muscles and bones. Take this class if you have any interest in anatomy or physio or if you are just interested in the human body!
I would recommend this to people who really like learning about the human body.  It is a hard class, but the information is really interesting if you are willing to work at it.
This course requires a lot of memorization, both for lab practical and for midterms, but it also is very interesting.  It is very different from LS1a.
The topics are interesting but it's a time-consuming class. The lab practicals are difficult but definitely do-able. Go to office hours to study for the practicals! The midterms and finals were often poorly worded. Go to lecture and then watch the lectures again before the midterms.
It's beneficial if you're good at memorizing things very quickly. Otherwise, be prepared to work really hard. Also, be prepared to be frustrated with the course. The organization isn't that good and you will have to learn to find the answers on your own a lot of the time.
Definitely the most enjoyable pre-med course that I've ever taken. Very applicable to medical school.
A really worthwhile experience: fantastic professors that really care about what they're teaching; a great introduction to anatomy; pretty good labs; very reasonable exams.  It's a lot of work, but definitely one of the best pre med classes out there.
If you are interested in the human body then it is a very worthwhile, engaging class.  You have to be willing to put in a lot of work though because otherwise you will not do well.
Very well-organized class! Explaining human anatomy in a way that makes numerous concepts more understandable and logical. The evolutionary framework really does wonders.
You'll learn a lot, but it's a ton of memorization. A ton.
This class was incredibly interesting and was by far my favorite course of the semester. The material was interesting to me because it applies to how our human and body systems work.
Awesome class. No previous science necessary.
LS2 is a huge amount of memorization - but of very interesting material!
Good pre-med class to see kind of what med school is going to be like.
The material is very interesting and will be helpful later on, but requires a lot of work,
great course,  but tons of work.
it is interesting but challenging
lots of memorization but it's a fairly interesting class.
That the professors to an excellent job teaching, and making the material clear and interesting.
Definitely take if you are going to medical school
It's a great way to fulfill pre-med requirements, but be prepared to work hard.
Interesting but disorganized
Avoid at all costs, unless you want to spend the rest of your semester competing with other pre-meds. Lectures are interesting but the competition-based course structure is so badly flawed it's hard to know where to start. I would recommend auditing the class, even...
requires a lot of time and attention. need to almost memorize the information presented on slides and spoken in lecture. the information is really interesting, but its more of a time commitment than one would expect.
interesting and fascinating course material although a lot of information is dumped on the students and it felt very self-taught.
this course provides excellent background on human physiology and anatomy; students learn a great deal of information about a broad range of topics within an evolutionary context. however, the course requires a heavy amount of work and the lab and lab practicals only add to that.
It is a really interesting course in terms of material, but is a ton of work and material to cover in a semester.  It is a good course for pre-meds.
The class will suck you in at the beginning by seeming interesting, but don't be fooled: You will lose interest and be up to your armpits in dead cats before you know it.
This is not a class you take unless you are really really enthusiastic about anatomy and physiology. It is a lot of work, even though it doesn't seem like it. The amount of memorization is crazy, and if you don't really like the topics, it will seem like a chore.
Be certain that you enjoy the material and are willing to dedicate your time to studying anatomy and physiology.
Extremely interesting, great teaching, fun labs.
It is very disorganized.  Some lectures can be interesting, but it was an overall frustrating experience.
The course material is interesting but only take this course if you really enjoy human anatomy.
Take this class if you are interested in the human body!  You'll have to work very hard though.
need to be prepared to cover a lot of material.
Even though at the beginning of the class it may seem somewhat tiresome or disorganized, by the end of the class you'll have learned a lot.
good survey course, pretty well run
You might have to take it for med school, but it's not the best anatomy and physiology class out there. It's not even better than average, but they do try.
It's a tough class with a lot of memorization involved, but definitely worth the effort. You'll look at the world differently, and be more excited by science from it
problem sets are worthless. don't do them.
learn to cram for examsHuge science courses like this really require you to be efficient at studying and learning on your own, which is very much not the case in real world science.
It has really interesting information, but there is a lot of stuff to learn. It is super cool though!
The material is wonderful and fascinating, but the course is new and still needs a lot of work tweeking out how it's run, in terms of applying the material into good problems for midterms and such, synchronizing the lab and the lectures better (timing and subject matter), and getting more resources other than Vander.I would highly recommend putting Netter's Anatomy on the course syllabus, or even requiring it.  It's much better and more helpful than Vander, and has many diagrams and pictures to follow along a vast majority of the lectures.
It provides a great general introduction to human biology.
Disorganized. Difficult to prepare for exams. Graded unfairly.
Keep up with the reading and the lectures. Too difficult to cram everything in during reading period.
You need to be interested in the subject. You will learn a lot, but the course is still new and rather disorganized.
It is a very interesting class and it is well taught but the exams are awful and make sure you have a good TF or you will be miserable!
If you're going to take the course. Constant preparation is important.
Lifescience 2 is the class to take if you want to learn about the human body.
This course is fantastic for anyone interested in a career in medicine or interested in how the human body works. I learned so much and feel that it was great and thorough preparation for the MCAT or even medical school. I would highly recommend it to anyone who is willing to work hard and is interested in biology.
The material is really interesting, but the class just is not organized well. If the interesting material can outweigh the annoying parts of the way the class is run, then it's definitely worth taking.
Material is great.
It is a lot of work, but a good course
Keep up with the reading and make your on notes as you study. These notes will help a lot when studying for the exams.
This class is full of useful information that one wouldn't be able to gain otherwise. The knowledge gained is easily applicable to various situations in life and one has fun learning.
Make sure to read the textbook and pay attention in class
labs and lab practical constitute a large time commitment
This course had the most useful and interesting material out of any course I've taken.  I strongly recommend it to learn about how the body works.
I learned an amazing amount about the human body and comparative anatomy in LS2, but it was not well reflected by my less than satisfactory grades. The grading was strange for the class.
only take it if you have to -- but if you're looking for a science b (like i was), there are many other (better) ones from which to choose
it's a great class -- you'll learn a lot about physiology and a good amount about anatomy. Be prepared to work really hard, though. There is a lot of reading and memorization involved.
DO NOT READ.  The readings were excessive and unnecessary.  I wouldn't even buy the book.
The workload is heavy, but the material is very interesting.
There is way too much information in this course, and while section is fun, it is basically its own course as well.
The class is difficult but gives a great introduction into how the human body works.
If you like the material, then you'll love the lectures and the labs won't be a problem.
Be prepared for a lot of work for this course and a discontinuity due to shared teaching responsabilities of 4 professors.
Work and Ye Shall Recieve
If you have any interest in the human body, or are a pre-med who wants to confirm their interest in the subject matter, this course is for you. The professors are great, TFs are mixed (some good some bad) and dont expect much from section.
Be prepared to memorize a lot.  This is good preparation of medical school, but is a lot of work.  Be prepared to put in the time to do well in this course.
The material is fascinating and the professors are helpful but it is poorly organized and too much information is covered to be mastered.
Brace yourself and get ready to learn a lot about anatomy and physiology
Take it only if you're interested in the material.
Subject material was very interesting, but it was a very hard class.  However, the professors are fantastic lecturers.
if you want to know more about your own body, its structures and how it functions, and the bodies of other animals, this is a painless way to do so
Speaking as someone who has taken it, LS2 is great preparation for the MCATS.
I hope you like cat guts!
The human body is incredible.  It's astonishing that life exists.  Take this class and you will learn more about how all these processes give rise to complex thought.  And if nothing else, you'll also be able to use all the fun facts you learned about the body to entertain future bed partners...
You don't even know how hard you're going to have to work. I mean, I know it's a science class and there are a lot of premeds, but even given that, prepare to really kill yourself, and still not do terribly well.
A great way to fulfill the second pre-med bio requirement.
Be ready to take a class with lots of information that you may or may not know for exams because they won't tell you exactly what to know.
At times the class is tricky/hard to study for (a lot of memorization), and the exams can be difficult (some questions making no sense), but overall, a good course to take if you're interesting in anatomy.
It is a good course for pre-med requirements.
This class is an excellent introduction to physiology. Not terribly difficult but still in the growing phases since it is a new course.
Don't take it, there are better options!!!
The tests are difficult and the some of the labs are frustrating, but the material is interesting and the professors are great.
very enjoyable class that takes hard work
It was a great class that not only teaches biology but helps you apply it to real life.
The information that you learn is really interesting, but this is really three or so classes put together in one. There is so much material it's hard to process sometimes, but if you stick with it and work hard you really learn a lot.
If you're willing to put in the study hours before the midterms - i.e., about 5-7 days before, start doing nothing but reviewing lecture videos and making lecture outlines - you'll learn an enormous amount and will do fine in the class.  Don't read the textbook unless 1. you're confused or 2. they say specifically in lecture that its very important (in which case, you MUST read it).
great preparation for medical school and MCATs
It is very interesting, but the breadth of topics can be overwhelming.
Grading and assignments weird and frustrating, but the lectures and material are wonderful.
This class is extremely challenging, and you have to keep up with what is being taught, or else you'll be in trouble. That said, it explains so many things you always wanted to know about how the body works! It's challenging but worth it. Finally, a pre-med class that's actually about people!!
It's an interesting course that extremely useful for MCAT preparation.  I felt like it helped to emphasize some of the thinking skills that I'll need for such a test.  And also, I would be weary of taking this course if you're not genuinely interested in science and don't mind just plain memorizing stuff.
I would suggest taking this class in a couple of years when it is more organized. The material is good and very interesting, but there are many kinks that need to be worked out.
be prepared for frustrations, but not so bad ultimately for a premed class
You will learn every basic thing about the human body and the interactive labs are lots of fun.
very interesting material but LOTS of material is covered
It is time consuming because it is so much information students should possibly consider only taking 3 classes the semester they take this course.
It is extremely difficult to do well no matter how hard you try
It is a very interesting course, but is very material-heavy and has much to learn and much to improve.
The material is interesting and it is very well taught!
Very rare perspectives on the body from varying perspectives.
The most information I've learned in any class at Harvard.
It is a class that will teach you a lot, and seems like it may actually be useful outside of college.  But only take it if you are ready to put in a lot of work (particularly in studying for the exams).
Beware.
It was one of my all time favorite classes here!
Get ready to read a lot and learn a lot. But you'll have to do most of it outside of section. You'll also have to learn/reinforce it outside of lecture.
Broad and interesting intro to the human body
This is a helpful anatomy course to fulfill pre-med requirements, but I wouldn't take it as an elective or to fulfill Core requirements.
Very interesting class. A big time commitment but much more engaging than other introductory upper level bio classes.
Life Sciences 2 is a good course, though sometimes made tedious by the problem sets.  I found myself liking half of the lectures (taught by Dan Lieberman and Peter Ellison), and intensely disliked reading Vander, which was just superfluous reading material.  There's a lot of information in this course to try to process and retain, so good memory tricks come in helpful.
The course is slightly disorganized, but the material is interesting and the work-load is not too great. Students should have an interest in the subject. Lecturers are good and material covered was diverse.
The lab section is tedious and disorganized, but the Professors are great and engaging.  You leave the course with a much greater understanding of human physiology and anatomy.
This course is really not that difficult as long as you don't allow yourself to get behind. A ton of material is covered--too much to try to learn right before the exam!
It's a great survey of many topics and like watching the discovery channel on humans for three hours a week. Unfortunately though, you won't go into any one topic terribly thoroughly.
This class is demanding, but the material is very interesting and applicable to real-life. You should stay on top of the material weekly as much as possible.
The best LS course offered.
Good, but still a typical pre-med type class
Be ready to memorize!!!
Interesting material, great lectures, enthusiastic professors.
If you are pre-med or interested in human anatomy/physiology then this course will be very enjoyable in terms of material. The material is very interesting and you will learn a lot, but the work is not too overwhelming. Best pre-med class I have taken!
It is one of the better pre-med classes I have taken. If you are considering medicine, you should definitely take this course. If you don't like this course, I don't understand how you could possibly enjoy medical school.
It's good for the MCATS. You learn a lot, but it is a very difficult class and there are probably less painful courses that can satisfy the concentration requirement.
This course directly relates to MCAT material and future med school classes.
This class is excellent complement with MCB 80
This class is deceptively difficult. Many of the students in the class are extremely motivated and hardworking, and there is definitely a sense of competition. The material is very interesting, and the connections between anatomy, function, and evolution are presented well by the professors. Be prepared to work hard, though, especially in lab.
Don't take this course with other memorization-based classes. There is a lot of material and no problem sets to make you keep up with it. It's definitely one of the more interesting classes I've taken at Harvard but I wish I had had more time to put into learning the class material. The lab portion of the class was great.
Take it only if you're really interested in human physiology.  You learn a lot.  But if you don't care, it might be hard to follow.
if you love the human body and its evolutionary history, then this course is for you
It's a lot of work and a lot of material, but if you are premed, it is well worth it.
great class that links anatomy and physiology
It's a difficult, work-intensive class, but one of the most interesting sciences classes at Harvard
The professors, as a corps, are incredibly engaging and excellent lecturers. They are also so engaging in the project of teaching that they make going to ask them questions etc. so easy. It's fun material in a really encouraging and supportive learning environment.
Life Sci 2 has probably been one of the most fulfilling classes I've taken at Harvard. It is time-intensive and biology intensive, but I genuinely feel like I'm walking away from LS2 with a much better comprehension of the human body.
Straightforward class. Straightforward exams and material, but make sure to know things in detail and try to figure out what they are asking exactly.
An excellent class, but be prepared to work hard. I found it really useful to watch the lecture videos (in addition to attending class). Pay attention to graphs and diagrams, and be ready to redraw them (with axes and labels) on the exams. Talk to the professors and to Dr. Carr, who knows everything. Go to your TF's office hours to learn the material for the practicals and to ask questions about other lab assignments. Start studying for the exams well in advance, and also memorize the material as the course goes along. Use the textbook only as a reference. In other words, forget the textbook unless the professor explicitly refers to it in class.  Then just read that section. If you're interested in learning how the human body works/if you're pre-med, this is an awesome (but hard) class!
Its very time intensive and hard, but interesting
This is one of the best pre-med courses to take, and its content is very applicable to the MCAT (more than any other bio class). LS2 has been my best and most interesting lab at Harvard. It is a lot of memorizing, but the curve is pretty generous. The professors are experts in their field and are very engaging.
It was really interesting, and even though it was a lot of work, it was definitely worth it. Overall, a fantastic class!
Be prepared.  But seriously, it's a great course.
The class is excellent not only for those intending to pursue medical or biological study careers, but also for anyone interested at all in learning about how the human (and other organism)body works, how scientific knowledge from a variety of fields can be integrated for practical purposes, or about biology in general.
A lot of rote memorization. Bad labs. Lecture material is boring. Exams are too detailed. Disorganized.
Study the lectures and lecture notes more carefully than the book.
While I enjoyed the content of the lecture materials and the specificity of the labs, the amount of needless memorization and the lack of clarity between how exams are worded and how we are taught in lecture was unfortunate.  I didn't feel like I could ask questions to the Head TF or my TF during the course because of fear of their judgment of me needing help. Do not think this is an easy elective or a throwaway pre-med class. It is filled with MANY pre-meds, so those of you who try to keep away from normal premeds should choose a smaller lecture class.
The class presents very interesting material about the human body and how it works. The amount of course material, especially details, can however be a little overwhelming but overall, it is a great course!
Be prepared to work very hard for little outcome. You learn a ton, but your knowledge is not reflected in your grade.
This class is awesome. it is intsentive and expansive but it is definitely one of the best classes you can take. It redeems the Life sciences from the awfulness.
Read the book. I only read a bit, but when I did it was very helpful. Also I wish I had reviewed the lectures for every week once a week.
A great course...also very good for MCAT preparation.
LS2 is a great class if you are interested in human biology to an extent far greater than general biology and organismic biology. The class is very comprehensive in terms of the human organism, but there is very little outside of that. For some people (myself included) that is great, but others may find it less interesting.
This class requires a LOT of memorization.  I honestly didn't think anatomy could be hard but this class will be a thorn in your side all semester.  You do actually learn some pretty cool stuff about anatomy but the muck you have to wade through to get there is probably not worth it.
very interesting but a lot of memorization
It's incredibly interesting.  The subjects that you learn about are fascinating, but they cover them in great detail (and there are a LOT of topics), and you are expected to retain all of the small details as well as the overall concepts.
Life Sci 2 is a great introduction to the body's systems and development.  It covers a very wide range of material, which is helpful for determining future, more specific classes to take.
It is a fun class if you are willing to put the work into it.
This class is EXTREMELY helpful for pre-med requirements, but be prepared to work hard and spend hours memorizing body parts and regurgitate graphs and drawings from lectures slides on the exams. Form study groups and work with others in learning the material!!! The physics aspect is not as bad as it seems at first. Make sure you talk to professors, preceptor, and TFs if you have issues with material - they are very knowledgeable and willing to help you out!
It takes a good deal of effort since towards the middle and end, there's a quiz or exam or lab practical basically every single week.  However, you learn tons of really really cool things, and therefore, overall I highly recommend taking this, especially if you've already had one pass through anat./phys.
You will have to memorize tons of shit. Literally ungodly amounts of information will be forced down your throat for regurgitation at exams.
This class will give you a great background in human anatomy and physiology.  The class offers an overview of physiology and anatomy, but also provides instruction of its evolutionary basis.  The way all the material of the course fits together is impressive.
The best of the general life science courses.  Great for people more interested in larger systems bio rather than cell bio.
This class was an awesome experience. Loved the dissections. The professors were very engaging - the perfect course.
I would tell students that it is a good class with useful material and concepts to learn, all presented in a very interesting manner, but the course is graded VERY hard and therefore over all the class is not as enjoyable as it might seem.
Exams are killer. There's so much information to memorize!
Take it seriously and you will learn a lot of interesting information.  Go to class.
The material in this course is very interesting, but if you decide to take it, you must be very committed to keeping up with the course and doing a lot of memorization.
you do have to work hard - and defintiely have an interest in science/the human body/anatomy - it is a great class!
Only for premed requirements.
It's a lot of memorization, but extremely interesting. Prepare very diligently for the exams. Really enjoyable professors.
Some of the assignments suck, but some of them are really interesting - so hold out for the good ones.
Its not a great class, but its good as far as  premed class go.
The class is a lot more work that I had initially thought.  There are practical exams almost every two weeks.  There are also lab reports, etc. in addition to the two midterms.
There is a lot of memorization involved in the class, but the material is fun to learn if you have an interest in anatomy.
This class is hard.
Fantastically taught class with interesting material. Take it.
LOTS of memorization, but infinitely better than LS1A or LS1B
If you don't have the time, don't take this course
The material of this class is so interesting and taught in such an engaging way. The teaching staff is fantastic.  I loved coming to class to hear the lectures. I wish it was tested in a better way to reflect the hard work put into the class and comprehension of the material, instead of the ability to straight up memorize.
This class was great and all of the topics that were covered were really interesting and useful.  I would definitely recommend this class if you have any interest in the human body, it's an all-encompassing course that does a very thorough job in one semester of providing a curriculum that encapsulates all of the important points.
Be prepared to do a lot of memorizing
Its a hard course but necessary for mcats.
The class was amazing. All three professors are wonderful in their own way, and the material is beyond interesting. It does require a lot of time to study for exams and practicals, since there is a lot to memorize. However, you'll find that what you are learning is interesting that you'll enjoy it.
Be prepared to memorize a lot. Even though the lectures are videotaped, you should try to go to them and also watch them later, because then you hear the material twice. You really do need to watch them later because the professors speak quickly. Go to all the optional lab sessions because you will need them to prepare for the practicals. The book is generally pretty helpful - read it when you're confused.
As long as you're good at memorization, it is fine. If you can't memorize a lot of information, you will have a very difficult time.
You come away with a lot of knowledge. I think I came away from this class feeling like I learned more from it than I did from any other course I have ever taken.
So interesting and the professors are great!
TAKE THIS COURSE!  The complete opposite of LS1a and 1b.  Fantastic professors (the best I've had here, and that includes humanities professors) phenomenal TF's (seriously, the best).  If you're premed, like biology, or in any way like science, this is a must!  No problem sets, fascinating labs (you get to dissect a fresh cow heart and a cat!), awesome material.  You'll be missing out if you don't take this course.
Daniel Lieberman is a baller. Prof. Lauder and Prof. Biewener aren't as cool, but care just as much. Memorize everything. It's a very fun class but you have to work hard. Don't be deterred by this, I know very few people who regret taking the class.
Great class to learn about how the human body works.  Lectures are really interesting as are the professors and the labs are pretty fun as well.  Practicals can be a drag as you have to spend hours studying for something that only comes up once (which is probably a good things since you don't want to study that stuff for midterms/finals).  Other than that, good class.
Lecture is poor. The exam grading is awful. Lab is great.
Great pre-med class.
There is a lot to memorize, so start early.
It's a huge survey course and requires a lot of memorization, but it's interesting if you want to learn more about the body and how it works.  Labs are really cool and the professors are nice and engaging.
A great course that teaches a lot about human anatomy.
IT'S NOTHING LIKE LIFESCI 1. This class is actually extremely enjoyable.
Be prepared to work hard, and you will learn a lot.
It is a challenging class but definitely the best of the three basic Life Sciences courses. If you enjoyed LS 1a and/or 1b then you will really like LS2.
This is NOT an easy class, however, the material is very interesting and learning so much in one semester is extremely rewarding, especially because the information is so applicable. Lecture videos online are a huge plus for studying, and catching things you miss, but if you're not willing to make a commitment to this class don't even bother shopping it.
This class totally changed my life plan.  Great class!
a lot of memorization...but interesting to learn about physiology of body..
going to class is not worth it - we actually end up watching the lecture video
This class is extremely interesting but you have to be able to memorize a lot of stuff.
This is a great class that is both very interesting and well-run.  It was my favorite science class at Harvard so far.
The material is extremely interesting, but be prepared to work your butt off.
there's a lot of material in this course
a lot of information, you will need to study a lot for the tests; Generous curves though. Section isnt too bad, weekly assignments are not too long, but some TFs are significantly stricter than others.
class is well taught, but the tests are very poorly organized and worded
The material is a pain to learn, great to know.
It's really great material, but it's a lot of work. If you don't need the class for credit, I would not recommend it
If you know you're interested in anatomy, this class is excellent. If you love dissection, take this class. Lab and lecture can feel like two different classes, but all of the material is interesting and exciting. Definitely plan to spend a lot of time/energy on this class, because there's a lot of material to cover.
Yes, LS2 is absurdly difficult. Yes, lab is literally an extra class (you will spend more time in office hours than in lab each week to adequately prepare for practicals and to write lab reports) that has little overlap with lecture. If you are me or someone equally masochistic, you will often wonder "why did I decide to take this class as a concentration elective? I'm not even premed!" But then you will get to discover how the human body works/develops, and dissect tons of things, and have cool lab demonstrations and experiments, and basically challenge yourself to learn about something that is actually important and gain a new appreciation for the incredible beauty and complexity of life. I got really excited about this class all the time because I'm a huge nerd--the goal is to not get stressed out by it! Just relax and accept that you will not get an A unless you kill yourself with work or are some kind of freakish prodigy.
Great lecturers, long labs/practicals/preparation in OH but worth it!
It's a very interesting class and with lots of information but it requires a whole lot of work.
Useful class with meaningful labs (a lot of classes don't have very good labs but this one is different!)
I would tell people that this class is very interesting, but a ton of work.  Both lecture and lab are awesome in their own rights, and you learn a lot, but it's almost like taking two different classes because they don't line up and both require a substantial amount of time and effort.
This class has a very heavy workload. If you're interested in the topic, it's a fascinating, well-taught class, but be prepared to try and memorize more information than you probably ever have before.
This is a fantastic course. It really is. You will learn a tremendous amount about the human body, and will leave with a huge sense of accomplishment. However, be prepared to work. HARD. The practicals are hard, as are the tests.
Be ready for a ton of work. That said, WHOA THIS WAS GREAT! Loved lab SO MUCH! You get to dissect cats and sharks and lampreys and sheep brains and calf plucks...it was great!
In the first day of lecture, professor Ellison told us that taking LS2 would be like "trying to take a drink of water out of a fire hydrant" and we just had to absorb as much as we possibly could. I think that is an excellent way to describe the challenging but incredibly satisfying experience of LS2. I have never learned more in a class (at any point in my academic career) than I did in LS2. LS2 is incredibly demanding, time consuming, and comprehensive, but you will leave the class feeling like you have a true understanding of human physiological processes and how they relate to evolution. 

I am very happy that I chose to take LS2 this semester rather than an "easier" or less work-intensive biology requirement (for pre-med requirements). It will take a lot of work (many hours outside of class), but if you think you want to go to medical school, I think this class is imperative. It will either affirm your will to be a medical school student or scare you away from the profession. My only caution would be if you know you will not be able to spend time reviewing lectures outside of class. It is easy to let lecture material build up without review, but if you let that happen, exams will be impossible to study for. This might seem obvious, but it can be difficult to make yourself study lectures when the class requires you to spend sometimes 8 + hours a week studying for lab practicals outside of class meeting times. Be careful not to fall into the trap of feeling like "you're doing enough" and then using that feeling to justify not spending time reviewing weekly material. If you allot the appropriate amount of time to this class, you will leave the class feeling like you've accomplished something big and you will gain an incredible understanding of the way in which the human body evolved.
It's a lot of work -- straight up memorizing everything from lecture.  Section (lab) is basically another class because you're learning additional material and doing extra assignments that do not directly relate to lecture material.  I suggest taking a light courseload in addition to LS2.  All the material is super helpful for the MCAT though if you're planning on taking that shortly thereafter taking this course.
You won't do as well as you'd hoped, but if you put in the time for it every week-you'll love it. Go to lectures in person because theyre a million times better than the filmed version. Also the lab component is alot and you have to go to office hours--so you're taking two classes.
grading is harsh, sections tend to be meh, lots of memorizing, great labs
This class is a great introduction to human anatomy in an evolutionary sense.  The material is very interesting, but there is a ton of it.  You don't have to spend a lot of time doing p sets which is nice but you will have to study a lot for the midterms and lab practicals.
Great material and very interesting, but between lab and class, the workload is quite heavy.  Always, he amount of material is immense and reviewing after each lecture is essential to truly understand.
This is a class that is challenging and will require that you put time and work into it, but it is very interesting in general, and you learn some really cool, applicable things. The labs are also very neat!
I thoroughly enjoyed LS2. I found the content extremely interesting and enjoyed how we talked about human anatomy and function as well as public health and exercise. I also appreciate the fact that we covered so many topics during the semester-- I think it provided a great overview of the things to expect in medical school. The lab is a whole other class on its own with practicals and lab assignments, however these are pretty manageable. Studying for midterms was a bit of a challenge since we covered so much ground throughout the semester, but if you space it out it shouldn't be too bad. That being said, this class is a lot of work, so be careful not to overload yourself with this and other difficult courses.
This class covers a lot of material, and it can be hard to go through and make sure you understand how all the concepts tie together. But there isn't as much memorization as people say! If you really get how everything you talk about works together (and the professors do a good job in helping you understand that), there really isn't much memorization at all, apart from the  practicals.
The labs are the best part of the class!
plan time well
Beware that the lab component of this class takes enough time to be a separate class; budget your schedule accordingly. Otherwise, lectures are recorded, professors and teaching staff are pleasant and helpful.  Would not take as an elective.
This is a very challenging and work-intensive course, but if you put the hours into it, you can do well.  The labs are interesting and hands on, but the practicals take a lot of time to study for.  Make sure you go to office hours to look at the real specimens.  Also, Dr. Carr is a great resource; go to her office hours with questions about lecture material and she will help you greatly.
Though this course may be one of the hardest courses I have taken at Harvard, it has been hands down the most worthwhile. I've learned so much and truly feel like an intelligent human being.
Lot of memorization, mainly for premeds
This course is interesting especially if you are interested in the human body, but it is a lot of work. The professors are awesome and in my opinion the lectures were interesting.  The lab component of the class has almost weekly practicals which involves memorizing a lot of information and being able to identify different body parts. It took several hours a week to memorize the information and attend office hours. There is also a lot of material in the class which takes time to learn for the midterms. With that being said, this isn't the time commitment of organic chemistry. I still had plenty of free time. If I were to do this class again I probably would study for the midterm for a week instead of two days before the exam.
This class is fantastic! It covers a lot of material, but the lab is really interesting (and different from most other science labs!) and the lecturers are very engaging. If you have an interest in how the human body develops and functions, regardless of whether or not you're a premed, take this class!
You will probably have to put an insane amount of work into this class; it's essentially two separate courses (anatomy in lab and physiology in lecture) and while there is obviously overlap it's a LOT of material. Absolutely worth it because labs are awesome and the material is great (and you probably have to take this if you're pre-med anyway), but be prepared to spend a lot of time on this class.
You will learn the most in this class than you've probably learned in any other class. The information is all really applicable to every aspect of your life, and it's incredibly cool and rewarding to understand how the body works when you are going for a run or digesting food or really any physiological process. This class takes up a TON of time. It is not an easy course by any means, but if you stay proactive in your practicals and work hard at really understanding the material before the tests, you'll learn a lot and do well. Definitely a rewarding class in the end.
This was a wonderful class. The professors were insightful and keen on making sure students understood the material and its significance.
Supposedly this class will be very helpful for the MCAT. It goes really fast bc most schools teach LS2 in two terms instead of one. Lab is not always in tandem with lecture so really make flashcards and keep up with lectures from the start. Always be on your game for both lab and lecture and go to OH all the time. Go in the beginning of the week!
This is a rewarding but challenging course, so better come with interest and be prepared.
LS2 is at times awesome, and at times frustrating. To start with the positives, the lecturers are pretty good, among the most understandable at Harvard!  If you're taking LS2, hopefully you find the material interesting, and except for a few lectures, that is definitely true. You'll leave the course with a good understanding of introductory anatomy and phys, important for the MCAT and future learning. As for negatives, be prepared to spend a decent chunk of time in office hours, which are pretty crucial for doing well on lab exams in which you must identify features (bones, muscles, etc.). This additional time can be rather frustrating, but seeing the organisms/bones multiple times is fairly necessary.  Exams are what you'd expect.  Get to know the TFs a little bit and you'll enjoy the course.
Try to maintain stamina throughout the whole course because it requires putting in the effort for each lab practical and test. This is one of the most straightforward science classes I have taken at Harvard. You just have to sit there and learn the shit.
You learn a lot, but you also have to memorize a lot. The material is fascinating and you really gain an appreciation for how the human body works. Even though there are no psets, the practicals/assignments take you just as much time. The 3-hour lab you have for this class is more like 6 hours because office hours are no optional, almost required, to do well on the practicals. The atmosphere in the class is pretty tense since most people, if not all, are premeds. But I do think it is of great benefit, for MCAT and med school, to enter having taken an anatomy course.
Incredibly interesting material on the human body. I've taken an anatomy course in the past and I still learned A LOT. Lab is fun and informative; a great way to apply lecture material to reality. 

Course takes a lot of meticulous studying (like orgo). It resembles medical school difficulty. So challenge yourself if you're premed. Took orgo and this consecutively (but took a 4th class p/f) and it was definitely manageable, just requires efficient studying: review lecture slides before lecture, reviewing lecture notes, attending all lectures, you know the deal.

If you're interested in the human body, you will love this course.
Be prepared for the lab!
best pre-med class hands down
Do not take this class with orgo or PS 2. It will kill you. The labs are hard and the way you do well is to go into office hours repeatedly to ensure you remember what you will be tested on that week for your practicals. Memorize (brutally) every single slide because you could be tested on it. It is overwhelming but great prep for MCAT.
Be prepared for a lot of work--rewarding work, though!
LS2 is great preparation for the MCAT. It is an extremely well-structured and well-taught. All of the professors are fantastic. One of the best big science lecture classes at Harvard. My one complaint is that the materials for the final were not sufficient. More thorough answer keys would be very helpful. The questions in the second section were very vague.
Best way to fulfill the bio requirement of premed I think. Enjoyable lectures from very good professors, and not a huge workload (no problem sets, just lab practicals/reports)
If you are pre-med, this course is a must. If you are not pre-med, this course might be the one science course worth taking. It's tough, but it changes the way you think about the human body.
If you want to go to medical school, you will need to take anatomy at a much deeper level, so this class isn't too helpful in that regard--especially since it's so memorization heavy that the likelihood you'll remember any of the info a semester out is minimal. The lab is literally like a separate class, and the midterms test the most random minutiae that unless you need this class for something, I would hesitate to recommend it. That said, for the most part, the professors really try to present anatomy in a very integrative, evolutionarily-focused manner, which is unique and refreshing.
This class taught me so, so much about the human body. While it was quite time consuming and had a heavy workload, this class overall was worth it if you want to learn about how the body functions. It's a great class to fulfill the pre-med requirement as the labs are very engaging and fun.
This course was by far the most interesting and amazing course I have taken at Harvard. I really loved the material, the professors, and the TFs. The assignments were really fun and rewarding. This class does, however, require a lot of time. The human body is amazing, but complex and it requires a lot of memorization to get it down. The lab practicals aren't bad, but you have to memorize a lot. The exams are mainly rote memorization. The final added an applicative component, which was nice. I love this course!
This is an absolutely amazing class. It inspired me to be premed, it inspired me to change some of my life habits, and it taught me many things. Furthermore, it was extremely fun, the professors and TFs are wonderful, and you sound very classy when you have to go to UHS and can use lots of big medical words.
You will learn a lot in this class that will be useful for the MCAT, a career in medicine, and/or HEB concentration. However, to do well on the practicals/exams, you have to be willing to put in a lot of work. Going to lab office hours is necessary.
It's a very very difficult course- super time intensive. At times, you might feel frustrated with how much is required of you/how much you're expected to know. The exams are also very tough and no matter how much you study, it's difficult to do well on them. That said, you do learn a lot.
This course will consume your life. It is basically two courses in one: there is the material from lectures that you need to know for the exams, and there is the material from lab that you need to know for practicals. You will need to re watch every lecture on your own because it moves so fast. That being said, I learned so much and was always interested. It is just an absurd amount of information and if you don't put the time in you won't do well.
only take if you are ready for the amount of work and independent study required for this class. It was interesting, but often times it was also brute memorization and can be very not fun. taking it with a class that was mostly premed also made it very stressful and since it is curved, you really have to force yourself to do well - added pressure makes the material seem less interesting at the time.
It is hard. Ridiculously hard. Lab and lecture are like 2 different classes with their own material and their own examinations. And the class definitely is not nice to you, it is not understanding. It expects a certain amount from you, and if you don't achieve, they're not going to give you an A because you tried. But damn, do you learn a lot. It is a fascinating class and I feel like I have learned some of the most interesting and applicable stuff that I will get out of any Harvard class. Basically: try hard, take advantage of the amazing TFs and their office hours, start studying early, and don't take another premed class at the same time.
The course is difficult, but if you can keep up with the readings, attend lecture and review, review, review, the material is so interesting and so worth it. I loved learning about how the body works, and labs were great for reinforcing that.
I really enjoyed this class, but it was quite difficult. This class requires a lot of studying and a lot of work. Lectures focus on physiology while labs focus on anatomy, and though the two overlap from time to time, it can feel like two different classes at times. However, it really was a wonderful class. I learned so much in just a semester. Having learned a great deal about the body and how it works through lectures and dissections, I can honestly say this is the greatest pre-med experience I've had here yet.
Overall it's a great class, but be prepared to work hard. The lectures are fascinating, and the midterms are long but fair. Dr. Carr is intimidating, but she's surprisingly kind and helpful when you meet with her one-on-one. The lab is very disorganized and could use significant improvement. The labs themselves are great, but are pretty much a totally separate class that requires much more work than and is not terribly connected to the course itself. The labs do not prepare you well to succeed on the practicals, which are extremely difficult.
Make sure you talk to people about the synthesis questions for the final.  Do the practice problems for the final as well. some items were verbatim.  The first exam it is important to do well in because the 2nd exam is typically harder but people tend to score better because they scored poorly on the first due to insufficient studying.  Study the practice exams for those are a good indicator of what style and how specific the exams can be.  I would rewatch the lectures and write detailed notes on them (splitting this up with people in a group google doc is key). i didn't do this and I regret it but I still enjoyed the class itself. Very time intensive class with physiology in lab taking up a lot of time.
this class was a struggle for life and often left me in tears and fits of rage, but I have to say it is an incredibly great feeling to know how the entire body works, I have learned more relevant, fascinating material in this class than any other as a pre-med student.
This class will stress you out to no end and take up a ton of your time. The exams are extremely hard and difficult to prepare for. There are no problem sets, which is a bad thing because you don't know what's expected of you until the midterms. There aren't many assignments, so you have to have the discipline to actually sit down and study without getting a grade for it. You have to memorize a ton for lab, and the lab tests (practicals) are unfair and stressful. The lab reports are graded extremely strictly, but without telling you what is expected. However, you will learn a lot about anatomy (but never enough to do well on exams). It is very interesting, but that is drowned out by the extreme stress it will cause you.
It is a great class, extremely interesting content, but can be difficult at times. Overall strongly recommended
LS2 has a lot of work to do before it's anywhere near a reasonable or well-structured introductory anatomy course. Lab practicals are stressful and test the memorization of hundreds of names of bones, bone details, muscles, and muscle origins and insertions. You're given a week to memorize them, then they are scarcely mentioned again. The lectures are good enough, but sometimes far, far too basic. 

You will spend ten hours a week on this class, minimum.
The lecture part of class isn't a lot of work but the labs are an insane amount of work. I spent more time on labs alone than I have on any other class period. The Head TF is really nice and helpful. The professors are nice. I'm happy I took this class cause it will definitely help with the MCAT.
This course just takes a TON of time. Make sure you can devote enough time to it, and you'll do well. Books are useless, office hours are essential.
You absolutely MUST keep yourself accountable for the lecture material totally separate from lab and practical review. The midterms and final are comprised exclusively of content learned in lecture and the absence of psets means that the class in no way keeps you accountable for what is truly a massive amount of information.
Great class with excellent lecturers! Be prepared to spend time outside of class preparing for the lab practicals.
The class is difficult but a must if you are premed.  You should not go to medical school without taking this course.  I would feel at a disadvantage had I not taken the course.  You learn so much!  It was difficult but really fun at the same time.  labs are enjoyable although the practicals are intense in terms of how much you need to study for them.  The professors are amazing, they know their stuff!
This class is extremely interesting, however requires a great amount of studying.
The material is interesting but the workload is unreal. Lab is basically like you are taking a fifth class. Stay on top of studying for lab practicals and go to office hours to study for them so you can look at the cats. Be prepared to study a lot for all lab practicals, midterms, and especially the final exam.
Lab/Practicals are horrible.
Be prepared to teach yourself many topics.
Really interesting course, but only take if you're willing to make this the priority of your semester. Going to office hours is almost necessary to do well on the practicals and exams. Also requires studying week to week, not just close to the exam. The benefit of the class is that if you put in enough time/effort, you should be able to do well
This was a very harshly graded class.  The Lab practicals are sorta miserable to study for.  The problem with this class is that the material is incredibly interesting and the lectures are actually alright.  However, the class is such a weed-out class that the enthusiasm isn't reflected in the grades.
Lab and Lectures are separate/treat like 2 classes. Rewarding for sure, but memorization seems to be valued more so than understanding (the final can be forgiving). Do take it if you have a genuine interest/wish to learn--that you will do.
You need to put in the work, but it's incredibly rewarding at the end of it all.
Only take this course if you're not afraid of memorization and
This class covers a huge amount of information which is good and bad. Good, because you will learn a lot and gain appreciation for the complexity of the human body and other organisms. Bad, because unlike other universities, Harvard teaches anatomy and physiology together in one class. Taking LS2 is like taking two classes together at once. For lab, office hours are not optional if you want to do well. For lecture, study lectures regularly and early.
This class is an excellent overview of how the body works. Despite what many think, this class is certainly not limited to pre-med students or science concentrators, though I have heard that this class is very similar to what you would take in medical school. As one of the few non-science major and non-pre-med students in this class, I definitely lacked a solid biology or chemistry background compared to others, and had to put in extra time to understand what the basic concepts and terms meant, but overall found most of the material to be clear and manageable if you put in the necessary effort. Most of the material, once you understand it, is memorization-based. You do have to keep in mind that this class is very heavy in workload- as many others would say, the lectures and labs are like two different classes because there is just so much to do for each portion. However, this class has definitely peaked my interest in the sciences and has even had me question my major. The labs are fascinating (dissections!), and the lectures are taught very well. The class is very fast-paced and a lot of material is squeezed into the semester, so don't take on too many other commitments and hard classes for the semester.
Overall, I am really happy that I took LS 2 even though at times it was difficult. Also, Dr. Carr is really helpful if you go to her for extra help! Thanks Dr. Carr.
Be ready to spend a lot of time on this class. As far as learning and lecture go though, this class was great! Just time consuming
It is A LOT of time.  Beware!  It is also can be very difficult to understand and digest all the material (the lecture component).  If you are up for the challenge though you will definitely learn a lot. It was one of my favorite classes here, despite my struggles.
Super interesting, a ton of work. A TON. Do not take it as a 5th. It's basically two courses in one.
hard, but worthwhile
TAKE THIS CLASS. Yes, I know all the other comments say that it's like taking two classes because lab takes so much time, but IT'S WORTH IT. This is hands down one of my favorite Harvard classes- it is pretty well taught (material is dense and might be a little all over the place on occasion) but it is so super relevant and interesting, and if you even think you may want to go to med school, take this class and see if med school is actually for you! The memorizing is a lot but it works your brain well and you will get in the groove if you start strong right at the beginning. Take this for sure if you need an extra biology for pre med reqs.
You will learn an incredible amount in LS2 but it won't always be fun.  This class actually operates like 2 classes, with the lab and the lecture being extremely disconnected.  Lab practicals every week require A LOT of stuyding.  Also, don't put off studying until the last minute for exams, it'll really hurt you.  That being said, the professors and Dr. Carr are all fantastic people!
This is a difficult class, but you will come out of it knowing a ton about how the human body works
This course was fascinating, but it was a lot of work and a lot of memorization, which takes time. It definitely teaches you how to study, but a lot of people have to learn how to do this class the hard way, when it is too late to do well.
This class is hard. There is a lot of work involved, which is fine because the topics are so interesting. However, be prepared for the logistical challenges of lab, and the rather terrible time-crunch during the midterms. If you go to lecture, stay engaged during lab, and do the work, your grade will end up fine, but it still requires a significant time/energy investment. That said, the professors are great, the lectures are interesting, and the material is AWESOME!
