I found it a bit frustrating that we didn't go over the errors that we made on our exams, and thus didn't solidify the rules that we weren't clear on before the next exam (where we would likely make many of the same mistakes and keep losing points). Other than that, it was a fairly low-stress class with a lot of interesting readings about death in different genres of swedish literature. I personally didn't get very much out of the component where we had people present their novellas, because it was just kind of confusing to hear about the books and not actually read them. I think it would make more sense for all of us to read like three of them and then be able to all talk about them in the class.
Great class! It was a lot of funning learning about medieval swedish culture and the films we watched were incredible.
This class is great!
This course is a fun way to engage with Swedish literature and culture.
SVERIGE
Take this class because the prof is great and funny and really there arent many language classes where I have found that I can try without feeling embarrassed. You also get to read a swedish book at your own pace, apart from the weekly readings.
This class is potentially really good for developing your Swedish further, but in my opinion, your progress is very much going to be reflective of how much you put into the class. There are weekly readings and a few writing assignments on said readings. You'll also get to pick a book in Swedish to read over the course of the semester. Overall, there isn't much grammar at all to learn, but I think the general layout of the class is too chill for its own good. I put in a lot of time outside of class to develop my Swedish further, but I learned more grammar by taking a few hours to read through the first several chapters of a comprehensive grammar book than I did in two semesters of this class. It's not that the course is disorganized per se, but it felt very unstructured to me. Don't get me wrong; it's lots of fun and Agnes is great, but I think we could have gotten a lot more done with the little time we had if there was a more concrete plan for what was going to be done day to day. We were behind the daily schedule almost from the start, and I think given what was to be covered, we should have been ahead. I also don't think I did as well as I could have on the exams because enough emphasis wasn't placed on the various topics we were covering and there were very few grammar practicing exercises and homework assignments to facilitate a really cemented understanding of how certain aspects of the language work. If you want a fun, low stress class, this is it, but if you want an intensive continuation of your Swedish learning career, it's probably going to have to come from supplemental material/effort.
