This course is not easy. Choose another language.
Just have fun in class, Agnes like to have fun and you get through the material without any friction. Best class ever.
You can not find a better language class at Harvard. I know a lot of language learners and no one loves their class or their teacher as much as I do.  I know Maja is leaving, but I still feel so strongly that Swedish is an incredible language and an incredible culture.
It's really fun and interesting!
Very fun class, interesting people, very interdisciplinary - you learn about government, history, film, even economics.
It is a really great class! The teacher(s) are really wonderful and everything is taught logically and well.
Swedish is so much fun. It's a great language, challenging but not beyond grasp. The instructor is amazing and energetic even at 9am. You will become good friends with your sectionmates.
Ursula is amazing!
Fun and engagin!
Loved the class but I struggled some and I didn't expect to
Though Swedish isn't a widely spoken language, it is very fun to learn, and it's nice to be in a class in which almost everyone enrolled is interested in the class and not just in fulfilling a requirement. If you have any interest in Scandinavia or just want to try something new I highly recommend Swedish.
Lots more work than you'd imagine for a language class. Think 1-2 hours each night.
It is a fun language
It's a really laid back class and you won't feel stressed about it at all. The final is the best part because while everyone else is going to be intensely studying for a language final, Swedes get to put on a 15 minute play then have dinner with the professors.
Swedish is a really fun and easy language and this class is extremely well taught. (Also, not every class gets to put on a parody production of Pippi Longstocking in place of a final!)
This course is amazing. You will find few courses like this at Harvard, where it's fun, you're learning effectively, and the people around you are enjoyable and friendly. Ursula really sets a great atmosphere for the course-- spend as much time with her as you possibly can. Also, the final performance is a lot of fun (better than a cumulative exam!).
If you want to learn a Scandinavian language, this is the class to take.
It was a great class and I learned a lot in a short amount of time!
This is an amazing class. Ursula is a great instructor and it's super fun. We get to sing songs among other things in class.
It's a very fun environment to learn about Swedish language and culture!
If you want to learn a lot about Swedish culture and also learn a lot of the basic facets of the Swedish language, take this class!
This course is sooo fun.  There is a bit of work, however.
The class is great fun and you learn a lot without even realizing it.
Swedish is a fun language to learn, and Ursula is an enthusiastic and helpful guide. The textbook and supplemental material is really helpful, and better than many other language books I've had experience with. Learning Swedish music was also a fun part of the class.
Great for a very personalized and fun language class
Seriously, take this class. Ursula is really good and really fun! P.S. We also get to sing songs in class :)
