So much fun! You learn without realizing it.
Lots of practice speaking, (even some singing) and learning about Swedish culture. Grammar is not as difficult as many languages, though pronunciation is challenging, but fun. Both teachers were great at coming up with many ways to learn, so that kept the class interesting.
Great class. Small class size means a lot of individual attention. However, it's important to keep up with the material which requires a willingness to put in daily effort and do daily assignments.
Ursula is an amazing teacher who will totally help you outside of class. Also there are so many aspects of Swedish culture that you learn about so if anything interests you, let her know and she will show you how to get everything. Warning: the way she speaks in class is much much easier than any other swede you will ever encounter
It's a great class! Lots of fun and well-taught. Very family-like.
If you need to satisfy the language requirement, this is the best language to take
It's too bad you'll miss Ursula!
Interesting alternative way to fulfill language requirement
This is a great language class!  I took it because I wanted to try something new and it was one of the best decisions I've ever made.  It may seem intimidating to learn a fairly obscure language with no background information but the way the course is taught makes it easy to catch on.
much harder than expected! and with students that have a history of swedish speaking it can be unfair at times.
wonderful class and wonderful teacher! this language class has made me want to take so many more. Ursula really cares about her students and does everything possible to make the class wonderful. She also brings food on test days :)
Swedish is a beautiful language and it's fairly easy to pick up! The tricky part is catching the Swedish accent, but I've found that listening to Swedish radio helps a lot.
This is honestly a great course. It's not too intensive and teaches you a lot. Maja is a great person, and will help you every step of the way.
This course is rigorous and requires an hour or so of homework per night; however you will see vast improvements in your conversational Swedish. Just one year of instruction has made me confident that I could travel to Sweden and hold my own there!
Small classes are better than large ones. Classes with nice professors are better than ones with mean ones. Classes that don't have massive workloads are better than ones that do. Classes where you eat yummy pastries are better than classes where you don't eat any. Swedish is/has all of these. Agnes is the best. The class is the best. Take it.
TAKE THIS COURSE. You will find that Sweden has its fingers in everything, and it's such a fun language to be able to speak. I entered mainly out of curiosity and now Swedish is going to be my secondary. Spanish is overrated. Swedish is the course to take.
A really fun class, and Agnes is amazing! If you're looking to fulfill the foreign language requirement, definitely consider Swedish!
You will love this class! The perfect introduction to a language with the right amount of work to never be overwhelming but truly teach you and help you retain everything you have learned over the course of the year.
Swedish and Agnes are the best. Only issue is the painful 9 am class time
The course was a very fun introduction to both the Swedish language and many aspects of Swedish culture.
Sverige!!! This class is awesome! Swedish is awesome! Agnes will bring you Chokladbollar.
Be prepared that this class is a deceiving amount of work. You will never be prepared for the tests as so much goes into them that is rushed in class. Agnes is great for class though so it's fun.
Swedish Ab is a wonderful class; you learn the language at a satisfactory pace while also learning many tidbits about Swedish culture and so on throughout the class.  Homework and class is meant to be supplemented with grammar, vocab, listening, and speaking practice on your own time.  It's easy to make the mistake of falling behind with "extra" practice, but it's pretty essential.
Greatest class ever with the greatest teacher ever. Don't take Spanish because you think it's easy, this class is much more rewarding and fun.
