Only take if you are prepared to do a ton of reading and have some familiarity with the US healthcare system; otherwise it can be pretty daunting.
Joe (the professor) is a treasure trove...he knows so much that he has difficulty deciding what to teach us sometimes.  However, if you just ask him, he is likely to know the answer himself or know someone who does.
I learned a lot in it, and it was interesting!
Phenomenally helpful overview of health economics -- broad in scope and yet detailed and rigorous; strongly recommended for anyone with a serious interest in US health care policy
It's a little dry, but a better introduction to the economics of healthcare than anything else out there.
Lots of reading.
If you are interested in US health care policy, this course is a great choice in terms of survey courses. However, if you are interested in global health or comparative health systems, I wouldn't recommend this course.
An awesome class. Very insightful and rewarding. Professor Newhouse is at the forefront of the field, and it was an honor to be taught by him. Do be prepared to do the work and reading, though - it is not a class to be taken lightly! Plus the more you put in, the more you will learn - and there is much to be learned, especially from such a knowledgeable professor!
an interesting experience.
be prepared to read a lot
Especially if you are going into medicine or are interested in the health care system from a policy or economics standpoint, this course is an excellent way to get an in depth exposure to the important issues about health care.  Prof. Newhouse is a true innovator and expert in the field, and it was a privilege to learn this information from him first-hand.
This is a great overview of the US health care system and all of the most important topics in the field. Plus, Professor Newhouse knows about (pretty much) everything health care policy related, so you couldn't ask for a more knowledgeable professor. Do be prepared to put a LOT of work into this class, and budget your time correctly from the start. This is not the class where you can not do the readings and then skim everything the week before the final. It's a great class, and if you are potentially interested in going into public/health care policy, this is the class for you, but just be aware of and prepared for the work.
If you have any interest in American politics or health care, you should absolutely take this course.
Recommended for anyone who wants to formalize application of critical thinking skills to topics in health policy.
This was an excellent introduction to health care economics. I learned a ton from the amazingly thorough syllabus paragraphs, syllabus readings, and long slide decks. If you are interested in understanding some of the most important issues in health care, it is worth the 8:30 am mornings twice a week. That said, Newhouse is not the most charismatic or engaging lecturer--use the TFs if and when you're having trouble understand stuff. Also, it's a serious time commitment if you're interested in actually doing the readings, and the class is not worth as much if you don't. I recommend it!
If you're interested in learning about the healthcare industry, you won't find a better opportunity.  I can confidently say I learned more applicable and relevant knowledge in this class than any other I've taken.
This course provides a great grounding in US healthcare policy. A "must" for anyone who plans to work in this field.
This is a fascinating class.  Newhouse is an expert in the field.  This is not an easy class, though. Each week there is a lot of reading and you have to go through the 100+ slides of lecture notes (of which only 10-15 are covered in lecture).  It is a lot of independent study if you do not have a background in the US healthcare system.  The class is definitely more of a grad school class.
Incredible class with an incredible professor for anyone who wants a truly in-depth analysis of health care policy and the numerous ways that health economics "breaks the rules" of traditional economics. You walk away with far more appreciation for the complexities of health care policy. The readings for each week can be pretty heavy, but the work for testimonies/final is not that much. Plus the readings provide an incredible wealth of info that can be useful for you going forward. Fair warning - definitely a heavier than expected workload and is quite difficult for an undergrad. It's quite a bit of work but very worthwhile.
Great class. Syllabus may seem overwhelming, but the workload is manageable, and the course and course materials are an excellent guide for a future career in health policy.
