This class is simply awesome, and highly recommended.
This class is an excellent way to learn about important current debates in the field of macroeconomic and financial policy and to learn to think about them rigorously in terms of economic models.
Only take this class if you are self-motivated and willing to explore topics beyond what is covered in class.
This is a great course - you should take it if you're interested in a broad exposure to some topics in international macro or you just want a fun upper-level econ course that won't stress you out too much!
Ken Rogoff is an unbelievable professor. Truly knowledgeable in subject matter and able to translate that knowledge to his students.
Genious professor and great topics covered in class
a good combination of theory and application on international economics
This is a wonderful course with a wonderful professor. Please take this class while you can!
This was the best economics course I have taken at Harvard.  It is challenging, and it requires a strong understanding of economic models. I found it very rewarding as well.
Incredible chance to take a small class with a preeminent international economist.
Professor Rogoff is amazing! He is not only extremely intelligent, but is always available and engaged in students' work! He is the greatest attribute of this class.
Take this class, if only to experience Rogoff's understated brilliance and refreshing style -- it's really a joy to pick his brain, whether it be in class, in his office, or at the student-faculty dinners he makes a point to attend. He has an incredible mind.
Don't be scared by the complicated models, this course is great!
it's a great class, one of the best I've taken at Harvard
One of the most interesting courses I have taken at Harvard. Demanding at times, but well worth the effort.
The best economics class I took at Harvard. Professor Rogoff's enthusiasm for the material in addition to his interest in students' understanding is rare for a Harvard class.
Learn a lot, not a hard class but interesting material.  Rogoff is a good lecturer, and the topics are the most relevant for current global affairs.
This class is difficult but every assignment is rewarding to really get through. The first month might scare you off, but the work ends up being interesting and manageable. It's a team class - even the paper you write is with a team and you'd probably spend 40 hrs rather than 20 on each problem set if you didn't work with other people. The other people in the class are some of the smartest people I've met at Harvard.
Take it with friends because there is a lot of group work and the problem sets are hard.
If you want an intimate classroom setting with a giant in economics, you shouldn't pass this up.
K. Rogoff is a G.
You're almost certainly better off reading the abstracts of the papers on the syllabus. You won't get into nearly as much material as you'd expect.
Pretty solid class. However, it is a far cry from the CUE ratings it has received in the past. I went into this class expecting a 5.0 professor. Instead, it was a pretty good class but nothing to write home about.
Take this class, because the professor is great and the material is interesting, but prepare to find yourself a bit bored during lectures unless the format changes significantly.
You learn a great deal about international financial economics, and you have the opportunity to work closely with an outstanding Professor who is very talented and cares about getting to know his students.
Professor Rogoff lives up to his reputation as one of the best macroeconomist on the planet(as far as I can judge). More impressive though than his very extensive and amazing academic work including his insights into the current financial crisis and policy responses, is his modesty and character.He is interested in getting to know his students. The first four weeks may scare you due to a fast pace & many models, if you get through though you will be rewarded with a deeper understanding of financial crisis and macroeconomic policy.
Very good class. Don't get too scared by the models at the beginning; they'll make sense in the end.
It is clear from the beginning that Rogoff is unbelievably brilliant. As the semester unfolds, it is further revealed that he applies his unique mind to excellent research and skillful teaching. The course structure should be applauded.
I loved the class, but only take it if you are really interested in the material or else you will probably be disappointed.
This is a really great class to get an overview of international macro policy from a professor who has literally written the book on the subject.  Rogoff is a wonderful professor who really cares about his students and is incredibly well-versed in both the theory and policy regarding the world economy.  The models presented in the class can be difficult, but if you get through the first pset without too much trouble, you will probably be fine.
You'll feel like you learned a lot more after the course is finished than while you're pulling through the models during the first half. The policy paper is probably the most fulfilling project/learning experience in the course
If you really enjoyed Macroeconomics in Ec 10 and Ec 1010b and want to pursue it further this class is a great opportunity.  You study a lot more advanced and intricate models that are really interesting.  The final essay is also a great opportunity to research and analyze a current macroeconomic issue.  Professor Rogoff is a great professor.  If you take the class you should really make an effort to get to know him over the course of the semester.   Potential students should not however that this class is heavily theory based.  The only time we really talk about current events is during the final projects at the end of the class.
Course is front-loaded. All the models come before the midterm, so it feels really overwhelming and a lot of people drop out right before the first pset is due, but it gets a lot better after that.
This is a really great class and I would recommend it to all who get in. Professor Rogoff is an amazing person to learn from and takes time to discuss current events whenever possible. The problem sets can be challenging, but they are fair and the paper is tough but if you put in the time, you can definitely do well. This is the type of class where you learn a great deal and can do well if you put forth the effort.
One of the best classes I've taken in the past three years.
This class is certainly one you should try to take! Professor Rogoff is very much interested in the progress of his students and it is amazing to learn from such a renowned professor!
It's really a terrific opportunity to get to hear Professor Rogoff break down these highly pertinent issues.
The course is front-loaded with models and Professor Rogoff's lectures can get very intense in the first few weeks. But, hold on as the end of the class is worth the wait. Professor Rogoff is smart and even if you have a remote interest in macroeconomics, you should take this course.
The math seems overwhelming but is actually pretty straightforward when you start to understand it and work with the TF. If you go to section or OH, it's so much easier. Everything is manageable and Professor Rogoff is awesome! I took pass/fail which was worth it, especially if you care more about the policy aspect than the models.
Great course! Rogoff is super knowledgeable and covers a wide range of interesting topics. The models are relevant and explained well, and the more policy oriented topics are great for preparing for finance interviews. Final paper takes some work, but definitely not too bad.
Take this class! You'll learn quite a lot about macro issues, and Prof. Rogoff is just absolutely amazing as a teacher.
One of the best ECON classes at Harvard! Can be a little challenging at first, but then becomes very comfortable as the semester goes on
If you are searching for an interesting and demanding econ course with a great professor that has heaps of experience and is really into the topics he teaches, take this course! The first part is rather analytical and maybe more demanding, but it helps a lot for the empirical part about debt crises, liquidity traps ... in the second half of the course.
Definitely take this class if you can get in. Rogoff is a fantastic teacher who cares about teaching undergrads, and the subject matter is fascinating.
Rogoff is amazing. I learned so much in this course, and yet it wasn't too difficult or time-consuming. Rogoff really cares about his students and getting to know them (if you make the effort). Jesse is great too, and explains things very clearly in section. I thought that the material was very interesting. Be warned that this course is heavily lotteried.
Best Class I have taken at Harvard. You will learn everything about macroeconomics from the most incredible professor
Probably my favorite econ class out of the ones that I've taken thus far. Don't be scared off by the models in the beginning, they're really not that much and the psets walk you through them. Whenever you're tested on the models during exams, it's essentially just what you did in the psets. Professor Rogoff adds in interesting stories about his personal experiences into the lectures and really tries to engage and get to know the students. The second half of the course, with  the focus on policy papers and discussions, is great as well. Take this class if you can!
