Learn a lot about media, technology, democracy and some about economics.  Very interesting and taught by excellent faculty.  Don't expect much feedback or course involvement (participation), but if your interests lie in one of the aforementioned areas, you will find the course an excellent choice.
Take it if you don't want to do ANY work. don't take it if you actually want to learn and enjoy one of your classes. it was terrible.
Easy, interesting subject matter.
although the material is interesting, the class needs to be more structured.
love this class!!!
That I encourage them to take this course, however csution that it is a bit unorganized at times.
It is very interesting with strong professors, but the expectations are a bit unclear.
don't take it, it's a waste of time.
Only the last third of the course was an economics class.
great class for seniors, interesting, sometimes frustrating with lack of organization and feedback
Its the easiest hard class at Harvard, you rarely know what your supposed to be learning, but it is interesting.
It really changed the way that I looked at the media and the way in which I understand the news to be distributed.  This is a class that all citizens should take because it points to the reasons that the freedom of the press was included in the constitution and is still essential to the functioning of our democracy today.  Lectures are really interesting and Professor Berner has a wealth of experience to draw on.  THis was a great class, and I am very glad to have taken it because it is incredibly relevant to the world that we live in.
Professors Berner and Aghion are excellent instructors, the material is very interesting and although the class itself is not challenging, it is well worth taking.
Take this class if you're looking to spend 3 hours a week wondering what the hell is going on in class.
lectures are long, the material does not really run together cohesively, and lots of french accents.
I recommend this class to those with a genuine interest in the subject, who want to purely learn more material, not necessarily discuss it.
Very easy but not fully developed yet, still organizational problems, and sometimes difficult to follow how the course is moving/what is being taught or answered.
Relatively painless, but also relatively disorganized and chaotic.
If the course had a section and a more robust rubric for grading it would be much better
Some students did find the course "boring" but my background interest made it very interesting for me, so I guess it depends on your interest in the subject matter.
It's very easy and pretty interesting. Basically no work. No need to know anything about economics.
This class is easy, with a very light workload, but I did not learn very much, there was almost no economics analysis, and it's very difficult to figure out how they can actually grade people, since there were only a few assignments that seemed a bit arbitrarily graded.
The information was very interesting.
Recommended if you want a class that requires almost no effort, time, or intelligence.  There are no readings, section, homework and the assignments are very easy.  If you want a course with a little more substance and want to learn something, I would not recommend taking this course.
Interesting and not too time-consuming.
If you need clear structure and organization in your courses, this is not for you.
not too difficult or demanding, but also very little substance and taught in a disorganized fashion.
It's a very interesting topic but there's nothing too fun or exciting - it's a standard lecture class.
It is very easy, but will not offer much beyond an easy class
Very disorganized. The professors have a very pessimistic view of new media, which is what I was interested in. Also low tolerance of other opinions.
Take it: interesting, relatively easy and rewarding class.
This class has virtually no work, but lectures are very engaging and therefore were still attended regularly by most class members. Professors are rather disorganized, and assign and change assignments at whim, but there are nonetheless very few of them and they were thought provoking but not very difficult.
It is easy but unstructured
Would recommend highly if administrative issues regarding essay submission process are resolved and Prof. Berner continues to teach.
It was a great an interesting class!
This class is interesting in some ways but a large disappointment because of lack of structure.
Light course burden, a lot of useful knowledge. Lecture attendance is the key to success
Minimal workload, but the class is rather painful.
This course is not well taught but, as long as you don't care about learning random stuff in no particular order, it's great.  Work and time requirements are very low.
Great class if you enjoy a more european style of teaching, i.e. the teacher teaches and you listen.
really interesting class with few requirements. I liked the material though others didn't. the viewpoint is relatively limited (in that very pro-journalist) but you can fill in the blanks yourself.
Great class if you want to learn about interesting stuff and not do excessive amounts of work
A practical course that applies economic reasoning to real-world situations.
This class is very manageable and interesting if you keep up with readings.
It is interesting, but information is hard to retain
A very relaxing class with some interesting and relevant material. There wasn't a lot of economics in it till the end.
This class is well worth your time. The teaching staff is engaging and intelligence, and clearly quite passionate about the subject of the course.  I learned a lot about the media and the economics behind it.
An excellent, stimulating, and engaging class with a very manageable workload that will fundamentally alter the way you think of the media. An eye opener and a gem! Particular credit should go to Professor Berner and Professor Aghion. I can't say enough good things! Simply stunning!
