A lot of reading, if you plan to do all of it.  In fact, it's probably impossible to do all of it, if you take a full course load.  I tried to read all of the "starred" papers, but there were over 100 of them, which starts to become impossible when other assignments pile up.
Larry is wonderful and you would be missing out to not take his class while at Harvard.
I'm a Kennedy School student - this class is not like Kennedy School classes at all.  There is no group work, it is very independent/self-driven.  The material is academically challenging.  I like all of this but others at the Kennedy School probably wouldn't.
It was great to hear Larry's perspective on the literature across a wide range of topics. I also really appreciate his feedback on my paper.
Good course if this is a subject matter that you are deeply passionate about as the Professor is hugely knowledgeable and the the course goes into considerable depth.  But be aware that it is pretty technical, and can be quite dry.
Larry is phenomenal! Such a great teacher.
As long as you understand that there is a lot of material been covered, and that you will need to do a lot of readings, this course is among the best you will have in Harvard.
The course is a great survey of labor economics. It is not very demanding and you get to produce a paper. If any of the above is alluring, you should take the course.
Larry and the syllabus are excellent.
Great grounding in Labor Economics - you know what's going on by the end of the course.
Do the readings, at least skimming through each to understand it, preferably in advance. Seriously, DO THEM.
Labor teaches necessary methodology and topics very relevant to current research frontier
Good overview of labor economics
This is a doctoral seminar. Taking this course on a lark without knowing what you want to get out of it would probably be a mistake - there is just too much to absorb all of it (for most people). For a really motivated senior it could be a good way to get a feel for what doctoral level work in econ is like.
I would particularly recommend the course for the breadth of issues addressed, the variety of modern empirical methods covered, and the opportunity to refine research ideas in progress with Prof Katz and Alexandra.
Great survey course of labor economics, with a focus on empirical research
This class will teach you more than what you expected to learn about Labor Markets. Professor Katz knows more on this topic that anyone else. It's an amazing class.
Writing the paper is a good exercise and Katz gives great feedback.
This is an excellent course and Professor Katz is absolutely brilliant. If you are even remotely interested in labor economics, or think that you might be, do not be intimidated by the fact that it's a grad-level course and definitely take this class.
Great overview of labor literature.
The course covers a lot of interesting material.
This is a really fantastic course - even if you don't manage to absorb everything (and there's a lot), you'll walk away feeling much more knowledgeable. Larry is awesome.
Read as much as you can.  Also, make sure you have a clear understanding of the models.  Sometimes I felt like they were rushed through during lecture, but without the context of the models, the lecture about the empirics is hard to focus on.
If you are curious about Labor, this is a must-take course.  No excuses.  Try to grab the reading list ahead of time and start going through them, because they take time.  Lastly, read the lecture notes before class -- they are almost always posted beforehand so you can prepare questions.
Work throughout the semester to synthesize understanding. You will not be asked to do this until the final, but you will have a much more complete understanding as you go if you do.
the lectures by both professors are very worthwhile. Reading list is great, and if you are able to keep up with a good chunk of it, you'll get out a lot from the course.
This is a great course to take if you are interested in labor economics, policy, or any kind of applied microeconomic theory.
This is the best applied econometrics course in the department.  You should definitely take it if you plan on doing anything related to labor, public, development, or applied micro in general.
You should take any course you can with Professor Katz, he is a fount of knowledge and an enthusiastic lecturer!
If you are looking for an overview of the topics in empirical labor economics, this is the course you should take
Huge amount of material, but it's not really necessary to know all of the readings inside and out, and I don't think the profs expect you to.  Would recommend dividing the weekly readings among a study group and sharing summaries
This is a must-take course for any graduate student in economics and related fields.
It's more valuable if you do the reading
Great class for gaining intuition for econometrics and applied micro in general. The subject matter can be dry at times though (i.e. 6 weeks of measuring the returns to schooling).
Don't take this class, lectures are not that useful. Time would be better spent reading on your own.
larry cares so much.
It's a lot of material, but you'll have a much better sense of the field after taking this course.
This course is interesting and worthwhile ot understand the human capital model, but the work requirements may go beyond what one desires in a graduate course.
finish your econometrics courses.
That Larry is amazing and the class is really well taught.
From the applied economics field courses, I think this could easily called  the best taught one.
Students should set themselves earlier deadlines to come up with a project for the term paper. It could so easily be something better than what you throw together in the winter break. And Prof Katz is always avaiable for some consultation.Also, read voraciously, even if there are no problem sets or midterm for this course.
