This is a very challening course.  Problem sets take a lot of time but rewarding at the same time.  Make sure that you have taken STAT 110 or have a strong statistical background.  Overall, it is a great course.
The course material is very interesting and there is a lot to be learned from just reading the lecture notes and doing the homework. However, lectures are not as clear, so you have to be willing to take the time to review lecture notes and slides and really work at the homework.
Almost a grad level course in econometrics, not for the faint of heart. But after taking it i learnt alot. Up to you...
The lectures can be a little boring but you learn extremely important topics in economic analysis. Also, Professor Chamberlain is very willing to help students who need extra help, and actually teaches the material very well in lecture.
This class is based around a confusing and poorly executed lecture and an unhelpful section. Take any other alternative course to fill the requirement.
Professor Chamberlain expects a lot out of you in this class. That said, you learn a lot about econometrics and it is all worth it at the end of the semester.
If you really want to know what happens behind the scenes in stata with regression, this is the class for you. This class is extremely abstract, and requires that you stay on your toes with the math. The grading structure is quite fair, and so you shouldn't be afraid of the course's difficulty for that reason.
Loved it; learned a ton! Professor Chamberlain really works to make this class manageable and fair. I definitely recommend going to office hours all the time and reading the lecture notes carefully. Also, before you take this class, be sure you take Stat 110 and have some background in linear algebra.
This class is only for patient ones. The material is enjoyable, but only with the assumption that effort has to be put into understanding it. Generally speaking, one should not expect to be spoon-fed the material as happens in easier courses.
Difficult class but worth it if interested in learning basic econometrics theoretically.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS UNLESS IT IS REQUIRED.  I am not sure which is the lesser of the two evils: Ec 1126 or Ec 1127, but one of the two is required for Applied Math/Econ.  If you are applied math/econ, suck it up and take this class over 1127, but ONLY IF Arturo Aguilar is the TF.  Otherwise, life will be very, very miserable, I assure you.
Not worth it.
Be prepared to be confused, and only take it if you really want the harder econometrics class.
I learned a lot, but it is hard to follow without statistics/probability background.
If you can get away without taking it, don't take it.
Don't take it unless you have to
Take this class only if you have to.
Keep in mind that econometrics is notoriously boring, so it may not be the professor's fault if it is.  But, it will be handy in the long run.  Grit your teeth and work on psets with other people.
It must be taken by some people, but there is some interesting material. structure could be improved
Assuming the same professor and structure, you will learn very little in this class.
Only take if it is a requirement
the lectures are theoretical and hard to understand, but the section makes it all clear and the assignments are interesting
Material is useful, class will probably be easier if you have taken stat 110 and 111, though this is not absolutely necessary. You will learn econometrics at both a theoretical and applied level.
be prepared to work hard
The course has potential to be useful but it is highly dependent on the professor
Don't take it unless Arturo is the section leader.
This class is truly unique. That is not necessarily a good or a bad thing, but it is definitely true. If you are a math/statistics genius, this is probably the class for you, and you will probably get a lot more out of it than I did. I thought I was well-prepared for this class, having gotten solid As in Ec 10, math 21a, math 21b, and Stat 110, but I was wrong.I have spoken to other students much smarter than I, and they had a great experience with the class. So if you want to understand econometrics at a deeper level than you had ever expected, and if you are willing to put in the work and toil to make sense of seemingly incomprehensible lecture slides, then this is the class for you. If you just want to understand how to run a regression and what "identification" is, then take 1123.
If you are looking for an applied econometrics course, this class may not be for you. If you are looking to understand how regression works, this class does a pretty good job of explaining the mathematics behind regression.
If you put in the work (which frankly is very do-able for this class) then the material is pretty manageable (some parts definitely easier than others).  The class is interesting and the papers are a nice way to see practical applications of the methods learned in class, which makes the material all the more engaging.
I thought the material was interesting albeit dry in some parts. Professors were helpful and available to discuss concepts and problems. Homework assignments and tests were not too difficult or frustrating but still got across the main points of the material
I definitely learned a lot in this class which was good and the workload wasn't overwhelming.
It would be good to see this stuff in an applied context before learning it in this class.
A tremendous introduction to econometrics, if a bit challenging at times. The first half, taught by Gary Chamberlain, deals with linear models (regression analysis) and inference. It is quite theoretical. The second half, taught by Max Kasy, is effectively a course in applied econometrics: Instrumental Variables, Difference-in-Differences, Regression Discontinuity Analysis, etc. All has a theoretical bent, but the second part focuses on applications more than the first.Gary Chamberlain is literally one of the best in his field, and it has been a privilege to learn from him. This class will make you a better student of economics (and indeed, an empiricist). It takes a good deal of time if you really want to understand the material. The second part especially felt quite rushed, since it really is a semester's worth of material. Overall quite difficult but rewarding. The perk is that you get to take a 30-people class (mostly filled up by extremely intelligent peers) instead of the massive Ec 1123. Start early on your paper replication. It is very difficult, even if you already know how to use STATA.
This class teaches really useful skills in a relatively interesting manner. Although lectures can be dry, the professors are really nice and you learn a lot from the readings and the final. It's also not very difficult.
Great class with great professors. You really come out feeling like you learned something.
This class is really interesting, but the two halves feel somewhat disjointed. Gary's section is incredible. Kasy's half goes over a lot of useful material, but isn't connected to the rest of the course. The replication exercise is quite interesting, but you should get started on it early because the course provides very little help in Stata. It can be really difficult if you aren't familiar with the program.
This course is a typical mediocre econ course. I don't really think the professors care about improving it. It's not terrible, not great. The material is more challenging, but the grading structure of the course may make it easier to get a good grade in than ec 1123.
I think the purpose of this course is to identify the students who should devote their lives to econometrics.
Despite many students saying otherwise, the course is easy if you understand the theme of linear regression. Although the pure probability theory may be a bit higher level than some other classes, this is definitely a good follow-up course to Stat 110 for Applied Math/Economics concentrators.
A great class all around. Both Kasy and Chamberlain are incredible professors who really know their stuff. The content is very difficult but the teaching staff makes in understandable yet rigorous.
I would tell classmates to ensure that they had taken a similar course such as Soc203a or applied Econometrics prior to taking this course.
This is a well-organized class with solid teaching staff, but it's not for everyone. If you are not strong in math, you might learn more in a different econometrics class. Shop them.
I thought Ec 1126 was overall a pretty straightforward and useful class. People say it's too much theory and not very applicable, though for me I thought learning the theory behind is helpful for the bigger picture and a better understanding, and the degree of applicable-ness was fine -- concrete examples from actual studies are given in lecture and homework, and really the best way to learn how to apply things is to actually do stuff/research outside of class. Chamberlain and Kasy were overall clear lecturers, and assignments generally clear (except for the final project - granted, it was Kasy's first time as an undergrad instructor, so I'd hope he'd improve).
material is interesting, but this course would be much better if it covered a _lot_ more material. Even with minimal stat background, this class does not present a lot of new insights. Stat 110 is definitely _not_ required to do well in this class.
Someone needs to tell Chamberlain he's too old to teach. He would spend the first half of every lecture repeating the previous one - did he forget? Had he forgotten his medication? He singlehandedly made the first half of the course soul-crushingly dull, though Kasy was a breath of fresh air and made the course somewhat worthwhile
This is an incredible class. Anyone who is familiar with basic linear algebra and comfortable with mathematical notation will benefit greatly from enrolling. (Note: prior statistics knowledge is completely unnecessary. The first few lectures will carefully develop complete theories of inference and discrete probability.) The course is comprehensive and well-structured; extremely helpful lecture notes are available; assignments and tests are both challenging and fair; and Prof. Chamberlain is one of the nicest guys around. He obviously loves the subject and is committed to his students' success; indeed, the course's only weakness is that lectures can occasionally get boring when he strives a bit too hard for clarity. The class has an undeservedly poor reputation -- sure, econometrics will suck if you hate math, but otherwise there is no reason not to take 1126 and have a really rewarding experience.
A very solid theoretical course that was consistently interesting.
Economics 1126 is taught by a brilliant professor who cares deeply about his students (grades all of the exams himself) and the course material and teaches his course accordingly. You will walk away with a solid understanding of the models that form the foundation for statistics in economics and with the ability to recognize the major assumptions made by each of them (because you can prove all of the results from scratch!).Also: go to Prof. Chamberlain's office hours! You will never be disappointed.
It's a very useful class.
Take this course. If you're interested in working with economic data at some point, Econ 1126 will leave you feeling well prepared. While the subject matter can feel at times abstruse, Gary is a great teacher - and more importantly, he seems to really care about your understanding. If you are an Applied Math - Economics concentrator, or thinking of graduate school, strongly cosider this class over Stat 111.
This course is a great theoretical approach to econometrics. Professor Chamberlain is extremely helpful and approachable, and has high but reasonable expectations for what students should get out of the course. Assessments are very fair though the material can get difficult.
Chamberlain is a boss. You will learn so much from him, one of my favorite professors at Harvard.
This class is pretty hard, as you are placed with some graduate students. The lectures are boring and you will have to work hard on your own to make up for inevitably missing said lectures due to their nature.
Difficult and abstract, but if you're willing to curl up with the lecture notes, you might get something out of the course. Needs more practical examples.
