This class was incredible. Each week we had about three readings and almost all of them were interesting. Class usually was part lecture and part discussion. Gautam is super knowledgeable and also fun and entertaining. I highly recommend this class.
This class is a lot of fun and lets you write your own paper on any subject that interests you. If you don't want to read papers, this course isn't for you
Gautam is an extremely smart and engaged professor, and this class really takes advantage of the seminar style to discuss the readings both on a critical, analytical economic level and on moral and political levels.
You will love this class. The topics are so interesting and very challenging when we start to ask questions about poverty and development in our world today. I would highly recommend the class because the topics are so fascinating but you also learn a lot about writing economics papers in the process. It was also just fun in the sense that our class was heavily discussion-based and we felt comfortable asking questions and talking with one another. It was a joy and I think they are important topics to think about since we all live in societies that experience poverty and development but don't have many chances to dig into the details and mechanisms.
Don't be intimidated by the shopping week class. The class is quite manageable and you will enjoy the experience.
Take this class if you are interested in the content. Probably one of my favorite ec classes in terms of the papers we read and the discussions we had because I am super passionate about this topic. However, if you aren't interested in the topic, definitely do not take. The professor is very cool and clearly knows his stuff and is very involved in the literature as it comes out so there's no one better to learn this stuff from. But if this is your first time writing a paper, he is not going to make the 1st time easy for you. He won't hold your hand, or help you every step of the way. You will be expected to figure pretty much everything out yourself, with not clear advice. Grading is very harsh and feedback after the fact is too late to be really helpful. I personally got lots of conflicting advice between the TF and the Professor and every meeting I had I felt like I was being told to do something different than the last meeting we had which is both discouraging but also incredibly confusing. The TF is also unapproachable, unclear with help, and expects you to know way more than is expected for a junior seminar. This seminar was also heavily weighted towards seniors over juniors, which could be a reason that the expectation for your experience with writing economics papers was too inflated.
It's a cool class with a good professor.
challenging but rewarding
Econ980EE was one of this most interesting and challenging courses that I have taken at Harvard. As a course enrollee, you dive into cutting-edge behavioral research from professors that work right down the hall from the classroom in Littauer. The material is challenging, but Professor Rao is a very engaging lecturer, so you will always be focused during class time.
