Do the readings and think about how all the issues relate to each other rather than just considering things in isolation. This won't help with the exam but will help you to be a better public economist.
this question is irrelevant because it won't be taught by the same people next year.
I would say if you are interested in public economics, then this course provides you with coverage of topics that are essential for a public economist to be familiar with. I would note, however, that much of that learning must be done on your own, and urge these students to seek out secondary sources to elucidate the material. I found Raj Chetty's lecture slides and youtube videos to be particularly useful.
The topics covered were interesting, focused on taxation and inequality this year. However, the scope was a bit limited and some of the first-half material could have been better explained. Sections were great, though.
Do not take this course if Liebman teaches as he does a terrible job of teaching this crucial material well. Miles will only go over a small subset of material and does not introduce us to the resaerch frontier at all.
This year seems like a transition year, so I think it's going to change in the future, so it would be hard to give advice to future students.
If the second half of the course remains as is, I would not recommend this course.
I think that "Public Economics" (and therefore this course) are truly relevant and fascinating. In this course we tried to understand the incidence of Government role in the economy always building up on Micro-economics models, therefore linking to Efficiency and Equity tradeoffs. If you resonate with topics such as: what should the social welfare function be, the optimal design of different forms of taxation and subsidies, the trends in US intergenerational mobility, among other topics, then this course is for you.
Good class. Not as great as people would have you believe.
If you're at all interested in public economics, consider this course! If you've taken the undergrad version (1410) and liked it, take this course. Raj is absolutely amazing and very good at teaching, a rare combination--this is a fantastic opportunity to learn from one of the leaders in economics. He and Xavier (the TF this year) are also incredibly nice and approachable. This course delves into so many different interesting topics, from education to social mobility to tax reform and generally gives you a great introduction to how big data is reshaping economics. It's also a great opportunity to take a course with graduate students, whom you can also learn a lot from. The material and problem sets are not too difficult (and there are only 3 problem sets the entire semester), so it's not a huge workload, which is nice for a grad course. Comfortability with multivariable calculus is probably necessary though. There is alsoa replication exercise due towards the end of the semester, which will be pretty intense, particularly if you're not to familiar with STATA or taking apart economics papers. But seriously, consider this course. It is definitely one of the best at Harvard, and not one undergrads generally know about.
Anyone with any interest in applied work in the social sciences should at least sit in on this class.
I don't care who you are, this is probably going to be one of the best courses you ever take.
This is THE course in public economics, no more and no less. Chetty is incredibly good as a teacher and very thought provoking as a scholar, this is the best you can get from a course in this field.
Best class at Harvard
Raj is absolutely fantastic. He captures 100% of your attention during lecture. Also, you get to learn very useful techniques in applied econometrics.
It's a great introduction to Public Economics while also providing you a better intuition of econometrics
Brilliant lectures - that alone is a sufficient reason to take this class.
A great way to study common econometric methods.
One of my favorite courses ever. Professor Chetty is a fantastic expositor of the theory and empirical evidence in public economics.
It's a survey course of most recent (and particularly important non-recent) public econ research.
extremely well taught course
This is the course to take if you want to understand the current frontier in how economists currently think about policy making.
Great course for getting exposure to policy-relevant economic problems, without getting too caught up in the weeds of any particular model.  It's not exactly a cakewalk, but you learn a lot if you put the effort in.
The lectures are awesome, great lectures notes. Raj has extremely good insights into the papers, and selects them for a reason. Section is extremely useful too, I recommend going, it really helps.
You don't have to have 1st year sequence. You just need ti be comfortable with learning on the spot.
This class is an excellent overview of static optimal taxation theory and also gives you a flavour of recent research in public economics. Prof. Chetty is a great lecturer and the course really inspired me to do research.
A great class for both learning the fundamental models in public and some of the latest research methods and topics.
The class is a lot of work and covers a ton of work but is really interesting and you will learn a lot
This course is fantastic. If you have any interest in Applied Microeconomics, you should take it.
Lectures are extremely clear. Don't spend too long reading the papers - they are summarized very well in the notes - but do try to skim them for background.
This is probably the best class I have ever taken.
One of the best courses I have ever taken. Raj is one of the reasons I decided to come to Harvard and he did a supreme job teaching this class.
Students should think of this class not merely as an opportunity to learn about the fundamental ideas in public economics, but more generally as the best way to learn applied micro theory and empirics, delivered and organized very thoughtfully by one of the clearest and best minds in the entire discipline. It's a tour de force.
This is an easy and fun class. The bar is set quite low (you don't have to do any of the readings), and Raj is very organized.
Raj is an incredible teacher, and this course provides a very thorough introduction to public economics. Highly recommended.
This is a wonderful class. Raj is brilliant and covers a broad swath of interesting material. If you are not coming from the econ phd program, see if you can work on practice problems early on to prepare for problem sets and the final.  There was no recitation section to prepare you for these problems.
You'll work hard but will be rewarding
Don't take more than 3 classes the semester you take this course.
Raj is an absolutely fantastic teacher: clear, kind, insightful, and organized. The class will teach you a lot of theory and empirics, give you lots of pearls of wisdom about research, and take you to the frontier of public finance research. This class gets my highest recommendation.
excellent teacher, very clear
teacher gives great intuition for the subject, plan to spend some time on the homework assignments
Read as much as possible. It is a bit too easy to rely exclusively on the Prof Chetty's excellent rendition of the literature.But the course is doable in College (and recommended if you're not staying for a PhD) or the first year of grad school (though it might be strange for you in the second year that you are dealing with your chosen field in any class then).
You will learn a lot.
This is a great course. More suitable for students interested in tax and public finance than public goods aspects.
Be sure you have some background in public finance.
