This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. While there were some administrative issues, the quality of the professors and subject matter more than made up for it.
There's a lot to read, but it's all very interesting, and I really liked Amitabh's seminar-like teaching style.
There are weekly response papers
If Erica teaches this class, take it! I would enthusiastically recommend it!
This class was amazing. Professor Chandra is such a wonderful and engaging professor. You will learn to think about and contribute to the field of Global Health. Don't be too worried about the econometrics requirement. They understand that you probably don't remember a lot of it.
Great way to get into talking about real problems with application of economic policies.
The formats of both exams were very unexpected. Although, I wouldn't let the unexpected nature of the midterm and final deter you from taking a class like this. The material that was covered was incredibly useful and meaningful, and, if you are at all interested in working in the area of global health, I would highly recommend that you consider taking this course.
A great exposure to the economics of global health issuesReadings are enjoyable and not overly technicalprofessors are both leaders in the field and have incredible depth of experience
Interesting, lecture-based.
It doesn't teach any actual economics. Class is all just doing readings and talking in class. Assignments = pointless. Exams were okay but the rest of the class didnt' really prepare you very well for it.
Great class in the econ department, highly recommend.
If you're interesting in global health, this is a great class. The professors are both great and really inspire. Only problem is that the assignments are kinda random, as is the grading.
This is hands down one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
Chandra is amazing and Field is great as well. Great course to learn about the complexities of development aid and economic/health development overall. You learn a lot of useful things! I really recommend the course.
Only take if you're interested in analyzing randomized control experiments about global health and development matters in the developing world
I would recommend this course. A good look at various elements related to health.
This class is very good for those with an interest in global health interventions.  However, it is not for the participation shy.
This course provides a great qualitative presentation of economics of global health. The readings are definitely interesting and the professors are wonderful. Don't expect too much econometrics though.
absolutely great.  professor chandra and tom are both great teachers and easy to engage with
Class is not difficult, well-taught, and introduces one to a lot of interesting literature related to economic health and development
Don't have any misconceptions about actually learning any economics in this class.
Professor Chandra and TF Tom made this the best economics class I have taken in my three years at Harvard.  If you have any interest in practical applications of economic analysis, take this class.  You won't be disappointed!
Excellent excellent class. Really interesting and an important topic, plus it's relatively small which is hard to find in the economics department.  And Prof. Chandra is really nice and interesting!
The material is fascinating and Professor Chandra is a great lecturer.
Very interesting course; only wish that it ended on a less pessimistic note regarding health policies in developing countries.
TAKE IT!!! Super interesting and current material, and the prof is amazing. Be prepared to read a lot though - and keep on top of it.
It was a completely chill class where you'll learn a lot. Prof. Chandra is great lecturer and you don't have to stress out too much although the assignments can get a little tough to finish at times.
Amitabh is a wonderful, fun, engaging, very smart professor. You'll enjoy yourself and learn a ton.
Do the readings and contribute to class discussions - that's the only way the class will be interesting.
Do the readings and you should be fine. Attend office hours for the final paper or else you would not do a good job since the directions are really vague.
This was an amazing course. I have already recommended it to many people already- even none ec concentrators. It had a manageable but challenging balance of course material and assessments- two readings per class with pre-released quizzes for every class, holistic representation of important topics in global health and a midterm and project based final; the professor was engaging to say the least and the TFs, incredibly helpful- it was so obvious they took their work seriously; also discussion in class was always delightful and helped unearth hidden nuggets in readings and other relevant outside literature, which the professors subsequently made available on the course website
Great class
This class is a really good one for introducing students to the various and complicated topics associated with international development and public health.  However, it is crucial to take this course, as good as it is, in conjunction with one in a different department, to get a more varied perspective.
I thoroughly enjoyed this class as an economics perspective on global health, after having taken an anthropological view on global health (SW 25). This class will catch you up on the economics literature in global health -- I feel like I have a much better understanding of where research is at. I did not find the final paper too painful. If you take this class, please be aware that economics is only one way to look at global health, and that while it likes to say that it is the most methodologically rigorous discipline (and it kind of is), it is still filled with implicit assumptions and an particular approach that has serious problems. Don't let this class be your only global health class!
This course is very laid back and a great way to fulfill another economics requirement if you are at all interested in global health. It is very easy if you just do most of the readings and participate in lecture, which is normally a simple task, since the lectures are discussion based and professor Fink is so easy to talk to.
Be prepared to put a lot of time into the class (significant reading before each class), but on the whole the discussions are interesting.
This class is very average. You do two weekly reading quizzes which take a minimal amount of work. You do not have to attend class to do well (only to put your name on the attendance sheet). The midterm was a joke and the final paper was a pain. Take a different intermediate ec class as your concentration requirement.
Absolutely great class. Teaches students to think critically about global health and economics papers. Expertly taught. I learned a ton about a very important field. The reading quizzes due twice a week do take up some time, but the course teaches you a ton and was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard
Great course!
Awesome class, I recommend it one hundred percent. Extremely well taught, the sections are great, and you'll learn a lot.
Make sure you actually do the readings and put some thought into the summary slides, and it will be a piece of cake.
The class was very chill, relatively easy, and it taught me a lot about global health and development issues. If you are interested in development economics, this class is a great ec class to choose.
This class definitely had a lot more work along the way (necessary to read and produce slides before each class), but the midterm and final weren't really stressful and class discussions were great (especially when people brought in relevant experiences related to the issue)
Fantastic class, and Professor Fink is awesome. Highly recommended -- not difficult, but very interesting and you will learn a lot.
This class is wonderful! Professor Fink is so passionate about what he is teaching, and that really comes through.
Get ready to work hard since homework is due two days before the class.
This is a very interesting class that covers a lot of important global health issues from an economics approach and you learn about what different field experiments and policies have done. However, it is somewhat vague as to what you learn from the course, in terms of policy implications, because there are few concrete conclusions.
Take this course if they get rid of reading quizzes! Fink is the best. Also, no econ background is necessary, so take it if you're interested in global health.
I recommend this course if you want to understand RCTs and what papers have done to evaluate programs or disease burdens. However, I felt I would have gained more if we had discussed information outside of the assigned reading. I didn't enjoy going through the slides and regurgitating what the papers had said but was more interested in understanding how this fit into the larger policy discussion.
This course is a nice overview of global health economics. The material is interesting, but the assignments (reading quizzes) are pedantic.
Excellent critical examination of what works and what doesn't in global health using thorough discussions of actual economics / global health papers. Take it!
it's a survey course. every week you read ~4 papers in the field. For me, a lot of the results are very specific to a particular global health issue in some area. If global health is some area you will be working in as a career, great; otherwise, for someone like me who takes this as an elective, i was somewhat disappointed that it did not fundamentally challenge my way of thinking; a lot of the knowledge is too specific to be transferrable.
This class is specifically built on select readings. Do no expect to walk away with a broader understanding of global health economics. It is all very reading specific. The final paper is a very cool exercise though!
This class is pretty interesting, and also a really great way to fulfill the economics writing requirement--the paper feels much more practical than papers in other courses, and is very interesting, like working through a consulting case question but with fewer assumptions and more real data.
I really enjoyed the course, very interesting take on global health and good way to learn economic concepts. I would be careful about the frequent and very detail-oriented quizzes and fairly long and extensive final paper.
Great Ec elective. If it was not at 830am there would be 200 people in it. Do not need strong background in economics to do well. Turning in short multiple choice quiz before every class does get annoying but midterm and final writing project on intervention of your choice are not bad at all.
chillaxed
Reading quizzes can start to become a bit annoying to do every class. I would take it if you are looking to gain better understanding of the existing economics literature as it pertains to global health applications. Econ publications are unnecessarily long
The class is a valuable survey of important topics in global health, and just being able to talk to Maggie and Gunther is a wonderful opportunity. It's easy, particularly in the latter half of the class, to pay less attention to the readings since they're not a big part of your grade anymore. However, you will get out of the class what you put into it, so continuing to do the readings is important to continue learning throughout the semester.
Gunther and Maggie are wonderful. I took the course having no background in healthcare, or global health, and it opened my eyes to some of the world's most important issues, and what might be the best ways to solve them. I recommend this course because it gets one in the habit of reading economics papers (this gets much easier as the course goes on, and was a valuable thing for me to learn) and because it shifts the often myopic focus in Harvard courses from just US issues, to global ones.
Phenomenal readings, taught by professors who are at the forefront of writing cool papers about global health.
Fantastic class -- both Dr. Fink and Dr. McConnell are awesome, nice people and take the time to meet individually with students, despite having very busy lives of their own. Akshar, our TF, is very helpful and nice as well! However, it can be more work than initially expected -- be warned that the reading quizzes can be tricky and require (in some cases) an in-depth read of the papers. Highly recommend to someone interested in pursuing global health fieldwork abroad or designing global health interventions -- the papers we read in this class help you think about effectiveness of interventions and strategies for optimal design. Essentially, we took a case study approach and read 4-5 papers per week that described various interventions on a specific health issue, comparing what worked and what didn't work for each of them and drawing broader conclusions about global health. The class also offered the opportunity to gain practical skills -- we designed our own interventions and assessed their cost-effectiveness for the final project.
I would tell others to be extremely wary of this course. It will appear easier in the first week than it actually is. The take-home quizzes sound great but they are a nightmare to complete and are not representative of one's understanding of the reading. The material is interesting and the class discussions are good. Yet, the style of testing and quizzing in the class makes it a very difficult and frustrating course. Do not take this class unless you take it pass fail or don't care about your grade.
Make sure you are comfortable with econometrics discussion.
This was a fascinating class. You will definitely enjoy it if you want to learn about how health or development programs are implemented on the ground (i.e. it's not as easy as social entrepreneurs make it sound in their pitches). It is heavily discussion based, which you may not like depending on the kind of student you are. The reading quizzes take a substantial amount of time, requiring a close reading of the 2-3 articles assigned per class, so be aware of that going in.
Loved this class! Reading and the reading quizzes gets a bit boring as the semester goes on but the professors' lectures (especially Fink's) are more engaging if a bit simple sometimes. Because the majority of the class is composed of public health grad students, the class is much more policy- and study-based rather than econometric-y which is refreshing.
Reading quizzes are really annoying, but the readings are good.
Good intermediate theory as prerequisite class for econ concentrators (Pass-Fail is an option).
Great course but the mandatory weekly quizzes take up a significant amount of time
I thoroughly enjoyed this class. The economic papers you read are interesting and deal with topics that clearly affect others' lives. I recommend this class for econ concentrators and non-concentrators alike.
As my first global health class with no economic background, I found this class very doable. If you seek out help from Maggie, she is super helpful. The readings are interesting, but the lectures are a bit dry. Hopefully they take feedback and improve the lectures.
If you want to read about cool economics experiments and take a low-stress theory requirement, this is a great one. Good readings and fun final paper assignment.
There is a lot of reading. But the contents are interesting and you could learn a lot.
This class was one of the most interesting I have taken at Harvard. With students from across the University, I was exposed to a wide variety of opinions that I would never hear in a class only offered in the College. Take this class as an interesting introduction to global health or as a way to satisfy your writing requirement in a way that doesn't feel like a traditional research seminar.
The course is really interesting, and there are some great lectures on important topics in public health, but I thought the daily reading quizzes were annoying and not very helpful. The final project also took a lot of time, and required a style of writing that is not second nature to non-economics concentrators. Several calculations were very difficult to make.
It's really a paper review class, not a class that goes over concepts in global health that are applicable outside of those papers' purview.  The lectures are ok but can get dry after a while since they're always in the same format.
This course requires reading a lot of economics papers every week. If you can't do that then this course isn't for you
The final paper was great - feels very much like a case study an allows you to explore and propose a topic you're interested in. Both prof. mcconnell and verguet are great lecturers and ece was very helpful with feedback and answer questions throughout the course. My main reservation with recommending the course is that the reading quizzes took a long time to complete and were very tricky, with no explanations for why certain answers were right/wrong. I ended up doing all right but I know quite a few people were discouraged because of their grades on the quizzes and subsequently weren't as invested in the course. Were it not for the quizzes I would absolutely recommend econ 1389 to anyone, but seeing as this has been a consistent issue over the years, I would recommend with reservations. A strong background in reading economics papers will help you get the most out of this course.
Take it!
You will read 4-6 technical papers a week - very good if you are interested in public health issues and economic evaluations of interventions. The lectures can be a bit formulaic but are really helpful for dissecting the papers. The professors are interesting and very helpful with the final project but don't work in Cambridge most of the week so you will have to work to get their attention and time outside of class.
