This is a great class. Professor Antrs really cares about his students and is very accessible outside of class. He also makes a large effort to get people involved during class.
Not a difficult class, and it's basically intermediate micro applied to trade. You can tell that Pol is very passionate about the subject.
If you're looking for something which is strongly related to reality I would maybe not take this course. It's a very theoretical course, but still a very good preparation for economic thinking and reasoning. Professor Antrs is by far the best professor I had, he's very open to questions, OH, discussions about topics we're interested in!
Standard (and good) class on the trade.
It's boring at times and the problem sets can be tedious, but otherwise is a well-structured and informative class. If he's still around, Yuxiao is a great TF!
I definitely recommend this course. Professor Antras is a great lecturer! And Yuxiao is a nice and helpful TF.
Lot more work than you expected for a good grade.
The material is very interesting.  It was well-taught, and the assignments and exams were quite fair.  I definitely recommend it.
Only take if you are genuinely interested in international trade. Pol is awesome, it's the material that is boring. In class final is nice and both midterm/final were very straightforward. Overall, don't learn much in lecture or the class overall, but just use the slides to do psets and past problem sets to study for exams.
This class is not for everyone, but it was for me! Much of the work is a continuation of the kind of stuff that was covered in 1010a. We work though a variety of microeconomic models that really aren't that difficult but can be tricky. Ultimately, I learned a lot. The readings are not really necessary, and Pol's lectures were pretty great. Definitely only take this class if you're interest in the theoretical underpinnings of international trade. If not, you probably won't like it.
Very interesting course with some technical/math aspects that are not too difficult if you put in the time to understand it. The teaching is good and there are some relevant topics but sometimes the trade models get a little confusing/tedious because you don't go into details of the full model. Exams were standard so you'll do fine as long as you put in the effort.
This is a phenomenal class. It is fun, the instructor is an oracle of knowledge, he is well versed in the matter, plus he is friendly and very accessible for help or just conversation about any of the topics.
It really throws some economic light to all the popular press says about trade
it's not so hard, but you still learn a lot. Might be a good combination.
It's not a class for everyone, but I think it's a great class for people who want to understand the basic theory of international trade and investment.
Great course to understand the debate over free trade and to get a view over the whole field of international trade and investment. From the classical models untill the most recent developments about multinational firms.
Not difficult as long as you go to lecture and pay attention.
do the readings and make sure you fully understand how to solve problems for each trade model
Prof. Melitz is extremly helpful and answers all questions. Make use of his office hours and start early thinking about the math behind each model.One of the best courses I took at Harvard.
Although this is a challenging class (think long problem sets), it is very informative and fun.
Smaller ec class and Professor Antras is really interesting. Section component isn't the best. Be sure to study your models for exams.
It's a great class! Not much work and you take a lot out of it. Totally recommend :)
Use OH to get the material down for the problem sets and to study for the exams. The lecture slides don't provide the best methods for solving the exam/pset questions.
Although it may seem like a lot of work at first, some of the models are repetitive, so it does get a little bit easier as the class goes on.
If you like econ theory and playing around with graphs, this is a great class... Also, specifically if you are interested in international trade I definitely recommend this class.
This class is not difficult, but it is fairly boring and I can't say that I learned a whole lot. However, if you need to take an ec class and you're facing a busy workload in a given semester, this is a good class to take.
Professor Antras does a great job of teaching the course. The material covered will give you a better understanding of global trade flows and help you understand the reasoning behind protectionists policies. The material learned is also practical outside of an academic setting.
Interesting course material, Prof Andres actually does generate enthusiasm for the subject, which is rare for the Economics department.
Not a bad class to get through. A little dry, but worth it for the number of hours needed to do well.
It is a fairly easy class as far as econ classes go and there aren't too many mathematical components so it will be easier for social science students looking to fulfill a requirement or to balance a harder course load.
Think about taking Gov 1780 (International Political Economy) with Professor Frieden, to get exposure to similar topics, but with a more interesting presentation (albeit with a more gov rather than econ focus).
Do not take this course. The lectures are very unsatisfactory.
Workload isn't crazy but material is very interesting. Lectures are a little slow, but psets teach you the material really well
This class is incredibly informative and highly relevant but also very manageable in terms of the amount of work that is required on a weekly basis.
It is an enjoyable course and I recommend taking it with Professor Antras.  Pretty interesting though there is not as much discussion of current event sin international trade as I expected.  Overall a good course with a manageable workload.
It was a well done class and the teacher was entertaining. I would take it with Professor Antras. It isn't too hard and it is pretty applicable to many modern aspects of our global economy.
You will love this class! Great lectures, great interesting material, nothing too challenging. It's also one of the smaller Economics undergrad classes and had a great atmosphere. Very chill.
Lots of applicable material that can really give you some intuition on how international trade works, and what to expect from international trade in the future.
One of the downsides is that this topic may not be for everyone, but if you're interested in the subject this is a great class! Andras is a professor who really cares about how his students do and this small class is a rare opportunity in the Harvard Ec department.
Good class to fulfill requirement. Very reasonable and if you work hard in it, you'll do well
Tough course but interesting and well taught
This class is an excellent economics class.  It is very interesting and moderate in difficulty.
Make sure to keep up with the material, but it's a great class.
It's a nice class introducing the ideas of international trade theory. It's a bit slow, and sometimes you'll wonder if you're missing something big because you just haven't done work for the class in a while.
Take it only if you're very interested in the subject.
fun and facts
The professor is very, very thorough in reviewing over course material, although a tad dry at times. The subject is very interesting, very pertinent, and anyone with an interest in international trade should definitely shop the course.
boring
Make sure to pay attention in lecture.  The lectures may be somewhat boring, but they are important.  If you do not listen, you will have to put in extra time.
if you put in time and effort, it will be a very an easy and rewarding class to have taken.
Good overview on basic trade theories, relevant and helpful
Take this class if you want to better understand a big chunk of what's in the newspaper everyday. The whole labor, outsourcing debate is now evident to me.
This is a very interesting class that covers the breadth of trade very well - a good introductory course.
The workload of the course is not high. While the the course content is easy, it is a bit too general.
the material is boring when the topic could have been very interesting. i went in expecting it to be completely different- i certainly didnt expect to be doing trade models all semester. its not what you first think.
Interesting material, taught in a technically rigorous but accessible to the math-challenged (like me) fashion.  The instructors are both fantastic, and the work is not too overwhelming.  The non-weekly problem sets make it very manageable.
go to sections and office hours it is very helpful
Interesting course
Pol is the best Professor I've ever had. He's a rare gem in the Ec department- a Professor that actually enjoys teaching.
This is a good class and you will definitely understand the material if you put enough time into it.
Easy, manageable course that provides good insight into trade policies and motivation behind international trade.
Prepare and contribute to the in-class discussion, there's a lot to think and say about international trade and it's less fun if students do not contribute
This class had a great TF however it was very boring at times and I feel that it could be much more useful if it taught students about historical trade patterns and their explanation rather than presenting model after model.
Very good and applicable class, with not too heavy of a workload.
The mid-term is deceiving easy. Beware of the final exam.
Difficult, sometimes dry material
The professor is awesome, and he really does care about the students, which is great. The course material is very model-heavy, unsurprisingly, which is something to bear in mind (I liked that part of it, but many of you might not). Unless the TFs change or improve markedly, however, I would seriously consider skipping section. Forever.
Never take this class your senior year, unless you are really great at mathematics or an applied math major. The coursework in interesting, but it covers a wide range of material and you will spend hours studying on the final exam, only to compete with your peers on how fast you can complete math problems!
Great class, you learn a lot about trade and understand many facts and ideas which you previously could not explain.
This class is better than it appears to be!
The Professor is really nice and his lectures are good, although they can be improved with more technical ways to solve problems. If you go to sections, that will help a lot. It will take much less time to do the psets.
The class is a little disorganized, but it's an interesting topic. I wish there were more structure to this course. But Melitz is an extremely nice guy, and very helpful
make sure you get a good tf
It is a good class. You should take it!
I did not like this class. Despite getting a good grade, I learned very little.
This is a great class, and you will learn a lot. Sometimes the grading in the class was a bit awkward (i.e. we have two big tests and two ambiguously graded psets), but, overall, I really think that I learned a lot of very useful information.
I definitely think that this course was a painful process. Not only did I feel like lecture was hard to follow, but I also felt that there wasn't a good support system for people to ask for help. I definitely think the tf's were not a strength of the course and section tended to be more confusing. This all combined to make the experience very difficult and I would not want someone else to go through this unless they were very passionate and already good at international trade theory.
This is a great class if you want to get a foundation in international trade theory. Professor Melitz is great, presents the material very clearly, and always shows you how the theory and models covered in class relate to both current and historical trade and policy issues in the real world. The class isn't easy, but it is very manageable if you review the lecture notes and work to understand the problem sets.
Be prepared for difficult tests
Anybody can learn how to *do* this material. Not everybody understands it well. Focuses a lot on models and their technical aspects.
It doesn't require a lot of work but is very hard.
it just seemed quite dull
If you wanna learn about international trade, and why nations trade, take the course. It will open your eyes. It's very manageable with bi-weekly problem sets. If you get easily bored with lecture after lecture on models that have almost only graphs in it, bug out.
it is a good course
good, interesting class
Every future policymaker should take this course. If interesting in international trade, this is very interesting.
It's not that hard if you read the lecture notes and practice.
This class sucked. Don't take it. Seriously. It was really bad.
This class is purely quantitative with no real-world applicability, no case studies. Lecture is very slow and boring.
Really great course. Pretty easy, barely any work, but the material is still interesting enough to be engaged during most lectures.
Definitely read the textbook! It really substantiates the points made in lecture and helps you keep up when the lectures are going too quickly for you to understand in one sitting.
If you're absolutely passionate about International Trade, you'll really enjoy it. If your'e taking it pass/fail, you'll really enjoy it. Otherwise, you'll probably still enjoy it if you invest more time than you think you need to.
This is a difficult economics class. If you are looking for a good class to fill a requirement take this, but if you are looking for it to be easy, do not. If you pass/fail the class however, you will not fail and it makes life a lot easier.
A very good course. It offers a comprehensive view of international economics.
Take the class! It's actually relevant to your life.
