One of my favorite seminars. Interesting topic and good staff.
Extremely engaging, exciting class. You get as much out of it as you put in, though, and truly benefiting from the class requires extensive reading.
The class is not particularly difficult nor demanding. What you get out of it really depends on what you're looking for, and what effort you put in.
It's fun and requires almost no work.
This class provides a thorough overview of the developments in experimental economics.
This is a great class! I learned a lot and was exposed to a variety of topics within experimental economics.  The course involved reading chapters in the current draft of the text every week and submitting comments for the authors to read, as well as a final project of designing your own experiment.  There was not much direction so you have to be independnet.  Almost every week, one of the authors of the chapter of the textbook would guest lecturer which provided a lot of variety.  This was great to hear about experiments from the experimentor first hand! I would suggest taking this course if you have any interest in experimental economics or just want to broaden your knowledge of economics!
I'd recommend it to every economist. Most of them may not be interested in experiments per se, but the discussion in class and research methods elaborate are important for every economist.(It's a shame that nobody addresses any of that in the first year)
It is a great course, even for undergraduates before their senior year. They can even find a superb advisor and some potential thesis topics. Which can even lead to graduate school, easily. One Ph.D. student still does research and perhaps his job market paper on an idea he developed for this course when he was still a Harvard College junior.
This class is a showcase of current experimental research at Harvard.
It's a great course to get you started on designing and conducting your own experimental research. It's not the best course for covering the theory of human decisions.
great
This class is as easy as you want it to be. It's high-level, low-work so if you're genuinely interested in experimental (or any behavioral) economics, it's a great learning experience without getting slammed.
Excellent course for someone looking for lab experiments backgroud.
