Make sure the topics interest you, if not, think elsewise.
The teachers are really top notch. The organization of the course could be better in terms of connecting lectures with sections.
Especially if Roger visits again. He was so dedicated. Oliver's lectures were lucid. He distilled GE from MWG exceedingly well.
This is a basic course in general equilibrium and contract theory, useful to have an idea of how these tools can be used and as an introductory (though demanding) course in the field of microeconomic theory
This class is has some interesting material but you need to work hard to understand it.
Take this course if you're doing it to get a Ph.D. in economics.  Otherwise, you probably shouldn't.
The micro theory sequence is tough but it provides you a great foundation in economic theory. You have to have a lot of time to commit to the class, but it's worth it. I think Harvard does a very good job with the micro sequence.
Read the lecture notes carefully, ask professors for any clarifications if not sure about something.Attend/Study the section notes.
a lot of time commitment, heed my words
Have fun :D
Gives a solid grounding in microeconomic theory
As Harvard gossip recommends, this course is not for undergrads who want to signal their ability before applying to grad school. This a tough course with a horrible exam in the end. Field courses, or at least the macro sequence is a much better choice.
Skip the GE lectures in favor of just reading MWG. Attend the rest of the lectures, they're fun.
The subject matter is fascinating and the course provides a strong basic understanding of social choice and contracting.
Do the problem sets and go to sections. Do the past generals as well. For undergraduates, if you feel very comfortable with 2010a, then this course is for you. Do not take this one without 2010a, since Hart's part really builds on Glaeser's part and Green's part builds on Fudenberg's part.
The course covers many important topics but unfortunately not always in a well-structured manner.
Very well taught with professors who are the uncommon combination of brilliant and devoted to teaching.
Tough, but very interesting.  A chance to learn from experts in the field.
This is a great class for learning all the major foundation theorems of microeconomics.
Do the contract theory readings. Do the problem sets, but don't overdo them. Make sure you save adequate attention for the mechanism design material in Jerry's part, which is very important.
Class that provides very strong foundations in microeconomic theory. If the student is committed to study seriously and take the most of the class, he will feel ready to pursue the PhD coursework having understood the main building blocks microeconomics.
Best class ever.  Recommend with enthusiasm!
You have to take it. Mechanism design is cool, the rest is quite boring and antiquated.
This class teaches you exactly what it promises.  Don't expect a ton of excitement here, unless you're into this sort of thing.
The course material is interesting. The first half with Hart is a little less formally structured. The material is easier than 2010a.
Watch out for mechanism design, especially as you prepare your generals study scheduled
It is an interesting introduction to various topics in microeconomics.
Grad students are required to take it. Undergrads might find it useful if interested in going to graduate school in economics.
If you are an undergrad and do well in this course, it is a good signal for getting accepted to a PhD program.
For Hart's portion, there is not necessarily a strong connection between material taught in class and the exams.  So focus on problem sets and past exams in addition to the lectures.
You will learn a lot of different things in this class. To make sense of it all, it helps to try to connect the material with concepts from 2010a (specifically game theory).
Very wide range of topics, starting with general equilibrium theory, then going through informational failures, theory of the firm, financial contracts, voting theory, social choice, cooperative game theory and mechanism design.
It's very hard.  I would not recommend undergrads taking the course, just because it's designed to take up most of your time in a first year of graduate study.
Very fundamental/important concepts in economics.
Mechanism design is very interesting although not covered well enough. Contract theory is also very interesting.
Learn Proposition 23.D.2 at the beginning of semester and use it to solve one question per week until you really understand it. Also, note that Oliver is rather mean with partial credit compared to other professors, so don't expect the usual CES marking scheme.
Be aware that this class gets very hard towards the end. At first, Oliver Hart seems like a nice guy. His class moves slowly and you understand most of the concepts. His TF is okay but you dont care because the material itself is not too challenging. Harts midterm was easy and made everybody feel good about themselves. Then BAM! His part in the general exam, which is the most important exam you will take in your first year of graduate school, was extremely hard and had very little to do with what he covered in classes and in the problem sets. I felt betrayed by Oliver Hart's exam. I would have done as poorly in his exam if I had not studied at all. That feeling really stinks, specially when you are getting a PhD in the topic you are studying. Jerry Greens part is very interesting. I am not a theorist by any means but the last part of the micro sequence makes you think about a lot of interesting topics. Jerry Green himself is fantastic. The 2014-2015s G1s were lucky to have him for game theory and social choice. The issue about Green is that he is very interested in a lot of things and tries to cover a lot of material in the class that is not central to the main themes of the course (eg. the Cavallo mechanism, just to name one.) The other reason why the class was so enjoyable was the TF, Linh To. She is AMAZING. The best TF I have ever had in my academic life. I dont know how I would have done in the exam without her.
Things we covered: Oliver's part: General equilibrium, contract theory, theory of the firm. Jerry's part: Social choice/voting theory, cooperative game theory, mechanism design.Overall, I was somewhat disappointed with the choice of topics, especially in Jerry's part. We only spent about a week on mechanism design (and didn't cover fundamental micro topics like revenue-maximizing auctions and matching markets at all), while several weeks were spent on social choice and cooperative games. The topics chosen were rather esoteric and will likely be less relevant to our future research. That being said, Jerry is extremely nice and really cares about teaching, and Oliver structured his half very well.
The first half has a lot of good content that is central to much of economics, it seems. The second half is a bit more idiosyncratic, but some of the topics are quite interesting.
If you're willing to put in the time, this is a good class. You'll learn a lot and have a very solid  microeconomic foundation by the end. It's also a really nice opportunity to get to know the G1 students. The professors are really friendly as well. However, it can be a bit theoretical and specific, so only take it if you're interested in the material.
Gotta take it!
The first half is manageable and pretty generally applicable; the second is quite esoteric (but interesting) and something of an ordeal at times.
The topics are extremely interesting
Prepare for a tough semester...but one that will ultimately be rewarding in terms of how much you take away from it.
Read all assigned MWG sections well ahead of class, so material is not completely new during lecture.
This class is a truly incredible experience. Being able to just go up to talk to Oliver Hart or Jerry Green and have them be so passionate about the material is the kind of thing that reminds you exactly how amazing Harvard is. I took this class as an undergrad with very little ec experience and I learned so much. There were definitely some gaps that I needed to fill, but as long as your background in math is good enough you can just read the book. Other students in the class are also very friendly.
I took this course as an elective as an undergrad. It's an interesting class with lots of interesting topics. It is not difficult for an undergrad. Class can be dry sometimes with lots of trivial math deduction. Overall, it is a good class where you can learn a lot of interesting economics concept.
You should probably focus more on exercises and past exams for practice than studying from sometimes unsatisfactory course material.
I mean, we have to take it.
You'll definitely learn a ton, or at least be exposed to a lot of new material. However, you won't really feel like you understand the material, because of how much it is and how quickly it's covered, so it's really stressful especially as you prepare for generals.
