Take this class only if you are really interested in what Professor Barro  is doing. The class focuses almost exclusively on his own research papers.
It is an interesting class,  but slightly disorganized. I was unsure what was required of me, but it was fun and topics covered were really interesting. plus, a s the size was so small, it was more of a seminar and we got to interact a lot. all in all, i enjoyed the class (other than the disorganized part)
This is a great class to take if you have a solid economics background and want to be in a seminar setting with one of the world's most eminent economists. The material is interesting and relevant. This is an "only at Harvard class".
Take this if you're serious about economics, and about potentially going to grad school down the line. The material is interesting and gives you a deep-dive into real macro theory. Be prepared to self-study a bit to keep up with the material. This class will not hold your hand; it's pretty disorganized, so you have to do what you can to make sure you're learning.
This class is very theoretical and requires a fairly strong math background in order to understand everything. Basically all we did was learn about different models. The course was very disorganized and the support provided for this class was limited.
Very tough class.
Know your math well.
It's a great way to get a sampling of research undertaken on macroeconomic and economic policy issues.
Take it if you feel comfortable with the Math
Be careful, because the class is very hard.
only if you have done economics 1011b
It's not very hard.  You get out of it what you put into it.
It is an interesting course!
Prof. Barro is a leader in his field, and his PhD students hold him in high regard. However, this course shows how little he cares for undergrads. The very math- and theory-heavy content is likely to be too dry, too technical, and too similar to PhD-type material in economics to appeal to the average undergraduate. The course is also poorly structured, in that expectations on assignments are unclear, and Professor Barro conducts it in lecture format (awkwardly) though enrollment this year was only 7 students. My advice: if you're an Econ concentrator looking for an interesting Econ class, look elsewhere. There are many classes that are more interesting and better structured, while being no less rigorous.
If you enjoy macroeconomics, or aspire to be a macroeconomist, then this is a must take course. The course is not as easy as undergrad courses, or as difficult as grad courses. But the professor is an excellent resource, and you can go to the depth of a grad level course if that is your wish.
Professor Barro is more a brilliant scholar than a teacher (in the sense of being interested in how much his students are absorbing of what he's saying).  Nonetheless, he has been doing very important work for more than forty years, and simply being introduced to some of that work was a privilege for me.Absolutely take this course!
