This is a wonderful course that gets through a wide range of health economics material.  The assignments are not too difficult, though there is a considerable final paper.
Fantastic overview of important research areas in health economics.
it's a great course
it is a very good course if you are interested in getting familiar with what is going on in the health economics literature. the instructor is great, and his lecture are definitely interesting and he makes it attractive. but he is very busy and may not provide enough feedback on assignments. it may take some time to understand what is going on as the class is not very structured, so it is important to have a peer group to study together otherwise you can feel yourself alone
This class is amazing.
Best class ever
This is a wonderful class and a great overview of the topic.   The assignments are challenging, but well worth the effort.  The readings are quite accessible, as are the lectures and discussions.
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard so far. If you are interested in health economics this class shouldn't just be a consideration but a "must take" (if the course title didn't already signal that).  You cover a lot of material in some detail and the course really helps to generate ideas for your own research. Finally the small class size and professor Cutler's teaching style make the class very interactive and fun.
You will get the most out of this class if you've got a solid econ foundation. It's heavily focused on US healthcare, but lessons (especially ways of thinking about problems and research questions) apply to other areas in health too.
Terrific course you will get a lot out of. Just be sure to do the reading and be ready to talk.
Without a doubt the best course I've taken at Harvard.
Great, well-taught class covering a range of topics in the economics of health and medical care
It's a great introduction to an important area within economics.
one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard - excellent balance of theory and current policy relevance; psets are very useful, and lectures are extremely interesting and engaging
The latter half of the course focuses on the US health care system (larger than the U.K. economy!) and requires a certain familiarity with its institutional details. This can be somewhat overwhelming for those without a health background, but this knowledge is essential for full understanding and appreciation of these topics.
This is a really beneficial and enjoyable class. If you are at all interested in health econ, I would strongly recommend you take it.
If you are interested in researching health care policy or health economics, take this course. Cutler is a fantastic lecturer and discussion leader, and it is a fun group of students to meet.
Fantastic course. You should take it.
Terrific class, particularly if you're interested in US health policy.  Definitely good to have some micro econ under your belt, as well as econometrics of some sort (not necessarily econ department econometrics).  The homeworks and readings were definitely work but I didn't feel like it was an overwhelming amount of work.  I really learned a lot and overall great class.
Terrific, engaging professor and a good set of readings.
