By god, do not take this class if you like any kind of structure. The professor is interesting and probably slated for a Nobel Prize, word on the street goes, but that means that no one will care about you or your progress or your work. Your grade will be given out, virtually at random, based on no rubric, and you will have no idea whether you did an assignment correctly or not. They will make you do problem sets on concepts you have never been taught. That is to say, if you care about your GPA, about learning, or about your teaching thinking you are a person, do not take this class.
Very little structure and hard to be objective with any of the stuff we studied.
Take this class to get to know Rabin. If you do, be very proactive and go into his office hours (he has many). The class experience this year (the first year it was offered) was pretty terrible. All but three or four of the weeks were devoted to student-led presentations. These were on the whole mind-numbingly dull. It seemed like most people put a few hours into preparation and half the class is on laptops. It was Rabin's first time teaching undergrads, though, so the class will probably improve.
The class is only as much about economics as you want it to bea lot of the discussions centered around beliefs in general, and not just economics-related ones in general. However, the amount of leeway given for presentation and final paper topics allowed for you to dig deeper into an economic issue if you so chose too.
Do not take "The Psychology of Economics and Beliefs" by Rabin if offered again. What looked like a great class on paper was a total disappointment. I suppose the one redeeming factor was that in general very little work was required. But that certainly did not make it worth it. Don't take the class.
Professor Rabin is a really fun, quirky person and I actually learned quite a bit about beliefs and especially how we form them given uncertainty. Eben (the TF) is also really kind and is always open to help out with the course. The only problem I found was the lack of structure and organization, but this is understandable given that this is the first time this class is being taught (and it is Rabin's first undergrad course ever).
If you are actually trying to learn interesting things about behavioral ec, you won't get that, but it does help you really think about what you want to do for a potential senior thesis with the final paper. I hesitate to say the class is a joke because I have received 15% of my grade for the semester so I don't know how the grading was, but otherwise seems like the class is a bit of a joke #HarvardEcon
I don't feel like I learned anything. I heard a lot of student perspectives, but I don't think I actually learned anything tangible from Rabin, which is incredibly sad, because he's so smart and such an amazing resource.
Good class. The focus is mostly on beliefs and in particular false medical beliefs. But overall, the daily work is not that much, but you spend a lot of time on the final paper.
I took this class in the fall of 2015. This was the first time the course has been offered, and I would hope that changes have been made since then. My experience was a little frustrating, as I felt there was not much effort given the course by Rabin. The topic is deeply fascinating and I enjoyed some parts of the course (early in the semester) very much. After a couple weeks of instruction, our weekly class devolved into presentations and discussions of different applications of the same topic. Unfortunately, I don't feel like I left the course with a solid grasp of what we learned early in the semester. Good things about the course include a incredibly low workload (subject to change I assume). There were a lot of readings early in the course but there was nothing that held me responsible for them. After the first couple weeks, the course required almost no effort. There was a single problem set for 20% of the grade which was exceptionally difficult. I basically had to teach myself Bayesian statistics. I learned a ton in the process, but it felt like learning to swim but getting thrown off the dock. The only other meaningful work in the course was a single 30 min presentation and the final proposal. Note: this is a proposal, not a paper. You will not be conducting an experiment nor working with real data. We were supposed to submit a 20 page proposal for a research project. Rabin sees this as a setup for a senior thesis, and he's absolutely right. If you're interested in writing a thesis on something pertaining to behavioral economics, this class could be an excellent decision for you because you'll have a semester to consider different topics and make some serious progress. After submitting my proposal yesterday, I could see someone writing a thesis without great difficulty given the work I've put into this up front. If you know you don't want to write a thesis in this topic, I would probably encourage you take a different course, esp. if the lack of data analysis for the final proposal seems disappointing to you. That was one thing I really enjoyed about my sophomore tutorial that I didn't get to do this semester. However, I also feel like I developed a different skill set by thinking hard about how to design a study to test beliefs, so each to his own. Lastly, if you feel compelled to take a junior tutorial and want a course that you can skate by without doing much, this could be the course for you. I'm a little freaked out by how little work I could have done to get by in this course.
