This class gives you an amazing insight into the inner workings of how policy gets implemented. Both Professor Sunstein and Professor Summers have worked at the highest levels of government, and they use their extensive experience to illuminate some of the most important issues in the U.S. today. It is fascinating to hear their debates on what kinds of ethical frameworks policymakers should operate under, and then to get to question them about these frameworks further. Highly recommend this course.
Good class with light workload. You'll get as much out of it as you put in. It's a good way to stay up-to-date with some contemporary discussions in government, but isn't an especially rigorous class.
No matter what your interest in changing the American government is, you should take this class simply to learn more about the current policy debates so that you can keep abreast with political news of the day and remain an informed citizen.
It is a great class. It gives a broad overview of the business of government. I would highly recommend it to everyone.
Amazing perspectives from people within government.
It is a great way to get an inside view of government, and learn more about the making of public policy.
Take this class. Would be a great fifth class for anyone especially if you are interested in public policy.
This class offers unparalleled access to great minds, great leaders, and great experience. Highly highly recommend.
(Same as above) This class wasn't a class. It was a weekly event witnessed by a number of students. When Cass Sunstein taught, every now and then, it felt like a class where the intention was to teach us something, rather than hash out historical debates and talk shop with students as the audience. Most of the conversations Larry had with guests, one might imagine him having to himself at home as he prepares to write an op-ed; that's not necessarily a bad thing (Larry's internal monologue isn't without its great merits, in fact), but it doesn't make for a particularly interactive learning environment, and unless one is able to follow Larry's every word (which is likely difficult even for Larry himself), things can quickly get confusing and 'lost in the weeds,' so to speak. Larry is brilliant, and when he pulls himself out of the minutiae of his knowledge and experience to explain his views more broadly in a way students can understand, it is a special and unique experience. But when he doesn't, even following along becomes a chore. Overall, I would take the class again, because those golden moments made it worthwhile for me personally. But that wouldn't necessarily be the case for everyone. For some of the lectures, being an economist is a prerequisite. For others, simply having done the readings will be enough to really get something out of it. For Cass's lectures, there really isn't any preparation required, as he lays everything out clearly, although doing the reading would certainly make what he's saying more interesting and enlightening.
Make sure you're excited about the topics offered in the syllabus and take initiative in reaching out to professors and TFs
Very interesting class- highly enjoyable. Ideal in terms of both workload and intellectual pay-off.
This course is also very much what you make of it. I think that the professors are excellent and overall, I learned a lot from the final assignment. That said, there was not a lot of guidance given and the course, for the most part, was as much as you wanted to put in. The professors do not do any outreach and, on the whole, it is like a typical graduate class in that regard.
This class is pretty low key and exposes you to some really important people each year.
The class is pitched at a mix of law students and policy students, so its designed for people with a range of backgrounds. Just make sure you have an interest in at least a few of the topics that will be covered and that you are curious to listen to Cass Sunstein and Larry Summers talk through such issues. It's a very light in terms of week-to-week workload, but the paper and exam can be time-consuming.
Would not recommend for PhD students. Listening to Larry and Cass talk is helpful for thinking about the types of questions policy makers in Washington ask. However, subjects are covered too quickly to get any research ideas. Course is also too big to get to know professors or get any feedback on papers/research.
Definitely take this course if you are interested in topics in American politics. Sunstein is a great law school professor and knows about government. Summers is a legend! The guest speakers they brought in were amazing! Some CONs: massive amount of readings, as lectures are mostly discussions between Summers, Sunstein, and the guest, one can easily get lost in their conversations.
Excellent way to fulfill the politics requirment
This class allows you to gain insight into a range of economic areas, with guest lecturers who are all top in their field. Both professors offer personal insight into the topics, such as the politics behind it and the feasibility of certain ideas. Although the guest lecturers are great, it does feel a little like a talkshow, where the professors and the guest chat while you watch. Overall, there could be more engagement with the students.
