Take this class if you are genuinely interested in learning about economic systems in the EU. A lot of readings are posted for each class, but overall the course load is very manageable.
Take this class! Very reasonable workload, and only two papers. If you do all the readings and go to lecture, you'll get a lot out of it. Final paper is long, but it's a good way to fulfill the writing req, and tf and prof are both very accessible. I learned so much about how the European economy works!
Wonderful and super experienced teaching staff, it's one of those classes that don't give you homework week by week but if you don't do the readings and follow in lecture there's no point in taking it as you'd lose the amazing material.
Make an effort to get involved and speak in class!
Professor Kotz really makes this course. He is one of the kindest, most knowledgeable professors I've had here at Harvard. The course requires you to write a 20 page paper at the end but they break up the process throughout the semester in a way that forces you to get started early. The academic conference to discuss your paper ideas may be brutal, but in the end is very helpful.
If you like European issues, absolutely take this class. Prof. Kotz is such a dedicated and brilliant teacher. Plus, the weekly readings are actually very interesting, and the assignments are pretty chill.
This is a great class if you are interested in political and economic issues surrounding the European Union. Professor Kotz is knowledgeable as he is kind, and he manages to create a very comfortable atmosphere in class. Working on the response paper and the final paper was fun, and Professor Kotz will offer you a lot of support, so definitely go to office hours to discuss your papers!
This is a very interesting class if you have any interest in Europe or would like to see how you can apply your Economics knowledge to policy and economic issues in Europe. Professor Kotz is great to know in person and he makes the class very professional and interesting.
This was, by far, my favorite course this semester! It was a great intro to EU economic policy and it really helped me understand how Europeans think about their economies and the big question: how economically integrated should Europe be and in what is the right arrangement?
This course offers a great insight into the economics of European integration and Prof. Kotz is a real expert in this field!
It's not likely to be a class easy to get an A in, I'm sure most people get a-/b+, but it is a fascinating class.
This is a great chance to deepen your economics knowledge while working with a dedicated and enthusiastic teaching staff
Great class. Prof Kotz is an incredibly nice and intelligent person. Lectures could at times be dry, but overall the material was very interesting. It was also very light on work, and there was complete freedom regarding paper topics. Highly recommend!
Professor Kotz is truly a knowledgable economist! You will learn a ton about European economics affairs and the infrastructure of the European Union. It was a nice change from the courses based on United States institutions and theories. Always received personal attention to assignments and my question. Highly recommended.
This is a good class to take for a wide range of people.  Due to the open-endedness of the assignments, you can write your papers on just about anything you want related to Europe (trade policy, financial markets, central banks, taxes, etc.).  The workload is also pretty light.
90% of the time, you never have to do any work for this class, but if you do indeed turn up to lecture & do the readings, it's pretty interesting.
The assignments for the course were fair and the instruction from Prof. Kotz was excellent. The evening section times were annoying though. Would recommend taking the course pass/fail
Very good class for writing requirement
This is an excellent course that is taught by an expert in European economics. You will learn to appreciate the academic process of writing a term paper and participating in a conference with your peers.
Great way to complete the writing requirement. The class is very interactive and engaging. If you actually participate in class, you'll learn a ton about European economics. I would be careful about the final paper as you need to make sure to get guidance and be proactive about it!
Do the press review before each class. The discussion at the beginning of class is very interesting and useful.

Try not to fall asleep during lectures by engaging in the questions with the professor and, ideally, with other fellow students.
Kotz is a really nice guy and a good teacher. You get what you give in this one.
Interesting course, but a lot of reading. Too much.
Great teaching staff with interesting, relevant material. I liked that we were able to go deep into the topics we decide to write for our response papers and term paper, but because there are no psets and midterm/final, I don't feel motivated to actually learn all the materials presented in lectures, which is quite a shame. Also, this class can be quite disorganized.
Good grades for a fair amount of effort. 
Both the professor and the teaching fellow are brilliant. The professor has worked at the board of the German central bank for several years and is a McKinsey senior advisor. He will provide you with very recent, high-quality input (e.g. Investment bank's reports about topical issues). However, the professor should speed up the course and make it more challenging
Take this class if for no other reason than to get to know Professor Kotz. He is the kindest, most considerate, gentle-hearted teacher I have met at Harvard, and it comes through every day in class, from his very demeanor. He will also encourage you to go to seminars by brilliant economists visiting from Europe which are highly worth attending, and I would never have known about them otherwise.
Lectures might be a bit dull at times, but it is definitely a worthwile experience given how applicable the tools one cultivates throughout the course are. Professor Kotz is a great economist and Pieter was an excellent TF whose sections were extremely useful thanks to his expertise.
If you want a course that challenges your thinking, and a great teacher who infuses you with knowledge, you should definitely pick Ec 1432.
The professor is very knowledgeable and he likes to incorporate current affairs into the lectures. This facilitates an easier understanding of the economic frameworks learnt in class. However, a lot of times not all of the slides were covered during the lecture, which meant that these had to be studied independently at home in order to be able to follow the following lectures.
A very useful look into the inner-workings of the EU, which is particularly useful in the context of today's increasingly interdependent global economy. A premium is placed on participation, which is also a great way of making sure that you're keeping up with the course overall. Nevertheless, a great deal of emphasis is also placed on the final research paper, and many of the components of the course are sort of structured around preparing you for it, so be sure to invest a great deal of time (ahead of time) in the service of writing a great paper!
Make sure to focus in lecture-- the covering is very diverse, and that's your opportunity to learn the most. Also, participate in lecture- it makes a difference!
Kotz is incredibly nice. The class can be boring at times but it can be really fun if you actively participate.
This was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard thus far. Professor Kotz is terrific and very approachable and Ermal is a great T.F. It is clear that they want you to learn a lot and succeed from the beginning and it creates a very positive atmosphere! The class felt tiny when in reality there were 50 people. They knew everyone's name which was really great! All in all you really should take it!
Not very effective (boring) lectures, and the class is divided into 2 kinds of people: people who are obsessed with EU affairs and show up and participate in every class, and the people who do neither.
Great course that focuses on the application of micro and macro- economic models on real life issues.
Because the lectures can't be found in a book or online, it is important to pay attention during them.
Professor Kotz is great and he'll work with you on anything you don't understand.  European economics is something that's often on the news and is something that most educated Americans still don't understand.  If you want to go into international business, travel to Europe, or are simply interested in European government it's a great class.
Great class with minimal work. Lecture can be a little boring, but Kotz cares so much and you can get really into the paper, which gives you a ton of leeway to do whatever you want. The academic conference is a ton of fun. The class is low stress because there are lots of things they make you do ahead of time for the paper. You'll learn things.
Favorite economics class! If you enjoy discussions, this class will be great for you! Professor Kotz is a great and VERY accessible professor. Seriously though, I walked away from this class feeling like the experience was one of the most rewarding economics classes that I have taken.
Fantastic Course!
A very interesting and stimulating class - if you are in it for the right reasons.
Tough if you have a very weak econ background.
Only if you are really interested in the European Union
fair course
.... I had very high expectations for this class, they were not met.
very interesting, yet not too stressful classnice new material for non-Econ majors or Freshman/Sophomore, easy class for Junior/Senior Econsgreat Professor and TA, always available for advice and feedbackvery interactive class with lots of participationshould you take it? YES, especially with some interest in Europe
Tougher course than it looks on paper. Be ready for a lot of advanced students (beyond Ec 10 level)with an impressive knowledge of the subject, and an expectation that you will be able to hang with them in terms of class participation.
Very caring professor and TF make this class worth taking even if you have no background in European economics (there are, however, many students who do).
This class teaches most of the concepts taught in the macroeconomic section of Ec10, but it is much more interesting because they are taught in the context of the European Union. The professor and teaching fellow were very helpful and it was very enjoyable to learn from them.
This class is great- you learn a lot about the issues in Europe and hone your economic logic skills.  Professor Kotz is always engaging with students, asking about different impacts of policy and shocks, which keeps you on your toes.  The professor and TF are genuinely caring and fantastic people as well, which is a big plus!
The lectures can be dry some times, but you get a good overview of current issues in European economics. The paper is tough but it makes you think deeply about a specific topic.
This course was fairly easy. The response paper wasn't too bad, the professor and TF are very understanding (esp. to Seniors who are recruiting- just make sure to attend section!) and the class has no midterm and no final, just a final 15 page research paper. The content was interesting as well, but if you're not interested in the EU, it will be painful.
Professor Kotz is great and obviously passionate about the materials. If you are very interested in Europe and have a strong math background, it might be a good course for you. Unfortunately, my math was not good enough to understand many of the theories. In addition, the lectures were very boring and an hour and a half is too long.On the other hand, as long as you do the final paper and the mini assignments along the way, you'll do well. The readings don't matter for class and as far as I could tell, neither did the lectures.
This is a fantastically current and informative class that has led me to become vastly more interested in the economics of Europe. Professor Kotz is brilliant, and although the lectures can become dry at times, you will never have a question that will go unanswered.
I really enjoyed this class.  Professor Kotz is awesome and really passionate about this topic! I liked the way the class was set-up and it's a great way to fulfill your writing requirement!
This is a really good course to fulfill your writing requirement for economics. I was able to expand what I learned in macroeconomics last year and writing the final paper was a very rewarding experience. However, the lectures were pretty boring and hence there wasn't enough motivation to go to them. Also, the course was a bit disorganized at times so be sure to keep up with what's going on in terms of assignments, essays, etc.
Professor Kotz is an extraordinarily friendly man with the best intentions for the class. However, the lecture style is quite difficult to follow. Professor Kotz tended to express every idea in the form of a question, and it severely restrained the flow of the lecture. I think the effort to engage the class in discussion is helpful, but it may have moved too far in that direction. Also, if you have already taken a lot of economics classes, you may find this class frustrating because of how introductory some of the material is.
This course should be really interesting, but it is too poorly organized to get a lot out of it. Lecture is pretty boring, and aside from the current news section at the start of each class, it's hard to stay engaged. Assessment is basically entirely your final paper, which should be started early with lots of input from the teaching staff. Not the worst choice for a writing requirement, but that's only because the options for the writing requirement are terrible. This class isn't great.
Great opportunity to learn a lot on an interesting subject without having to do too much unnecessary work. Everything you do for this class is fairly interesting, and work is never too overwhelming. Lectures are very current and interesting and the sections managed to strike a good balance between reviewing and going more into depth on things lecture didn't cover.
seriously. take this course. professor kotz is great. the material and lecture slides are helpful and informative. he gives good feedback on your writing and assignments.
This class is awesome. Lectures are very interesting and interactive. It provides you with a very unique set of information that isn't available from other Economics courses: the way things work in the EU. Having an international perspective on economics policy is not only interesting but also helpful in understanding everything that is going around in the world.
Prof. Kotz is awesome and very knowledgeable in the field. The course was interesting but sometimes it was hard to really see what we were learning because often the lectures didn't really tie in the readings or they seemed a bit general.
Great course taught by a very dedicated Prof. The class covers the most you should know about European economic policy. Do not take the course if you are not interested in European economy!
This class has a strong emphasis on banking and financial integration, so if you are interested in these aspects of European integration, then this course is for you!
The material of the class is very engaging and relevant, but it is presented in a very bland manner. I suggest that if you are to take this course, you make an effort to stay with the material.
This course will keep you involved and informed when it comes to European news and economic/financial affairs. It will also provide an excellent history of the Euro and the EU.
Very important to stay on top of reading although it isn't necessarily addressed in class.
The lectures can seem dry, so only take this if you're interested in this content.
It is a great way to learn about how to integrate economies.
Definitely a great class if you are interested in economic reasoning and learning about the European Union. And most of all, amazing Professor and TF! Take it!
Ec 1432 provides a wonderful, rigorous overview of the European Union from an economic perspective. Professor Kotz is very knowledgable and also very approachable outside of class. Besides some grounding in Econ, however, some prior knowledge of European affairs helps immensely in fully enjoying the course.
It is a great class but you will not get much feedback throughout the class.
very interesting topic
Easy but a bit boring. Painless way to fulfill writing requirement though
Not much work and a great professor! Take this class, I highly recommend it!
This course deals with interesting subject material on a highly important topic currently, so if you are interested in economics and what is happening in the European Union, I would recommend this class.
Only take it if you are very invested in European economics.
Lectures can be boring and the professor often assumes a higher level of knowledge in economics than most people have.
I really enjoyed this course. Professor Kotz and Ermal are incredibly helpful and eager to help you understand the topics.
Awesome class if you want to learn about European integration. Be proactive, go to office hours, talk to professor Kotz.
Do the readings. They're very interesting!
The lectures are pretty interesting but not relevant to the assignments.
It's an interesting course about European economics, but only take it if you're PASSIONATE about econ and Europe. It's one thing if you like reading the news about the European economic crisis -- it's another case if you're engaged in macroeconomic theory and have lived in Europe (as about half the class had.)
It is a very good way to understand the EU as well as its issues. Especially today a highly relevant topic.
This is a great class if you're interested in learning about practical economic analysis, but its easy to get lazy, and the lectures aren't that interesting, so you really have to take it upon yourself to keep up with the readings and lecture notes. Overall very easy though, and I've learned a great deal with minimal effort.
If you like to get to know the background of European Integration and would like to understand Europe a bit better, you should take this course! Also, you have the opportunity to learn from a former Central Banker! The atmosphere in this class is very nice and especially if you have ideas you would like to test in a paper on Europe, it is perfect!
great class, especially for the Ec writing requirement
Take this course only if you are interested in the European economy.
I enjoyed this class, and I would definitely suggest going to section and reaching out to the professor and TF early on in the course, because it will be helpful later on for the research paper.
Very topical class. A great way to delve into important European issues. Prof. Kotz is very knowledgable on the subject.
The material is interesting, and the class if very low work-load. It can be difficult to stay attentive during lecture, but you only need to pick out specific information for the two papers due.
taking into account what is currently going on in Europe, this course provides valuable insights into the ways how the Europen Union works and what challenges it faces. take this class if you want to know how Europe's future might look like!
Very easy, lots of info, academic conference and simulation exercise are fun.
Lectures are extremely painful, do not know what you are going to get in the class until the very end. No idea how they grade some of the assignments.
You learn a good amount about European specific problems. Was interesting during the debt crisis. Good class. Painless writing requirement. Enjoyed the course.
you will not regret taking it; you learn so much about Europe, and it's great to know what's going on the world (especially for interviews)
This class covers interesting subject matter, and the professor is great. Just be mindful going into the course that nearly your entire grade is determined by your final paper and presentations related to that paper.
This class is excellent, topical, and fun!
Professor Kotz and Ermal are both great, very friendly and available to meet after class. Take this class if you are interested in european current affairs and economics- otherwise, you'll be bored. Not much economics background needed.
Painless, but you get a great feel for the tradewinds of European economics. Highly recommend.
This class is very easy in terms of the work that you have to put in. Professor Kotz is an incredibly friendly and helpful resource, if you reach out to him. Because the material and news are highly relevant to the current European crisis, I strongly recommend withstanding the temptation of not attending lectures.
While lecture can sometimes be a little tedious, the material is very good, and the professor really knows his stuff.
This course provides students with a fascinating introduction to the structure and operations of the European Union as well as the various economic issues that European policymakers have address in the past as well as the challenges that they continue to encounter in the wake of the 2008-09 recession and the ongoing sovereign debt crisis.
fantastic course!
Great class with a professor who actually has real-life experience in the topic of study that is able to talk about a plethora of topics regarding Europe and its economy.
Definitely get to know the professor and TF.I came in not knowing anything about European economics and now I can hold a decent conversation on this topic. Very practical and current material.
it's a great way to learn how the EU works.
European integration is an important topic, and taking this class will allow you to expand your knowledge about the topic greatly. the readings were all current and very interesting, so this class is much more applied than many other classes taught at Harvard. Prof. Kotz is also an authority on this topic, so if he teaches the class again, this is something to take advantage of.
This is a great class that discusses a subject matter that is unique to courses at Harvard.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.  One of those rare classes in which late registration results in a small class of very passionate students.  If this course is offered again, it is very manageable and a very rewarding class.
Take this course if you are interested in Europe, and especially central banking.
