if you have already taken AP Econ, this class is literally the same material.
Even if you're not going to concentrate in Economics, it's still valuable and worthwhile class
This is a fine introductory course for economics. It is not particularly well taught, but if you read the textbook you can actually learn stuff.
The course is difficult but grades are forgiving. I learned a lot
Concepts build on one another. Ensure that you are comfortable with each concept as you go along. Read the chapters before starting the problem sets.
It's probably necessary to take this course in order to function in the world. However, It's boring and annoying at times. Just take it and deal with it.
Take this class at some point. Don't be too scared. I did not take CS50, LS1A, or anything else that I see my friends stressing about. So, this class was manageable. You learn so much. It changes your worldview. And if you're a liberal like me and afraid of being pushed to the right, then just take Money, Markets, and Morals in conjunction with Ec10a and you be pushed right back to where you were.
The class is cool if you want a pretty good overview of basic economics. It's not calculus-based, though, although it really should be. But if you know calc you can apply it to the concepts yourself.
If you're interested in learning the basics of economics, take this course! It introduces you to how markets work, and the classes are relatively small since they're taught in section, so you get to know your section TF very well!
Yes, parts of it definitely feels like (is) neoliberal indoctrination. Knowing that, make sure that you think critically and openly about some of the information being presented to you as "fact".
Don't be discouraged by tests, just make sure you learn the basics and you have achieved the goals of this class.
Really depends on how good your TF is, psets will take some time, easy to get behind on readings.
Risk of getting a poor TF, and thus learning very little and having to heavily rely on self-instruction, is too high to justify taking this class.
Only take this class if you have time to allot for the psets. I did not due to my other classes and would have definitely like the class a lot more if I had. Other than that, it is a well-taught and well-structured class.
The tests and P-sets are hard. Not much work but may become stressful if you choose not to keep up with the readings.
its ec 10 take it
Having a background in basic economics is helpful for this course. The problem sets are all doable, and I would recommend utilizing office hours as much as possible! Your TF will help you on problem sets and explain concepts to you that you don't understand if you make the effort to go to office hours.
Be prepared for some difficult tests and a lot of work.
Read the textbook before class, it helps when learning new material and enables you to get a better grip on things.
The p-sets are annoying and difficult, and, a lot of times, irrelevant to what you learn in class which is really frustrating. There are also really good TFs and really bad ones and you just need to get lucky.
Do not start the psets late. They take much longer than one would expect.
The class is engaging and interesting. Depending on the section leader, the class can become even more enjoyable.
This course is an interesting one to take even if you do not plan to concentrate in or get a secondary in economics.  This course allowed me to learn the fundamentals of economics and enabled me to better understand economic policies in our nation.
Ec 10a is a rewarding class if you put the work into it. However, it could be enhanced through better feedback of unit reviews/exams and preparation for said exams.
This class really shows you a new way to view human interactions in the world.
This course helps you understand how businesses work as well as different types of relationships involving the economy. It is a good class to take regardless of your concentration because it helps you understand the basics of the economy that make our world work.
I think it's good for everyone to understand economics, so I would recommend this class for that reason. It does its job as an introductory course. Don't expect much interaction with the professors/lecturers. Most of the content will be taught in section.
I took this class as a way to follow the "concentrating in economics because it's easy" track. Don't do this. This class isn't great if you don't enjoy the subject. TF's aren't helpful unless you get a good one, Mankiw is nothing more than a figurehead, and the only redeeming factor is the curve at the end. This is the epitome of a class that you only take to fulfill the stereotype that Harvard has curves - not because it's a class everyone raves about taking.
Just a standard econ course I suppose, nothing to see here.
The lectures are very interesting, but section is extremely tedious. Tests could range anywhere from being fairly easy to extremely difficult. I would not take this course unless you need to fulfill a concentration requirement.
Don't buy the book, first of all. Even though Mankiw says that you absolutely must get a hard copy of the book, here are other ways to get the book that don't require having to spend a fortune at the Coop or other expensive bookstores. Additionally, Mankiw doesn't actually teach the course. You'll see him all of about three times throughout the semester, honestly, as he really only gives about three lectures. The rest of the (very few) lectures are taught by guest lecturers or visiting professors, and when there aren't lectures, there are sections. Pray that you get a great section leader, because how good your TF is will determine how well you do in the course.
I loved this class but your experience will really depend on your TF. Mine was great so the sections were super interesting. It not only changed the way I saw economics but also politics. The class is not particularly hard; I did not take Economics AP before but from what I've heard, it covers the same material. The Psets are interesting and manageable (plus during office hours your TF helps you with the problems you struggle with). The readings are easy and the book well structured. The guest lectures are really interesting too. If you are interested in knowing more about how our markets (and so society) work, how to make better choices as a citizen, I definitely recommend taking Ec10.
To get a fundamental understanding of the basic principles of microeconomics, this is the course to take as it covers essential topics that pertain to any more in depth study of economics.
This class is a good introduction to the way of thinking that economics requires, and exposes students to many important and relevant economic policies and debates. How much of the learning is independent (reading out of the textbook) depends on which section leader you have. The lectures are very interesting but the usual sections meetings can be dry and/or slow-paced, especially if you've taken an economics class before.
I personally loved EC10, but I think that's mainly due to my TF. She did an amazing job of teaching us the textbook's material in an organized, clear, and overall effective manner. Section was fun, perfectly paced, and very informative. She also made herself readily available for help and elaboration on tricky subjects, which was great. I hear not everyone lucks out with a TF this good, though, which can make EC10 a bit nightmarish. Lectures were really engaging - especially with the diverse cast of guest lecturers who came in (diverse in political philosophy and interest areas). Overall a great introduction to microeconomics for someone with very little background in this area.
If there were any class that all students should take before graduating, it's this one.  It may not be the most thrilling class you take, but you would be hard pressed to find another class that is more important for everyone's personal development.
It is a lot of work but can be interesting and will change the way you look at politics and the economy.
Stick with it because it all comes together at the end!
Knowing economics is so important, and Ec 10 gives you a very deep background into this field.
Bad TFs. If a course is going to be taught almost entirely in section, fine. I understand we can't all have Professor Mankiw's time. But the TFs suck.
This is an amazing class! The material is fascinating, the work is enjoyable, and it's important for life!
This course is exactly as it is described in the syllabus. It is an introduction to economics for those who have not before had exposure to it. It is generally taught well although lectures leave something to be desired and experience with the course varies widely according to quality of the TF.
A good intro class. You need it to take anything cool or more specialized in the economics department, so it's worth the investment on the front end to get to those classes later. Not all of the material is super interesting, but you have to learn the basics somehow!
If you want to study Ec you need to take it
If Economics isn't your concentration, I would advice against this course. I believe the material is useful and would be beneficial to learn for any future career but you are much better off reading about the topic on your own. If anything, Professor Mankiw hinders the potential for this course.
The way the course is taught (so little Mankiw) is kind of odd.
This class is definitely a good introduction to economics, which I think is important for everyone to have at least some grasp of.
Do the readings and make the most of office hours.
It is a good class but it is also significantly dependent on the TF you get.
Be prepared to work
The guest lecturers are reason enough to take this class.
Not too much work, and very interesting for those who like Economics
Understand you will have little idea of what your grade in the class is until the every end
Your TF matters, if you have some reservations in the beginning, do everything you can to switch out early on.
there's no other choice for an intro ec, but it's ridiculous how poorly this course is run/executed considering how many students must/choose to take this course.
All student should learn the basics of Economics. This course though is at times overwhelming do to its size. You see Prof. Mankiw only 5 times throughout the semester. How well you learn is really contingent on your TF as they are teaching you the bulk of the material. If your TF was like mine, you will have a very hard time following along. On tests you get asked obscure questions about the lectures which can be very annoying. Psets are pretty heard and tests leave you feeling hopeless and stupid BUT they are extremely curved.
Studying and office hours are required. Reading is necessary and unavoidable.
It's necessary for a degree in economics, satisfies a general education requirement, and is a very popular introductory course. It should not be passed over with AP credit.
This is by far the worst class I've taken at Harvard. TFs are terrible. Don't do it.
While this class will teach you the basic principles of microeconomics and change the way that you will see the world, know that it is not a well-run course.
Go in with low expectations
Lectures, when they happen, rarely help with the actual application of the economic theory that students are taught in section.  In addition, the section-based structure of this class require that students do most, if not all, of bridging theory and application themselves.  If you're not into economics, this probably isn't the best course for you.
This is an awesome class. Workload is very light and if you are alright at math or science you'll crush the exams. Despite that, I didn't feel like I was wasting my time -on the contrary I feel like I learned more than in any other course I've taken at Harvard. The material is essential to understand for any American citizen.
This class is poorly organized.  Be prepared to study and do p-sets with groups of people to clarify the concepts, because many are not covered well in section, and one (quotas) was not even in the textbook.  Also, do not be alarmed if the first midterm is brutal.  For some perplexing reason the teaching staff decided to make the midterm very difficult but have a very high curve.
This class is difficult but manageable if you are diligent about reading, office hours, and section attendance.
A lot of self teaching is necessary for this class as section does not truly cover all the material. Unit review is extremely helpful in learning the material as well!
Solid foundation for microeconomics.
This class is going to be taken regardless if I liked it or not, I will say section is super important so make sure the leader is a good one.
Study ec the summer before to understand the topics better.
If you have a good TF it is a great class and you will learn a lot. It is really fast-paced though so make sure you stay on top of topics and assignments.
If you want to get a basic understanding of economics I recommend this class. It is not the most fascinating but it also does not require too much work.
This is a pretty interesting course that is helpful in understanding some of the basic structures of the economy and if you are interested in how businesses work I would recommend this as a starting point.
Involves a lot of solo work. The textbook is a really dumbed down version of what is required of you in exams - so don't buy it. Waste of money.
Don't take this class just because all your friends are taking it. It is not difficult to get an A if you do all the work (unit review, problem sets, etc.), but be prepared for an influx of people at Lamont on Thursday night working on ec problem sets. Start on them early--it's my best piece of advice to you all.
Do the psets early in the week so you can do unit review
If Ec is something that comes easily to you, this class is awesome. If it's more of a struggle, it's still definitely worth taking to learn but can be a big challenge.
I took this class because I thought economics was an important skill to have knowledge about, beyond just the high school level. I took this class because someone told me it was a useful class. It was not. It is impossible for some people who think a different way than normal Harvard students. I don't think I learned anything except how to stress out about graphing. Yes, some people find this class SO easy and SO helpful, but I struggled to pass. So enter with hesitation if you're unsure. It was one of my worst experiences at Harvard thus far. Also, Professor Mankiw is supposedly conservative, but I still found this class to initiate many liberal views -- be prepared to be swayed. Don't take this class if you don't want that.
Take this course. Full stop.
It's a very useful class. You know about the most basic concept about economics
You're going to learn mostly from your section leader -- which can be good or bad or okay depending on your TF. It's good to pace your reading and do practice throughout instead of cramming. Actually try to learn while doing your psets because in section you only learn concepts (at least for me), so this was my only consistent way to learn and apply. Take advantage of unit review and pay attention in lecture because the tiniest detail could be tested. Good class and interesting, but felt like I could've done better for many reasons.
Mankiw and all the lecturers are great! Sections can be a bit inconsistent! My section leader spent most of the time telling jokes.
Just be ready for the psets to be harder than anything they teach you in the textbook or section. You have to go to office hours or have friends who already did the course in order to get them done in an reasonable amount of time
This course has made me consider pursuing economics as a secondary or joint concentration. It definitely isn't for everyone, but with an open mind and some logic, you can get by pretty easily. The textbook is expensive though so take this class with a friend.
Take this class if you want to learn economics. It's the only introductory class and a requirement for anyone concentrating in the field. I wouldn't suggest taking this for the gen ed requirement, since it is a constant stream of work with a pset every week, and I wouldn't suggest it for anyone who has taken AP Econ already. I came into the class without any knowledge of economics, and though I didn't find the class very enjoyable, I have to say that I am now quite familiar with the basics of micro. One warning: it seems that a lot depends on the TF you get. My TF was amazing, but others were far less happy with theirs and had a much harder time in the class.
You should take ec 10 because everyone should know basic economics.  But it's a bit like eating your vegetables.  It won't be very exciting or fun, but it will be worthwhile.
This course is not perfect, but it can be very good most of the time. This can depend heavily on who your section leader is though. The material is usually very interesting, but sometimes the pacing and discussion can feel off and it is important to keep in mind the size of the course.
Don't take this for a Gen Ed.
if you don't like math, do not take this course
This is a great class to take not only for students interested in economics, but for a general understanding of how economies work. The class will be easy if you put the work into it: read the book, go to office hours for help with problem sets (highly recommend this), and do the unit tests for extra credit.
Unless Economics is really your passion or you have to take it for a concentration requirement, it's not worth your while. There are easier and more enjoyable ways to get Gen Ed credit.
This class is useful. Don't be afraid to switch TFs if you don't like yours -- they vary dramatically in quality. Be sure to find friends who are also taking the class, and study with them.
I would tell future students to make sure they keep up with the concepts as they go along!  There are a lot of terms and problem solving strategies to keep straight, and things become very difficult if you loose track of them and then try to learn it all before the exam.
This is a prerequisite for higher Economics classes that might be a lot more fun so it;s good to just get it out of the way
Be prepared a few chapters of reading every week as well as a weekly pset. Other than that, the semester flies by smoothly.
I think that everyone should have some background with ec. That being said, it is not an easy A.
Ec is great; Ec10 is not.
This class is really great to take if you think you might have some interest in economics. I wouldn't recommend taking it for a GenEd because it takes two semesters to complete, but I'm glad I kept my options open in terms of concentrating in Ec. Because this is a very large and primarily freshman course, there is some camaraderie in terms of going through all of it together.
Everyone takes it so you just gotta.
This is a great class if you want an overview of microeconomics. I had no prior experience with economics and found this course very informative and just the right level of challenging.
You gotta take it. Ec10!
Take this course if you know that you enjoy or are at least interested in economics. Do not just take the course because other people are and you think that it is a good idea.
It's boring but useful. Life isn't always fun
Economics 10 is what it is. The course teaches basic economics to half the freshman class, so don't come in expecting some sort of life-changing, fulfilling experience. Economics 10a and 10b are a great way for me to get a math gen ed, since I am very bad at math, but can do economics. If you are not planning to concentrate or get a secondary in economics, and feel qualified to take an actual one-semester math course for a gen ed, then there is absolutely no reason to take this class.
You better be ready to work.
It is very interesting material and is a great intro course to take, but can sometimes be boring and a lot of work.
Study and you will get an A. Do the readings, take notes and attend sections if you want to take full advantage of this course.
This is an awesome class where you get to learn the fundamental basics of microeconomics! If you're even a bit interested in economics, definitely take the class.
The class covers many interesting materials and can give students very important knowledge for their future careers.
It's worth taking because everyone should know the things that are covered. It's very helpful to study and do the problem sets with a group.
Definitely pay attention in section and go to all the unit reviews.
It's not a very difficult class, and it shows you a useful way of thinking about the world around you. Plus, you need to take the class freshman year if you want to major in economics (the most popular major at Harvard). On balance, I would certainly recommend it.
This is a great intro class for economics. Even if you've taken AP Economics, I'd recommend taking Ec10 as its approach is much different than the AP's approach.
It is a difficult course, but it will teach you important lessons that is useful for your future in any field.
This class is absolutely horrific and redefines the word dull. It's not even particularly difficult, just so mind bendingly boring that I could barely bring myself to do the day-to-day work. Also, Mankiw is an utter hack.GET A GOOD TF
Ec10 is a huge class and you don't really learn a lot in lecture. If you have a good TF this is an amazing class but if you don't, be prepared to read the textbook on your own and teach yourself the material.
It's hard but worth it.
This is a large class because it is a prerequisite for a lot of students. The class is organized such that most classes are taught by TFs instead of the instructor, which means that there have to be a lot of TFs and that makes it hit or miss. I had a fantastic TF, which made the class way better, but I also saw some friends have much less constructive experiences with this class because of their TFs. Overall the material gives you a better understanding of how the world works and I feel that the class can benefit just about anyone, but how hard it is depends partly on luck.
If you have taken AP Economics in high school, you should likely check with the department about replacing this course with another.
There's a lot to know so make sure you stay on the ball throughout the whole semester.
The course is very simple, but provides a thorough introduction to economics.
This course gives an excellent introduction to the basics of microeconomic theory - even just taking it as an elective, I found the course fascinating and the materials provided were excellent. Overall just a great course.
The information taught in the class is straightforward and comprehensive. What is difficult are the exams, and the curve - just keep in mind that the nature of the class is competitive, being that you have to think about your preparedness for an exam in comparison to other students knowing how the course is graded.
This course deals with many interesting concepts and challenges students to work with graphs. But I would warn students that they should probably have a solid background in Microeconomics before taking this course, because depending on their section, they might feel overwhelmed by all the new material; they may also feel like they're at a disadvantage, compared to all those students who have already taken Econ.
More interesting than you'd think
I took this class hoping to learn the practical aspects of economics (with no requirement to take the course and needing no GenEd fulfillment). I felt that the course was very poorly organized and very much based on getting a good TF. I felt that my section did not learn what was needed to do well on the exams, and that I had to learn much of the material on my own and do a lot of out-of-class studying.
The midterms and final test you on application of the concepts you learned in section. So even if you feel you can recite the textbook, that means nothing unless you can put it all together to solve a real world problem. Also do the unit review, it was really helpful.
You will learn a lot of basic economy in a simple, but yet super interesting way. A very good class for everyone, even if you do not want to do economics as your concentration. I will strongly recommend this class.
Important class for being introduced to the concepts of microeconomics.
This class will teach you a great deal about economics. It's a little tough and the class goes through material very quickly, but if you keep up with the work throughout the year you will do fine.
buy book
Prepare yourself.
If you work really hard you can get an A. Go to Unit Review.
This is the basic course in economics that every student should take because it's good to know a little about the economy and how our decisions impact the economy as a whole.
The course attempts to provide a scientific approach to economics without explaining any of the mathematical intuition behind it. In many ways, it expects you to answer questions that would normally require formal justification in a very informal, hand-wavey manner. Didn't like it as a person studying CS/Math.
It's definitely challenging and can seem very dry at times.
This is NOT an easy class per se. At least in my experience, it is possible to do the psets and readings and go to lecture/section and still struggle with the exams, because they require some intuition to do well on so it isn't only a test of what you know. Also, these things are probably self evident but here goes: Keep up with the textbook reading, as it explains things extremely clearly (and makes your life easier with psets). Go to section (for the same reason). Start the psets early! Go to office hours.
Ec 10 will increase your understanding of the world. It uses basic economic theory to demonstrate the economic benefits or harms of everyday actions and policy prescriptions. Take this course even if you aren't planning on concentrating in economics.
Interesting subject. Class helps you to understand the economy. Guest lectures are amazing. Mankiw, however, is very biased. You could easily and wrongly leave the class thinking that increasing the minimum wage will cause unemployment. Oh and DO UNIT REVIEW
This course is a straightforward intro to economics course. It's big and not very personalized/riveting, but you feel like you get a good grasp of necessary material before you can delve into more interesting/specialized courses.
Don't just take it since all your friends are.
Using the other resources available with the course is important, rather than just section and lecture.
If you are taking this class to interact with Professor Mankiw, now that apart from office hours and the few lectures he gives in the semester, most of the time you will spend will be in your section. Please stay on top of your readings and do your psets on time. The mid-terms are more difficult than the psets so make sure you give yourself enough time to review the review material posted online and go to all the review sections.
Dan West is an amazing TF! You want to get put into his section. He is understanding and very nice and patient. Also,  make sure you read the textbook!
Actually read the textbook before going to section. That way you can recognize the tidbits that aren't in the book and that you actually need to write down and take notes over.
You get out of it what you put into it... What your TF puts into it also has a huge effect on what you get out of the course as well, sorry to say.
Be cautious about the tests. Definitely go to office hours.
Do not take this class unless you absolutely must.  It presents a fundamentally flawed way of understanding the world and expects students to ignore morality.  The course is also completely dependent on the TF you're assigned, meaning your ability to do well is a gamble at best.
It is extremely helpful to hire a tutor or go to office hours with your questions about the problem sets
This class is a lot of work but it is very rewarding and interesting.
Although it is a very large course the material is well taught and comprehensive. I thought this class was fairly interesting as it provides a means of economic reasoning to many pertinent problems in today's society. Reading the book is essential to success as it will provide you with a very firm grasp of the course.
Do the reading for sure.
Take this class if you want to be a more informed citizen. It is not the most fun or most interesting class but it is highly informative and should be a requirement for every student.
Essential class, pretty easy if you have any economics experience at all. Make sure to get a good TF. Lectures are basiclly useless.
This is a standard introduction to economics, taught very clearly. If you are not yet exposed to economics, it can shape your world view and your understanding of how people interact. Despite what you may hear negatively about Mankiw, he is a nice guy who delivers very interesting lectures (particularly the one on income inequality). Christine Hou is an outstanding section leader. The textbook is very clear and informative.
Take everything you learn in this class with a grain of salt. If you haven't taken economics before, don't believe everything that Mankiw states regarding the economy.
This course is something that every student should take to get an idea of basic microeconomic theory. That being said, class experience is totally dependent on your section TF. The guest lectures are fantastic!
great course
Hope for a good section leader, use office hours
Be sure to stay caught up with the readings before each section as that is how you will be able to maximize the usefulness of each section. Also, you don't want to swamp yourself with work later.
It's a challenging course, but I'm glad I took it because I feel more aware of the world around me and how the economy comes into play in everyday life.
a very difficult class, but important to take despite concentration choice
Its a solid introductory class-- take it if youre even mildly interested in Economics.
Take it- it's not as easy as everybody says, but it's probably one of the most useful classes I've taken.
Be prepared to take this course, and the arguments it makes, with a grain of salt bear in mind the perspective the course takes, and do not assume that the course is taught neutrally.With that in mind, this is a useful course to begin conceptualizing economics.
For being Harvard's most popular class, it was very poorly taught and disorganized.
This class is actually really hard. If you've taken an economics course before, you probably won't find this course too difficult. But even though there are no prerequisites, students who have never taken economics will feel very far behind everyone else. The exams are impossibly difficult and the weekly problem sets are really time consuming.
It's pretty tough, but you feel like you've learned a lot by the end of the semester. Be prepared to study for the tests! A lot of the test questions can be super tricky and harder than anything you do in section.
This class seems scary because of its size, but it really taught me to think differently. It is really important that you find someone to help you with the material if you don't understand it, whether it is your TF, a different TF, another student, or even Mankiw himself.
Your standard economics course. The guest lectures are very interesting though.
Get ready for difficult psets and exams, but still a rewarding experience.
Experience does depend on your TF, but if you keep up with the readings/problem sets the course isn't too bad
I would recommend that you shouldn't take this course unless you want to concentrate in it or get a secondary in it. Definitely don't take this course to get a mathematical reasoning gen ed.
Go for help On your homework!
Take it only if you have to.
Be prepared to spend time not only memorizing material but also truly understanding it
Mankiw does not teach the majority of this course.  You are taught almost entirely by TFs.  Often, it seems like Mankiw has no idea what is actually being taught in classes.  His office hours are minimal and largely unhelpful.  If you take this class you will figure out very quickly if you want to continue concentrating in Economics or not.
If you don't need to take it, I wouldn't. It's good for what it does but if ec isn't your forte, the exams will really be very difficult and probably some of the later topics
Microeconomics isn't flashy or super interesting, but it does teach you some basics of extremely important things. Some of the guest lecturers were awesome, and the section component is well run.
Essential class
This course really has an excellent take on economics and you will love studying economics!
this class is so hard i hated it so much :( :( :(
Students will likely take Ec10 regardless of whether previous students recommend it. I would say to proceed but to not expect a particularly thrilling experience.
Ec 10 isn't really that bad. They offer a lot of extra credit (Unit Review) and section leaders can be awesome. It's a rite of passage for the social sciences, so definitely take it if you're interested in Social Studies or Economics. However, the tests can be frustrating when they test how much you remember from boring lectures.
Good as a concentration requirement, not as a concentration requirement.
It's very difficult, but if you want to concentrate in economics, it is a requirement. Take the class if you are genuinely interested in economics or your concentration says it's mandatory. If not, then you probably should not take this course.
This course is very challenging, but doable.
Make sure you switch into a section with a great TF.
Go to office hours.
Economics is good to know to be a more informed citizen and participant in the economy.
Don't take it unless you're seriously considering an Ec secondary or concentration. And don't for the love of god just believe everything Mankiw says.
To anyone who has never taken a social science class, and wants to take Ec10: know that this class's economic analysis is built on incredibly flawed assumptions. The basic premise of its models is that humans are utility-maximizing rational behavior machines, who before doing anything consider their rational self-interest, calculate how this may be affected by an action, and take that action based on the aforementioned calculation. About two minutes of reflection on the last 24 hours of your own life before you read this review should demonstrate that this idea is not true.But even if one somehow acknowledges its basic validity in our social context, Ec10 goes farther. It posits that these behaves are natural rules of human behavior from which people have rarely if ever deviated. This is demonstrably not true: a basic overview of human interactions over different times and social settings shows that humans think and act in vastly different ways in different times. In many - actually, in most - of these settings, humans have not thought to act in their rational self-interest to maximize their utility.These are just two among many, many assumptions made in Ec10 that have been contested by other social sciences using a wealth of evidence. Through its position of dominance in the university, the econ department as a whole and Ec10 in particular simply ignore this contrary evidence. As long as they can snatch up those who have never studied other social sciences and indoctrinate them with these assumptions, they don't have to admit what the evidence strongly suggests: that these assumptions are at the very least very flawed, and more likely straight-up incorrect.Take this course if you must, but also read history. Read social theory. Learn the different logical frames upon which different societies have operated in the past. Resist indoctrination and understand where the Ec10 assumptions go wrong. That, more than the models and assumptions Ec10 provides, will help you understand how humans behave.
Be ready
This is a clunky class. Section is simply an embellished and less detailed retelling of that week's textbook chapter. Guest lecturers are hit or miss but worth listening to. Make sure to look over a new version of the textbook as there are questions on each test that can only be answered having read the new textbook.
I would tell future students that this course is a great foundation in economics. It's not math heavy and so if you are looking for that maybe take 1010. But it is very intuitive and teaches the fundamentals very well and in a way that is memorable.
It can be a good class to take as a freshman first semester student because there are a lot of students who you will meet and could possibly become friends with. I think aside from that, though, the class was not as interesting as I had hoped it would be, but I guess the second semester could be more so.
This is a very difficult course that will take up a lot of time outside of class.
Be prepared to learn a lot and think in a different more innovative manner.
This class really changes the way you think about your everyday decisions and the overload of economic information you read in the news. It also challenges you to apply abstract information to actual problems.
Don't feel pressured to take it just because a ton of people do-take it if you're interested in economics.
Be prepared to have hard exams and read the book. Also, do not blow off the psets until the last day.
This class can be great if you like economics. It is a good way to see if you want to concentrate in Ec, however a waste of time if you are just taking it because you think you should. It is also important to understand that the lectures aren't really how you learn in the course, rather it is entirely taught in section and the lectures are more supplementary.
If you can easily explain things to yourself and teach yourself this course is great.
By Harvard standards, this is a very easy course... but if you can't graph lines, or if you won't seek out help when confused by something, it's going to be a struggle.
Only take this class if you have either taken economics before, or are willing to put in a lot of work into an introductory economics class.
I really enjoyed this class and hope to learn more about how the world works through the eyes of an economist. This class pushed me to examine the world in a different way with different values and measurements, and it was fascinating for me to adopt this new perspective.
Ec10 is a great introduction to economics. A lot of what you learn can be deduced logically, but learning the reasoning and the basics of the functioning of economics is definitely helpful.
This class offers a good foundation in economics, but your experience also depends entirely on your TF. Know that it's possible to switch sections! Don't be shy about emailing the course facilitator to get a new TF if yours doesn't work for you!
I would tell them to go to the unit reviews, make sure you understand the material, and approach the problems with an analytical mindset.
Great class
Pretty easy as an intro course.
Ec10 is a necessary class for anyone interested in Economics. Because you can't avoid it, you might as well make the best of it. Try to comprehend the topics in full because they set the basis for future courses.
It's not a difficult class if you do all the work. Lectures are pretty much optional. Good class to take if you are considering econ as a concentration. Wouldn't recommend taking as a gen ed.
Take the course no matter what your concentration is. It's a great introduction to economics and its  great introduction to a new way to think about social issues in a scientific way.
super easy. too easy.
If you have never taken economics, this course is just a fine way to get some basic understanding of it.
You'll be fine.
You learn a lot about current issues.
This class will push you but it is worth it.
applicable information
Discrepancy in sections, individuals have different conceptions of difficulty of the class.
The information in this course is not merely "one sided," but some of it is literally inaccurate (from stats on the unemployment to blaming growing inequality on "industry superstars whose large incomes tip the scale"--mean v. median anyone??).  That being said, it gives you basic economics information and it isn't that hard.
It's totally a fair class considering it is intro economics
When one considers that a semester at Harvard costs $30,000, each course is worth $7,500 (not accounting for room and board). The size and poor TFs of this course are not worth that sort of investment, and do not reflect the kind of learning environment I hoped to experience upon coming to Harvard. A student's letter grade can be totally determined by the ability of his or her TF - and, there are very clearly better and worse TFs in this course. I found the structure of section in lieu of lecture to be harmful to my learning. The course is said to be taught by Professor Mankiw - a very well-respected professor. I wish he were the one actually teaching me in this course instead of a law student whose only incentive is to make a few extra dollars.
Everyone should take this class.
This is a necessary class if you are interested in economics.
I know that Ec10a usually has mixed reviews, but I actually liked the course a lot.  It does depend on who your TF is for section because most of the actual learning is done there, but I had a good TF so it went well.  Problem sets have a few challenging questions on the whole and it's better if you do a little throughout the week.  The lectures are very mixed, sometimes they're really interesting and entertaining but other times I'm not sure how relevant they were.
This class, despite its specific troubles in some TFs, is a must take. Even for non-economics concentrators, it is imperative that the ideas presented in Ec 10 be learned. Keys to success in this class: 1) make sure that you take notes during lecture - these questions pop up all over the tests. 2) PSETs are your friend - these are most reflective of things that will show up on your exams. 3) Find a buddy to work with: a lot of the material provided requires discussion, and working through problem sets together is the best way to understand the fundamental concepts.
This class is exactly as advertised... It sets up the basics for economics, and does so in pretty straightforward fashion. If you're expecting a super easy or fun GenEd, look elsewhere, but this class manages to make the material relatively interesting, if you like the economics.
Make sure you keep up with the reading, and go to office hours for psets to make sure you really understand them before you turn them in.
If you've already taken AP Micro I would still take this class
Ec10 is a good course for what it is. It won't blow you away, but it's a solid introductory course. Keep on top of the textbook readings, which are fairly interesting, and you'll get a lot more out of the class. Also, go to the Unit Reviews, since they're a great way to test what you know.
Good intro course to Econ. It'll help you figure out if you want to concentrate in the subject or not and along the way you can learn some basic stuff that will forever help you as an adult in society.
Mankiw lectures are rare
Understand that lectures are very infrequent occurrences, and most of the course is taught in section.
This course is a wonderful introduction to microeconomics and its applications. The lectures and sections were all well-taught, and did a great job in encouraging students to further explore economics.
Really read the book. All the information is in the book.
This is a challenging class, but entirely manageable. Take it, especially if you have never taken economics before. For freshmen especially, it is almost a social experience, and you're bound to find friends to help you with PSets and studying. The disparity in TF quality can be rather frustrating, as can the almost anonymous, machine-like nature of Ec10, but at the end of the semester you do realize that you've learned a lot.
be prepared to study n your own
If you like and can understand math, take this class--you'll be great at it. If you don't like or understand math, take this class--it'll fulfill a math GenEd.
it is extremely hard and there is a ton of work
If you have no background at all, just make sure you read the textbook carefully. I went to every lecture, but you don't have to go to the lectures, especially the guest lecturers, they are just a waste of time. In addition, the questions on the test about the lectures are impossible to answer even if you went to the lectures and took copious notes.
It's rewarding and will challenge a lot of assumptions you have about the world. In terms of understanding just the broadness of what the word "economics" entails, the class is very enlightening.
do you readings
The content learned in Ec10 is certainly useful in many disciplines. I came into Ec10 as a student who loved to read about economics and related fields. However, the way this course is taught is just terrible. There is a strong disconnect between the students and the teaching staff. Reading the textbook and attending sections will not prepare you for the test. Everything is really curved, so you'll do well, but it is such a miserable experience to get there. If you want to be part of an impersonal machine that does not value your academic curiosities, then take Ec10. I was really excited to learn real world applications of economics. However, this is simply not the case with this course.
Read the textbook and make sure you understand the psets. Before a test, complete all of the practice material.
I would tell them that the class teaches you the fundamentals of economics that will likely be a good foundation for future studies in economics.
Doesn't matter if you're a science person or are adamantly against the Ec culture at Harvard, intro Econ is an extremely important class with info you should learn at some point in your life.
Don't start the assignments the night before they are due. Also, if you take this along with CS50, don't expect to ever go out on a Thursday night... ever.
If you are trying to decide whether to concentrate in economics, and are not interested in graphical representation of microeconomic ideas, this is not the best course for you. For those who are almost strictly macro-economic geeks, the first semester can be off putting.
You learn a lot of economics in the end, but this course is kind of disorganized and more time intensive than it initially seems. A lot of resources there to help you if you are able to take advantage of them. TF knowledge very uneven, so section is a bit of a luck of the draw
Make sure you keep up with the textbook reading because it can be very easy to get left behind if you don't.
It's not a bad class, but be ready to do a lot of self teaching, because a lot of the section leaders are not great, but there are some that are really good.  Expect to see Mankiw 5 times.
Can be boring at times but is an important skill set if you plan on entering any sort of business career.
Ec10 is worth taking no matter what you plan to study - a basic understanding of economic principles is key.
This is great class if you want to have a solid introduction to economics.
I would tell future students that this course is a really good foundation that basically everyone should take because having a fundamental understanding of economics is really helpful in being an informed citizen of the world. I would also say that keeping up with the readings in the textbook and going to unit reviews basically guarantees that you can get a good grade in this course.
Likely.
seek help from office hours if you need it.
Not the most fun but definitely helpful for understanding basic economics.
definitely self-study. reading the textbook and consulting other websites are helpful. get a tutor from the bsc - they're great. also remember to go to the unit reviews - they help you review the material, and you even get extra credit.
I really enjoyed Ec10. Do the textbook readings, stay on top of psets--actually do them yourself, instead of doing them in groups, because you'll learn more that way--and it's a fair course, and the material can be pretty fascinating.
This course is a hit or miss, depending on how good your TF is. In my case, I was lucky to get one of the best ones.
Unless you need this class to major in economics, don't take it. Although Mankiw has a good resume, you'll rarely be taught by him. You'll end up with a bumbling TF who isn't nearly as good a teacher as the teachers you had in high school. Since you're at Harvard, you might as well take a class where a professor who actually knows something about the subject teaches you. Not to mention the fact that this was the most poorly run course I have ever taken in my life. After offering it for so many years, you would think that Mankiw and his staff would have figured out how structure the exams. The first exam was entirely too difficult. Graders had to be overly generous, so merely drawing a graph and labeling it could garner a significant number of points. The second exam was too easy. Graders were forced to be extra tough just to create a pretty bell curve, and seemingly perfect responses would receive half credit without any indication of what went wrong. I was dumbfounded by the ineptitude at the coordinating levels of Ec10. For a class that paints itself as a flagship Harvard course, Ec10 was a disappointment.
Take this course if you really think that you'll like economics, sometimes the material can get a bit challenging.
You have to be willing to work, but it is possible to succeed.
This class will give you a thorough foundation in microeconomics. However, it is not always exciting and it is at times one-sided.
The class teaches you what you need to know to continue as an economist or just as a voter in this country, an does so in a lively and interesting way.
Learning in section with a TF is so much better than you would think!
You absolutely need to have taken an econ class already.
Try to not get overwhelmed because if you are new to the subject it is a totally new language
It is a typical economics class.
It's not exactly a fun or effective course, but it's necessary if you want to study Economics as a concentration.
EC10 can be a good class if you get a good TF. The vast majority of the class is taught in section, with only occasional lectures which are often not very related to the material. This means the quality of your TF determines the quality of your experience with the class. Exams were sort of unpredictable and a little unfair this year because there was a new course-head, but that should be better next year.
Psets can be long, start early
It's pretty basic and has a nice curve
Stay on top of your reading: period.
What you get out of this class varies a lot on what section leader you get, and the curve makes it really hard to understand how well you're doing. The guest lectures are pretty interesting, but a lot of the tested material was based not as much on your actual understanding of economics as much as details about guest lectures or public policy issues mentioned in the textbook.
This class is really great especially if you have any interest or desire to learn economics. I love how by studying this course I not only learned about economics, but also about why people make the decisions they do. Prior knowledge of economics would be helpful but is absolutely not necessary. Feel free to take this course with absolutely no previous knowledge of economics. Though be warned the psets are challenging and the class is mostly taught in section, so you are very dependent on whether you have a good TF or not.
It's not an easy class and you may not enjoy going to class. You'll have to deal with that since it's necessary for higher economics classes. However, the subject material is fairly interesting (to me, anyway), so you'll be happy you learned it.
Economics is going to be what you make of it. I say this because, doing the bare minimum of what's required will only give you a basic understanding of the topics you'll be expected to master and apply. I don't know if he'll be teaching next year, but if you don't have him for section, go to Neal Sudan's office hours. He was a great help to me and really aided in my understanding of almost all the concepts taught in the class. He wasn't my TF, but I was in his office hours frequently and he made the course much more enjoyable for me.
I would say that it's a course that teaches a lot that you should know as a citizen, but it's not very personally-taught.
The class itself is interesting when it comes to lecture, especially the guest lectures. However, section three times a week becomes boring and dry, especially because section is basically a second lecture. Highly recommend actually doing the readings in the textbook, they really help.
Solid course.
This is a great class to take. I think having a basic understanding of economics like Ec10 gives you is helpful no matter what you may end up concentrating in.
This course exposes you to many important economic principles without going too far in-depth. The course also offered intriguing lectures by world-renown economists and political figures.
It's the only intro economics course, so if you want to learn the basics of economics you pretty much have to take it. However, know that it will likely be a pretty miserable experience. The nice thing is that you have a third of the freshman class to commiserate with.
This is a necessary course to take if you hope to pursue economics in the future, but is generally very poorly instructed and uninteresting.
Take if you're interested in getting a general overview of econ - but don't expect it to be a "mankiw" course - it's really a section-based course
Come in with an open mind. It is not the best course, but it helps to open your view of the world.
get excited. helps you learn about the world around you!
You'll learn important principles in this class that, really, everyone should know. I'm not an economics concentrator and I don't plan on getting a secondary in it, but this class offers you a different perspective to looking at problems facing society. While this perspective has its flaws, it is valuable to have in thinking of how different social sciences deal with society's issues. The work is doable and there are a lot of opportunities to review the content (office hours, unit review program, review sessions). Take it if you want to be more conscious of how the world around you works.
Standard ol' big lecture course. Mankiw lectures a total of 6 times in the semester. Class is basically taught in section, so a lot depends on how your TF is. Take it as an essential gateway class to economics. Go to your TF's office hours to do well on p-sets and do ALL the Unit Reviews. Know the psets and the helpful hints and you should do well in the course.
Ec 10a is a necessary evil. It is quite dry at times, and the lack of real applications and discussions combined with Mankiw's persistent conservative viewpoint makes the class occasionally unpleasant. However, I felt that I came away with a good understanding of microeconomics that will likely help me in the future. If you decide to take this class, prepare to be frustrated with the structure, the differences between TFs, and unpredictable exams - but you will also learn a lot.
Your Ec10 experience depends on your section leader since most of your learning will occur in section. These sections feel like high school classes. The lectures are interesting and not as mathematical as section. Mankiw brings in a great selection of guest lecturers, and these are something to look forward to. Although a lot of people might stress about them, the midterms and exams don't end up being so difficult. Taking URPs (optional weekly assignments that count as extra credit) is an easy way to increase your grade.A lot of Ec10 is understanding graphs: what variables correspond to, why curves take the shape they do, what happens when you make slight changes, etc. Especially if you have a lot of experience with this sort of thinking (in Econ, Physics, Math, etc.), then you'll do well for sure.
Ok class. Probably easy if you read the textbook and stay awake in section.
It's an interesting class, though it's taught in such bulk that it feels very impersonal. Does help in getting better estimate of where you fit in the curve, I guess.
Ec10 is a solid introduction to the Harvard Economics Department. The lectures are interesting, but how much you get out of the course is highly dependent on how good your section leader is. Getting a bad section leader can leave you serious ill-prepared for exams. Be warned that you have learn most of the exam material on your own time if you want to do well in the class. Unit Review points are crucial in the calculation of your final grade.
This was a great intro to econ. for anyone who has had no experience
This class isn't the best class you'll take at harvard, but you'll learn a lot. How much you enjoy it definitely depends on the quality of your TF. It's one of the those classes you sort of have to take in order to take more complex courses in the future and there is a very generous curve (that being said there is also a lot of students that take it so the curve balances out to an A- or B+)
This is a challenging course that you ultimately gain a lot from.
Try to comprehend the material through problems, not concepts
Mankiw is beast
If you need economics for your major, and it's an important topic to know, take it. But if you don't need it, don't take it.
Ec10 is exactly what would expect. It's a big course. It takes a moderate amount of time each week. It can be frustrating, but also very rewarding.
This class sucks. I would never recommend it. Mankiw doesn't teach it, except for his 4 lectures per semester. His textbook is unbelievably expensive and not that helpful. The subject itself is boring.
It has potential but it doesn't follow through; I felt like the course should have been more immersive, should have yielded more as a result of hard work, and had clearer expectations.
Don't take it unless you really want to major in economics.
Hard, but probably a must-take course.
Unless you really want to do Econ it is a poorly taught and poorly structured course.
Ec10 is one of those classes that everyone feels like they have to take. Guest lecturers are very interesting, Prof. Mankiw is very removed from what the students are doing and learning, and section is very hit or miss. I started out in one section and switched to another early on because of a scheduling issue and the difference between TFs was drastic
This course is rewarding and challenging. Great course though.
It is definitely a useful life skill.
If you keep up with the psets, do the unit reviews, and pay attention in class, and read the text book as you go, it will not take much more outside of the class to succeed.
Doing the readings, going to office hours and working hard will get you a good grade in this course. Your grade is often reflective of the effort you put in.
This class is a solid background of economics. There are not many topics the course invests itself completely in.
It depends on what ec experience they have and whether they're prepared to skip to 1011 with their math skill level.
I see applications of the concepts I learned in this class every day, and I could not say that for every class I've taken at Harvard.
I think Ec10a is a solid introductory course to economics and the teachers are very invested in providing students with the best economics education possible.
This course definitely opened my eyes to the very necessary applications of economics. However, I did not appreciate the teaching method whatsoever, nor the unnecessary difficulty of the first midterm. It seems that too many concepts are trying to be covered at once, to the point that students leave feeling like they have a very shallow understanding of everything, It would be better, I feel, if the topics were minimized and more focus was given to the smaller amount of topics.
This is a good intro course to economics - there's a reason that 800 people take it each year. Definitely attend section and read the textbook, if you do that you'll be totally fine!
Do the readings and do the work, and you'll come out on top every time. Hail Mankiw
This course is interesting and fair.  Some find it difficult, I did not.  While it wasn't necessarily my cup of tea and I will not be continuing in economics, I did find it worth while.
It's a classic Ec10 course.
This class requires a lot of work from you on a weekly basis to complete the problem sets, I would definitely not recommend taking this class as an elective-only take this class if you need to take it as a requirement. I found the problem sets tedious and difficult to complete having no background in economics prior to the class. The lectures were very interesting, but perhaps one would be better off visiting the class to sit in the lectures than taking the class for the lectures. The background I learned in economics was useful and I am grateful to be more informed as I think it is necessary to more fully understand politics, but even so, in retrospect, I would not take this class even for a background in economics.
If you want to learn the basics of economics this class is your best option. A lot of what you get out of this class depends on how good your TF is.
I would recommend if you have taken an economics before, I would recommend with reservations if you haven't.
It requires a lot of extra work to study and understand concepts.
Some of the material is initially difficult to understand, but if you put the time and effort in and get help from classmates or TFs when needed, you will surprise yourself with how much you learn.
it is difficult and time consuming but you learn a lot
It may be frustrating at times, but the concepts covered in this course will be essential to further study of economics.
Good introduction to microeconomics.
Very difficult
Many people who take this course have taken Economics before. If you've never taken economics, prepare to have to work hard. You definitely have to be self-motivated to take this because much of the course you have to teach yourself.
If you want to challenge yourself right from the beginning in the field of Economics (and have no prior experience in the field), this is the course.
This is a class you need to take, but shouldn't be excited about. Just go to section and get your psets done and you'll be fine though.
This class does exactly what it promises, which is teach introductory microeconomics. If you go into this class with an open mind and understanding that this class is going to be taught in a section and that Mankiw is not the most pertinent faculty member in this course, you should learn quite a bit and probably enjoy yourself while you're at it. I took Ec10a as a STEM concentrator and I took it as an elective my junior year, and I have to say that it is actually a pretty easy course if you take it when you aren't a freshman freaking out about everything.
I think a basic understanding of economics is important for pretty much everyone, especially people in the social sciences. Your mileage can really vary depending on your TF, but I unfortunately don't have any information on how to get a good one. :( J-Bookie is awesome; too bad he's leaving
If you do the readings and psets with time, you should be fine. The only thing about this class is that your experience greatly depends on your TF since this class is taught in section (lectures do not occur too often). Some TFs are really good, but others are not and those TFs can be discouraging for those that are mildly interested in economics.
Take it!
Mankiw is condescending and his values are fucked up obviously but still take the class. its a good introduction to economic thinking which helps in other classes and is good to just generally have. readings are helpful.
Be prepared for how difficult it is
I found this class useful for figuring out whether personally I plan on pursuing more economics in college.
Ec10 is a great course that teaches students about basic economics concepts that are extremely useful in the real world.
You should take econmics beforehand
Ec10a is an unfortunate way to get half a gen ed (very annoying) and feel terrible about yourself as a student, all while spending enormous amounts of time on this single class. It's entirely TF dependent, so if you don't like yours, go find a good one even though they make it as hard as humanly possible to switch sections. Find a TF who's taught the class before. The tests are hugely varying in difficulty and it seems as if it's the first time they've taught the class, despite the class having run for so long. In the end, if you want to feel taken advantage of and tricked by a class, take Ec10a!
I was terrified of this course before I took it, but it ended up being my favorite class. A lot of that is probably because I had an awesome TF. Don't be one of those people that leaves the problem sets until the last minute. Do one or two problems per day. I found that I actually learned a lot from the homework assignments and unit review program.
worth taking
Make sure you get a good tf
For anyone interested in Economics, this is the course for you.  I came into the class with absolutely no background in the subject.  The subject matter was presented to me in an easy-to-understand format from various instructors that are very passionate about economics.
I would not recommend taking another problem sets class in the same time.
Make sure to get a good tf, you'll know as soon as you walk in the door if its a good section or not.
This is a very easy class that gives you a great framework to think about policy and economic changes happening around the world.
Catch the train.
This is a good class that gives a good foundation on economic principles but also provides opportunities for the students to think about the material in a very real context through interesting and intriguing lectures by prominent figures in the field. The course, although challenging, provides skills that make all the political and social conversations about economics make sense.
Really important class to take for being an educated citizen.
Hopefully your TF is solid.
If you do not have to, don't take it. This is not a class you take for fun. This is not a class you take for an Easy A. This is not a class that is interesting. Take 10B Macroeconomics instead maybe? First of all, Mankiw doesn't do anything except give lectures that are no different from his textbook. Second, the section component of the class isn't all that great and which TF you get pretty much determines your grade. Third, the exams and P-sets are hard. Fourth, office hours are never that helpful.
It was a good baseline for micro economics, but your success will probably depend on your teaching fellow.
The material is interesting but the exams are difficult.  Even if you aren't sure about studying economics in the future, you should take this so you can better understand how the world works.
Ec10a provides a solid foundation for economics.
If you aren't interested in concentrating in economics, don't take this class. The course  requires a lot of work and is  very dense, so unless this topic really interests you, you won't enjoy the class.
It is important beyond the classroom.
Make sure you do ALL of the Unit Reviews because they greatly influence your final grade!
Make sure you do not just memorize definitions and graphs. Learn the true meaning of the definitions and why the graphs are drawn like they are.
This course will teach you a lot not only about economics but about to how to adapt to the general academic experience at Harvard, as usually about half of your class will take the course at some point in their Harvard career.
Only if you are willing to put in the effort
This course provides a basic into to economics that can help you figure out how much you enjoy it and if it is something you want to do in the future.
Much of this class is logic and common sense. If that interests you, take it.
This course reaffirmed my interest in economics and is the reason why I will continue to take economic-related courses in the future. The weekly problem sets, lectures, unit reviews, and sections that I took part of really encouraged me to apply textbook principles to the real world.
This is a good course to take freshman year, as a lot of other freshmen are in it and it's a bonding experience. The material and problem sets are very challenging, however. This is not an easy course- you will have to put a lot into it to get what you want out of it.
This is a good introduction to economics - I feel much more informed about economic policy and how businesses operate. Since most of the class is taught in section, the quality of the course really depends on your section leader. Mine (Jon Garrity) was excellent - very relatable and very passionate - so I had a great experience.
The class really depends on your section leader, so it is a shot in the dark as far as quality goes.
Be prepared to do a lot of self studying. If you screw up on one midterm, there goes your grade.
This course is, without a doubt, one of the worst courses I've taken here at Harvard.1. sections are absolutely not standardized. you better hope you get a good TF because I was consistently 2 to 3 days behind everyone else and was literally NOT taught things that were taught in other sections.2. don't like your TF? sucks to suck. they're horrible about lettng you change sections to find one that fits your time. you want to go to other TF's office hours and review sessions? sucks to suck. they don't have a laid out chart to find out what works for your schedule. you have to go through a whole process of emailing the TF every time there's a specific time you want to go to office hours for. want to go to the head TF's office hours/review session? too bad--if they're not course-wide, they'll kick you out.3. the questions on tests will not test you on your knowledge. they will be petty and nitpicky, and the review materials given are completely different from the actual tests themselves.4. Mankiw does a horrible job of giving people broad material to look over. he is pointedly biased when he should be giving us both sides so that WE can be making up our minds. also, you never see him--and when he does teach, he teaches without passion or enthusiasm. I literally have never met a professor so removed from his students.
This class can frustrate you, but its very rewarding.
Read the textbook. It's very well-written and covers almost all of the course material.Section felt like a complete waste of time, but participation is part of your grade unfortunately. Section literally repeats the textbook, using the same examples, but at a mindbogglingly slow pace.Easy class if you understand the textbook.
Great intro to micro. Course taught mostly in section
It's not the most exciting, but I feel like I definitely have a better world view after having taken Ec 10
This is good stuff to get exposed to and also a good gauge if it's worth pursuing. I wish I had taken it as a freshman.
Harder than it sounds.
If you have taken micro and macro before just go to 1010a
Yeah, this class can be somewhat annoying sometimes. But let's face it, economics is important to know in today's world. This class is effective at teaching it, so students should take it. And it's not that bad, the problem sets are gone over in office hours and if you study seriously for the tests you will do fine considering the curve.
take it if want to do ec
Can be kinda dull sometimes, but I learned a lot and it's all stuff that you should know before you go out in the real world
Don't take this class if you are interested in Mankiw; he won't really be there. Take this class if you're interested in economics.
Ec 10 is a classic huge course. The material is basic, with limited engagement from faculty and a disconnected feel. Your satisfaction in this course is entirely dependent upon who your section leader is and whether or not you're actually interested in any of the material being covered. Even if you feel like you have a great grasp of the material and kill it on the problem sets, you may be set up for disappointment on the exams. Standards are vague and inconsistent.
Very useful foundational course.
Mankiw is a character.  If anything, take the course for him.  Entertaining and informative.
The content presented is very good and provides a good introduction to economics. Your experience will most likely depend on what section you are placed into as the content is entirely taught in section. If you haven't taken economics before I would be prepared to do some additional study each week.
If you take this class, get ready to put in work! This class can come with frustrations and I recommend that you do not take it with two problem-set classes. Go to section, ask multiple TFs for help (not just yours), work on it with friends, read/skim the textbook, read study guides, take advantage of the helpful hints... JUST MAKE SURE THAT YOU DO EVERYTHING TO NOT FALL BEHIND IN THIS COURSE! Because the process of catching up is not fun.
It's not great being taught almost exclusively by TF's. If you're interested in economics though, you kind of have to take it.
If you don't have an understanding of economics going into the course, this course is difficult and poorly structured.  Also it's hard to imagine anyone truly enjoying the course with any tf other than David Johnson.
I actually wish this class becomes a General Education requirement. It develops a more critical lens in policy and it really is effective for all disciplines.
A standard requirement for Ec concentrators but also interesting as an introduction to how markets work for general knowledge.
This course has problem sets that will take you a long time, exams that are tricky and really require you to think deeply and critically about applying concepts, and lectures that are often boring and/or biased and/or irrelevant to the rest of the course. However, it does teach you a lot about economic principles and gives a solid basis for understanding some policies and markets. David Johnson is an awesome teacher and you should go to his office hours and review sessions to clarify topics, especially if your section leader is not on point (and many are not).
Take Ec10a! Ec 10a is difficult, but well worth it because the class gives you some critical life skills and information. How much you get out of section depends on how competent your TF is, but it is still possible to do well without a good TF if you spend a lot of time outside of class going over concepts. You'll be in a better position if you've had some preview of microeconomics before taking the class.
it's incredibly difficult, like you have to put in a ton of extra time, harder than it seems
I think one thing you need to realize with this class is that it is suited for those who have taken econ before. It does not mean that it makes this course easier if you do have a background, but it means be prepared to work very hard. This course is not easy, especially if economics does not come naturally. Don't hesitate to go to your TF's office hours or another TF's hours. Also, don't hesitate to find a tutor. Honestly, don't worry if you do bad on your tests. There is a curve and many opportunities for you to get help. However, if you feel like after one semester the class isn't for you that is totally okay.
Take it if you have to, I suppose.
David Johnson is the strength of this class. He is literally amazing. He has so many office hours and makes himself available for the students. His explanations and enthusiasm for the subject matter is really inspiring and comprehensive. What I got out of this class came out from the few times I went to his review sessions or office hours.That being said...very few people are lucky enough to get into David Johnson's section. How your semester goes really will be based on whom you get as a TF. Anyone can do well in the class by getting extra help but how much extra work you put in will depend on your TF.
Go to David Johnson's office hours.
Your mileage with this class depends heavily on your section.

Lots of times, the concepts covered in section don't necessarily convert well to understanding and completing the psets.
It seems like there are two kinds of people who take this class: the ones who find the problem sets difficult but manageable and fun to figure out, and the ones who find the problem sets grueling and the low point of their weeks. This class is I think very necessary in that the general microeconomics principles can be widely applied. However, your enjoyment of the class depends very much upon the quality of your section leader because they are the ones who do the majority of teaching (Mankiw only gives five or six lectures over the course of the semester). For me, all the concepts of the course didn't completely come together until I began studying for the final, mostly because I went to other section leaders as well as because I finally had to break down and teach myself the skills I didn't understand from the section. My advice to anyone who takes this course is to really jump in to it: go to David Johnson's office hours (!!!) and the review sessions of other TFs as well as any office hours you have access to. I found this course incredibly grueling, but if I had employed the same tactics all semester that I did in preparation for the final I think I would have had a greater appreciation for the course.
This class was very informative overall.
This is a great course to learn the basics of economics.
It's not that interesting a topic in general but it does provide the necessary background to go on in economics i think.
go to office hours
lot of work but worth it
It's not very engaging unless you are a concentrator or into economics
The psets are challenging and quite often only distantly related to section and lecture. However, they provide you the opportunity to creatively apply what you've learned and to view the material in new lights. This is a great course if you have any interest in the field at all.
This class is very important to be a knowledgable citizen, but it should absolutely be two gen eds for both semesters.
I took this class a GenEd, but I now believe that economics will be my concentration. The concepts seem basic, but if you learn and enjoy the material, you can explore a whole range of issues from a different perspective.
Take this course if you have to; avoid it if you don't.
You should take it for a basic understanding of the world.
I would highly recommend this course to all students. This course significantly raised my understanding of the world around me and gave me specific tools for analysis. I now have better knowledge to tackle the news and current events with and have applied the fundamentals of economics in all of my other classes this semester across various disciplines. Although this class is not extremely difficult, it does require lots of time, thought, and energy. Problem sets and unit tests are key for comprehension and thus need to be taken seriously.
It is a great class and in order to do well it is important to stay up to date on the readings
It's a standard intro to economics course. They teach you a lot of stuff in terms of graphs and lines and algebra.
Ask someone for a PDF version of an older version of the textbook. The price of the current edition is outrageous.
Studying for tests doesn't seem to help grades as much as it should.
Exams hard, material interesting if you like math
Keep up with the readings.
Very bread-and-butter intro economics class. Makes you feel like you're in a large public school with huge lecturers and half the school taking the course. But you learn what's necessary.
This is a good class to take, regardless if you're planning to concentrate in Economics, since it touches on many microeconomic concepts that are ubiquitous in today's news and debates.
Very boring material. Most likely due to the tf I had, and I had friends who said their tfs did a great job. So how much you like the class will absolutely depend on the tf you have.
It's a great class that teaches you a lot.
The class can be extremely rewarding and interesting or not depending on your effort.
This course will help one understand important and fundamental economic concepts. It encourages one to use a variety of approaches in the pursuit of this knowledge. It is fun while being interesting at the same time.
Make sure you keep up with the readings, especially if you do not have a good TF.
Do not shy away from Ec10 just because you have heard horror stories about it, but also do not take it unless you have a genuine interest in the material, otherwise you will be pretty miserable for a semester.
Everyone should know a little bit about how scarce resources are allocated.
David Johnson is awesome! Unfortunately he'll be gone by the time next year's students come around, but nonetheless this course is one of the best and most enriching ones I've taken so far at Harvard.
It's a grind but it will inform the way you think about the world.
Seriously consider your GPA before you take this class, as you'll see a large drop simply due to the horrible curves on Economics 10a tests.
Take the unit tests, keep up with the readings, and go to David Johnson's office hours when you have questions. If you can stay on top of the material, the class is really straightforward, simple, and a nice way of knocking out the Empirical Reasoning GenEd. Also look at the past exams and problems sets, because the majority of exam questions are directly ripped from/slightly modified versions of questions from previous tests and homework.
The class is very straightforward. Read the textbook, do the problems, go to section and lecture, study and you will make it through. Obviously try your best to get a good TF and when in doubt ask other TFs or David Johnson for help. You will learn a lot and many find the material relevant if not interesting.
Go to office hours (Especially David Johnson's) and you will understand the course material a lot better.
You're probably going to have to take this class to fulfill a requirement. It's tough that the course depends so heavily on the quality of your TF, but you'll at least learn something from it by the end. Not sure how it'll go without David Johnson though.
This class provides theoretical foundations to analyze incentives and choices, and their effects on consumers and producers alike.
Whether you like Ec or not and your success in the course all depends on your TF. Simple enough.
Take this class. It's interesting and provides the important base you need for further study in economics.
I learned a lot in this course, but you will definitely notice that it is a course designed for 600 students to be able to take and succeed in - there is a very generous curve on most exams. Make sure you pay attention in lecture! There will be lecture questions on exams and if you did not listen, you will not know the answers. Those are points that are not worth losing.
This class does a good job of teaching the basic knowledge of economics but it's pretty boring if you don't really like the subject matter.
Very challenging for some, for others it comes naturally. If you have taken microeconomics before, I strongly recommend, however, those who have not are frankly a step behind.
This is a great course, I wouldnt recommemend skipping
If your section leader is bad, switch, it makes all the difference. Use the helpful hints, they and the problem sets will get you used to the way test questions are asked--same flow/format etc.
Very questionable section teaching and lecture material is tested but can learned from reading slides so lectures are not worth going to (Cutler and Laibson are great though).
I would definitely recommend that you take this course. It's essential that you learn these theories not for only the class but also for your practical life.
This class is very good especially when you collaborate on the psets. Not only does it offset the workload but it also helps in terms of group learning.
Take this course if you're interested in ec -- you kind of have to. As a gen ed it wouldn't be a bad course, though maybe more work than necessary and it can be dry. Don't take it for Mankiw because he only lectures a few times. Also buy the old edition textbook, it's the same as the new one and it's $300 cheaper.
If you get basic math and have some common sense, you'll be fine. Just do the readings and stay on top of it and you'll cruise.
Take this class! Even if you have no intention of concentrating in economics, this class teaches you the basics of economics that are useful for a better understanding of the basics of our economy
Work hard and it will be rewarding.
As a liberal, did not enjoy the abundance of conservative philosophy embedded in the course or Mankiw himself. I did learn a lot though.
This is a good course for anyone looking to get a better understanding of how the US and world economies work. As an introduction course, however, it only skates on the surface of a lot of interesting topics. The class is also very manageable in terms of time and difficulty. Your experience in the course depends a lot on what TF you get for section, so if your TF isn't great, I'd recommend switching early on.
This course can be helpful to develop economic literacy which can ultimately shift the way you look at the world. However, you should take this course seriously and complete the readings. You get as much out of Ec10 as you put in.
If you've already taken AP and done well, this class should be easy, but still interesting.
Not a class you can just blow off, particularly if you have never had previous experience with ec before. Not an easy gened!
This class is really hard. Unless you are very serious about economics or have taken the course before, I wouldn't recommend it.
This is a very good introductory course to economics.  Lectures are generally unhelpful, but David Johnson is amazing.
As a class that is stereotypically full of freshman, it can still be pretty tough. If you have any interest in economics, it's definitely worth taking though. Make sure to find a section leader you like though, because the majority of the class is taught in section. Only a handful of lectures, but don't make the mistake of not going to any of them, because a lot more lecture questions appear on exams than you'd think.
ec10a was a good class. Decently well run. I believe it depends on who the TF you get is.
It's a great class. I had a great section TF, so I really enjoyed it and I learned a lot. Lectures vary between being very interesting and quite dull. You won't get taught by Mankiw other than about 4 lectures.
Interesting material. There's definitely a conservative spin on some of the material, but take it with a grain of salt and remember that it's just the most basic principles and ignores many of the real-world issues. Mathematical sophistication is basically non-existent, and if you've taken calculus before you'll likely be hitting yourself over the head by how simple the math is. Psets are by far the most difficult part of the class. The only thing you should watch out for is that exams will have questions about the most random facts from lecture so be prepared for that.
Read the textbook.
Just keep up with the readings and go to section.  Section teaches you a majority of the information so don't skip out on it.  Also, make sure to go to office hours. They are a lifesaver for the psets as well as the exams.
Good course that teaches you all of the basics on microeconomics that one can then build off of later.
I wouldn't take this class unless you really really liked economics or it's a requirement.
I took this course as an elective, and I am glad I took it because I think it helped me understand a basic level of how markets work. The workload isn't too bad, and there's help available. I've also heard that Ec 10b is something better suited for real-world applications, which is something to keep in mind.
Ec 10 will teach you how to think in a new way and look at the world differently
Choose a good section leader.
Okay, so, you're not taking this class because you particularly want to take Ec 10. You take it because you have to - either to be an Ec concentrator or because your other social science requires it, or because your academic advisor is somewhat dull in the head. Either way, it's not going to be a particularly pleasant experience. Work in section is straightforward-enough, problem sets are somewhat challenging, but perfectly fine if you go to office hours. Exams are tricky, to make a distinction in ability among the giant class. Make sure to study. Take it if you must, but certainly place out if you have AP scores.
If you want to do well in the exams, it would require most of your own initiative by studying the helpful hints and going to office hours.
Great preparation for life in general. Economics makes just reading articles (the paper is for chumps) much more enjoyable
Read for understanding not memorization! Synthesis synthesis synthesis. All of the concepts build upon each other so if you skip the first few chapters because you think they're simple you will have a  rocky foundation. Go to officer hours for help not answers, you should have at least tried something on your own. Do all the practice tests.
It was a great class, especially if one takes advantage of opportunities such as office hours to make the most out of the course.
Ec10 was a lot of fun for me. Your experience will depend a lot on your TF and if you keep up with the readings. You will struggle if you try to just go to section because they don't cover everything in the textbook.
Read the textbook before section as you go. It would make studying for midterms and the final much easier. Go to office hours!!!!
It won't blow your mind or change the way you think (at least it didn't for me), but you'll learn about economic modeling and microeconomic theory.
Economics is a vast and fascinating field, and this course introduces you to many important concepts. However, since the class is so huge, it often feels impersonal and somewhat rushed. You learn mostly from Unit tests and P-sets, which can be very time consuming.
If you don't love economics it is a challenging course although the applications of theories are interesting
You should take this course. Yes, it's hard. Yes, it's impersonal. But you do learn, and you learn a lot. Not just economics, but how to think. Everyone should HAVE to take this course.
Gives a great overview of microeconomics
This class is what you make of it. I have heard all levels of praise and criticism for this class and I honestly think it's because your experience in the class really depends on how much effort you put into it. For example, with the problem sets, really try to figure things out yourself. But if you come across a concept you just don't understand, go to office hours!!!! This is key. I honestly do not know how I could have understood some of the problem sets if I had not gone to David Johnson's office hours. Unfortunately, David Johnson won't be returning as Head TF next year, but nevertheless you should always seek help. The resources are there if you are willing to take advantage of them.
Go to David Johnson's' office hours. It will change your life. He is beyond amazing.
This class is an introductory ec class. If I could go back I probably wouldn't take this course again but I don't know. Everyone should take some introductory economics.
This isn't a particularly engaging class, and so you end up digesting a lot of information, often without learning its implications.
This class isn't that hard if you take the time to learn the materials, but this is especially important if you don't have a good TF.
If you have the right section leader, this course could be extremely enjoyable.
As long as you stay on top of your time management and understanding of what is being taught, this class is an incredibly interesting and rewarding class to take.
This class is a pretty standard introduction to micro-economics. It is mostly taught in sections. As long as you go to section and pay attention, you will not feel lost. Go to lectures because while they are not central to the exams, there will be multiple choice questions about them.
This course teaches a lot of material in a way that enables students to synthesize it all (or at least most of it).  David Johnson is a fantastic course head who is willing to go above and beyond to help students understand topics in his office hours and review sessions.  He is truly an amazing teacher and cares about students rather than research (and it is too bad he is leaving).  The fact that there were some very impressive guest lecturers in addition to the regular sections was useful in terms of understanding the topics in the book through section and then hearing about applications of these ideas in lecture.  The problem sets could also be done in groups, which is great if you have a lot of other work to do and can split the work up with a friend or two in section and then go over it together.  I feel that I now have a much better understanding of microeconomics.
Do your problem sets early, and go to David Johnson's office hours.
This is a good gen ed, you should learn about the world and international trade.
Don't take this class because everyone else is taking it.
People often have negative views about Ec 10a but I honestly think it is a close that is worth taking. You get out of it what you put into it and if you put in the time it is a very rewarding class.
It's a worthwhile course.  You have to take the initiative to go to OH and take unit tests if you (1) have a poor TF and (2) want to do well in the course.
Entirely depends on how good your section leader is. I worry for this course after David Johnson has left.
Good stuff to know but not taught very well
Do not fall behind
It's necessary.
If you have no experience in economics, this is the course to take to learn about the subject.
It's a challenging class but has the unique property of being useful in the understanding of every day life.
Not very good teaching. Have to do a lot of learning independently.
If you are interested in economics as a potential concentration, take this.  If you are interested in economics more generally (i.e. want to be more economically literate), consider taking this.  Otherwise...not really a "fun" class.
I loved the class, I had never done anything like economics before and thought it was fascinating. Don't listen to the people who say they didn't like it!
it is not the most fun course, but you do learn a lot.
Ec10a with Greg Mankiw is a good intro to the field of Economics. It gives a solid foundation for those wishing to concentrate in the subject, and it gives a good taste to those simply wishing to know a little about Economics. Ec10a does an excellent job of teaching students to "think at the margin" and view their actions and decisions from an economic perspective.
This class is manageable. The material may not be the most interesting, but it's necessary to learn if you are going to concentrate in econ. I was actually surprised by the volume of information I learned about micro  by the end of the semester. The information really starts to click a few weeks into the course. The psets can be tricky but you can get them done fairly easily if you go to office hours. You will do well on exams (they are heavily curved) if you take the time to study and understand all of the concepts. Take this class if you are really interested in econ or are going to concentrate in econ; however, don't take this as an easy gen ed as the course does require a good deal of work.
It is a solid class and teaches a great basis of economic theory.
Mankiw never shows up so don't be alarmed.  Pay attention in section.
The class is easy but you have to teach yourself the material and go to David Johnson's office hours because the section TFs aren't very good.
Difficult but worth it.
Move out of your section as soon as possible if you have a very poor teaching fellow.
Pay attention in section and do the unit tests!
Try not to get too caught up in the terms and definitions in the textbook; a better way to approach the course material is to think about the "how" and "why" of the big concepts, as well as how each of the concepts relates to each other.
It's useful, no doubt, but in the same way that eating spinach and broccoli is useful when you're growing up: in hindsight, you're glad you got that fiber, but it could've been shoved down your throat in a much more palatable way.
Stay on top of your readings and stay engaged in all sections and lectures
It might seem easy in the beginning but make sure you keep paying attention because it gets significantly harder. Also, go to the unit tests. Even if you don't know anything, going over them is really helpful and will help prepare you for the exams. Read the book, it makes things so much easier.
make sure to get help from your TF if you've never taken econ before
Take the unit tests, use the helpful hints posted on the course site, and read the textbook (including the supplemental boxes/asides). Start your psets early so you have time to go to office hours. Know that you aren't restricted to your TF's office hours--you can go to office hours held by other TFs, David Johnson (or the next course head), etc. Understand that Mankiw is conservative and that the course is introductory. You have to wade through the conceptual, foundational material before getting to the interesting real-world or interdisciplinary applications of economics. Some of the lectures do give you a glimpse of what lies ahead.
Pay attention to lectures.
Ec10 is an interesting class. If you are looking to understand the math behind economics, then this is not the class for you.
Take it seriously and it wont be too hard.
I never thought that I would enjoy an economics class but Ec10 is very engaging and applicable to real world problems. It gives you a good foundation for evaluating economic policy. The problem sets are challenging but very effective in making sure you can apply the concepts. The tests are fair evaluations of what you learn. David Johnson is super enthusiastic and engaging.
It will open your mind to previously unthought of possibilities
Hard, but interesting class.
It's not a perfect class at all -- lectures are disappointing and your experience will hugely hinge on your TF. That said, the things you learn in EC10a are things any informed citizen should know. Don't let the imperfect environment in which you learn them deter you.
Make sure you take advantage of office hours and extra help sessions, even if they happen to be with various TFs
Definitely take this class! Especially if you are interested in politics or public policy. This course is interesting, engaging, and not excessively time-consuming. It is also very relevant to the real world and may give you deeper insight into the world and into economic policies! Would recommend 10/10
Go to office hours if you're confused.
The average grade in this class is a B+; that does not make this class an easy one by any means.
It makes you think in a different and useful way that will be helpful to your future and present life.
This class is the foundation of economics, which is the foundation of the world's functionality.
Be ready to work a lot on problem sets and to integrate concepts that typically aren't related to one another in high school economics.
It's a great class if you have no prior experience in economics and are genuinely interested in the field.
This is a challenging course, perhaps less so if you have taken Economics in high school. Even if you did, you might learn some new things. Take the optional unit exams, even though they sometimes test on a few topics and concepts that aren't covered in the course textbook, or even in section. The real exams are harder than necessary.
I thought this was a great course. It really increased my understanding of economics. Just to give a little background, I'm a sophomore with absolutely no econ experience and I found the course to be both easy and really manageable. The problem sets were not time intensive or particularly difficult. I didn't have much time to study for the exams, but really all you have to do is spend some time on the practice exam materials. Naturally, due to the nature of the course, it all depends on your section leader.
Ec 10a is a challenging course, but it is manageable if your keep up with the textbook readings. Additionally, if you have a background in microeconomics (high school AP level), you should be very confident in your ability to succeed in this course.
It's EC10a, you can't not take it because it's requirement. So it's as enjoyable as a good required course, but certainly not an elective. Mankiw is the worst - pray for a good TF.
I think you should only take this if you're considering being an economics concentrator. I think there are much better classes if you'd like to fulfill the General Education Requirement. Also, you might want to do the readings as I think this class will be a lot worse without David Johnson, he's a bro.
Only really take this class if you need to. Mankiw is awful, the textbook is pretty bad, and section is boring.
didn't love it
If you take this class don't take it because you think the great Greg Mankiw will be teaching it! He has nothing (I wish i could bold that) to do with the actual course.
Difficult, but necessary for greater understanding of society. Even if this is not a concentration requirement, it is very applicable to many different fields.
You will learn some economics. You will be frustrated sometimes by the rather dogmatic views held by the Mank. You will take a few exams and do a bunch of problem sets. You'll have more fun elsewhere, but like me, you probably have to take this.
Iconic class, why not take it?  Basic economic principles useful in everyday life.
It's necessary for a lot of things. Just gotta deal with it. Not too bad if your section leader is good.
Go to office hours!!!!!
If you are interested in economics, but have never taken an economics course before, take this course to see if you might want to pursue the topic in the future.
Be careful before you enroll in this course. Everyone is taking it, but that does NOT mean you should. If you have a bad TF (like I did) then you will struggle with the exams. This may not be because you don't understand the material, but rather is a result of the fact that the exams are designed to be tricky. Without helpful hints from a TF you will likely struggle.
This isn't an "easy" class, but if you put the time in it can be very rewarding.
Read the textbook and listen in section, but be prepared to apply the basic concepts strenuously to complete the problem sets. Going to office hours is imperative to success.
I took this class as someone who does not intend to concentrate in economics, but wanted to learn the basics in order to help future studies of international relations/to be a good global citizen. While it is a good introductory course in that it is careful not to demand more of students than they would be able to do as beginners in the field, it is a terrible introductory course for someone like me--it doesn't teach a lot of "real economics" but rather focuses either on a very shallow overview that is basically just common sense, or on silly details that won't be important or memorable in the long run. The class is also terribly and frustratingly organized, and is overall a bad experience. Don't take this unless you have to for concentration requirements.
Enjoy it. It's awesome.
This class sucks. The section leaders for the most part aren't able to teach. Mankiw is snobby and racist and teh guest lecturers were no better.
Be prepared, lots of reading
I hope Economics is not about Ec10
Take this class if you are prepared to think independently about the information presented and not to accept every theory as fact. Also, the work load is very manageable.
The class is certainly useful for understanding basic economic principles that will be useful for all students regardless of their future occupations.
Ec10a and Ec10b are very useful classes if you desire to be an informed citizen. While 10a can seem like an oversimplification at times, it (along with Ec10b) gives students some critical basic economics knowledge. Make sure you have a good TF - if you do not, switch immediately.
Take it as a sophomore. Seriously.
I believe that all students should take this course to have an understanding of economics
It's fun and useful!!!
I really liked this course-- it gave me very strong foundations on economics. However, I sometimes feel that the TF's are not well prepared and that there is a lack of communication between the course heads and the TF's.
I think it is extremely important to learn the material covered in this class, as it genuinely explained a lot of things about how the world works to me in areas that I didn't even realise I had a deficiency in my understanding in, but I felt that it was a poorly designed course, which made covering the material much more painful to go through than it should have. Also, the fact that the people who do best in this course are those who have already taken some Economics, or spend a lot of extra time on their own on the material, would suggest that the course is not effective. I would therefore consider Ec10 a necessary evil.
work HARD. put in a lot of time.
It is a great way of learning how the world is run.
Your experience really depends on the section leader you get. Even the curves depend on your exam/ section group, so there's nothing much you can do.
PSETs are long and hard and there is a lot of material to cover for exams, if you get a good TF it makes the class much more fun. Go to office hours
Ec 10 is the only introductory economics class offered at Harvard, so take it if you want to use economics in the future. However, take everything that you learn in the class with a grain of salt. Understand that the course offers a biased sample of microeconomic thinking, and claims objectivity for extremely subjective statements.

Students who take Professor Mankiw on his word will leave the class believing it to be simple economic fact that raising the minimum wage increases unemployment or that the Laffer Curve has real-world implications when there is not anything close to consensus on these ideas within the economic community. The course teaches a philosophy that values profit over people and uses a logic of generalized assumptions backed up by little concrete data.
Good material for everybody to have an understanding of.
It's definitely interesting from a non-concentrator point of view. However, it is a very time-consuming class and the material is often a little difficult.
It's a decent amount of work but is not that difficult. The class often seems tedious, but is nonetheless fairly useful.
Make use of the optional unit exams, they help a lot in solidifying your understanding of the material
Good introduction to Microeconomics, but nothing too exciting. The class is definitely dry but it teaches you everything you need to know to decide whether or not you want to concentrate in Economics.
Your TV will make or break your experience; find a good one early on.
If you want to be an economics major, you have to take it. That said, EC 10 is fairly difficult and if you don't keep up, it can quickly become overwhelming. Do your homework, go to section, GO TO LECTURES, and take notes.
This is a good class to take for anyone who is interested in Economics, but most of the lectures and the sections don't provide any additional information on what can be found in Mankiw book.
The course takes a lot of work. The more interested you are in course material and connect it with real life problems the easier course gets.
It's the big intro ec class - important for any potential ec concentrators to take.  You have to put in the work to do well but it's not too hard to do well. Make sure you study a lot for the 2nd midterm because it's much harder than the first.
It's a class every student should take
Ec10 can be a great and extremely informative class, if you are willing to put in the time commitment. I opted to taking the Problem Sets slow because that's just how I learned the material. So someone like me would have to put aside quite some time for this course.
Be prepared to be challenged and have your eyes opened to this world. Very interesting and mind blowing stuff.
Having a good TF will influence greatly how interested you will be in the subject. With head TF David Johnson leaving next year, one might be more wary as to how the course will be.
It is a really good class, only reservation is that your section leaders can really impact how much you learn. Go to Johnson's office hours and make sure to take the unit tests.
Not too painful, probably worth taking for the experience.
Worth the work
Even if not required, this class is a great way to get a basic education in economics that will help you be a more informed citizen.
Honestly the experience really varies with the TF you get. I'd recommend talking to your friends and trying to get a TF they recommend because some of them are just straight awful from what I've heard.
This class is not going to be easy! Be prepared to spend lots of time outside class studying, processing, practicing, and trying to understand the material -- problem sets are notoriously stymieing. Lectures are few and far between and sections are very much a gamble. Overall the material is informative and useful, but the concepts and class structure are tough.
It is very difficult but you learn a lot.
Ec 10a is a good class that could be a phenomenal class. The material is actually quite interesting, and  some of the TF's are very good, but I had a very poor TF experience. From my perspective, I'd have preferred to have David Johnson (who is a phenomenal teacher!) teach the content covered in section, in a lecture format. As for the existing lectures, they're quite interesting!
The experience you have depends greatly on your TF. It is a great way to learn the basics.
It's not that interesting. Kind of generic.
The experience is definitely what you make it. It depends on your TF, your willingness to engage in participations and attend lectures and above all, to GO TO DAVID JOHNSTON'S OFFICE HOURS! (HINT: everyone should definitely do it!)
Even if you're not planning to do anything related to econ, this is a valuable course to take because of how applicable it is to daily life. The material is quite interesting, and it pushes you to look at the world through a different lens, which I personally found exciting. The problem sets can sometimes be quite a bit of work, but it helps to work with people.
Do problem sets early.
Very difficult class but definitely worth it.  You learn a lot about how the world works.  A lot of important info that you will carry with you.  Even if you are not considering concentrating or getting a secondary in economics, everyone should take this class.  Psets and exams are really difficult but the curve is generous.
its a useful course, but also somewhat rigorous.
While this class is a great one to take as a freshman due to it's introductory approach to the concepts of economics and the manageable workload, I would caution that anyone without any prior knowledge of economics may find themselves struggling slightly.
Best advice I can give is to make sure you are happy with your TF. Having a bad TF will ruin the learning experience for you.
You learn valuable information in this course, but the exams are very difficult.
It is an interesting class that made me consider switching my concentration to economics.
Great introductory economics course, but don't hold your breath for Mankiw lectures.
Ec10a is a great class and a great intro to the field of economics. The key to having a good experience with this class is getting a good TF, and I was lucky enough to get Stephanie. If you keep up with the material and the readings, it is not a difficult class, but it is very easy to get behind.
This course is a very good entry into economics to see if you like the subject and wish to pursue it
To take this class, you have to be ready to dedicate substantial time to the thorough completion of readings and problem sets. However, the course material is very interesting, and all of the TFs are very accessible and very willing to answer any questions you have. If you take the time to understand the concepts, the exams, although difficult, are manageable. I highly recommend this course!!
Doing the reading from Mankiw's book will help you! Many students don't bother to do it, and could have benefited from it.
Read the book.
Difficult but does give you an understanding that is useful in everyday life.
This course isn't that interesting, but it is necessary to have an understanding of the fundamental concepts in economics before one goes on to higher-level courses.
Ec 10 is an essential class. It is not particularly engaging, it is not particularly exciting, and it will probably not succeed in making you love economics. That said, the basic concepts of Microeconomics are important in every field. This class, if nothing else, does a good job of explaining these basic concepts. It is not a class I would take for fun, but it's also not one I would have skipped. The problem sets are doable, the tests are pretty doable as well, and sections aren't terrible (mind you, I had a good section leader) My suggestion is, grit your teeth, accept that you'll want to take it eventually, and get it out of the way freshman year.
Solid introductory economics class that's light on lectures, heavy on sections.
Definitely worth taking, especially if you've never studied economics before. It'll change the way you look at a lot of institutions and processes and that's pretty cool. The TFs are generally pretty strong (mine was great) and the exams and material hard but rewarding if you put in solid work. I think having a ec background is super important, so it was totally worth it to me. Just be aware: Mankiw is not super helpful, nor a very good lecturer, and he does have a political bias - it's not too bade but it helps to take his lectures with a bit of a grain of salt.
If you've taken AP Microeconomics, take a higher level course because this course will not be challenging nor rewarding. Most of the course will be review. Also, your experience with the course depends highly on the section leader that you get assigned.
many people just have to take ec to get a secondary or concentrate in it. If you are not doing one of those two do not take it
At times it may seem frustrating and you may be cursing Mankiw for lecturing so little, but at the end of the day it teaches you what you need to know, and you need to know the material and understand basic economics to understand our world and be an informed citizen.
This is a good foundational course in economics.
I enjoyed it, and it will definitely tell you if economics is the field for you.
If you have any interest in economics, you'll love this course.
The problem sets may be challenging,  but they are manageable and essential to your understanding. Also, the application of concepts in problem form is more difficult than one would assume so spend a lot of time practicing and take Unit Exams.
it is very annoying and difficult but it is worth it if you have a passion for economics
It is necessary in order to pursue a concentration in Economics, but even if you're not, the knowledge it gives you is very useful and applicable to every day life.
The course is difficult but manageable
Unless you get a good TF, it is very hard to learn effectively in this class. Most learning I did was on my own outside of the section.
I would tell them that this course to take to be a well informed citizen and not be ignorant of important issues that are heavily related to the field of economics.
It's very hard, but you will really learn a lot about economics.
Ec10 is really worth taking. If you work hard and have a good section leader, you will be able to do well. The exams are very reasonable and not worth stressing about. You will be well prepared if you pay attention in section. There's always some material in the lectures that gets tested on the exams, so they're absolutely worth going to, not to mention that some of the lectures are by very prominent economists. Ec10a is a great way to knock out a gen ed requirement and see if economics is of interest to you.
This class might not be the most exciting course at Harvard, but it does build a strong foundation of basic economics knowledge. I feel that I am prepared to pursue future studies in the subject.
don't take it unless you need to
Mankiw hardly lectures, unfair grading system, unrealistically hard problem sets, learned a lot though
Greg Mankiw is the chillest dude of all time. This class will open your mind.
Take this class if it is a requirement for a concentration or want to take more advanced economics, but it is such a basic look at economics that if you are just looking to understand economics it provides such an idealized look at the system that is not entirely applicable to the real world.
This class is the capitalist machine and they're not even shy about it. Take it
to know how an economist thinks though because that has a lot of utility and the opportunity cost... Oh no. They got to me! Save yourselves!
Try to take Ec 1010 if you have any prior Ec experience at all.
It is a useful course and a smart choice to take it.
Do all the practice problems for the exams, they are challenging, but it is an interesting class
This class is all about your TF, so do your best to get into a good TF's section. David Johnson is unfortunately leaving Harvard, so I'm not sure who the best TF will be. However, if you're hesitant at all about your TF during the first week or two, don't be afraid to switch because that will make all the difference as the semester wears on and the material gets more complicated.
Tough class but if you apply yourself it's very rewarding.
Take this course to have a better understanding of the world and why it works the way that it does.
This course gives a good foundation of economics but sometimes the topics and important concepts get lost along the way. Although not necessary, having some sort of an economics background is extremely helpful. Even just studying some things on your own beforehand might make this course a little easier.
This course was extremely difficult for me due to my selected section leader. He was inexperienced and due to this, I had a hard time understanding the concepts. It all comes down to getting lucky. If you have a decent professor, you will do fine in the class.
This class was a miserable experience. Only take it if you have to.
This course is foolishly taught via sections from often poor TFs rather via than lecture from a good teacher. This is so that Harvard can keep its average class size numbers down, but has a terrible effect on the course by making it inconsistent and inequitable. A horribly run course with great unrealized potential to better inform the views of all those who take it. With the departure of David Johnson I'm afraid it'll only get worse - until they finally realize its worth the statistical hit to just teach via lecture and have everybody learn from a good instructor.
Make sure to get a good TF, or find a better one to ask about psets; it's a huge class so stick up for yourself!!!
It's a great course! It is not easy but you learn so much. Economics is important for everyone to study because it is very practical and applicable to everyone's life. It is true, you will probably not see Professor Mankiw often but that's certainly not a negative. Economics really should be taught in small sections because of the nature of the material. Also the guest lectures introduce really interesting more advanced economic topics which helps to put the basics into perspective. This class is definitely worth the work!
David Johnson is a god. It is sad that future students won't get him. Make sure to transfer into a good section. Do the psets in a timely fashion and the class isn't that hard. I took as a junior and it was very nice and relatively stress-free
Valuable if interested in economics, but a significant time/effort commitment, and not many lectures.
I strongly recommend this class. Ec10, aside from serving as the foundation course for economics, will change how you think about your life and the world and will make you are more effective citizen.
It is a shame that David Johnson is leaving, though, because he literally made the course. I don't know what it will be like without him.
Try to start the PSets early. They tend to take 5-6 hours. They are not deathly difficult, but are certainly time-consuming.
Go to Mankiw's office hours. He is a very cool guy and highly intelligent: you can definitely learn a lot there (both in terms of material and in the way an expert economist structure his thoughts).
They try their best to make introductory economics not mundane.
TF quality varies wildly.
Even though the course instructor is professor Mankiw, you do not see him more than three times, therefore I recommend you to resection immediately if you are not satisfied with your TF's performance, since your liking of the course is very dependent on your TF's way of teaching. I was not content with my TF, Jay Weng, at all, which made the course very disappointing for me. Overall the material of the course generates a good understanding of the neoclassical economic systems which play a very significant role in understanding how the world works today. The PSets are very long and time consuming, so be prepared for long nights working on Econ.
- one's Ec 10 experience depends on how much work one is willing to put in
As someone who had never before taken an economics class, I found this course to be a very enjoyable introduction to the subject. The material was the right balance of challenging and manageable, which I appreciated.
N/A
Always do the exam review materials and make use of your TF's office hours for help on the more advanced concepts in the Psets and on the exam review materials.
This course is well taught and well organized. How difficult you will find it depends a lot on your experience with logic and your math ability. You don't need a lot of math, but you need to be proficient at algebra, otherwise this course will seem very difficult.
It's not a difficult class but will require a few periods of intense work.
Course structure needs work but course content is good.
This course has a lot of potential. The material is interesting, and I've definitely left with a different perspective on key economic issues such as the minimum wage and the carbon tax. However, I found section to be basically be a boring summation of the textbook, problem sets were tedious, and the exams asked very specific unfair questions from lectures. The material is great, but it's just delivered poorly. Mankiw, the "professor" is inacessible and holds office hours randomly and infrequently. Nonetheless, I'm glad to have taken this class, but with a little reform, it could have been much better
Great intro to economics class--came in without ever taking any classes in econ, and feel that I have gained a lot from Ec10. The experience really depends on your section leader, though
This course should not be called Greg Mankiw's course-- the head TF creates and runs the entire course, with Makiw featured a handful of times throughout the semester if you're lucky. His lack of effort/participation in the course is frustrating. It is taught entirely in section.
Ec10 is an awesome opportunity to develop a strong base of understanding in economics while also learning to problem solve and think critically. You truly get as much out of this class as you put in, and if you are dedicated to putting in the time and working with the course material, this class will be a very valuable and memorable academic experience for you!
This is a difficult course.  However, I came out with a much better understanding of economics.  (Although my previous knowledge was non-existent.)
Excellent course overall.  One will feel incredibly accomplished at the end of the semester for ones increased problem solving capabilities and more flexible way of thinking.  Information is applicable to everyday life, so the course is great for people intending to concentrate in the subject or just taking it out of personal interest.
Its really hard and very stressful
Succeeding in the course requires a large time commitment but it is very rewarding.
That although it may not be the most interesting class, it is necessary if you want to pursue a concentration in economics.
It was a very interesting and enjoyable class and a great introduction to microeconomics
If you haven't taken ec before, you'll learn a lot.  Make sure you get a good section TF or switch sections until you do, it'll make a huge difference.  The curve is super nice- do average on the exams and take the Unit Tests and you'll get an A-.
It is a very thought provoking class that let's you view the world in a much more analytical way. It forces you to think outside the box and this concept is very enjoyable for many students as myself. Problem sets are engaging and relevant. The only complaint I have is how impersonal Mankiw is with the class. He rarely lectures and barely teaches anything. Everything is done by our TFs. David Johnson (Head TF) is a boss but he's leaving so econ will be slightly different next year.
Ec10 is a great class with a ton of resources to absorb the curriculum if you stay on top of the work and take advantage of those resources (office hours, unit tests, helpful hints, etc.). You have to be more actively engaged in the class than you might think (from the large lectures and section sizes)- it's a very individual experience and about how much initiative you take to use the course's resources.
Unless you have taken economics before (and maybe even if you have), this class is hard work, but there are many resources in place to help you out. Just make sure that you can set aside the time to take advantage of them all: TF's office hours, Unit Tests, optional psets, etc. All worth doing.
The material is pretty boring, but you'll feel better about your understanding of the world when it's all over. Don't bother with the textbook, just pay attention in section, go to the course-wide reviews, and watch the occasional YouTube clip if you don't get it. Work with a partner.
Understand that you won't get taught by actual professors most of the time
read the textbook
Everyone should take introductory economics. It is fundamental to understanding the modern world in which we live.
we need more mankiw lectures
This is a wonderful course for people thinking about concentrating economics or not! I recommend you take it to understand the foundation of economics.
This course probably epitomizes the common belief that at Harvard "you'll never meet or be taught by a  professor." Unfortunately, lectures are infrequent and very rare, especially lectures with Mankiw himself. The subject material is interesting, and entirely depends on your section TF. Problem sets take a long time, and if you don't go to office hours I truly don't know how you can complete them successfully, especially since problem solving is not taught in section, and certainly not in lecture.
The tests and Psets are well written but the sections and the way the course is taught, from a textbook is not the most engaging or genuinely interesting way
Not very hard to get a good grade if you do the work. The material is all basically intuitive.
I only took Ec10 because it's required for my possible concentration. I thought that I would hate it, so I wanted to get my one semester of econ out of the way as soon as possible. Turns out, I really enjoyed it! Will be back for more with Ec10b in the spring. It's very logical and intuitive, and it can be very rewarding to gain insights on so many aspects that affect the world around us. Lectures are boring and pretty unnecessary, except for some excellent guest lecturers, but if you have an engaging TF, the material can be really interesting and not too challenging.
This course is great! Alot of work definitely but worth it.
This class is boring and slow. If you took AP Economics in high school, SKIP THIS CLASS. Try at any cost to get into 1010a. Furthermore, otherwise, I wouldn't recommend it. They have a captive audience in that you have to take this course to take other ec courses which is a shame because this class is so impersonal, scripted, and uninteresting.
really depends on the TF you get
Make sure your ready for the time commitment and know what you are getting into. I really liked the class though and that I can I understand concepts I hear on the news now.
Do the unit tests, they really help you make sure you understand the material and stay on top of things. Plus the extra grade boost is nice. One nice part about the psets is that there are always a bunch of people working on them so you always have friends you can ask. Don't work on psets alone!! Friends make it easier and more fun.
Take this class but be ready to put more time and effort than is asked of you into it if you want to be successful.
Taking this course is a great way to find out if you are interested in economics. If you have taken AP Economics in high school, most of the material in this course will be a review, but I still recommend taking it because of the emphasis that this course places on math rather than on concepts.
This course is not a great course because essentially all the material is taught in section by graduate students so your experience really depends on your section tf. The lectures are an interesting supplement to section as you apply the material to the actual world. Take this course because you have no choice if you want to move up to higher level economics courses taught by actual professors.
Don't take this class for a Gen Ed. Trust me!
If you have good mathematical instincts and have taken the AP, you will probably be better off skipping this course. I took this class because I read the AP textbook and took the exams but have never been in an actual economics class. I would suggest shopping the intermediate level class if you're willing to push yourself a little bit harder. 
Go to lectures. Professor Mankiw reiterated a lot of what is in his textbook in the earlier lectures, but the later ones are more engaging. The guest lectures were about interesting topics even though the lecturers might not be the most charismatic. Personally, I was inspired to read several books about startups, behavioral economics, game theory, and welfare reforms after being exposed to some big questions through sections, guest lectures, optional readings, and problem sets.
Even though I took it because it is a requirement for economics concentrators, I would definitely recommend it as an elective or for Gen Ed credit. It's a really good class to get a thorough understanding of the basis of economics. It also gives you a different way of thinking about the world.
It's a good course, but your success really has a great deal to do with your proctor.  By success I mean comprehension of the material.
Read the textbook because TFs and section are not particularly helpful. Lectures and extra readings are not relatively important for exams.
Ec10a was better than I expected it, and better than its reputation. The material is pretty important for everyone in general to understand. You should understand it is a section-based course, and it would be a mistake to expect a lecture course by Mankiw (who lectured about 6 times). Because of this, it might feel more like a high school course. Beware of your section leader's shortcomings.
Although this class sometimes gets a bad name, I found it to be one of the most enlightening experiences I have had during my three years at Harvard so far.
I enjoyed learning the material in this class. Just try to keep on top of things because it's hard to catch up since a lot of the material is cumulative. Go to office hours.
I feel like how much you'll take out of this course is largely dependent on the quality of your TF.  I had a great TF, so I enjoyed the class, but I know others who feel differently.
If you have taken economics before go for it! If not, take this with friends
Decent amount of work but very rewarding!
it't not too hard but going to section is annoying
Taking this course has proved to be the best decision I've made this year.  Basic economic knowledge is essential to understanding how society works and how to make society better.  I had no experience in economics before this class, but now Economics is my number one concentration option.
Ec10a is a course that applies to multiple fields and provides you with a strong foundation for Ec10b and beyond, so you will find that this course will help you a lot in the future. I advise that you always attend the lectures and read the textbook to get the most out of it. The course is designed for those who havn't taken economics before, but if you have already taken it in high school, then that knowledge would be useful background for you.
Well it is the only option, so you have to take it. I would tell people to definitely keep up with their work and make sure that they understand key concepts soon after they are introduced, as if you wait too long you will have much more trouble. Definitely keep up with the readings.
make sure to understand the material and not put it off for a later date
If you are interested in working on Wall Street, this class is largely irrelevant to such a profession.  In fact, the field of Economics seems to only have relevance in the public sector and consists of mostly abstract concepts.  So, if you have taken Ec prior and disliked it, I can't say that this class will be enjoyable for you.  Don't just take this course because you think it will signal a future interest in working in finance, take it if you are genuinely interested in the subject.
People like to complain about Ec10 but it's better than most people say!
It's not particularly fun, but it is foundational. If you don't get a good TF at first, switch at all costs. David Johnson likes to draw test questions from the optional readings.
Very important for understanding the dynamics of human exchange
Very interesting, but somewhat difficult because of the teaching style. Make sure you go to office hours.
If you've never taken Econ before, this is a great introductory class. If you took AP Econ, micro and/or macro in high school and are debating whether or not to take this course or to take a higher level of econ, take this course. While I didn't really learn much in section, the minimal amount of work and great lectures (however few there are) made this course worth it.
This class is taught very effectively and efficiently, and if the resources that this course provides are taken full advantage of, then a student will have a great understanding of microeconomics when the course terminates.
This is a challenging class, especially if you haven't taken micro before, which many of the people taking the class have.  But, you learn a ton and will be a better informed citizen and voter.
Ec10a does a good job of teaching the foundation of economics. However, because the class is taught primarily in section, the teaching is based on your section leader. The class is pretty easy.
You learn a lot about economics from the course.
This course build good foundations to do basically anything in any field.
Try to stay on top of your work, if you get behind you will have trouble
Highly dependent on TF quality (I was lucky, but from what I've heard from others).
I could not imagine a more poorly taught course. Section is a complete waste. The material from the book is recited in the same way it was presented originally. Take it if you have to.
If you take one class at Harvard, this should be it. A basic understanding of economics is the obligation of every participating citizen in this country.
There is a reason that this course is the most widely attended course at Harvard. The material does the job, though you could likely learn it through the text book rather than in class. Either way, I recommend taking the course and attending the lectures to gain from the material.
Greg Mankiw
As a sophomore in ec10, I really enjoyed it.  It's straightforward, it's manageable, and it's interesting.  There is no confusion around what is expected of you, and there are no surprises in ec10.  There are many resources available in ec10: varied office hours and unit tests are especially helpful.  Take it!  Even if you aren't planning on concentrating in economics, it's a good class to have taken.
I would recommend future students pace themselves and work at understanding concepts gradually and not try to cram all at once.
If you don't understand something, ABSOLUTELY GET HELP IMMEDIATELY. Every concept builds on the previous concept, and missing any key point will result in you being continually lost as more concepts get piled on which don't make sense. Go to all the office hours you can, you really need it. Bring your psets there, because these psets take forever.
The textbook is not enough
This class can be great if you get a good section teacher. If not, it can be pretty frustrating, but still good. Lectures, however, are very good and interesting. Also the textbook is very straightforward.
Very good class. You learn a lot about economics, but also about government and public policy.
It is a necessary burden to study economics. Find students to study with!
Ec 10a is a great course.  The sections reinforced what we learned on our own from the textbook.  The greatest strengths of this course were the psets and mid-term review materials.  I now feel I have a strong foundation in micro-economics and a new way to look at many current domestic issues.
I took this class as a junior which was both a great and terrible decision. It was great because I know more about what I want to get out of my time at Harvard, so I was less stressed about each problem set and could see the big picture without focusing on each week's assignments and readings. It was terrible because I wish I had taken it earlier. I declared a different concentration, and at this point, I do not have enough time to switch my concentration. Had I taken it freshman or sophomore year, I would have declared Economics. I recommend taking it sophomore year. It is a stressful class to take as a freshman, but don't take it too late. It's incredible, and taking Ec10 was one of the best decisions I've made at Harvard.
Attend all of David Johnson's office hours.
Do the problem sets by yourself and make sure you fully understand what you are doing.
I would say that if you're a first-year student looking to take this course because you might be interested in economics, avoid it until sophomore year.  You can definitely still be an economics concentrator without taking it during the fall of your first year.  It is definitely one of the worst courses that I have taken during my time at Harvard, and the only reason I took it was because it was required for my concentration.  Your experience is 100% dependent on your TF, and they vary in quality... a lot.  That said... if you have the time to dedicate to this course including going to office hours and doing all of the unit tests, it isn't too difficult, and you can do well... it just requires a lot of personal effort because the teaching isn't always the best.
I went from loving the theory of economics to absolutely despising it.
The class is necessary for the Ec concentration, but by no means expect a fun or entertaining class. It's basic Ec, and nothing more.
Just about everyone winds up taking Ec10 at some point, and though the course is flawed, it still manages to convey the basic principles of the field.  Since the world basically runs on economics, this course will help you to be a functional citizen.  But you're not going to enjoy it unless you're a soulless libertarian robot.
Ec10: A giant conspiracy formulated by Greg Mankiw to get a bunch of saps to buy his $200 textbook
If you are interested in the material, it is a great course to take. It will also be useful in the future, so it's never a bad decision. However if you know you don't want to concentrate in economics, it might not be the best choice.
I would say that learning how to think in terms of economics is useful, but that the course itself is flawed.
This is one of the largest courses at Harvard that all students seem to take at one point or another, so I do think it's important to take this course for the solid foundation of microeconomic theory that it will give you. Ultimately, it's a manageable course if you study hard and manage your time well, and you will get a lot out of it if you do all the readings and psets!
Be wary of the workload
How much you end up learning from this class completely depends on the caliber of your TF. Pray for a knowledgable TF come sectioning time! The guest lecturers tend to be very interesting, informative, and related to relavant social/economic issues. Mankiw's lecture are not as exciting.
Take it if you are interested in econ at all. Can be boring and difficult but it is clear that the ideas apply to the real world as evidenced in lectures.
Do the readings!
After taking this class, you will have a solid understanding of basic economics. How much individual work you need to put in to achieve this is somewhat determined by how helpful/prepared your TF is during classes and office hours. The problem sets are fairly hard, but if you go to office hours for help they are much more manageable. The unit-test program is amazing and you should take advantage of it.
Much of Ec10's successes or failures come from the ability of your TF.  I was fortunate enough to have a spectacular TF, which means I had a spectacular experience.  At the same time, however, some of my roommates had TFs that were not as great, and they did not have as great an experience as I did.  If all TFs were at the same level, I would have no issue recommending with enthusiasm.  The course is a great introduction to economics for those without a prior background, and I had a great time learning about it.
Econ 10 is a great class. Lectures are interesting and topics learned in this course help you better understand policies about the economy
Switch out of a section with a bad TF
A must-take if you haven't already taken AP Microeconomics in high school. As cliche as it sounds, it's true- economics is such a powerful factor that shapes our day-to-day lives, so understanding it is key to becoming a more informed individual and citizen. The workload is relatively light (consisting only of 6 required problem sets and 3 exams for the whole semester) and if you have good quantitative reasoning skills then this class should be enjoyable and relatively straightforward. That being said, your experience in Ec 10 largely depends on your section leader since the vast majority of the course is taught in section, and I have heard that there is a wide variety in quality among the different section leaders. However, mine was excellent and so I found the course to be very enjoyable. Also- take the unit tests!!!
Ec 10 is a solid class that equips you with the basic tools of economics while at the same time teaching you concepts that are relatable to real life. Also, David Johnson is an amazing teacher and it is so sad that he will be leaving. When I was preparing to take Ec. 10, I asked people who had taken it before for advice and they kept on hammering "Go to David Johnson's office hours". I didn't understand what that meant until I actually went to Office Hours. All the concepts that I struggled to understand in section became so much more clearer.
It's a pretty interesting class. If you are interested in concentrating in economics, you'll have to take it anyway.
Important if you want to do Ec, or are even thinking about it, but I may not be the greatest experience. Somewhat of a necessary evil
Basically your performance is tied with your TF's performance.
This class is a good introduction to economics. it is helpful is you have a background in economics first though. Make sure you ask a lot of questions and do practice questions!!
Good way to get a gen ed out of the way and also it's just good to take ec10 but it was pretty boring. Wasn't that difficult, but a bad TF can really change the course.
Good intro class to take if you're an economics concentrator, but be prepared for a lot of self-teaching
Just sit tight and wait till it's over. The skills it provides are necessary to any understanding of economics; with that, though, comes the fact that there are 800 people all in the same boat. Microeconomics is far less interesting than macro, but in order to take the latter, I would recommend the former. Ec10 is type of course that makes many critics of Harvard accuse us of not prioritizing undergraduate studies. Though such a statement is far from the actual truth, my experience with Ec10 is that it is part of a minority of courses whose goals do not include fostering intimate learning.
Start the P.sets as soon as you get the chance, go to lectures and section, GO TO OFFICE HOURS, read the book, and you should be just fine.
study lectures, but you don't really need to go
It is definitely a good class to take to get a good understanding of economics.
Unless you are taking this class to fulfill a concentration requirement I would avoid it. It is a solid introduction into the material but i would not describe it as the most fulfilling class.
With David Johnson running the class, Ec10 was incredible. He was so fiercely intelligent and caring about his students and the class. I'm not sure what it will be like without him. Lectures are scarce, and not too informative. Section is completely hit or miss. But you will absolutely learn the principles of microeconomics if you take this course, no matter who the head teaching fellow is. Just beware that the Q guide might not give an accurate reflection of the class because the class' heart and soul, David Johnson, is unfortunately leaving.
Good starting foundation for economics
Great for those who never took Ec and are interested in the material/ want something resembling some sort of business class. A good TF is key and the curve is generous.
Rather unexpectedly, Ec10a ended up being the course that I learned the most from freshman fall. Ec10a provides a broad introduction to the major concepts in microeconomics. The textbook is really very well-written, and David Johnson, while crazy, is brilliant. If you're interested in learning more about "the economy" (which, before I came to Harvard, was an abstract, unclear concept) and how politics is involved in the economy, this is the course for you. It's not hard, but psets can be annoying -- definitely find someone to work with, because it makes the work go faster.
This course is wonderful as long as you have a TF who is enthusiastic and knowledgable about the course material.
I actually don't mind it, but I feel like that is because of my TF more than anything. It is an okay course.
It's a good way to learn Microeconomics
Whether you will like Econ 10a depends on two things:
1. Whether you have a good TF (which is pure luck -- although some switching is allowed)
2. Whether you naturally like economics 
The course isn't set up in a way that it makes economics interesting for people who wouldn't normally find it so -- only take this class if you actually like economics.
Ec10 is a great class overall. It definitely has the potential to help you become a more informed citizen, and every Harvard student should understand basic economics. However, the class experience depends almost solely on your TF and your experience in section. Lecture is definitely a chore, and not much teaching/learning happens during lecture. Section can be an amazing, eye-opening experience, and the psets/exams are all designed for in-depth learning. Even if you got a mediocre TF, David Johnson's office hours and review sessions, which were must-attend, were open to all. Unfortunately, with David Johnson leaving at the end of the 2014-2015 school year, who knows what Ec10 will look like in the future.
If you can get Josh Bookin as a TF, you will be set. Even though Ec10 as a class is prone to making you feel anonymous, he takes the time to not only learn everyone's name, but also is incredibly open and helpful both in and outside of section. He's an incredible teacher who made the material (which at times was very hard to understand at first) quite accessible.
If you want to broaden your perspective on politics take this course.
If you know the math, you'll be extremely bored, but still get the intuition.
It's a pretty good class. Not fantastic. It's very dumbed down, but that's necessary for an introductory course. Get started on your psets early in the week (i.e. not before Thursday night) or else you'll drown.
Reasonably interesting!
This is an awesome course!  The material is very interesting and the teachers are great.  It really opens your eyes to how the world works around you and how people make decisions.  No previous economics background is necessary to take the course.
Take this class or you're not an informed citizen.
It's a lot of hard work, but important concepts and very informative.
Ec10 is a great class. You learn a lot about how the economy works, and on the problems sets there are a lot of supplemental readings about current news events that can be explained using some pretty simple ec10 concepts. Despite what you might hear, this is a course that is devoted to explaining positive rather than normative economic phenomena. Sections can be variable in their quality, but the problem sets and tests are fair and David Johnson is a great course head!
Lectures are not beneficial at all (with a few exceptions: healthcare (cutler) and education (fryer)).  Not a difficult course at all, but keep up with the work.
This class is pretty boring but easy to get a B/B+. If you want an A be prepared to work hard and do all the unit tests.
Despite falling a bit behind in the course there's a lot to learn from it and if you haven't taken AP Economics you should consider taking this course.
Lectures are great.   Go to them.  Most of the material is fairly easy but enjoyable to learn.
It's hard as shit.
A Really solid course, but you must take a proactive stance in learning the material. Read the book ahead of time, pay attention in section, get started on your problem set early, seek office hour help if you have any questions because you will always get your question answered, and you should really not have any trouble in getting an A.
You have no choice if you want to take more ec in the future...
Easy A if you do your homework and read the textbook.  Lectures are important to go to although some of them were dry, but overall an A+ course (though everything at Harvard gets an A+...)
Form study groups with one/two people from your section. Make sure to compare section progress with friends from other sections and take unit tests. The course isn't extremely organized but has a lot to offer, so branch out as much as you can.
Not terribly difficult but a lot harder than you will expect.
Great class. Problem sets can take a while but not nearly as bad as other classes like CS50
I took this class without any background in economics and came out with a good overview of the basic concepts of economics. Very good intro course.
Economics is important, very important. This is a terrible course. But it gets the job done, I guess.
If you already have a basic background in economics and don't need to take Ec10 for any requirement, then don't take it. While the material is interesting and sometimes enlightening, it really matters which TF you get; Daniel McMann and David Johnson are great, and you should try to be in one of their sections. The section portion of the course is more important than lectures in consolidating the material on which you will be tested.
Ec10 is an awesome introduction into economics.
If you want to take economics at Harvard, this is where you start, so as far as learning into economics goes, this course is very effective. However, all of the material that is the meat of the course will be taught by a TF, and the TFs vary significantly in teaching ability. Head Section Leader David Johnson is much more the face of this class than Mankiw, but Johnson is excellent.
P-sets are time consuming and the class is overall a pain, but its still a worthwhile class if you're interested in economics.
Yo, it's definitely eC 10
Ec 10 is...well, ec 10. It's required to do anything more in Econ, so you don't have a lot of choice. The material is interesting and some of the guest lectures (prof. Fryer's in particular) are really cool, but on the whole it doesn't always feel like the "class" is that helpful. It definitely teaches a lot, but you have to do a lot of learning on your own. David johnson is the highlight of the class.
A difficult class that's probably worth taking regardless of whether it counts towards your concentration
The course teachers a lot of valuable information about the economic system we live under. However, it moves very quickly every week so make sure that you have time to study for it. The PSETS take many hours to complete and it is useful to go see your TF for help. It's a big course so you are competing with a lot of students for individual attention.
This is a horrible introduction to the Economics Department.  Everyone must do it, so it is very impersonalized and confusing.  Everything (including psets) is graded on a curve, so even though you may show that you understand the concept and get the "right" answer, you may not do as well as you thought you did.  Keep in mind that a lot of other people have economics experience, and so if you are taking this to LEARN something about economics, you may be initially at a disadvantage.  The fact that the course is entirely (yes entirely, dont fall for the BS) taught by your section leader, they can solely determine your experience in the course.  I had a horrible section leader, and so I actually somewhat dreaded going three times a week.  The bottom line is that if the course were more personalized, it would be a much better experience in terms of actually learning something about economics.
Make sure you don't fall behind in this course. I truly didn't enjoy the material. Also the assignments are very time intensive.
It depends on how much Economics background you already have
Take this class if you have to, but it will not be enjoyable. Mankiw is never there, and do not expect your section leader to be good. What I do recommend, however, is to make full use of David Johnson's office hours and review sessions. Also, get a tutor. The problem sets are very difficult so don't put them off until the last minute.
Take it; it will broaden your horizons
The class can be difficult, especially coming in without any economics background, but it is manageable. Go to the Unit tests if at all possible, and starting studying for the midterms well in advance of the date.
think very carefully about taking this course and your reasons for taking this course.  Unless you have a background/interest in pursuing economics academically or you are satisfying a concentration requirement of some kind, I would most definitely think twice about taking it to gain any kind of pure economic knowledge.  While it is advertised as accessible to all (even as an introductory class) it most definitely is not for everyone.
Very average course
It is a large intro class. I did not find it very exciting or motivating, but I learned a lot.
This is a great course in learning how the work works in a very concentrated way.  In other words, learning about why people do things (incentives) is very important in understanding how businesses operate.
This class is a good intro course. I would however say if one has had AP Economics and feels comfortable with the subject to take an intermediate micro course. Ec. 10a. will be boring otherwise.
The experience of the class is completely dependent on which TF the student receives. The psets and exams demand much more than what is taught from section and the textbook. The economic information learned in this class does not justify taking it. The class is not worth the headache.
It takes time to practice problems and read the textbook well, but it's such essential information!
ec10 is really about teaching you to think like an economist to tackle problems large and small. The toolset of economics is practical and useful in everyday life.
Absolutely take advantage of David Johnson's office hours. He's an incredible instructor and will probably change the way you look at issues across the board, regardless of your political inclinations. Different sections vary in quality, however the textbook, course isite, and David Johnson's office are certainly sufficient if you find that you're section doesn't bring you up to speed. All in all, this is a relevant course and is definitely worth taking if you've never taken a microeconomics class before.
Chances are you may not get lucky enough to have a TF like David Johnson that you can learn a lot from, so make sure you stay on top of the reading and you will be able to teach yourself what you need to know.
If you want to take the cool electives as an upperclassmen you need to take this course
Don't get behind and go to office hours.
It's a pity that basically anyone with any interest in anything economic (not to mention a number of other concentrations) HAS to take this course. It's not awful, but it's nothing to get enthusiastic about (at least as it's structure now). The course gives you information and expects you to regurgitate it. Sometimes it pretends to ask you to think for yourself.
I would tell future students that this is a good course regardless of what concentration that they are going to have. It teaches the basics, which are important to have/understand in life.
This is a good course. The textbook is good, and that (in addition to lecture slides online) is all you need to really succeed in this course. The section component of the course was a lot of repetition from the textbook. I recommend this class. If you try hard on the readings and psets, you will do well. The curve on the exams are really friendly.
start your psets earlier
I think that this is a valuable introductory course that is essential to an informed citizen's understanding of how our society functions, what motivates certain policies, and how to form an educated opinion on economic policy.
This course is a strong way to start your understanding of microeconomics, but Mankiw skews things in a way that supports a specific mindset. If possible, try and learn without bias toward one common way of thought.
Ec10 is useful, but not the most fun course out there.  This was my first experience with Economics, and while I liked the material there was something about the size and bureaucracy of the course that was a bit annoying - The tests are not really explained and there is too much lecture material on them considering how infrequent those lectures occur.  Nonetheless it is a very good course to learn about economics and the world.
Teaching may not be perfect, but the subject material is great. The textbook is well written
It is extremely important to take this course at some point as an undergraduate!
If you are interested in economics, this course is great!
This class is difficult and time consuming, but the subject is highly relevant and useful to know
It's good to take this course to gain a fundamental understanding of economics, but you have to be aware that it's a little bit one-sided, on the conservative side.
Although difficult, the class is incredibly enriching; I feel every student should take Economics 10a
While it can be challenging, it's worth knowing basic economics, and this class will definitely teach that to you.
A good foundation for economics.  Not too much work and tests are not that tough (they are all heavily scaled)
I really enjoyed this course- the section, psets, lectures and tests all work together very nicely to increase problem solving skills and help you understand economics.
There is a slant in the materials, and at times the full picture is not presented, but overall it gives a very good basis for economics.
The true learning experience happens in David Johnson's office hours. Don't miss this opportunity.
How much you like this class really depends on your section leader because they do all of the teaching. Mankiw only does four lectures the entire semester. It is a great class to get you introduced into the world of economics even if you do not want to concentrate in it in the future.
Prepare to be disappointed, but recognize that this is an essential introductory course for a lot of areas in the social sciences.
This is a reasonably challenging course with great content, a few interesting lectures, but a poorly organised and impersonal sectional teaching system. However in terms of learning the basics of economics, it does do a pretty great job.
Its a lot of work, but so worth it
This class isn't just a course. It actually is very useful and it's important to have a good understanding of economics to be aware of what is going on around you politically, socially, and fiscally.
Take this class if you want to learn the basics of economics. Expect to put in a decent amount of work (2-4 hours per week), but nothing excessive as long as you attend section/lectures.
go to lecture
I highly recommend this class.  The material is interesting and challenging, but not unreasonable.
If you attend every lecture and section as well as do the readings and practice problems there is no reason you could not get an A.  The material is interesting and fun to work out problems.  I had no experinece with economics prior to taking the class, and as a bio major I had no trouble understanding the concepts and learning the material.  Anyone can take this class and learn a lot as well as do well.  One of my favorite courses at Harvard.
No real connection with any professor. Exam expectations do not match up with what we do in class.
N/A
It is great at applying to your everyday life
Economics 10 is a class worth taking. I believe a basic understanding in economics is vital for whatever you do. However, be forewarned this class can be killer. Work together with a group on problem sets, but ask questions!!! Figure out how to do the problems on your own and go to the unit tests. Take those a couple times that's how you learn. If you aren't invested in economics all the time you will get screwed just telling you how it is.
Ec 10 is what it is. Don't let anyone tell you it's easy, it's not. But, it also isn't terrible. Some of the lectures were very interesting and I feel better for having learned it. Be prepared to spend time on this class. Go to office hours, read the book and work hard on Psets. Economics is something everyone should at least have a basic knowledge of and this class definitely does this. I don't like it. I don't loathe it. It just is.
Economics is an incredibly useful discipline to know a little bit about. Unfortunately, at Harvard, one can only enter the subject (barring having taken the AP exam, which I'd recommend except not everyone has the chance) through Ec10, which is practically the quintessential Harvard class. Large sizes, disengaged professor, a mixed bag of TFs and lecturers (some utterly brilliant, and some not so much), overeager students keen on finance who wants the grades rather than critically think on the subtle slant on economics that is being presented to us, going over problems and definitions in a manner of teaching that's very reminiscent of high school. Take it if it's a necessary intro course for you, if not, skip to 1010 or move on. Economics is fascinating, and you do get that from the course, but none of that is due to the course itself.
Your TF will determine your experience in Ec 10
its a class you kind of have to take because the knowledge is useful. its not terribly difficult, especially if you're an upperclassmen. just know lectures aren't meant to be incredibly useful.
I thought this class was hard. That's just me. Psets took up a lot of my time, and I mean they're probably not as time-consuming as math or science psets but I'm a prospective humanities major so cut me some slack. If you're a humanities major trying to fulfill the EMR requirement, take another course. One that isn't a full year course.
This class is a unique class. While the subject matter itself is very straightforward and rather common sense, it is taught in a way that makes it far more difficult than it should have to be. The textbook is a decent enough resource, but you may find it lacking in examples.
Ec10a is the basic intro economics class, so it isn't too hard or confusing. Just make sure to take the unit tests because they add points to your grade!
The course is taught really well, especially if you have a good section leader. I wouldn't take it if you don't have any interest in economics because the problem sets do require time and effort.
Make sure you get a section leader that you understand and can learn from, because that can really make or break the class.
You'll learn microeconomics, but you may not have the most fun doing so.  It's pretty straight out of the textbook--you read it, you practice it, you learn it.  No surprises.
Take it and go to office hours.
it's not so exciting, but material is valuable
Ec10a is a thorough and interesting introduction to microeconomics. A lot depends on your section leader because most of the class is taught in sections-- and unfortunately, that is a matter of luck. There are a few things you can do to make this course easier for you, though: do the readings (Principles of Economics is a great textbook), go to David Johnson's office hours (whether or not you have questions about the psets) and review sessions and take notes during the lectures (a lot of them are boring; Mankiw is not a very good lecturer at all, but you're tested on the material in the exams). Overall it isn't a very hard course and there are a lot of opportunities to better your grade.
It is very informative and interesting.
This class is a must take to understand the world.
Definitely need to do the readings, go to lecture, and use the helpful hints. Also, do the psets in groups with people who will make sure you understand the material.
It's a big class, which means it won't be personal and certainly won't be tailored to your learning style. Take it if you want a solid foundation in economics and learn well from a textbook.
Having taken this class as a sophomore, I didn't feel the freshman stress surrounding the course. I felt more prepared with the pset and the overall stress of the course having had more experience taking Harvard classes. This course is a great life-course and I really suggest taking it if you haven't taken an econ course yet.
Totally fine, a little soulless, but not too painful!
This class is not easy, but the information you learn is very applicable to everyday life.
Your experience in Economics 10 is highly dependent on your Teaching Fellow. I lucked out with a good one, so my experience was positive. I learned so much in this class (probably 'cause I've never taken economics before). If you haven't taken it before, this a great class to take because it is so applicable and relevant to the real world and today's society. It's challenging, but not overwhelmingly difficult.
I really loved econ in high school and I really did NOT like it here. I don't know if it's the way the course is taught or my section in particular, but I did not enjoy this class. The work was doable and the concepts were not too difficult to understand, but the questions on psets and tests made everything seem much more complicated. I'm sure a lot of people loved this class, but I kind of dreaded it.
This class is a requirement for many concentrations. It's not painful. If you put in time and effort, you will do (at the very least) relatively well.
THIS CLASS IS HARD. Don't think that it's going to be easier just because it's economics. It's not easy! So prepare yourself for a hard time! But don't give up. The class is really useful, and most classes at Harvard aren't a walk in the park anyway.
It is a very doable class that can help you decide whether economics is for you.
It was a really interesting class. Moderate in difficulty. Depends if you get a good section leader or not.
Do the readings, read the helpful hints, make sure you understand the PSETs, and GO TO DAVID JOHNSON OFFICE HOURS.
Having a good section leader makes all the difference in the world. I had a great one Freshman Fall and she did a great job of helping us understand the course material both in section and during her office hours.
I think the class is far too large, and so the course is taught entirely by TFs who may or may not be effective at teaching you the material. In other classes, the TF/sections are complementary to the material that is taught in lecture by a hired professor, however, in this class the opposite is true: the lectures are complementary to the material of the class which you learn in section. It's understandable because there are a lot of students taking the class, but it doesn't change the fact that it's a completely flawed system. It's luck of the draw with your TF, especially for those students who get the head TF, David Johnson, who is significantly better than every other TF. Take this class if economics interests you (or if you want to concentrate in it) because you will definitely learn basic economics, but don't just take it because so many other people take it.
Meh. Ec 10 is just one of those courses you have to take to get further in your economic studies. The material that you learn is certainly useful in real-life applications and is good to know in order to understand the world around us, the way in which it is taught in Ec 10 is not ideal. There is just too great of a disconnect between what is taught in section and what is expected of you in problem sets. And the class is more time-consuming than necessary with tediously long problem sets and "optional" unit tests that you really have to do if you want to do well.
It is a FANTASTIC class and everyone should take it!!
Don't try to do this course without going to office hours every week. Really understand the P-Sets and you'll be fine on the midterms/final.
This class is amazing it will change the way you think.
It's a relatively difficult course. Even if you have taken AP micro, you learn more than you learned in high school, so I would recommend not skipping ec10.
Be sure to take advantage of all materials posted on the isite. It'll be expensive to print all of them, but it'll be well worth it when finals roll around and you have a binder with ever concept or detail on which you'll be tested. Although they may be boring, be sure to attend ALL of the lectures. More often than not a sizable chunk of a midterm will be dedicated not to the application of material presented int he lecture, but rather to the recollection of minute details (in addition to broader topics. Do (and pass) all of the unit tests.
You need to put in work to understand the concepts, but David Johnson does a fabulous job of making the material accessible and relatable to students.
This is a great class to take at Harvard. It gives a great foundation of economics to students, and learning from Mankiw is always a delight. Section was also a great experience and very engaging. Great class overall.
I think economics is an incredibly important field to understand. However, I would encourage people to avoid this class at all costs. It's a drag of a class and is thoroughly unenjoyable. I will only continue taking it so that I can gain the skills that the class helps one obtain.
Great intro course that builds many friendships on days before Psets are due. Not an easy class and should not be taken without warning that it is difficult.
The material that you learn in this class should be knowledge that everyone has. After all, Economics is so prominent.
It's a huge class with a lot of problems but a necessary evil for anyone who wants to take econ.
If you're thinking about economics as a concentration, or just want to gain a general understanding of what economies entail and how they work, this is a good course to take. However, a lot of your experience will depend on which TF you get. There are a couple lectures that are absolutely great.
It is a very useful class for the real world.
Honestly if you are trying to satisfy the GenEd by taking Econ10a and 10b, DON"T DO IT. It is a complete waste of your time if you don't actually plan on going into economics.
You have to be willing to either collaborate with others on the psets or put in a solid amount of work by yourself.
The course itself a lot harder than AP Economics, although it is about the same materials. The problem sets are very well designed to further your understanding of the subject.
I think that ec10 is an incredibly useful class with applicable skills but I don't think that anybody really enjoys taking it.
Stay ahead in the readings. Use the PSets to improve your understanding of the relevant concepts; that's what the PSets are for (duh).
Know what they expect of you and be able to explain things clearly.
If you get a good TF then you should be fine
Take this class if you are interested in economics or if you need to fulfill a requirement.
Study the problem sets more than the books for midterms
You have to be able to think about the problems on a whole new level than they are taught to you.
Lecture is worthless but many test multiple choice questions ask about details from lecture. Very few lecturers command attention.  Focus in section and it won't be that bad. If you are at all interested in taking economics as a concentration or a secondary, take Ec10. I wouldn't recommend it as a gen-ed or an elective however.
This class offers a good introduction and basic working knowledge of microeconomics. Your experience can honestly fluctuate based on who your section leader is. Mankiw has a  history of being a bland lecturer, but the professors brought in to lecture throughout the semester are all amazing and interesting themselves.
This class is what you make of it. The material itself is not too difficult, but its applications in problem sets can be a challenge. Take advantage of the head TFs office hours and the unit test program!
it's popular for a reason
This course is difficult but interesting, and if you apply yourself you will come out of the course with much good knowledge.
Be sure to get a good TF - that will really make or break your semester.
Prepare to learn a lot about economics.  This stuff isn't too difficult, but it is a lot of new concepts and can be very hit or miss in terms of interest level.
good stuff to not but not easy
Take this course only for Gen Ed requirements or if you are concentrating in Economics. If you are looking for an elective, there are many other ec courses that are much better.
Take advantage of all of the resources offered to you.
Between Expos and CS50 in difficulty.Exams are rigorous.Taught by TFs.
It is often difficult to connect with professors, given that it is such a large class. If the student doesn't have an intrinsic interest in economics, the class is not made very interesting and doesn't try to make economics applicable to other fields.
you need to work really hard!
It's absolutely useful material!
Mankiw is incredibly conservative. This colors his lectures. Be aware of this, as he tries to leave political leanings out of it, but they seep through every so often.
Economics 10 is well-designed for students with little background knowledge of the field; I came into the course without any prior experience and am now strongly considering concentrating in ec.  Take this course!
ONLY take this class if you're pretty sure you have an interest in economics. I took this class because "it's good to know some economics to function in the world," and I ended up hating it with a passion. Unless you like econ, the material is pretty dry, and problem sets especially are a pain. Concepts are taught in section, but I feel that we were not taught adequately how to apply those concepts to the problems. The class also doesn't have a very study network-y feel to it; it feels as if you're thrown on your own to learn, so be prepared to do a lot of self-teaching. Also keep in mind that it's taught entirely in section so your experience depends almost wholly on your TF - I had an excellent TF, so that wasn't the problem, it was the curriculum. The textbook, however, is very accessible and informative, so if you want to learn some about econ but aren't sure if you're interested, just read the book, don't take the class. The best part about Ec 10 was the lectures, which were on fascinating real-world topics and how economics can be extended to apply to them, and I did enjoy those a lot.
Economics is a useful life skill. Ec10 isn't anything exciting, but the workload is reasonable, and you can do well as long as you keep up with the problem sets and reading.
This class is a good introductory class, though it is very large so it can feel very impersonal often
Learning the basics of economics is supremely helpful in helping you understand how the world around you works. Ec10 very thoroughly teaches you those foundations. The class itself isn't riveting, and learning the concepts can take some work (as with any class). However, it is very rewarding to be able to apply your analytical skills in problem sets and exams, not to mention when watching the news or reading the paper! Also, it is worth taking this class despite having taken HS economics. I myself aced HL IB Economics but found this class to be worthwhile and challenging, as it is much more thorough and somewhat more analytical.
It's a very interesting class to take if you have the slightest interest in economics or even if you're just curious to know more about how today's world works. But to be honest your success in it depends a lot on the TF that you get assigned to, so cross your fingers! Also, a word of advice would be to start your psets early and go to D. Johnson's office hours, it helps a lot. Other than that, I'd say you should keep up with the readings, although it might seem silly cause your TF goes through most of it again in class at least you'll be prepared and what he says will allow you to memorize it; you can also ask him about stuff you didn't understand.
make sure you get a good section/tf
This was a required course for my concentration. Who you have for a TF really makes or breaks the course. It's also really necessary that you go to section and office hours
GO for office hours.
You'll be reading the textbook a lot. Spend lots of time on Psets, go to office hours, and practice a lot for the tests. You'll really want to master the stuff on the psets b/c the tests are literally just 2 pset questions and 20 multiple choice.
This class made me angry.
Do not shy away from this course if you haven't had previous econ experience.  It is a truly great class that teaches the basics of microecon-- principles that are useful for everyone to know, not only those who are looking to be economists.
Take it!! It changes the way you think about your decisions and how the world works. Go to David Johnson's OH
Balance out your course load  and go to all of the unit exams
This class is necessary for many students at Harvard for several fields of study. So, you have to do it. It's not the most intellectually stimulating class, and it can be very frustrating at points, but you do get a basic introduction to economics out of it, and it is a prerequisite.
You really cannot prepare for this course. Even with 5s in AP Macro and Micro, I still thought that this course was difficult.
Good class to take but prepared to put in the time on the PSETs.  If you don't understand a concept one week, be sure to go to your TF or David Johnson's office hours to get it clarified.
If  you aren't into economics, this class is going to be super boring and inapplicable to you and your academic ambitions, which I guess is the point. They're looking to weed out people who take economics as an "easy" concentration. The work is not difficult, though it takes awhile since they don't teach a lot of the stuff for the p-set in sections. Be sure to talk to your TF as much as possible.
I would recommend this class to all students. It is a nice entry course to the field of economics. The concepts were interesting and applicable to the real world. The exams were challenging yet doable, and the problem sets were extremely helpful in preparing me for the level of difficulty of the exam questions. The only negative side to this course were that some of the lectures weren't as engaging as I hoped.
You can't graduate without having taken at least one Ec class at Harvard, and Ec10 does a great introductory job.
Ec10 is a classic college intro course in that relies on subject matter and not teaching to entice students to take it. You have to rely on your section TF to truly learn the subject. Having a good or bad TF will make or break your Ec10 experience. It's possible to get through this class without going to any sections (other than to hand in Psets) but a good TF really helps you learn the material better. Don't take as an elective. You won't get that much out of it because it doesn't delve to deep into real world matters.
This class is likely to frustrate you and make you question your intelligence. There is a great gap between what is taught in the classroom (concepts) and what is on the exams (problems with tricks). Understanding the concepts is not enough. If you want to succeed in this class, you will only do so by studying with practice tests.
Ec 10 is a course that I believe that every student at Harvard should take, It is extremely relevant and applicable to life today and an understanding of economics and how markets work can be helpful for any field of study. This class is challenging and you will see things on exams that you have never seen before.
Good foundation for understanding the market
I would tell them that it was a very good experience that taught me a lot about the fundamentals about economics if I wanted to further concentrate in it.
Ec10 is a useful course and the information can be applied in any field and every day life and interactions.
It's Ec 10, the class title speaks for itself. It's something that almost everyone does here. It's a rewarding class, you learn a lot but make sure you go to all sections / lectures / read textbook! It's super important not to fall behind.
If you have taken economics before, do not underestimate this course. The problem sets are challenging but also intriguing. Take advantage of all the aids (unit tests, helpful hints, office hours, etc.)! :)
We all consume, different things in different quantities. Take this class for a different way of evaluating everyday decisions about what and how much you consume.
This is a really great class; if you keep up with the reading, section will be more understandable and you will be more prepared for the problem sets and exams.
If you're not super comfortable with econ and if you don't have to take this course, I wouldn't recommend it. I found that section didn't teach me much beyond what I could have gotten from the textbook and that the psets became a major stressor in my life. The expectation was that you would go to office hours, but if you're taking other heavy courses, it's difficult to make this course the greatest priority with the time-requirement it necessitates. Maybe take it pass/fail? Or if you're interested in the material, read the textbook and do a few of the problems here and there.
This is, without a single doubt, the WORST class I have EVER taken at Harvard. A complete travesty. In fact, I would even throw it out there that this is the worst class at this school, because it is hard to imagine that a more awful class exists. The only reason you would even consider thinking about possibly taking this dire class is if you are convinced that you want to become an Economics concentrator or if you are the unfortunate Social Studies concentrator who is forced to endure it because it is a requirement. Basically, if you have no choice. The class is too big and incredibly impersonal, Marglin is a boring and not engaging lecturer, the problem sets are impossible to do without a lot of hand-holding and going to office hours every week, the exams are way too difficult given the basic level TFs are instructed to teach at in section and the textbook is pretty much useless (bar the graphs). The ONLY redeeming qualities of the class are some of the guest lecturers and David Jonhnson, who is clearly a genius. Here are some tips for getting through the class if you choose to subject yourself to this misery: go to office hours every week to do your problem sets, do the Unit Tests, go to David Johnson's office hours and review sessions and when studying for the exams go over the HELPFUL HINTS. Seriously, forget the textbook, focus primarily on the Helpful Hints documents and previous exams. Overall, this class was the bane of my semester and though ultimately I did okay grade-wise, I definitely felt that effort did not equal the result and I felt strongly enough about it to write a pretty scathing evaluation. Do not take it unless you have no choice. Worst. Class. Ever.
It's very challenging but worthwhile in the end. When the going gets tough, it helps to take a step back and realize you're learning economics from the best professors in the world at the best college in the world.
You'll be competing against students with ec backgrounds, even ones who got 5's on their AP exams. Not having an ec background means working hard to just stay in the middle of the pack, but this is definitely a great course to take for common knowledge even if not concentrating in ec.
This class was very time consuming. I had to go to office hours several times a week and work every day on the pset and stayed up very late every time it was due. The cycle of psets never seems to end.
This course is a great introduction to economics. It's very exciting and interesting.
It's a very interesting course. As long as you keep up with the readings, it's pretty manageable. Not an easy course for a Gen Ed credit, but worth it if you find the material interesting.
The course is extremely hard and the material is taught quickly. I regret taking the class because I did not take any economics courses in high school, which would have been extremely helpful to do. The lectures are interesting and the book is easy to understand, but the tests are extremely hard and the p-sets take a very long time to complete.
The class is doable and you will get through it. Make the most of office hours and tutoring sessions. Work in small groups for pset. The class is an introductory course, it's undeniable that you wont be able to enjoy much individualized help and attention
A lot of people just hate this course -- that's a pretty founded opinion. It's not fun or interesting, except for the occasional fascinating guest lecturer.
Take it if you want to concentrate in Ec, take it just because it's useful to have a general knowledge of economics in life, but don't think that this generalized and simplified version of economics will have any relation to anything that exists outside of the classroom.
Ec 10 is the quintessential harvard course.
It's a grind and a lot of it you kind of have to figure out yourself. There is a disconnect between the reading and the psets
You learn a lot in Ec10. I would highly recommend it for someone who has never taken an economics class before. The problem sets and midterms are challenging but are definitely manageable if you put in the work.
This course is a must-take at Harvard no matter your concentration. It is insightful and offers reasons why society works the way it does.
Although I wish that EC 10 had taken less of my time this semester (I believe it took time away from the classes I truly wanted to focus on), I would still say it's a class worth taking. It was challenging and difficult for me, but I am ultimately glad I took the course.
Take it for the sake of taking it if you've never had an ec course before. However, it's super boring and dry.
I think it is important that every student at Harvard learn the basics of economics, and for that reason I highly recommend it. Despite that, the course can be very difficult at times. Some of the psets, especially, are difficult.
The course is excellent, and even if a you are assigned to a poor section leader, David Johnson is incredibly intelligent, enthusiastic and helpful when it comes to his office hours.
Great course if you put in the work. Interesting material that is useful to know.
It's a great class, but a lot of it does depend on which TF you get. You have problem sets every week, but they aren't that bad and you can always go to office hours for help.
The problem sets will take longer than you think they will. Plan accordingly. Also, when taking tests, the most conservative answer is usually right, regardless of your personal political beliefs. Keep that in mind and you will do fine.
take it pass fail!
Come on! Everyone should take that class, at least to assess it. Gives you great overview of economical terms and concepts. Granted, the material is very watered down but we all have to start somewhere.
If you're actually interested in ec, take ec 1010. This was a bit of a waste of time.
It teaches you basics that every adult should know and understand in the real world.
This is a class that I think everyone should take.  It is very well done with a very interesting subject matter that explains how the world works.
Don't set your expectations too highyou'll get the material, and that's it.
Tough but worth it
Ec 10 provides you with a base of understanding that allows you to better comprehend material in history and government courses, and it gives you the basic tools to look at current events and political debates with more insight.
Skip it.
The class is structured very logically, though a lot depends on how good your TF is. The textbook tells you basically everything you need to know and the material is presented in a straightforward way.
If you have any interest in understanding economics, even on a basic level, this class will be very useful. My ability to understand current events (especially those concerning economics/politics) greatly increased even after a few weeks in this course. How much you get out of the class will vary a lot, unfortunately, especially based on the TF you receive. Your TF will make or break the course.
A manageable class-with potential to be quite interesting if you get into it.  Definitely go to David Johnson's office hours- he'll get you really excited about economics.  Problem sets are not too time consuming- especially if you work in a group.  Overall, a solid course- though your experience would depend on the quality of your TF.  Some lectures are not so great, some are awesome.
Take this course. It's important to understand free markets and capitalism.
This course is one of the worst taught courses here at Harvard. It is 100% dependent on which TF you get because despite what we learned in the guest lectures - being taught in small class rooms doesnt help, and being taught in a bigger classrooom with a better professor does help, We DONT DO THAT. They need to just have Johnston teach the class in a huge lecture hall. My TF did not seem to know much about economics and cared even less about teaching it to us.
I would highly recommend the use of Khan Academy as reinforcement.
This is a course that I think everyone should consider taking, even if you're not considering Econ as a concentration. Though it can sometimes be pretty dry, it also provides you with knowledge about economics that every person should know. Be prepared for some long and pretty challenging p-sets!
I wasn't a huge fan of ec 10, but there are reason to take it. First of all, it you take both semesters, you can get the US in the World gen ed covered. Also, while it was a bit boring, it's necessary in order to take more interesting econ classes.
David Johnson will make or break your experience in this course. He is excellent.
Attend and pay attention to all course-wide lectures
The psets are sometimes boring or time consuming, the TFs are not very good, but David Johnson (head TF) is amazing, so if you are interested in economics and if you go to his office hours you will be fine.
I would not take this class unless you are planning to get some concentration or secondary in it.  Otherwise, you need it.
Good class if you've never taken econ before or only have a basic understanding. If you've taken AP econ or a similar level course, you may feel bored in Ec10
The ideas and concepts in Ec10 were interesting to me, but the class is very hard. Not a course to take lightly.
The lectures are interesting but be prepared to be underwhelmed in section. Go to office hours with questions about psets since psets are not addressed in section.
This course is very important (the material is), however, the class itself can be a bit dry at times.
This course has been a good, all around introduction to economics. I think it serves its purpose quite well without going far beyond that. But overall certainly satisfying.
This is a solid course to introduce economics. I can see how it can be dull if one has already taken AP. As someone with no prior economics experience, I was definitely sufficiently challenged, more than I expected. Budget more time for this class than you think you need.
If your are not interested in concentrating economics it is still a good class to take in order to gain knowledge about the subject but it may prove difficult or uninteresting for a person not very passionate about economics.
The class is extremely difficult to keep up with and if you happen to fall behind there is nearly no way of catching back up. The lectures are uninteresting and most of the learning has to be done without the help of teachers.
Make sure to read the helpful hints and do all the practice tests online before exams.
Its very hard almost impossible to get help if you need it. Claimed to have help if you needed, that was not the case
Make sure that you utilize every resource they give youproblem set solutions, helpful hints, textbook, practice tests-- and don't think you can get away with not knowing or understanding a concept. The course tests every concept, so utilize people like David Johnson's office hours if you don't feel confident about a particular topic or need help on a problem set question.
Let's face it, you're probably going to take it, along with everyone else...
This class is really interesting and is a really good introduction to economics. The lectures are given by famous economists and put what you are learning in class in real world context. Most of the course material is taught in section, so if your TF is good ,then the class is awesome. The problem sets and the tests aren't too hard, but I would definitely recommend reading and keeping up with the textbook chapters.
Lots of fun.
This class is poorly structured and Manikew is the worst. He shows up to three lectures, so your ability to do well in this class is determined by the proficiency of your TF, which can be a hit or miss. The class also has an observable conservative skew in the textbook and when Manikew takes the stage; however, the fundamentals of economics are important to everyday live and are worth learning.
Keep up with the reading. Go to office hours.
Take it only if you must. Otherwise it's just going to be quite disappointingly lackluster.
It is a good class.
Ec 10 is a solid foundation to understand some of the most important ways in which the world works. If you're considering being an Ec concentrator, Ec 10 does a great job showing you what economics can be used for in many different fields.
Ec 10a can be very interesting for those who give it a chance. There is not much work. The problem sets can be challenging, but they are not worth much and you can attend your TF's office hours for help.
It will teach you how the world works and for that reason, everyone should take this course. I would encourage you not to get bogged down in the minutiae as the course does but focus on the bigger real-life principles and applications behind the theories.
Ec 10 is one of THOSE courses - one of the ones tons of people take (especially freshmen) on entering the university and when trying to decide on a concentration. That being said, it can be helpful to experience such a large course that also provides the small section component. It is definitely a good introductory course in economics and will be helpful for a multitude of concentrations.
Micro can be a bit inapplicable at times but I would recommend this course because conceptually this course if very fascinating looking at consumer before and how markets effect different firms.
This course is an utter drag. If your TF isn't very good, the class is miserable: boring, difficult, and irritating. Mankiw is extremely conservative and doesn't fairly represent liberal views, even though this is a foundation course. It's probably still a course worth taking, just to get a background in economics, but don't expect to enjoy it.
Do you really want to go into Econ?
Only take this class if you absolutely have to. The Mankiw lectures are useless and having been to various sections, the section leaders cannot teach the material well. Everyone raves about David Johnson being a gem in this class, but honestly all he does in his office hours is yell and teach economic concepts that, while very meaningful for real life, will never appear on problem sets or exams.
If you don't know anything about economics you will learn a lot, but the section-taught structure of this class is so terrible it is enough to consider not taking this course.
This class is very manageable and you can learn a lot if you keep up with the work and pay attention in section.
Everyone should take economics! That said, make sure that you get a good section leader. Also, do the reading!
Your typical foundational economics class
You really have to actively keep up with the work and readings. if you don't put work in, the pests and tests will kill you.
This course is a good introduction to microeconomics, but it is very similar to the material taught in AP Economics in high school, and the class is very large, but without the support network or community of a class like CS50.
Go to David Johnson's sections, it is the best way to learn problem solving and the material.
read the book and don't fall behind! go to david Johnson's office hours.
David Johnson is great. He writes relevant problem sets, unit tests, and exam problems. His review sessions are amazing, and he's very accessible outside class. This said, my TF (and I don't think I was particularly unlucky) was very poorly informed about not only some aspects of the content of the course but also its logistics. In several occasions they gave us wrong information (both in terms of contents and of logistics).
I believe it is important for everybody to have a strong understanding of basic economic theory. However, the theory this course teaches is sometimes abstract and does not always correlate with what actually occurs in the real world.
This is a great survey course for economics and any students interested in concentrating or minoring in the field should enroll.
Get to know your section leader.
Read the textbook before section.
Be prepared for a great deal of work, every week.
While this class is definitely difficult, it does a good job teaching the basics of microeconomics. You are taught almost entirely in section, which means that your TF might as well be your Professor. Definitely go to office hours - both your TFs and Dr. Johnson's - because I don't know how I would have managed all my psets if I didn't go. The guest lectures are also a highlight, especially the ones by Dr. Cutler and Dr. Fryer.
I wish there were a better option for introduction to economics at Harvard, but there currently isn't. Until that day, take this class.
If you're interested in economics, go ahead and try ec10. I am a sophomore science concentrator and just wanted to try the field to see if I liked it. The problem sets are often challenging, but the midterms and final were very straightforward. I found the class to be very easy compared to others I have taken. This, however, does not prevent people from constantly complaining about it. Definitely read the book (I didn't and did just fine, but its actually a very good textbook) and go to lecture (there are always question on the exam that you won't be able unless you went to lecture and paid attention). Finally, you simply must go to David Johnson's office hours. The man is an amazing teacher and a really cool guy. He was my favorite part of the class by far.
Worst course I have taken in my life. Least interesting class ever.
Don't fall behind on the readings. Instead, come to section prepared in order to get the most out of it.
This course is difficult but is interesting and manageable if you put the necessary effort into it.
I believe that every Harvard student should not graduate without having the knowledge of this class. The material taught is essential to know. I think the concepts we learn are very applicable to real world, and I think Mankiw's book does a great job establishing these concepts.The class highly depends on the TF (your section leader), so keep your fingers crossed to get a good TF.
This course is what it is. It is not the most fascinating course you will take in your time at Harvard, but it's fine. Really depends on how good your TF is. The guest lectures are good. If you are taking it to satisfy the math requirement: beware. It's not easy and will suck up two semesters of your year if you want the GenEd credit. Just take math instead!
Its awesome! Economics is something that everyone should study and understand at least at a basic level no matter what they plan to concentrate in
It is the worst ever
Unless you are genuinely interested in economics or want to concentrate in it, do not take this class with the expectation that it will raise your GPA.
The materials are interesting but the structure of this class is deplorable. What you take from the class really depends on the TF, not Mankiw. Some lucky few have the head TF. Take it if you have an interest in economics but don't feel like you have to take it.
It's a very interesting class and should be a class everyone should take at some point in there college careers
Econ 10a is a well-structured class that will give you a firm understanding of introductory microeconomics. As long as you are willing to put in the time to read the textbook, make use of the helpful hints/course materials posted online, and complete the problem sets thoroughly, the class will be very manageable and fair in its assessments. However, sections are definitely hit-or-miss: some section leaders will really help you understand the material, while others will basically add nothing.
Read the textbook and practice practice practice
Take it.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading. DO THE READING BEFORE SECTION AND/OR LECTURE. Come with a general understanding; this way when it is taught in section you get much more out of the lecture than you normally would. Ask questions in section, and get to know your TF really well. He/she can be the deal breaker as to whether not you enjoy this course.Expect that the problem sets will also be rather lengthy. I would recommend working in groups, but splitting the work in a way that you still "do" all the problems.Also, attend and listen to all lectures, even the ones that seem to be tangential to the course. They WILL appear in exams, and hey, they're interesting!
Most people don't get excited about Ec10: it's notorious for being a standard freshman class that few people enjoy and most people fear for the work and exams. I didn't have this experience. In no way is the class exceptional. Sections aren't great, lectures are infrequent, and problem sets can be time consuming. However, it's a class worth taking simply because the material is interesting and a knowledge of it can benefit everyone. Most of the guest lecturers are outstanding and introduce you to different areas of the field of economics. It's a class worth taking - you might just like it!
Do the problem sets well, read the book, and take the unit tests, and you'll be fine.  It's a huge, imperfect class and you'll find things to complain about, but you'll be fine.
Its not bad. Freshmen freak out about it, but its a typical college class. Read the book.
If you're taking this class it's either (1) because you have to or (2) because you're a freshman who things he/she wants to concentrate in Economics.  In either case, I know that my advice won't have much merit, but I would just say that you should walk into Ec10 with good study habits, as the exams can really kick your ass if you aren't ready.  So, DONT save psets to 1AM the night before, DONT start studying with 12 hours to the exam, and DONT ever take for granted that you'll get a good grade in this class. Have fun with it, and you'll be surprised how much you'll learn!
Ec10 is a great way to get initial exposure to economics-- I thought I would hate it but actually liked it a lot! It's a huge class and it won't be life-changing or super inspirational, but it's good to learn and not that bad.
This is a great class and you'll learn a ton! Danny is an awesome TF!
It's a good class to take because economics is an important field to understand and is applicable to real life.
It won't always be fun, but this class is worth taking.
I would recommend this class because economics is an interesting topic and something useful to learn.
I was really nervous about taking this class because I had never taken economics before and I didn't really have any desire to study it, but I thought it was something I should take because everyone should have some knowledge of economics, and I am so glad I did. It was definitely less daunting than I originally anticipated, and while I stayed up very late some nights finishing the problem sets, I really enjoyed working with others in the class, and overall, my experience was very positive. Because almost the entire class is taught in section, the TF you get is extremely important, and I was so lucky to have Trisha.
This is an excellent introduction to the field of Economics for those with no experience. Your experience in the class will likely depend on your section leader but you are free to attend other section leader's office hours for extra help if you need it.
I had no economics experience entering this course. If you do not either and are wavering on whether or not to take this course, ask yourself two questions: 1) Am I willing to do the reading and complete the psets thoroughly? 2) Am I willing to take advantage of David Johnson's office hours? If you answered yes to both, then take this course as a self-directed individual determined to understand economics. Prepare to be amazed by how much you can learn from the course.
That it is tougher than most people let on to be
While section may be confusing depending on the TF lottery, try to keep up with the readings and problem sets.  The problems in the sets are reflective of those on exams; note the graphs in the textbooks.  If you have any questions, Head TF David Johnson is truly one of your greatest resources and one of the greatest parts of the class, who will undoubtably help and motivate you.
No matter what you concentrate in, its important to have a basic understanding of economics so Ec10 is a great idea! Also, coursewide lectures bring in great speakers who are fun to hear!
Read the book! Actually read it before section because then you will understand section and the problem sets soo much better!!!
If you want to concentrate in Economics, take it; if you don't, then read some books and learn the same amount.
If you have any reservations about your TF after the first class come up with an excuse to switch out.
This class is extremely interesting and useful! Take it and you will not regret it!
This is basically an easy high school class. If your TF is good though, he or she will cover the basics and you will learn plenty though.
This class is challenging but effective in teaching you the basic concepts of economics. I've learned so much--psets and midterms challenge you to understand concepts and principles in a real and flexible way. Meanwhile, lectures and readings apply these concepts to the real world and introduce you to the nuances of intersections between economics, politics, and industry.
This class is hard, but worth it. You come out with a very solid understanding of economic concepts. Although I had already taken AP Micro/Macro Economics and could have skipped this course, I found it to be an incredible review of introductory concepts. The guest lectures are also extremely informative and a great way to learn about current research going on in the field of economics.
Go to unit tests.
Ec10 really depends on your section leader and yourself. It is not a hard class, but you basically just have to read the book.
You learn the basics in this course, but it is not fun. I really didn't like it, so I would take it if you think this is really what you want to do. If it is a last priority, you probably won't do well. Very difficult to get an A
Everyone should take Ec10 to get some sort of background on the way basic economics works. The exams are challenging but the lectures are interesting and fairly relevant to current events. The psets aren't too challenging and are only due once a week.
This class can be a very high school type class.  The structure is section, readings and homework.
It's an interesting and basic knowledge of economics that should be known by everyone.
Very applicable to the real world. Highly recommend this course even if you're not going to be an econ major. David Johnson is also great. His sections and reviews are excellent. Lectures are much more dry and not interesting. Decent amount of work but definitely worth it.
You will feel like you learned a lot about how society operates after taking this course.
Go to the lectures and study along the semester, not just for exams.
The class pretty much depends on your TF. Luckily my TF was awesome and she provided us with assistance when we needed it. She was also very clear in class and I think that's what helped reinforce most of the concepts. Problem sets can sometimes be vague, but you just get over it eventually.
I took this course pass/fail because I wanted to have an introduction in economics, a field in which I had never dabbled, but I did not want the pressure of the class on top of me. I fully recommend taking this course pass/fail if you are able to still study and learn something while knowing you need not put as much time in to get an A. I got quite a bit out of this course.
This class is a very good introduction to economics and I highly recommend the class if you'd like a good foundation in economics.  Even though at times the class seems as if you learn the most from the text book, the problem sets apply the information you've learned.
The quality of this class really depends on who your TF is.  I ended up with a perfectly nice but very unexciting TF who nearly put me to sleep every morning at 9am.  I heard other people talk about their enthusiastic, energetic TFs who made the course really fun to take.  It's basically luck of the draw.
This course is a fun introduction to the field of economics and teaches knowledge and skills that every undergraduate should know to understand how the world works. No prior knowledge is required or assumed although many students have taken some economics before this course. I would highly recommend this class, as it provides extremely fundamental information that is useful to everyone. Through lectures, it also shows you interesting subfields of economics.
It gives you a great perspective about the world in general and makes you think about basic decision making in a new manner.
It's an intro to economics class! It's kind of like, you're gonna be sort of interested in this thing or not. It's not a ton of work and it's definitely not too difficult. I think it's probably just worth taking in like a "I would like to be generally educated about how the world works" kind of way.
I had heard from a lot of my friends who'd taken Ec10 that it was a really awful class.  After having done the first semester, though, I'm not really sure why so many people hated it so much.  I thought it was a well organized class with a clear and well-written textbook and a lot of supplemental resources.  The Helpful Hints in particular were really useful.  Psets and exams weren't easy but I definitely felt they were very doable with a little bit of work.  Overall thought it was a really solid class.
It's a good introductory course to economics, but it's not particularly enjoyable unless you really are in love with economics. Your experience in the course varies on which section leader you get. Some are very good at teaching the course, and others aren't. It just depends if you get lucky or not. I'm glad that I took it though, because it gives you a basic understanding of economics and some government policies that are helpful for all people to know in general.
As long as you attend section and office hours you will be just fine! The material is really interesting and applicable to the real world.
Even though you'll often feel swamped, do all the reading.  Read the textbook and the helpful hints.  If you take the time to keep up with all of this throughout the semester, you can avoid the last minute panic that so many people go through before each exam.
Very useful in understanding many aspects of the world around us. Very useful in everyday life.
This class is unnecessarily stressful and a hazard to your mental well-being. It is very poorly run and incredibly frustrating. You'd be better off taking an economics class at a community college. You'd probably learn more from it.
Great class if you've got an awesome section leader like I did. If there are any other freshmen who are mathy and gotten double 5s on APs: note that Ec1011a is really tough (<10 freshmen in the class), but Ec 10a will be a lot of review. You might consider just not taking Econ this year and taking Ec1011a next year. I chose to do Ec10a for an easy class to balance other classes and also cover a GenEd, and don't regret my choice personally.
I had an extremely good experience with Ec10; the course material is interesting and important to know, and my section TF was amazing. However, it should be noted that this course is basically taught in section, so the quality of ones' TF basically determines how good or bad the course is.
Take the class. It's not the best but it isn't the worst. It allows you to take further ec courses, concentrate, or secondary in the field. If you put in any effort, it will also make you well enough versed to hold a conversation and the journal. However, lecture can be dull and section leaders vary tremendously. If you can, try to find a good TF or switch into a section with a good one. If you actual do the reading and pay attention in section, the class will be not only manageable but easy. However, it is very easy to always be behind.
I took AP Economics in high school and found this course very easy. The only difference was that there were more math and the examples used actual numbers. It is taught completely in section, but I had a really good section leader who taught the material well. The problem sets are very straight forward
Economics is such an awesome topic, but this course is too big for its own good. It's like food that could be delicious but loses its flavor when mass-produced.
I think economics is important to learn, no matter what you plan on studying. I came into Harvard thinking I would be pre-med, but then switched routes and took Ec10 my sophomore year, wishing someone would have told me to take it last year, just in case. If you're on the fence, definitely take this class and drop it after the first semester if it's not for you.
Tough, but rewarding.
Ec10 is pretty straightforward and well taught. However, don't expect it to be a joke class. The problem sets and exams do require a fair amount of logic and thinking, and synthesizing across several units can be difficult. Keep up with the readings and do the problem sets thoroughly and you should be fine.
this course sucks, but it is some sort of necessary evil. you need to take it for concentrating in economics, so you really have no option. just cross your fingers that you get a decent TF.
David Johnson is a wonderful resource--get to know him! Also, if you are not satisfied with your TF, switch to another section. A good TF is important in this course. Do the psets yourself--you will learn a lot.
Don't go in thinking that you'll be given special treatment -- or really any personal treatment at all. Ec 10 is a factory. If you do most of your learning on your own time, good for you. If you go in hoping to get anything out of the classes, sorry.
It is a very useful and interesting class that I definitely recommend, but I feel like enjoyment in it is heavily based on your TF. It is almost entirely taught in section, so your TF's ability to teach and make things engaging is essential, but I had a great experience in this regard and really loved my TF. The material is very useful and I think it includes important concepts to understand even if you're not thinking about concentrating in economics, especially because intro econ courses like this just help you analyze the world a little differently. Mankiw is very much a figurehead, but David Johnson (the Head TF) is amazing. Lectures in general are really nice because they allow you to hear from other Harvard Ec Professor, which could give you ideas of classes to take in the future. Also, the workload is manageable, but if you save problem sets for the night before they're due, you will often find yourself pulling all-nighters.
Ec 10 is no picnic, nor is it particularly inspirational, but its a useful-for-life class. Mankiw isn't around much, but David Johnson more than makes up for it! Your experience of the course will depend on your TF.
I highly recommend utilizing your Office Hours as much as you can.
Ec10 is a great course to take as a concentration prerequisite or out of general interest. However given the number of students who take the course, it is important not to underestimate the difficulty of problem sets and exams. Attending office hours (both with your TF and David Johnson) are very helpful, and it is important to gain an instinctive understanding of material.
Take it.
If you know and understand basic economics, you should be set. If you don't, be prepared to struggle, since this class moves very fast through material and it is easy to get lost and left behind.
David Johnson's Office Hours
Do it if you have to for concentration.
This course provides a great basis of information about microeconomics and is especially good for someone with little to no background in economics who wants to see if they are interested in it.
If one is interested in Economics and has no background, this is the course to take. If not, it is probably not worth taking.
The textbook does not fit the coursework.
The class is difficult, but it really is one that everyone should take. Economics can be (and is!) really interesting, and the course is really good about connecting the material taught to real life. Just know that the way the class is handled is really poor, especially with the amount of people taking it. Nonetheless, definitely recommended - and shop around for a good section leader and change your section time if you need to, because it really is worth having a good section leader, as he or she will be the one teaching you.
you just have to take this class.. you won't enjoy the class but the topic is interesting
Everyone should take this course at some point in their Harvard career. The concepts are pretty fundamental and the material is not that challenging.
Your experience in in Ec10 will depend almost entirely on who your TF is. I was blessed with an excellent TF and therefore had an awesome time in the class. Make sure to do readings before class and you'll be fine and DO NOT FALL BEHIND. DO NOT.
This course is not intuitive. I recommend that you take it because I think that it is important to have a basic understanding of economics. However, the teaching staff was completely unhelpful to me, and the book explained nothing that was helpful to completing the psets. I had a college preparatory background of economics, but it was not satisfactory enough to make this course easy. I highly recommend David Johnson's office hours and review sessions. Youtube instructors will become your friends, but remember to not neglect the helpful hints (which are sent from the god that is David Johnson).
If you want to take econ, and you didn't take AP in high school, you're pretty much stuck with Ec 10. If you're not interested at all in concentrating but want to learn the subject, you're pretty much just better off buying Mankiw's textbook online and reading it yourself. Don't take this class as an elective or to fulfil Gen Eds. Only take it if you've no other way out.
This course is a great way to access the Economics department at Harvard. If you have other ambitions, it is a quintessential building block in understanding how our economy works.
good class
If you are interested in economics, or current events that are very related to economics,or some other related field for which economics is useful, then this course is fairly necessary and can definitely be interested. But you should not feel like you have to take it, even if you have other interests in the social sciences; it is more enjoyable if you actually are interested in engaging at some level with the material, rather than just doing it for the sake of doing it.
Office hours helps clarify things! Often if you think that you already know something (the answer to a question on a problem set for example) going to office hours can help you add a new dimension to your response or can help you go above and beyond what the question is asking on the most basic level.
Take the initiative to take your education into your own hands. Do not rely on section leaders to understand the section material. Read the textbook. Make sure you understand the textbook. I did so, and it has worked out for me. Although the course supports collaboration on problem sets, I would strongly encourage doing the problem sets on your own first, before seeking the help of your peers. This way, you are testing what YOU know, and what YOU are capable of, before learning more from your peers. The best way to prepare for exams is to do your own problem sets and your own reading from the very beginning.
This class is a bit of work but the content is very interesting
Since it is a requirement for many different majors, the course is over-enrolled and unorganized. It attempts to provide a solid foundation in a class that requires immediate attention by teachers with experience which is not something that they can provide.
This class is taken by almost everyone so finding a study group isn't hard. I didn't particularly like the class and thought that the variation in teaching between sections was a bit too much. Some students were taught very well and others weren't, simply based on luck of the draw.
This class is helpful for one's future in understanding the economy and how things work in the real world.
Most of what you learn will be really up to how much effort you put in. The lectures may not really be all that helpful, but the psets are a great way to learn.
Ec 10 is the basic groundwork for all other economics courses.  I've always believed economics not only to be the study of supply, demand, markets, what have you, but rather a study into how and why people think the way they do.  I think taking this class would help people build that framework in their mind, which would be useful for any discipline in the future.
If you're interested in ec, have not taken it before, or it counts for something, I'd recommend it. It contains a lot of interesting material if you'd like to learn it.
keep up with your reading and keep accurate notes and the class isnt a problem
If math is not your strong suit and you would like a greater understanding of how the economy works, this is the class for you.
The class is hard, and a lot depends on the quality of your TF.  Fortunately, mine was good, but this is one of the first classes I've ever taken (I'm a freshman) where I can know all of the material and still do poorly on the exams.
Since so many freshman take the course, you can always find people to study with. The textbook is also a great resource!
its a self taught class
This class requires a fair amount of work, but it's not too tough if you do all the readings and problem sets. It's interesting material and useful for real life too!
It's very possible to do well in Ec10 if you do the work requested of you carefully.  Don't fall behind on the reading, and start the pset as early as possible so that you have a chance to go to office hours if need be (and trust me, you'll have to go at some point).  David Johnson's are particularly helpful.
This class is definitely a good one to take; the knowledge that you learn is important to have in order to garner a basic understanding of how economies work. It's not too difficult but it definitely isn't a walk in the park. You need to put at least a few hours into problem sets each week that they're assigned and definitely need to put in time preparing for the semester exams. However, the expectations are reasonable; workloads and exam difficulties are fair.
This is a moderately challenging class. The p-sets can be tricky, but fortunately students are encouraged to collaborate and work in groups to solve them.
Your experience in the course is completely dependent on the TF you receive. If your TF is bad like mine was GO TO DAVID JOHNSON'S office hours. He is brilliant.
The class all depends on your section leader. If you have a leader who explains the concepts well, this course will be a good experience and very manageable.
It's a really great introductory course to microeconomics! I took AP Econ, but I would still recommend taking Ec10 because the class is really fun and there's still a lot to learn.
You learn so much that if you get a bad grade in the course, you don't feel too bad.
This is a well organised class from which you learn a lot. It is harder than the standard gen. ed. but is rewarding if you put in the effort. Some things could be improved, but as far as large intro. classes go, this one is pretty spot on.
A class that helps gives an educational, analytical context for you to view things you already had some general understanding of.
This class is very dependent on your TF. A good TF can make this class awesome, a bad one can make it very dependent on yourself. Personally, I didn't have a great TF, so I had to do a lot of self-taught learning. The material is really cool though - if you enjoy seeing relationships between different actions and their resultant outcome, you will enjoy this class.
Do not take this class unless you plan to concentrate in Economics or have an interest in concentrating in Economics
Great intro level course--don't be intimidated for any reason, even if you don't like economics.
The subject matter is very interesting, and if you have a bad TF that can be tough but you hsould stick with it.
I mean, its an entry level course so it's not the most interesting material, but its not bad and you need it for anything econ.
This is a great class for getting right into the heart of basic microeconomics. It covers a lot of principles from AP Economics classes in high school as well as explore some other topics, and there are many great lecturers.
You will love it if you are lucky to get a good TF.
David Johnson is a god
This class is taught predominately in section, so having a good section leader is imperative if you want to get the most out of Ec 10. Mankiw is absolutely brutal when he's on stage, and the guest lecturers (Except Roland Fryer) are just as dry. The class does give you a good overview of Economics as a whole, but only take it if you need it as a concentration requirement.
Make sure you do the pSets yourself! Absolutely do NOT let someone else turn the problem set in for you - groups of 3 can submit work together - without understanding the material yourself.  You will drown in material when trying to study for midterms and most importantly, none of the material will stick.
You may hate this class; you may love it. But it's good to have a background in economics, at least at a basic level. Even if you hate this class, it's a good idea to take it at some point.
Take time to do the textbook reading for homework. It doesn't take long and it helps a ton in really understanding the concepts, which becomes necessary for exams when the questions are a lot harder than the examples shown in class.
Skim readings, pay attention in sections, go to all the lectures, go to office hours, and work independently on Psets.
This class is great if you want to determine whether or not to major in economics. For me, Ec10 was a good wake up call that I want nothing to do with the field.
a lot of work. if you don't have a good TF, you will have to teach yourself from the textbook
Go to lecture, the questions are easy points on the exams that you will not know otherwise
if you have ec background, don't take it
Get the textbook off reserve at Lamont, because it's really expensive, but also make sure you read it. This class is interesting, whether you want to major or minor in economics or not. Some TFs make section more interesting than others, but all are relatively good and guest lecturers are worth the listen.
I don't quite understand all of the hate Ec 10 gets. It's an intro class primarily taught in section, sure.  Mankiw is not the teacher of the class, your section leader is. But this is still a great class, with well organized and fascinating material, which I think really changes the way you think about the world.
It is a difficult class to keep up with. They never stay on one topic for an extended period of time, so if you miss it, its hard to go back and understand.
Sections are not always very helpful, but in general I think it is an important class to take because it teaches us the basics of economics. David Johnson's office hours are particularly helpful for problem sets.
You should be prepared for each section.
It requires some self-teaching and PSET's can be confusing and frustrating.
If you are 100% sure you want to do econ, then you should take this course.  However, the professor doesn't teach, TFs are variable, and there is little intimate guidance or feedback about tests or Psets.  It was a huge course.
Definitely a good introduction to micro. It doesn't have that conservative bias that people say it doesthis is positive not normative economics!
Unless you work really hard of not at all, your grade will fall between 81 and 89. Also, don't expect to be able to do your PSets
Take the problem sets seriously
This class rally gives you all the tools necessary to analyze what is going on in the world.  It is so helpful to now possess this knowledge as I can now comfortably contribute to real world problems associated with economics.
As someone who has never done economics before, I enjoyed ec 10 because it really related to real life! I would recommend that everybody take an economics class at some point in their Harvard careers. It wasn't necessarily the best taught, but the concepts were very very interesting.
if you don't know much about economics or quantitate analysis at all, don't fret. ec is accessible to anyone, thought challenging.
It is a very difficult class and you must try to get ahead as fast as you can by reading ahead. You should also take all of the unit tests to get a further understanding.
This class isn't particularly difficult, but it's also not particularly rewarding. Ec10 is about taking in information and producing it for the test. Take the class if you're interested in a basic introduction to a useful social science.
This class is disorganized and taught very poorly. It is very hard to learn how to do the problems in the book because it isn't taught in section or in the book. This class, in my opinion, made me dislike economics greatly.
If you have to take this class, then embrace it. It's basic material that everyone should know. No, it's not easy, It's a lot of work, it's difficult, and it's frustrating. But find a study group, STAY ON TOP OF THE WORK, make you sure you understand the concepts, and go to all office hours. You can definitely manage it and get through it.
This class teaches you economics, plain and simple.  It starts easy, with common sense supply and demand, and transitions into some marginally harder topics.  Nothing too hard.  If you don't have a good TF, just read the textbook, everything's well explained in there.  If you have a good TF, you're golden.
If you keep up with the problem sets and textbook readings, and do the optional unit tests, this course is completely feasible and very engaging. Go to lecture! The lectures talk about the applications of the problems you're doing with regard to public policy issues and are entirely interesting.
Go to section or just read the textbook to do the psets. Do practice problems before your exams and you'll be fine. If you have questions, make sure to ask your TF. And go to DJ's office hours.
Just take the course because if you have any interest in econ as a concentration or a secondary field than you need the class. If you just have a general interest in econ but don't want to pursue it as a concentration or secondary, you should still take the course because the interesting econ electives require ec10.
If you aren't thinking about majoring.  In economics, I highly discourage this claass. It did bot meet my expectations in many ways.
It's your standard introductory course - a lot of the course is routine, but I'm not sure how else it could be taught.
Although this course is an "introduction" to Economics, succeeding is only possible if you are entering the course with previous experience in the field (especially an AP course). I didn't take AP Economics before enrolling in Ec10, and I found the course very difficult to keep up with. The weekly problem sets usually take a very long time to complete, and the extra credit opportunities that are meant to help are only available at very inconvenient times. Also, the subject material that is reviewed in section and in course-wide review rarely appears on the examinations. Overall, I found this course to be far more advanced than what I expected of an introductory level, and organized in a way where the aspects meant to make the class more enjoyable worsened its quality.
Solid class
How good this course is is largely dependent on which TF you get. Reading the textbook is not as important as understanding the concepts thoroughly (by paying attention in section and taking notes) because you WILL be asked to apply them in contexts other than what the textbook presents. Rote memorization will not work in this course because the information is cumulative and the problems will involve knowing things from different units and then synthesizing that knowledge.
It would depend on the person whether you like it a lot, but as long as you have general common sense, the subjects come easy
Section is not that great
Interesting material but could be more rigorous. Your experience depends on how good your Teaching Fellow is who vary a lot in their ability to "teach" .
Be aware of biases, and make sure you have a dedicated TF.
Enroll in Matt Wyble's section!
Ec 10 is great, whether you are taking it for credit or just for the fun of learning economics. You learn so much about the field, I personally found answers to questions I had always pondered on for a long time. It is very applicable to real life phenomenon.
Incredibly difficult and really depends on what TF you receive
Definitely read the book. It will help you in the long run
This class requires a lot of work, and many students take it, it moves through material quickly, but the lectures are interesting and applicable to every day life.
There is a certain culture surrounding the course; many people want to go into finance or consulting which can be irritating.
Make sure you connect with your section leader. Additionally, the unit tests are extremely helpful in mastering the material.
If you're not an ec person, this class is hell. And it all depends on which TF you have. The exams are easier than the psets. Go to DJ's review sessions and office hours.
I would say definitely take this course if you're considering exploring Econ, but this course wasn't as interesting as I hoped it would be. It's a solid intro class, but it did nothing to push me deeper into this field.
Ec10 is a really big course. Be prepared to actively go out and ask for help when you're lost. And try your best to go to David Johnson's office hours. He's amazing
This is a big class and the TF can make or break the class for you. However, most likely it is a requirement, so read the textbook. Many of the exam questions are taken directly from the textbook.
The class is huge and is mostly taught in section. However, you will be tested on the lectures through midterms and exams. How much you like this class mostly depends on your section leader, which is based entirely off of luck. Luckily, I had a great section leader who really wanted everyone to succeed and understand the material but there are definitely some TFs who have no idea what they are talking about or are no help to the students at all so it is a risky business.
The material covered in this course is fun! It's fascinating, it applies to prosaic and grand topics, and it's pretty simple to understand. It's important to try to get a TF you can work with - I made the mistake of sticking with one I couldn't understand and who left me with fewer notes than my friends in other sections. If you get a TF who isn't very helpful, as long as you review material on your own and take unit tests, you should be fine. The lectures were amazing. Homework was difficult, but it was great preparation for the tests.
Understand that ec 10 is primarily taught in section and you have to be willing to take gamble of having a TF who is not a pro at explaining material that may be intuitive for them to others learning it for the first time
This introductory economics course provides a broad approach to very interesting concepts.
This class has useful information, but the class will only be useful and/or enjoyable if you have a good TF.  My TF was very nice, but could not explain anything in a way that helped me, someone who did not know anything about economics going into the class, understand the concepts.  This department is really big in general, and it was hard to get help.  Everything felt very impersonal, and it was hard to get someone to really sit down with me one-on-one to explain things.  The lectures were relevant, but not always the most interesting.  Overall, if one wants to learn some economics, take this class, but know that it's difficult to get help, and that you will learn mostly from reading the textbook on your own.  Also, if you don't like your TF, re-section right away.
The skills taught in this class are essential to every job in every industry, so this class should definitely be taken no matter what your interests are.
I think economics is a really good thing to at least have some experience in but it definitely can be a really hard thing for some students. A lot of it is kind of conceptual.
Team up and utilize peers as resources if you expect to be successful in the course. Attend office hours. The bulk of the knowledge will be learned while working on problem sets, reading helpful hints, and section notes.
It's a challenging course, but if you do the readings and focus on the problem sets, it is manageable.
Take this class, but choose your section carefully. You'll learn a lot no matter what, but you may have to work harder at it.
This class provides a wonderful introduction to economics.
Economics might sound boring but if you get the right tf it will be fun and not too hard.
learn the style of the class with the way questions on tests are different from questions on unit tests and psets.
Solid course
The Problem sets are not to be scoffed at, and the course should be approached with seriousness if full value is to be gained from it.
The sections in this course (which is pretty much most of it) teach you little more than the textbook will.
Definitely read the helpful hints, the optional readings are rarely tested but are interesting, ATTEND LECTURE because there are always some questions on the exams, and definitely go to the unit tests because they are free points.
Be careful about what TF you chose.
Be ready to work, and don't skip section.
If you get David Johnson, you will have the best, most unbelievably wonderful year with Economics EVER.
If you're a freshman who has no idea what you're concentrating in, take this course.  Not only does it give you a solid foundation economics, but it makes you a better analytical thinker.  While the teaching ability of your TF will vary, David Johnson is the man, and make sure to attend his review sessions.  This is his course, and he knows the material extremely well.
Good to take if you are thinking about concentrating in ec but for people wanting just a basic knowledge of the economy it might be a bit too much detail (I still enjoyed it though. lectures were very interesting, and they can be audited without taking the actual course though)
Get a good section head. It makes all the difference.
be prepared to do a lot of your work on your own and to teach yourself, furthermore be aware that most of the course consists of section - lectures are EXTREMELY infrequent
This class has some essential knowledge that I find important for everybody's career and although it has is cons, every one should definitively take.
Don't take it with no intentions of considering economics as a concentration.
I can't think of many people "crazy" about ec10, but it's definetely a useful class. If you plan on taking any upperlevel economics classes, this is a required "gateway" class and does a good job of getting you to start thinking like an economist. Even if you're not planning on being an economics concentrator, you'll likely appreciate it anyways because it explains the mechanics behind tax systems, health care, etc aka topics pertinent to everyday life
Be prepared to read
It's a generally good class to take - I think you learn things that just help you understand the world better- newspapers make a bit more sense, politics makes a bit more sense, etc.
Economics is a very important subject, and the material taught is relevant.  However, there is a HUGE disparity among the quality of the TFs - and some of them are simply a waste of time.  The tests do a very poor job of measuring achievement, and instead expect ridiculous extrapolations and illogical applications.
It is a lot of work.
It's a good class. Take advantage of the unit tests!
If you want to know anything about economics (which I think is useful for people who have an interest in politics or government or anything regarding how countries work), then you should take it.  But don't expect to be blown away.
Contrary to popular belief, this class is not excessively conservative. Also, this class is great because it provides so many opportunities to do well, whether that be through unit tests, optional problems, or group problem sets.
Take this class if you're interested in economics, business, how markets work, or anything like that. It'll be satisfying, if you take it for the right reasons. If you take it just for a GenEdReq, then you might get frustrated and cynical.
It's definitely a topic that is interesting and useful for all students. It makes you look at the world around you in a different light.
This course gives you a solid grounding in economics which will serve you well regardless of whether or not you plan to pursue higher-level courses.  However, be aware that you will have to slog through semi-degrading unit tests and potentially useless TFs.  If you're really dedicated to learning economics (or if you're really dedicated to fulfilling your concentration requirements), then you should bite the bullet and go for it.
Read the textbook and find friends to do the problem sets with. This class will certainly get you thinking about the problems, and it may take you a long time to figure something out. But when you do, the feeling is quite rewarding.
Experience in this course depends mostly on your TF.
READ THE TEXTBOOK. ALL THE ANSWERS ARE IN THERE. And it's really well written.
If you have any interest in Economics, even if you do not, the information you will learn in this course is extremely valuable to be a knowledgable citizen.
Take this class. If you want to concentrate in Ec and you like it, great. If you decide you don't like it, you will still have learned some useful info.
Ec10 is not perfect, but it's really not bad for an intro class.  The problem sets have a couple of pretty tough problems, but they're doable, and there are various forms of collaboration that are allowed so you don't have to do them on your own.  The textbook is great for a basic understanding of concepts, but you really have to build your own understanding of them beyond that to be able to complete problem sets and do well on exams.  All in all, it wasn't the best of classes, but I did enjoy it, and definitely plan on taking more economics classes as a result of having taken it.
Harder than it seems.
10a can be very very boring, but make sure to stay engaged and do the unit tests.
Good class for economics majors.
Ec 10 is HUGE (>700 students) but great. The lectures show you several examples of how economics is applied to real life from varied perspectives (of people who are renowned experts in the field). The only thing I have reservations about are the TFs - you're randomly assigned to a TF, and if you end up with one who doesn't teach very well you could have a bad experience (on the other hand, if you end up with David Johnson you are one very, very lucky student!). That being said, though, there are a  lot of resources you can take advantage of - I would recommend READING THE TEXTBOOK, in my opinion it's very well written! Make sure you stay on top of the reading and weekly problem sets (psets usually took me 3-4 hours, on average, so not too bad) - it also helps to do the entire pset on your own (rather than split it up in a group) because they are very similar to exam questions. Also, David Johnson's office hours and midterm/final exam review sessions (especially the review sessions) are magical. Go to the three REVIEW SESSIONS! This introductory class has really opened my eyes to the pertinence of economics in daily life and decision-making -- if you haven't taken economics before in high school you should take Ec 10!
The material taught in Economics is not just useful for those pursuing it as a concentration - it's useful in life. The department connects the concepts to social issues very well. It's also not so much about memorizing small details, but more about understanding general concepts and being able to apply them to problems. You never do "busy work."
You can't let yourself get behind in this class or else you'll never catch up.  If you have a good TF and can really put a lot of time into the course, the information is interesting and the work is doable, but make sure you have the time to commit.
Your teaching fellow in this course is very important. Also, do not hesitate to go to David Johnson's office hours. He is the best resource of Ec 10.
If you've studied economics before, I highly recommend you consider reading the textbook for a week and then skipping to 1010, because the class will be a waste of time.
Lots of people complain that Mankiw only lectures 4 or 5 times, but as far as I'm concerned, that's for the better.  He's not a particularly interesting or engaging lecturer at all.  The guest lecturers, on the other hand, are great.  Section leaders all seem to grade their PSets differently, which needs to be addressed.  Some use check plus plus, some don't, some drop the 6th pset, some drop the 7th, etc.  Your success in this course is dependent upon your upkeep with the textbook (which isn't too bad if you can stay on top of it) and going to see your TF during office hours for help with the PSet.
Important information to know, but not a very enjoyable class, at least if you're not that into economics. Requires you to be pretty engaged with the class and a good amount of work.
This class is interesting, though the teaching may not be. Take this if you have any interest in economics, but if not, don't feel obligated. It's a solid course.
The class is definitely not easy, but a lot can be gained. Exams are fair, but the problem sets are lengthy.
It gives you a great understanding of basic economics in the world.
This course can be hit-or-miss depending on your section experience. While ec 10 is important to take if you're interested in or intending to concentrate in economics, you will likely not enjoy it as much as your other courses. Section can be pretty boring, the p-sets are tough, and the course moves pretty fast.
Ec 10 does what it is supposed to do very well: it is a very good introduction to the fundamentals principles of economics. The problem sets can be quite time consuming, but they will make you think deeply about the course material.The guest lecturers are terrific. Your experience in the class will probably also depend a lot on your section leader. David Johnson, the head TF, is a fantastic teacher: make sure to go to his review sessions and office hours.
This is a great introductory class to economics. Background in high school AP Micro is a big advantage. Though it is challenging, the class is doable with hard work.
Don't fall behind on your readings, and do every problem on the psets even if you have a group. It'll be so helpful at exam time!
Getting a good TF in this class is key; reading the textbook is also key. The exams are quite difficult, but the course is curved, so everyone ends up doing pretty well. I would definitely recommend taking this as a freshman if you are interested in the slightest. Overall, a great course.
It is a lot easier for the kids who took Micro and Macro Economics in high school
Be prepared to compete with students who are already familiar with economics
It is good to know economics for your life. It is very interesting and helps make the news and politics make a lot more sense. I am taking it pass/fail which was a good decision if you don't need it for credit.  I was able to learn the general points of economics without the stress of having to know every single little formula and graph.
Take it to get a basic understanding of economics, or if you want to take higher level econ classes
Only take it if you think you'll actually be interested in the material!  Don't take because everyone else is.
Keep up with the texts so section makes sense; lectures are not entirely necessary; DO THE UNIT TESTS!
Great introduction to economics
I loved my TF, so I enjoyed going to section and felt like I really learned a lot. The lectures are rather rare, but they were usually interesting. The guest lecturers were excellent, and we got to hear about a wide variety of topics within economics. The PSETs weren't terrible, though they do require some time. The exams will throw a curve ball or two, but they're manageable. I feel like I learned a lot, and the class moved at a good pace.
Do the problem sets alone and without help.
Taking an economics course in college is almost a must. Ec10 itself isn't the most fun class you'll take here but it gets the job done. You'll be glad you took it. Start the Psets early.
If you have already taken Economics classes in high school and have a good grasp on it (for example if you took Economics A Level), do not take this class. Almost all the things you learn in this class will be repetitive and you will get very little out of it.
This course gives a good foundational background to microeconomics. The grading for homework is subjective according to the section leader. The section leader can make or break your decision to continue with economics.
It's very informative if you've never seen economics before (which I haven't)
It started off interesting, but then the course material became really boring.
This is a hard class. I had never learned any economics before, and this class made me feel stupid and inadequate like no other classes at Harvard. Only take it if you absolutely have to. Also, Mankiw opened the class by saying that if you want to make money in the future, you should take his class. As someone whose main career goal is definitely not to make a lot of money, I was incredibly offended. That said, there were some great guest lectures on inequality.Also, the unit tests made me feel absolutely miserable. You get failed by a student your age, in front of 2-6 students from the class, when everyone knows only the bottom 15% get failed. It is truly humiliating, and to be honest, only exacerbates the mental health issues that we have at harvard by putting so much pressure on you to succeed and making it so hard for you to feel confident if you fail in front of everyone.
This class changes the way you view the news. I am and always will be a die-hard liberal, but ec10 allowed me to be able to understand the conservative standpoint, and therefore gave me better tools to engage in a political discussion.
This is a very useful class that everyone should take, regardless of intended concentration.  That said, realize that this is a large intro course that is largely dependent on TF and is taught almost entirely in section.  Overall, take advantage of office hours, especially those of the head TF.
I would tell them to not expect their TF to have the ability to teach well. If they get a TF who is not a very good teacher, they should no everything they possibly can to switch out because remaining with that TF puts them at an incredible disadvantage. I think David Johnson should teach the entire course.
The course overall is not bad and David Johnson is fantastic but the TFs and Mankiw are not good teachers.
The best job Mankiw does the entire year of teaching economics is when he forces the 700+ person class to buy his $200 book on the first day.
Take advantage of the Unit Tests and office hours.
depends heavily on section. If your section leader is good (which happens very rarely!), the class might be good, but if your section is bad, then this course will be a bad experience.
The Unit Test system is your best friend, and the Helpful Hints are a huge help for p-sets and exams.
Ec 10 does have its rep of being disorganized, right-winged, and lacking good TFs but I think these criticisms are more exaggerated than reality. Yes, this course has a huge enrollment and it's difficult to find the personal attention you want but you end up learning a lot on your own. The actual content of this class, I feel, is essential to understanding current real world problems and how the world works in general. I personally was someone who knew nothing of economics or policy before entering this class and while I'm far from being an expert, Ec 10 did a great job introducing me to the basics. Now I'm glad that I at least have an idea of what they're talking about when they discuss economic policy.
At the end of the course, you will come out with a better understanding of microeconomics and it is significant. You should be warned that there are rarely any lectures and the class is taught mostly in section, but this shouldn't effect how much you get out of the course.
Do not take this course unless you are interested in economics. Taking this course for any other reason will make your life miserable.
don't take it unless you need to for your concentration or secondary, very uninspiring and bland, not enough important material is covered in section
If you want to learn basic Economics, take this class.
Ec 10 is the kind of class that opens doors to more exciting and less frustrating courses, so it is worth taking.
This class is structured very well and there is a lot of help available. I never studied this topic before but it was alright for me because there are a lot of help such as office hours, review sessions, and practice tests. My section leader was incredible so I learned a lot through section and through reading the book.
Although it is not always rewarding, this course is definitely worthwhile. The material is extremely relevant, and the textbook is well organized and should be read carefully. The textbook, however, is not sufficient by itself. Read the Helpful Hints, attend section, attend lectures, and take the Unit Tests. Ec10 can be frustrating at times, but in the long run it should be a positive experience if one puts the effort and time in.
Take this class! It teaches you to think logically!
Take it as it is a useful class, but know it is difficult and sometimes overwhelming.
Be prepared for a few relatively boring lectures and learning everything in section. Your section leader will really make or break your experience in Ec10
Good into class
If you have to. You have to.
Straightforward and interesting class, even if Mankiw only lectured about four times this semester.
Having never taken economics before, I found this class to be a bit challenging; that being said, it is a solid intro course and one that you should take if you want some sort of econ background.
It is an okay class.  The guest lecturers are probably the BEST part of the course.  Get a study group together early so you have people to work on psets with.  Tests are kind of hard, but the curve usually helps you.  All in all a decent course.
get a good tf. mankiw lectures are bleh.
Get ready to read a lot, teach yourself a lot, and commit time to this course
time consuming for problem sets but problem sets prepare you well for examinations
Working with a group on psets is essential.
The level of teaching and instruction is decent for a 600-person course, but if you really want to make the most out of EC 10 be sure to go to your section leader's or David Johnson's office hours.
Take this class with the understanding that it's dry, time-consuming, and that the tests are very challenging. If you have to take it, you have to, but this class is not fun. It's also very orthodox - it's Adam Smith kind of stuff, and I was very frustrated that it was so math-focused based on all kinds of generalizations about human nature. I had a lot of trouble just taking everything at face value, and there's not a meaningful part of the course that allows you to engage with alternate understandings of economics besides Mankiw's conservative conception of it (aside from the occasional, very interesting lectures). For the most part, everything stays in the abstract in this course.
The course is more challenging that one would think. People often consider Economics to be one of the simpler concentrations, but do expect to have to spend at least 5 or 6 hours (even more) on each pset and the exams are challenging. But the information you learn during Ec10 is extremely valuable. The course is also pretty well structured and I did feel like I was getting the education I wanted despite the large nature of the class.
It's a great class for life in general!
Only take this course if you want to go into economics. It is not a fun class and it is not worth all the work if you have no interest in the topic.
meh.
Interesting course and also not that difficult; the 7PM midterms can be bothersome if you are an "early to bed" type person
Sometimes it is not the most engaging course, but you do learn a lot by the end of the semester.
It is hard.
Go to office hours. The TF's are very helpful.
From what I have heard from other students, your experience really depends your TF. I was lucky enough to have a very patient TF who taught the material clearly and effectively, so I enjoyed my EC 10 experience. The workload was very reasonable. The exams were tough. Overall, I would say it's a pretty relevant and meaningful course.
This class is awful-- it's too bad there aren't any other intro economics classes.
Take it if you want to be an econ major. Don't take it if you want to learn a little economics to better understand the world- not worth the trouble.
Overall: The class is great. Definitely a class you should take to complete your "Harvard experience." and I think everyone should have at least this baseline knowledge of Economics.Lecture: Interesting but irrelevant to problem set questions or exam problems. Mankiw's an interesting guy, but you won't see him very often, so don't take this class because you think you'll be taught by a famous professor.Section: Like other large classes, definitely hit or miss, but it does define your experience. I had a decent section leader, but I did the majority of my learning on my own or in David Johnson's office hours. If you go to those, you will learn economics and have a good time.Problem Sets: Time-consuming but definitely worth it. They make you learn economics.Exams: David Johnson is incredibly talented at making straightforward economics challenging on the exams. He throughs curveballs at you that you should be able to handle if you have "synthesized" the information. (That seems to be his favorite word).
There are so many misconceptions of Ec 10, lots of it splattered all over the Q-Guide, that I would like to put it a voice of reason.Many students' complaints of Ec 10 lie along the following lines:1. Ec 10 is too hard (or easy).2. Ec 10 is poorly taught. Mankiw rarely lectures and the TFs are awful.3. Ec 10 has a conservative bent; do not take the material in Ec 10 at "face value."Most of these criticisms (many extremely negative) of Ec 10 are not founded on much fact or reason. In response:1. I have taken AP Economics, and it appears to me that Ec 10 is not significantly more difficult than the material presented in the AP curriculum. I can see why many students struggle with Ec 10, especially those learning economics for the first time. Some can legitimately call Ec 10 "challenging," but to say that Ec 10 is extremely grueling is a gross exaggeration, perhaps one made out of spite. (Those who find Ec 10 too easy or not mathematically rigorous enough should honestly take 1010 or 1011. Come on.)2. Yes, many TFs are not the best, and Mankiw rarely lectures. For these reasons you might not give Ec 10 a 5/5 in terms of teaching quality, but students should understand that this is one of the realities of a course that has been designed to accommodate more than 700 students. Given the constraints of administering a course of this size, it is difficult to imagine how Ec 10 could be improved that much. The textbook, whether or not it matches your personal learning style, is acclaimed and (at the least) can be called "decently written." David Johnson is a fine head section leader (who responds to questions very quickly) and writes good course materials.3. Despite my center-left/far-left political orientation, I can say with confidence that Ec 10 is fairly impartial. A couple points are in order. In light of the past controversy surrounding the course, Prof. Mankiw has taken a great deal of effort to distinguish the core analytic concepts of economics ("positive economics") from the value judgments ("normative economics"); in this regard, there were several lectures that touched on various viewpoints in economic policy and political philosophy. To many, the concepts in Ec 10 probably simply appear to have a conservative slant simply because the vanilla version of introductory economics concepts---deadweight loss, to take an example---seem to advocate for free-market solutions. Liberal-leaning students who don't really look beyond the most trivial implications of the basic models of Ec 10 seem to want to misrepresent Ec 10 as a conservative propaganda machine (at one extreme).In all: Ec 10 is a solid, well-designed course. The teaching staff are, at the very least, adequate; the course materials are effective; and the exams and problem sets are fair and effective teaching tools.
This class helps you to understand the world.
This course is not very exciting and not very fun. That being said, it is a prereq for a lot of economics courses you might want to take in the future and it is important to understand basic economics concepts in relation to other subjects.
Do the problem sets by yourself.  They are the best way to learn the material.
Ec is a class that everyone should be required to take, because of the nature of the subject matter and how applicable it is to everyday life, both on a personal consumption basis and when observing larger economies and political implications.
Anyone with half a brain should take this course to understand the economic principles that govern our world. Very useful and applicable in everyday life and financial decision-making. Tons of real-world examples. Despite what people say, the course is not biased; it gives you the straight-up facts and truth of economics. Guest lectures are amazing and useful. You will be a much better, more informed consumer and citizen after taking this course. Don't listen to the complaints about getting a bad section; all you need to do is read the book, all the info you need is there.
My TF, Anne Le Brun, was awesome. She's really the best. People say David Johnson, is awesome, but when I went to his review sessions, I just felt like he was yelling loudly and going too fast. Most of what you cover in section is in the book, but there are like 10 concepts that you need to go to section for. Coming in as a science concentrator taking this class just to educate myself on basic economics, this was a fairly painless, pretty predictable class.
EC10 gets you started in thinking with the unique economics mind. The way the theory is taught is excellent and truly comprehensive, Helpful Hints are given which I TRULY recommend to understand the theory - the graphs, why the graphs happen that way, and what you need to know for tests. The essence of the class is not only its good teaching of theory, but also DAVID JOHNSON. He makes everything so clear, ties it up, through both the PSET answer sheets he puts out as well as his test review sessions. His synthesis of everything we learn just makes you feel accomplished in what you have learned, and too connect to real life economic and political issues. EC10 gets you started in the economics career path in the perfect way, with excellent staff, great lectures (who I think should take an even larger role), and outstanding sources of information. I enthusiastically recommnend it. (I found reading Mankiw not necessary to do well - buy the study guide version of it).
If you have taken AP Econ in high school and did well, it should be pretty easy for you.  It is doable if you haven't but it is going to take a substantial amount of more work.  As for the way it is taught -- it is kind of like everyone says.  It really isn't that great, but you learn to make use of the resources that are given to you (office hours etc).
If you want to concentrate in ec, it's just a course that you have to take
Ec10 is your basic econ class. It's something you have to take, and the material you learn is definitely worthwhile, but the format of the class prevents it from being enjoyable in just about any way. I would never recommend skipping Ec10, even if you aren't an ec concentrator, because you need a certain amount of ec knowledge to be an educated citizen, but the class itself won't be your favorite. My TF, Paula, was great, but not all students have a positive experience with their TFs, which makes it a lot harder. The material you learn in section and in the book is also very different than a lot of what's on the problem sets, and office hours are a definite necessity for some weeks. Lecture is also totally pointless  your grade won't be any different if you skip, and Mankiw isn't very engaging when he's there. That said, if you've taken AP Econ in high school, Ec10 will be a lot easier, but you'll still learn something because the problem sets are a higher level than high school.
You should take this class to get a basic knowledge of Economics in your head, but it is such a boring and hard class.
Don't take it unless you really like economics.
I believe that enjoyment and success in this class depends largely on your section leader. Because this class has very few lectures, the majority of what you learn will be taught by your section leader. If you get a great TF the class will be a breeze. If you get a TF that is not great, this class will be much more of a struggle. Did I love this class? No. But, if you are an economics major you will probably have to take it. I do believe it teaches you a lot about economics, but how much you learn is based off of your TF. Do the readings because they will teach you stuff. Doing the unit tests and problem sets thoroughly is also important.
You'll get a good introduction to basic economic principles if you put in the time to read and learn it outside class.  However, you'll get this information thoroughly integrated with a justification of a particular worldview, which can be grating.
Economics 10 is one of those courses you have to take in order to get to higher level, more interesting economics. You should take it so you can understand higher level economics better.
The majority of the material is self taught and not very interesting
Do not expect a fun, beginnings Economics course. Expect to learn basic concepts in section, struggle for hours through problem sets, dedicate entire nights to Unit Tests and still do poorly on exams. Also do not expect to ever see Mankiw. The course is run by David Johnson and your TF puts in all the work.
This class is only good if you get a good TF.
pretty basic intro to econ, but be ready to but in the time week after week on long p-sets...also if you're at all considering econ concentration take this as a freshman!
Take it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! One of the best classes at Harvard.
TFs leaders make a big difference. Some have never taught before so expect to teach yourself the course.
I really enjoyed the course material in the class. It was also quite the college experience taking a class that so many Harvard students take.
It is tough and most of the time arduous, but it does give you a good base understanding of today's economy and the politics behind it. Also, it opens doors down the road to be sure.
Solid class, not going to blow your mind with how awesome it is, but if you're interested in Econ in the slightest Ec 10 gives you a good opportunity to learn a lot.
I've never taken economics in high school, and taking this course made me think completely differently about the world. Some of my political views have changed because of what I learned, which I thought would be impossible. I love this class, and it was my favorite course this semester.
I would take this only if you want to concentrate in economics
It provides important information, but it is definitely a challenge.
Put a lot of effort into it and it will be very rewarding.
Of all of the classes I have taken so far, I learned the most from this one. Yes, it is large and the experience depends heavily on the quality of the TF, but the book is easy to read, the assignments are well structured and I feel like I know much more about the world now than I did in September.
Quickly change section if you do not like your TF.
If you enjoy economics, this course will be exactly what you would expect.  If not, stay away: it will make no attempt to appeal to you.
This course is incredibly slow and Mankiw's lectures are both rudimentary and boring. Some of the guest lecturers, however, are wonderful speakers and present complex and interesting subjects. I found section (at least my section) to be a waste of time, as it simply presented the concepts from the chapter of the book we were supposed to read. There is really no point in reading the textbook if you go to section.
Great class, but it takes a lot of time.
I think its very necessary to go to section. Do your problem sets and try to take every unit test.
This class is great if you want an introduction to economics. The textbook (which is written by the professor) is very easy to understand and teaches the fundamentals very well. Your section leader can vary wildly, but most are generally at least passable. And section doesn't feature that prominently on exams anyways. Exams are not difficult if you understand the material. Problem sets take a long time.
The material is important to learn and the course is what I would consider a traditional fundamental course.  However, you should be expecting the class to be taught almost by teaching fellows, and you should also be prepared to learn a bulk of the material on your own.  I have found that working with a BSC tutor has been very helpful to close the gap between the what is taught through the book and section and what we are expected to know for the problem sets.
Take the unit tests and read the helpful hints beforehand. Work on problem sets in groups.
This course gets a worse rap than it deserves. Granted, your experience in the course is almost entirely dependent on what TF you get, but if you put a lot of work into it and don't just do the psets the night before you'll get a lot more out of it.
Ec 10 is the opposite of fun. Every time I worked on a pset, a piece of my soul withered away. Don't take it because you think it's a right of passage and because it would be good to have an elementary understanding of economics. If you care that much, just read the textbook on your own. Don't put yourself through the mind-numbing torture that is the section-pset-unit test machine.
you should definitely attend section if you want to do well
Everyone should take this course. Well-paced, fair workload, and extremely relatable and applicable to life.
Economics 10 is the gateway to any meaningful study of econ at this school. It's a rather dull course but if you put in work and have some good luck with your section leader, you should do fine. Communication with students is not always the clearest so be sure to study with friends so you don't miss anything. If you have any interest in understanding how economics affects politics this class is a must.
Make sure to read the chapters from the book to stay up to speed with the class.
Make sure to read the book and pay attention in section. If you do that, the class won't be too difficult. Also, try going to the lectures because questions are sometimes taken from them.
It's Ec 10, there's not much more to say. It's worth taking if you want to learn economics, not worth taking if you don't (and don't have to). I'm taking it to fulfill my USW and I don't regret it, but I agree with the commonly heard criticisms of the course. I hadn't taken economics before and I don't go to section and just read the textbook, and I've done fine. Lectures are unnecessary (just read the slides before the tests) although sometimes interesting. The problems on the problem sets and exams are a lot more difficult than anything in the textbook or section; the best thing you can do to prepare for the tests (other than read the book) is do practice problems, which there are always detailed sample answers for on the course website.
It's not the best taught class but you do learn about economics.
I had taken IB HL Economics previously, while a significant portion of this class was review, I still felt like I learned a lot of new material as the basics are taught differently in Ec10 than they are in the IB. This course is more oriented with numbers rather than definitions and theory.
Pretty much you have to take it, but it's very unorganized and if you want to learn anything without having to teach it to yourself David Johnson is the only one who can help you.
Your Ec 10 experience depends largely on your TF. Some are great, others not so much. My advice would be to go to David Johnson's review sessions. They might not be that helpful, but they're pretty entertaining. Seriously, just go to one.
Everyone should have a solid foundation in economics to better understand the world and put it in context. This course is a great way to obtain that knowledge in economics, especially if you are looking into concentrating in this subject.
I would tell them that this course can help you understand the world around them and they should take it regardless of their concentration.
It's a really great beginner's introduction to economics class!
always try and work on your pset with a section leader or a friend
Very interesting material, but can at times be dry.  Good foundation for further, more interesting economics study, however.
This class is no-frills but satisfactory. Appropriate workload. Dry, but useful and thorough.
I can't tell anyone whether or not to take this course. It was very so-so. I believe that I learned important information, but the design of the course is frustrating. Ec10 is extremely impersonal; there are very few course wide lectures, and when there are, they are on tangential topics. Your entire Ec10 experience depends on your TF. Definitely recommend with reservations.
It's really hit or miss, depending on your past experience and the TF that you get.
Very difficult if you are not great at mathematical thinking
I enjoyed learning about economics in this class. The fact that so many other freshmen took it was also a plus, as you could discuss topics and lectures with lots of people you ran into.Sometimes this class seems elementary and intuitive, other times, you feel like you are arbitrarily memorizing.  The guest lectures were excellent for relating the topics to real-life transactions of every kind, but some of the topics you had to take on faith, trusting that they would come in handy in future studies of Economics.
Harder and more work than you think.
I learned a lot. This class made me switch my concentration to Economics.
so many people take ec10, and with good reason. this course gives you a basic understanding of economics. only take this course if you truly want to learn about economics, there are a lot of readings.
This class will give you a good foundation in economics, but if the field is not something you are seriously interested in, do not take it. It isn't worth it.
Few people rave about Ec 10, but it covers important material, and when it sucks you get to complain about it with 800 other freshmen, so it's probably worth taking in spite of the inevitable bad section TF that you will receive.
Stay up on your work. Don't procrastinate
Covers some things not covered in the AP curriculum like tariffs and indifference curves. If you've taken the AP and made a 5, you should take 1010 or 1011. Otherwise, it might help to make sure you've mastered the material before moving on.
Study for tests and hope for a good section leader.
Take this class. It's a no brainer. Very important, major real life implications and it's extremely important to be informed on this material
The TFs are awful across the board. Also, Mankiw is one of those asshole professors who can't be bothered to lecture his own class more than once a month. Instead, he brings guest lecturers to do his job. BTW, Fryer is a bomb-ass lecturer.
Perhaps, you are doing this class because you want to venture through in some sort of finance. Fine, that is acceptable. The concepts and theories will help you gain an understanding of the economy as a whole, and may even generate further interest in that understanding. But the first semester is hard work. You do not see Prof. Mankiw as much as you think. Only once every month, I'd say. And you need to be involved in the course material at all time. That means, read and be on top of things. Take notes in and out of class. Prepare questions, and do not be afraid to speak up and set up meetings with your TF or go to another teaching fellow that help you more efficiently.
make sure you get David Johnson
Psets can difficult if you don't keep up with the readings and you don't go to office hours.  GO TO OFFICE HOURS
Material is awesome and super useful; it's great for emphasizing how important reason and assumptions are in real life.Besides that, this class sucks.  Lots of points off for little things, poorly worded assignments, very little useful feedback on assignments, bad lectures (Calvinism? Seriously?), and a pretty heavy conservative bias: all of these things were pretty annoying.  I took this class P/F so I wouldn't have to worry about all this stuff, but a lot of people don't have this luxury and had to deal with these things, which was not a fun experience.
While this is a good introduction to economics, it doesn't seem to be quite as applicable as I had hoped. Also, we discuss very theoretical aspects in section which can be challenging to apply to the situations on the problem sets.
The great thing about this course is that you're going to walk out of it and understand a little more about what you read in the newspaper. But there are major setbacks in the way that it's taught (which isn't really their fault, since the course is so big), so you're going to have to put in a lot of individual effort. Don't worry too much about the hard p-sets and midterms/finals: if you put in at least the right amount of effort, the curve will take care of it for you.
Very interesting material, PSETs are time consuming, go to office hours
You should take this class if only for the classic Harvard experience. I personally loved this class- it really changed the way I look at the world. I'm now considering economics as a concentration when I thought before I was for SURE going to be MCB. It's a fairly moderate amount of work and you definitely don't need any background in economics. If you've taken AP, you should probably try to get into Ec1010 because this might be a waste of your time.
This is seriously the best class on campus
If you work and study hard and always go to section, you will succeed in understanding the material and do well in the course.
It's good to know some economics. Take this class.
The political slant is hard to stomach, but the course itself is easy enough.
Take this course. Its a good intro to ec and is not too difficult.
The material can be dry, and the problem sets are challenging, but it's worth it to gain an understanding of economics.
Definitely a class that needs to be taken during your four years.
It's too fast-paced for an Gen-Ed course.
Ec10 covers some really important material about how the world works, and for that reason, I think it is an important course for everyone to take. However, the course's stumbling blocks arise from the necessity to essentially mass produce the class for hundreds of students with few actual professors teaching and lots of TFs merely following marching orders. Section leaders basically reproduce the notes they are given up on the board. On the other hand, I did appreciate how the course, David Johnson specifically on the psets and exams, tries to encourage us as students to "synthesize" and think creatively. For the most part though, I felt that I was trapped into a funnel class--points taken off for extraneous, unnecessary details on exams and sections that did not encourage creativity but rather rote repetition and memorization of material.
keep up with the readings, it will make studying for exams much easier
You learn a lot, but it is hard work.
This is a good class to take if you are unsure about concentrating in economics or not.  Some kids realize they hate economics after this class and some end up really enjoying it.
There are many components to this course, and so it requires a lot of time.  Problem sets can be especially time-consuming.  The course does require careful thought and can be difficult if one is not used to thinking like an economist.
quality of course may depend heavily on your TF
If economics is something you are interested in/think you're good at, this is definitely a good class to take, but otherwise might be pretty difficult.
If you keep up with the readings for this course, the work and exams will not be too difficult.  The section component is hit or miss, but in general the material is worth taking the course for.
Only reason to recommend it is if you have to take it for credit.
Of course it is not easy, but it is worth taking. I took this as an elective my sophomore year, and even though I am not performing to the standard I set for my other courses, I am definitely glad I took it. It's simply worth knowing! Word to the wise -- you learn the material by reading the textbook, the helpful hints, and by doing the psets. Lectures and sections just regurgitate information, though some guest lectures are particularly fascinating.
It's a good, solid class.
You have to take it if you are interested in the economics concentration.
If you go to Harvard and don't take Ec 10, what are you doing?
A necessary evil. Great material to learn and very useful in the real world, but honestly I would rather have just learned the material online and not in a classroom setting. Section is rehashing the textbook and the problem sets take forever. Go to David Johnson's review sessions because that's the only time you will actually learn economics.
This course is very well run, but can be challenging. Economics demands a different mode of thinking, but applies directly to the modern world and our future responsibilities. I recommend this course if you are at all interested in Economics.
This class is difficult, know that you may need to put extra time into the problem sets as the semester continues.
it provides you with a useful background in ec, which i think is important for any student, regardless of concentration
Very good survey of critical topics to economics at an intro level if you are thinking about concentrating in the subject or merely want to gain a better understanding of the world.
Many people complain about the latent libertarian politics underlying much of the course material, but unless you're rabidly politically-opinionated, it won't bother you. Most rational people appreciate that Ec 10 makes many foundational assumptions with respect to markets and governments, and that no one is prepared to craft public policy just after this one course. Mankiw rarely lectures, but he's not that remarkable a speaker to begin with, and if you get a halfway decent TF, you'll prefer your TF to Mankiw. At least for me, my TF, Trisha, was nothing short of fantastic. She offered very lively, colorful examples in class and had no issue imparting her knowledge and keeping the class attentive and following her thoughts. The unit tests are brilliant - they ensure a deep knowledge of the material and give you highly useful bonus points on top of your final grade. Mankiw's textbook is a model for an introduction into an course. It is highly logical and intuitive and eases even a complete novice into the course with little difficulty. Take Ec 10.
Definitely do the readings; they give you a good basis for understanding difficult concepts.
I would tell students to go to the guest lectures-- they can be really interesting! I would also tell them to work with a partner from their section on problem sets, I found that to be really helpful in thinking through and talking about the material. It certainly enhanced my understanding of the material to discuss it and work on it with others. Also, I would recommend office hours with your TF, they are very helpful and with my TF they were even fun!
You should take it if you're interested in econ.
be prepared to spend a lot of time on this course every week because it moves quickly
It gave me a better understanding of how the world works. I'd take it.
The class is really great overall. The problem sets are the most time consuming component of the course, but they are also really valuable when preparing for the exams. The sections are mostly just taught out of the book, so it's really easy to keep up with the pace of the course.  If you make sure to stay on top of the readings, its not too bad.
What you get out of this course is a direct function of what you put into it. A person who has a strong interest in economics may find it more enjoyable than someone who does not. However, I think the information one learns in this course is important for everyone to know, regardless of if one plans on concentrating in Econ or not.
If you want to learn about classical, highly simplified, economics, you should take this course.  Just keep in mind that terminology in this course is highly influenced by ideology.  If you do that, you'll learn a lot about one way of thinking about the world.
You gotta do it, it's not as easy as a lot of people say but the curves are nice.
Go for office hours!
This is a great course to introduce you to the field of economics. I took AP Economics in high school and still have benefited greatly from this course.
It's a must-take class. The information here is extremely important to know. It really depends on your TF to be able to make you engaged with the material, but I would recommend everyone to take it and become more knowledgeable.
Ec10 is your classic gigantic intro course. Your experience will solely depend on how good your TF is. You won't learn anything profound or intellectually inspiring but you will come away with an enhanced economic understanding of markets and society.
Being able to understand our world through an economic lens will always serve as an invaluable ability.
This class is very poorly designed, but the material is interesting and applicable to real life. The lecturers are seldom interesting, section is a summary of the textbook, there is almost no time for questions outside of office hours, and the course lessons don't really prepare you very well for the work that is expected of you. But the concepts are very interesting and very reasonable, and the class can be pretty enjoyable if you put in effort on your own.
The main problem with Ec 10 it is that your actual teachers (section leaders) sometimes have a hard time teaching the material (whether it be a language barrier or just a lack of confidence).  That being said, I don't regret taking the class.  You learn how to work with your peers and learn the material outside the classroom as well.  Take Ec 10 if you're interested in the concepts, have an open mind, and want to look at the world differently.
Read the textbook before the section is taught about it, and stay up to date with chapters, required readings, and helpful hints so you do not have to learn it all in a condensed period before a midterm or exam.
It is a very good intro to economics, and it definitely offers a lot of perspective into economic theory. Regardless of whether you are an economics concentrator or not, you should take this class!
ec10 is a great class, and you cover a lot of material, but it is very important that you keep up on your reading. also, the amount of learning you will do in section is greatly dependent on your tf. there is a range of teaching skills among the tf's.
Ec10 is very interesting and provides knowledge that everyone should have.
This class is really what you make of it. If you get put with a bad TF and don't ask to be switched, if you get behind on the reading, if you wait until the last minute to do the problem sets, then this class sucks. But if you get put with a good TF, if you do the reading on time (and discover that Mankiw is actually really good at explaining things in writing), and if you start your problem sets early in the week and go to David Johnson's office hours (where he explains things really well in person), then you can really get inspired by economics. As a first-semester freshman it took me too long to realize this and I suffered from it. It's really David Johnson who runs this class, not Mankiw or the TFs; he writes the problem sets and the tests, so get to know his style and practice his problems, not textbook problems.
Not my favorite class, but it taught me sufficiently what I needed to learn.
Depends on what section leader you get. I had an amazing one, and I felt the class was a snap. Don't get dragged into the "THIS IS IMPOSSIBLE!!!!" aura that is often put off in the yard - escaping that by taking this as a sophomore, I realized how simple everything was. Learn things logically; don't just memorize facts.
Ec. 10 is a necessary evil. Not really designed for beginners but the course content is so important that you really should just suffer through it anyway. The problem sets will be painful but if you work at them it translates pretty well to the exams. Without office hours I probably would've had some problems due to the fact that a lot of the questions require serious synthesis, you can't just study and "get" it.
Ec 10 is Ec 10... the psets are tiresome and generally a lot of work (especially if you didn't take AP Econ in high school) but the textbook is great and there is a lot of help available if you seek it out.  Having a really competent section leader helps a lot too, as does taking the Unit Tests when they're offered (although timing can be a hassle if you have lots of commitments in the evenings).
You are going to have to go the extra mile, on problem sets and exams. Get ready.
This is a hard course and one that is rather unorganized. be prepared to study a lot alone
I don't know why this class gets such a bad rep. I found it genuinely interesting and I loved how it was so structured. My section at least was extremely useful and while the psets were hard they were manageable.
It's dry at times, but it has basic knowledge that really everybody, concentrator or not, should know.
Take this course!  Even if you think you have no interest in economics, this course will give you so much perspective and insight into how the world works.  It's a manageable workload (about 3 chapters and 1 problem set per week), and it's well worth the time.  Take advantage of opportunities to take unit tests and attend review sessions--these really helped me grasp the material and identify my weak points.
You have to take it if you want to take more ec, or just to know anything about how the world works.
Ec 10 provides a firm basis in economics, a discipline that can easily be utilized in other concentrations as well. I am confident that I will continue to return to my Ec 10 knowledge regularly in my gov concentration.
You'll never see the professor. Get a tutor.
Be prepared for very difficult exams
Just stay on top of the readings and do the Psets on your own and you'll be fine...
Solid course
Not too bad, but PSets are kind of annoying, and what's on the exams aren't really taught in class.
Keep up with your reading and stay on top of your work rather than saving the problem set for the night before its due.
I think this course is important in becoming an informed citizen of the world. With that being said, it's a fairly decent time commitment. It also reminds me why I'm not a huge fan of big intro classes. I think those two things are necessary evils, though, because the return on your investment is pretty big (HA).
It is certainly a worthwhile class as you will see many common-sense principles shored up in a quantitative manner.
Knowledge everyone should have!
If your brain enjoys math, visual pictures and money, you may have found your academic home in Economics 10. If you struggle with basic arithmetic, get lost in acronyms and get little lines mixed up, run for the shelter of the humanities, take a semester off, or simply go crying to Dean Dingman.
I would tell them that economics is a challenging course, but one that is very interesting. it pertains to our daily lives, and it is very beneficial to know about our economy.
The material is very interesting but it requires enough determination and interest to do well in the class.
Keep up with work and really understand the Psets. As a sophomore, I really appreciated understanding some of the social applications of economics before trying to motivate myself to learn the material, but the course provides some similar insight into econ beyond wall street.
go to other section leaders' office hours
This course isn't particularly enjoyable, and Psets can be sort of a grind.  That said, it is well-structured and does give you a good foundation in economics, which can be useful in a wide variety of fields.  Take the unit tests, as they are easy and essentially free points.  Note that when people say "it's taught in section," they mean it.  In a typical week, you might have section Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, and no lecture.  Lectures in Sanders (sometimes by Prof. Mankiw and sometimes by other professors from the department) are maybe every 3 weeks on average.  In short, Ec 10 is hardly anybody's favorite course, but you probably will (and should) take it at some point.
good class. can be boring at times.
If at any point you begin to suspect that your TF is hurting you more than helping you, do whatever you possibly can to switch into another section. Teaching Fellows are not made equal...
The class itself is much harder than one would guess by simply showing up to section and doing the readings. Make sure to do every problem in each problem set by yourself, and take your time on every problem - it will pay off well.
It's a good class to get the basics of economics, but make sure to keep up with the course readings and lectures. Also, go ahead and take the unit tests if you can!
good class, do your psets and keep up with the work and you will be fine
The class is an amazing introduction to microeconomics. I had a great section leader and it was a lot of work but well worth it.
Dont fall behind in this course. Stay on top of your work and attendance in class.
Everyone has a strong opinion about ec10 - but this class is worth it. You will be so much more knowledgeable about the world and how it works. The work is very manageable.
Make sure you keep up with the work and attend office hours.
Go to office hours, and start problem sets early. Also, do the review problems provided before each exam.
It's Ec10!
This class is just a standard econ course. You could probably do well by reading the textbook and helpful hints. It is, however, not an exciting course. Although the course incorporates introductory presentations from the fields such as behavioural economics, they are not the primary components of this course. Most of the times you listen to generic section teachings and reviews of generic neo-classical economics material; and worse you listen to Mankiw's uninspiring and sometimes frustrating lectures. One would hope that by taking this course that one could gain a better understanding of this world and better service and improve our world. The course gives a very logical but simplified version for the first and makes no attempt at the second. It talks about the economic discipline as it is but not its possibilities; it does not challenge you intellectually but merely forces you to believe in a theoretical model. This is a standard course for economics; it makes no attempt to inspire change and betterment of the world via economics and makes meagre attempt at making economics interesting. If there are more lectures then perhaps it could be more interesting, they are however of only meagre component of this course. It is a pity that harvard has a course like this. Nevertheless, you gotta take it: it is econ and it is the pre-requisite to a lot of fields. My comment here will only tell you what to expect, but not influence at all your decision on taking this course.I do, however, recommend going to David Johnson's review sessions. He is a much better lecturer, and makes you think objectively but critically on your given theories and models.
The work for this course is much more difficult than what you learn in class and read in the textbook.
hard but needed
This is a good course to take regardless of whether you plan on concentrating in econ. It teaches valuable and applicable life skills and is generally interesting subject matter
This class is really difficult. It is poorly taught and even if you have a wonderful TF, it still requires a lot of time, effort, and dedication on your part. Be prepared to put in a lot of time and effort. The reward might be worth it in the end for you. Some of the content is really practical stuff that everyone should know. The guest lectures are also PHENOMENAL. They really inspire you to change the world and continue learning economics.
really the only way to get into economics at Harvard; it's not that hard, but problems have hidden quetions in them so you need to learn what the TFs are looking for
EC10 is definitely a Harvard staple. It's a great way to be introduced to economics and understand how the field fits into the real world. The exams can be more difficult than expected, so watch out. Also, make sure you get a good TF and you will have a better semester.
If you have a good section leader, the class teaches you a ton of important material that will be useful no matter what field you are in. The class also gives you tons of support to make sure you're learning the material
Ec10 is a class that students should take whether or not they're thinking about concentrating in Economics, because it teaches skills and information that are applicable to daily life. Although the p-sets will definitely require much more time and effort than you'd think, the way the course is designed (with sections, office hours, and reviews) allows plenty of opportunities to ask questions. It's nice that there is no calculus involved (especially if you dislike math), but there are definitely parts where math is heavily used. You should take it, but don't expect it to be an easy course!
You're at a disadvantage if you've never taken Economics before, but if you haven't taken economics, you seriously should take Ec10. Studying economics gives you the ability to quantitatively understand ideas basic and central to common discussions of current events.
Ec 10 is truly an introduction to economics. It provides a solid foundation to any study of economics, but it is not always the most personal class. Section TFs can be a toss-up, but David Johnson, the head section leader, is a really amazing teacher. I would take this class if you haven't ever taken economics before, but maybe look for some smaller, higher-level classes if you are looking for more!
The homework takes a long time, so you should space it out along the week. The tests are very doable and are curved. As long as you turn eveything in you should be fine in this class.
It's sometimes painful, but it's great to be able to look at things this way
If you want to be an Economics concentrator or want to learn about Economics, this is a good introductory course. It's cool that you get to hear lectures by the author of your textbook and other distinguished professors and economists. Section basically goes through the basics of the textbook chapters, which is helpful because you create a solid foundation. Problem sets are a bit tricky because they ask you to apply the basic concepts in different ways, but they are manageable. Exams are fairly difficult, because again, they take the basics and elevate them to a higher level. The course is fast-paced, so it is important to keep up on readings not only in the textbook, but the required readings for each unit so you're not scrambling days before each exam. Overall, Ec 10 is a basic economics course that is good for an introduction to the subject.
Although my experience this semester with EC10 this semester was far from pleasant because of my section leader, I cannot recommend a class with more enthusiasm to any one. The head instructor David Johnson puts a lot of effort into ensuring that students have the resources and materials available to succeed and benefit from this class. If you want to change your view on the world immediately then EC10 is the class to take because it can help you see the world through a different lens - an economic perspective. After being given the basic tools to analyze all sorts of policy in the modern world, I couldn't help but find this class a fascinating experience. It is a must take if you want to better understand firm behaviour, the labor market, consumer theory, and the free market!
If you're interested in it, it'll pay off. If not, it's not really worth doing.
Do your psets early then make sure they're right during your TF's office hours. Pretty convenient method by which to receive economics credit.
The class is essentially a guided reading of the textbook. The course is not especially difficult, but the head TF tends to give hard questions that required extensive application of knowledge.
ec 10 is a great course! if you are interested in learning about how the US and world economies work, you must take this class to gain a solid foundation in the basic principles of economics.
If you've taken some form of econ before, move on to 1010 or 1011.
If you get a good TF this class is a breeze. Take the unit tests they help you estimate how well you understand the material even if the points dont do much for your average. If you dont want to study ec, dont bother with this class.
Don't take this class unless you have to. The quality of the TFs varies a ton, so if you get a bad one, you are in trouble.
This class seemed rather dreadful in the beginning, but as the semester went on it became more interesting. I became better able to apply what I learned to what I was hearing in the news, what I saw companies doing, etc. Everything started to meld together and make sense. Two tips: 1) Get a good TF. It doesn't have to be David Johnson, but make sure it's someone you can understand. 2) If you get lost (like I did at one point), READ THE TEXTBOOK! The lectures can be boring sometimes (they get better as time goes on as well) but I'd still recommend this class.
Read chapters in the book and attend lectures.
This class is interesting and worth taking if you are interested in economics, but the class is much more enjoyable if you have been introduced to economics in the past and you have a good TF.
Make sure to keep up to date in textbook reading. If you fall behind you'll have a lot of reading to do in a short period of time to catch up.
It is often difficult to understand concepts without much review.
While the problem sets and exams are demanding, if you're at all interested in economics, you really must take this course. There is a fair amount of work involved but the material is super interesting and is made for those who have little to no prior experience in economics. Also, your TF will really make a difference. If you don't have a great TF, section will be a drag
The class has a lot of potential. Unfortunately, the teaching fellow makes or breaks the course. Make use of David Johnson's office hours. Economics is exciting when he talks about it. It isn't always.
Don't do it. When I enrolled against the advice of my older friends, I figured, "How bad can it be?" It's pretty bad. Busy work, the problem sets aren't on par with what is taught in class, and Mankiw just profits from our textbook money.
If you're taking it as an elective/for fun take it pass fail. Definitely still worth it though!
Ec 10 is a highly debated class. If you have a hint of doing some sort of economics, take this class. If you want to learn how the world functions in general, take this class. This, along with LS1A, CS 50, Gov 20, constitutes a basic intro class. Also, David Johnson definitely does make you think along the economist's line of thinking, so in daily life, you will be able to apply many of the econ theories in practice.
As an introductory economics class, it is essential to modern life.  However, Mankiw knows this and has made the course absolutely miserable because he knows people will take the course anyway.  He also likes indoctrinating people.
guest teaching and office hours good
be prepared to teach yourself everything in this course. good luck
This class is entirely based on how good your tf is as a teacher, and how much time outside of class you are willing to put into office hours and extra work.
It is more difficult than I expected.
The class is good as long as you realize that it is only taught in section. You will learn nothing from Mankiw, so if you go in expecting that you will be disappointed.
You get out of this class what you put in. The material is really interesting, but the class can become really difficult if you do not put in a certain amount of time and effort. I would recommend attending all of the lectures, participating in section, doing all of the textbook reading (on time!), and completing problem sets with a study group.
This class shows you a side of business that you might not have known existed.
I found this class irritating and often haphazardly run. Take this class as a freshman if you're really interested in economics and/or need it for a concentration requirement. Otherwise, wait until later and consider taking it pass/fail.
This course is hard.
I think it's essential to take an introductory economics class, but be prepared for a lot of catch up if you have never taken economics.
It's like a shot, it's something you've got to do even if its a bit painful
It's worth taking if you want to learn about economics, but the TFs are seriously hit or miss, which is a big downside given that the course is taught in section.
You learn a lot of basic economics from this class, and the textbook is very accessible.  But this is a large class, and the bureaucracy of it can be frustrating at times.  Also, if you have a strong math background, you will probably find section to be a bit of a drag (everything follows from what is in the textbook, which you will likely pick up quickly).
EC10 is a good experience to have, but unless you have a very good grasp of economics or you do a very large amount of work outside of class, you will likely feel that you don't understand everything.
unlikely to recommend
This is a tough course that will challenge you but with the right amount of dedication and hard work, you can still succeed.
Basic economic principles is something everyone should know to understand the world around them.
You definitely come out of this class understanding the fundamentals...but be prepared for difficult exams and challenging problem sets. If you're looking to fulfill a Social Studies requirement with this and aren't super keen on it, look for an alternative!
Prepare to do learning by yourself or in a group.
Students' experiences in Ec10 vary based on the section experience. I had David Johnson, and if you get him you are set. The course will be interesting, and tied into all the big issues that world leaders address on a daily basis. There is work. There is reading and studying. But its worth it. If you are interesting in business, politics, news, or just about anything take this class. It may be annoying, but its a must.
Understand that many of your peers would have taken economics prior to this course in high school. I think previous users' responses as to how inflated the curves are for exams are highly exaggerated.
Use office hours-- they are a great chance to learn through application and help significantly with psets.
The information from this course is very interesting, and I feel I have truly learned intuitively the basis for economics.  That being said, this course requires dedication to master the material.
Its a pretty generic class where the textbook does not equal the problem sets or midterms at all...
I took AP Economics in high school and so I thought that this class would be relatively painless, but nope, it was basically my high school class on steroids. The psets are incredibly time-consuming and stressful, especially when you put them off until the night before they are due. The midterms are ridiculous, but the curve is a life-saver. I would say that the one thing that is truly wonderful about Ec 10 is that it allows you to meet lots of freshmen since loads of people are taking it. Study groups are the best!
While not administrated and taught as well as everyone would like it to be, Economics 10 is still very useful and applicable. The material is not easy, so with consistent work students can learn a lot even though the experience may not be...fun.
You should definitely take Ec 10 at some point during your time at Harvard. It covers a lot of information that is simply useful to know.
If you read, go to section, do the problem sets, and study for the tests, the class is not very difficult.
If you're curious about economics, this course actually does a very good job of providing a fairly comprehensive intro to econ. It's not thrilling, glamorous, or especially challenging, but it's certainly not a bad course. Also, as a person who leans very far to the left, I didn't find the alleged conservative leanings of the course that egregious or one-sided.
It's really great, just make sure you get a good TF.
As someone who has never studied economics before, ec 10 opened my eyes to some really interesting science and got me interested in economics.
You may not necessarily need it, if you've studied economics before. The exams can be a pain, and test you on general nitty gritty concepts.
the class is extremely important to understanding politics.
theres a lot of people who take ec10 with a lot of prior background, like already having taken AP macro and/or micro. it was kind of unfair to those of us who have never taken a single ec class before ec10, but its possible to do well in the class anyway.
It is a very interesting course and the material learned is worth-while. It is a great introduction for people no matter whether they are considering a concentration, secondary, or not. You get what you put into it. Don't expect to learn or get anything from the course if you are not willing to put in the time on your own to do all the readings thoroughly and the psets with individual care and attention.
Ec10 gives you a solid grounding in the fundamentals.  It is not a difficult course, but it teaches principles that everyone would benefit from understanding.  Lectures are usually okay, the book is an accessible tool, and the small number of problem sets are not too tough.  Unfortunately, experiences vary widely because the course is primarily tought through section, and quality of section leaders is uneven.  I would offer a moderately enthusiastic recommendation for Ec10 to all students.
take a year of economics in high school to do well
Be prepared to have to figure out a lot by yourself.
Spend a lot of time doing the problem sets, reading the book is not near as beneficial as digging through every problem and question
It is important information to know, but the class is poorly structured due to its size and as a result it becomes very difficult.
Ec 10 isn't easy, but after the first semester I feel as though the work I've put into it has been worth my while. It also isn't impossible to do well in the class! The bonus points from unit tests can really help out - so don't let fear of getting a bad grade keep you from taking it.
As David Johnson will tell you, most economics useful for designing public policy can be learned at the ec10 level. Also, David Johnson is by far the best part of this course. Go to his office hours. Just go. Trust me.
You have to be very interested in the course to do well since it is a lot of work and an intensive course.
Please avoid this course. It is horribly structured. In every other class, section is intended to supplement lecture. In Ec10, you learn the primary material in section, and lectures are a rarity. Since sections are taught by graduate students who often have little or no teaching experience, this structure results in an unacceptably inequitable distribution of teaching quality across sections. If you get a bad TF (you have no influence over this and can't change it), you WILL NOT learn the material. You will end up compensating by spending many additional hours doing the psets and at the office hours of other TFs. Do yourself a favor and take Marglin's "Critical Economics" class or the Kennedy School intro economics class instead. This is the worse class that I've ever taken at Harvard, and possibly the worse class I've taken in my whole life.
I would tell them that although it is economics and not math, this course has a lot to do with math and they will deal with a lot more numbers than on any other econ class.
it's something everyone should take, but it doesn't mean that you will enjoy it.
Take the unit tests and do not ever be discouraged if you do not pass. The unit tests helped immensely in terms of understanding the material. Take your time to understand and do the PSETs because those are the types of questions that will be given on the tests.
It is what you make of it.
This class gives you the tools you need to continue on in the field of economics and understand basic concepts of the economy. That being said, it is a really big class full of a lot of freshman, and if you don't go to section regularly, you really won't get much out of it. If you do go to section and office hours though, this will be a rewarding class.
I would definitely recommend this class. Economics is a life skill that will help you understand markets and help you make decisions in life everyday.
Economics is an amazing subject as always, even though the conservative, Republican attitude taken by Mankiw is OK. David Johnson, the head  TF, is an amazing guy and the best person to go to with questions, better even than Mankiw himself. He knows the material, and explains it really well. Your luck is based on which teaching fellow you get. You get a good one, good! You get a bad one, very very bad! Anyways, always go to David Johnson's Office Hours and do all the work you have to do.
Only take EC10 if you actually want to know economics.  The material is dry and problem sets can be time consuming and annoying. It often felt like a class I wasn't getting much out of, even though I know that I'll appreciate it later on when I take more interesting econ classes. If you're just doing it for a US and the World credit, I would suggest taking something more random and interesting.
Tough class, but necessary for concentration .
This is the basic economics course to take. It's not terribly exciting, but it's useful if you are planning on (or even just thinking about) concentrating in economics.
Not an easy course, but worthwhile to be an educated adult. The problem sets are challenging but very accurately represent the material covered. Exams are tricky but very manageable if you review and understand the problem sets ad provided review materials. Well organized and thought out course. Must get good section leader though
The course is very section heavy. If your TF is not that great, you will be in for a rough time.
This course is average. It is taught almost entirely in section with a few lectures from Mankiw and different guest lecturers. Take the unit tests; they are a good indicator of whether you have mastered the material. The material is interesting, but the teaching isn't spectacular. The problem sets can be frustrating because they are entirely different from anything you seen in class, and it can be hard to figure out what the right approach is; ask your TF for help or else you may go off on the wrong track.
It teaches you intuition that you wouldn't get from APs. Unless you think you understand how things work intuitively, I highly recommend this course before higher level of economics.
Do the readings, go to section and all the review sessions and all the unit tests. I did not always do this and it came back to bite me pretty hard.  You will have a much more pleasant experience if you do.
It's great and interesting.
I would tell them that you learn a lot but that the tests are very hard and it may not be worth it if you have no further interest in economics. It's definitely a weed-out class.
Ec10 is a decent introduction to the basics of economics, take it but keep an open mind--stay skeptical, and build on what you learn, don't take what they teach you here as the ultimate truth.
Ec 10 is not an exciting course but is a necessary step for taking future courses in economics; therefore it is unavoidable. Luckily the class is well organized. The problem sets are reflective of what are on the exams. So the class is fair.Most of its weaknesses is due to the fact that it is an intro course. You do not learn enough tools to be able to apply them to the greater world. Although the instructors do make a point when a lesson is applicable to something, this rarely happens. The problem set sometimes trivialize the economic theory. The problems concerning consumer theory (how consumers weigh costs and ultimately what they want) generally had a consumer choose between coffee and donuts. If the consumer had to choose between health care and basic food, doing the problem sets would have more meaning and discussion value.
Read before the tests
This class is taught entirely in section, and some of the TFs are far inferior to others. Most likely, you will need to teach yourself the material by reading the Mankiw text.  Lectures are the only bright spot in this course, but they are few and far between.
It's Ec10. It's a slog. The midterms are a lot harder than the material you've been seeing. The psets demand a lot of time. Take the unit tests!
It's useful information and worthwhile.
I really enjoyed Ec10, but a lot of that depended on having such a great TF. However, if you took any economics in high school, I would skip this course. The materials seems to all be covered in AP economics. If you're not interested in taking economics beyond this course, you should still definitely take ec10, it's basic information everyone should know.
This class is definitely a lot of work but definitely worth it. The things I learned this year will help me understand politics, businesses and the economy much more than I would learn in any other class.
If you read the textbook, go to section and take unit tests, you need to do little studying to do well, just because the information is just reinforced from so many people and with so many explanations (with theory, on a graph/mathematically, common sense). They do a good job of introducing you to different applications of economics as well, especially if you're thinking economics is just for people who want to work on wall street.
This course is taught in section. Lectures really just offer interesting information that is related to the course material but not covered in the textbook. Therefore, you want a good TF. If you're not happy with your TF, try and switch into another section early on in the course. Overall, a very good class though. Very useful, practical information.
If you do decide to take this class, be prepared to do quite a lot of work yourself in terms of reading through the book and helpful hints and attending different office hours to answer your questions.
Do your psets early in the week and stay on top of your readings. It will be 100 times easier that way (trust me I learned the hard way). Also go to office hours, David Johnson's especially.
Ec 10 is a good course for getting a solid background in economics. However, the discrepancy between the difficulty level of problem sets and material from the book is quite stark. It definitely would help to have a background in economics, but even if you do not, you can do fairly well in this class if you put in the work and utilize TF office hours.
Great class even if you don't want to concentrate in economics.
It is hard, but if you like it and you're good at it, you will be fine.
Good intro class, but if you are really not thinking of being an EC major I wouldn't bother with it.. There are so many other great courses at Harvard and taking EC10 simply because its EC10 is silly
Go to office hours because they give good help on psets and help to solidify your understanding of the material.
Your enjoyment of this class is heavily contingent upon the quality of your TF. If you do not seem to be clicking with your TF's style, I recommend switching, because the TFs are critically important in this process. It is a VERY interesting course to take, and it is challenging (but not to the point of impossibility) if you haven't taken a real econ course before.
I think I've gotten a lot out of the course, but its a lot of work and often very frustrating. The test questions, the pset questions, and the unit tests are very very vague and that makes it frustrating because on top of understanding the concepts you have to dig through the language and try to figure out what they're really asking.
This course is good for gaining necessary foundational knowledge but the structure isn't set up very well.
Problem sets take forever and the teaching fellows can either be great or terrible, depends on your luck
its exactly what you expect
Interesting class. Would suggest pass/fail. P-sets are pretty tough and time- consuming.
I really liked Ec10. This class is highly dependent on your section assignment as it is where most of your learning occurs. I had a wonderful TF who taught the material thoroughly yet clearly. This course is so important because it teaches you important concepts in economics that are vital to know. This course provides you with many opportunities to engage with the material, from problem sets, to optional unit tests to midterm tests. This class covers a lot of practical information that can improve your understanding of economics and finance.
You HAVE to make sure you like your TF at the beginning of the course. Your entire experience in Ec10 depends on it. Do Unit Tests.
Be ready to have to put in a lot of time in order to do well.
Ec10 was my worst class at Harvard, but a large margin. All of my other classes have pushed me, excited me, and made me a better thinker. Ec10 only frustrated me, bored me, and make me determined to never again enroll in an econ course.Don't get me wrong: some of the course is good (for instance, David Johnson is a gem), and the material (that David Johnson writes) is superb--challenging, interesting. The course is also run very smoothly (again, David Johnson--noticing a trend here?). Yet the majority of the course is painful... Depending on your TF, you'll have a terrible time because they won't teach you anything and you'll waste three hours every week in section. If you don't have solid math intuition, you'll find things difficult. I didn't know anyone who actually enjoyed this course. For me, this was a frustrating, self-taught course. I just used the book, helpful hints (put out by David Johnson), and p-sets to teach myself material. I never did as well as I thought I would have, and I was almost always irritated. AND, worst of all, I feel like I gave up a class in which I could have been empowered, expanded, challenged--like in ALL of my other Harvard classes (even, for example, language and statistics). But, the reality is you'll probably have to take it if you're looking at a lot of different options. I took this course to fulfill a Social Studies requirement, originally thinking it'd be a great experience (naive, I know) and that I'd take the whole year (economics IS important). Yet, I've grown really sour over this course and want to cut my losses after first semester...maybe I'll look for an econ course elsewhere. TL;DR: Ec10 was unenlightening and horrible, but David Johnson kicks ass.
Take this class if you want a basic knowledge of economics or obviously if you think you would like to concentrate in economics. I came here thinking I would concentrate in ec, but after taking this class, I'm not so sure I feel as strong about that anymore. Don't take this class just for the math gen ed requirement, and don't take it if you just want to take a big popular class.
Take this course to solidify your introductory economics knowledge!
It's a good introductory course; definitely take it if you think you might be interested in Econ as a concentration. It might not be for everyone, and it's more math and graphs than I had anticipated.
The problem sets are annoying, but the course is good if you get good TFs.
Go to every section.  You won't regret it.
The quality of the TFs is extremely low and you will end up having to teach yourself most of the material.
The class material can be difficult but if you dedicate yourself to the work you can do just fine in the class.
A classic freshman class, I took it as a sophomore to get my US-World Gen-Ed requirement out of the way. Even though, Mankiw barely teaches the class, if you have a good TF you will get a good enough understanding of Economics. Try to take notes on the chapter before section and find someone to do problem sets with!
Really interesting!
Make sure you have a good section Tf, it can make all the difference. People get frustrated with this class because the exams are hard, but they are based on pset type questions and not the simple examples used in section so be aware of this. It's a good intro class and really does provide a lot of good foundations for economics. I am not an economics concentrator and took this class my junior year which I would recommend as I felt I was well prepared for the difficulty and enjoyed it.
While the content and skills learned in this course are quite useful and applicable, I would only take it for a letter grade if you are taking the course for concentration or gen ed credit. The exams are intentionally made needlessly complicated and difficult, and the course does not provide answers to the exams you take, which makes it difficult to learn from your mistakes on the exam.
The class is challenging for some, but will help me a lot in the long run. It was a very good overview of the principles of economics, but there was not much time spent with the professors themselves.
you better brace yourself, the exams are not that easy either
Ec10 is a course every Harvard student should take.  It's a right of passage.  It's a prerequisite for many economics courses, and it's important for numerous concentrations.
Come with a background in economics if you want to do well
Start psets early so you can go to office hours! Your TF will be teaching you most of the time, so it helps to have a good one and not be afraid to ask questions.
A lot depends on your tf...
It is a very useful course, and although it can be hard at times, hard work is also rewarded.
Well, you have to take the course if you want to be an Econ major.
Your TF determines a lot of how this class turns out for you. The lectures are fascinating and David Johnson's OH are very much worth it, so if you decide to take the class, don't miss out on its very best components.
Take Ec 10. Everyone should have an understanding of economics. You don't need to be a math whiz or even good at math (although some basic familiarity is helpful), and you definitely don't need to have any experience with economics. The experience does hinge a little bit on how good your TF is because so much of the class is taught in section, but if you luck out and get a good one, it's a great class.
This is a great course, it would be a shame to go to Harvard and not attend take the world's best intro econ course!
How well you do on this course will depend greatly on the TF that you get. If you get lotteried into David Johnson's section, then good for you. But if you get put into a course with a TF that merely spits back to you information you can readily learn yourself from the textbook, then you will most likely get little out of section and miss out on a lot of the economics intuition that other people may have had the chance to obtain through their TF. In that unlucky case, raid David's office hours because they are really useful.
Ec10 was enjoyable. Take the unit tests, they definitely help cement your understanding. I heard some TFs weren't great, but I learned a lot from mine.
This is the basic intro course for Chemistry and Biology.  You get a collection of people taking it: brilliant bio/chem people, overzealous pre-meds, naive elective takers, and various others.  If you are very good at chem/bio, you should have no problem.  If you aren't, it is still very possible to do well in this course; you just need to work a little harder and find people who can help you understand the concepts.
The textbook and section are really easy to understand, but the problem sets are extremely difficult and literally nobody can do them by themselves.  It's a huge time-suck and the exams are hard.
Yes, the book is expensive, and yes, Mankiw only teaches 6 times a semester. But in all fairness, it's a good textbook and the TF's are generally knowledgeable about the subject matter. Recommended for anyone interested in current events or just another way of seeing the world.
Good intro to economics. I just with there was a better alternative.
Economics 10 was my favorite class this semester. This class is really great because it takes many things that you yourself have observed about the world and looks at them in detail to help you understand what causes these phenomena. I really like that the class is so applicable to the real world. In addition, this class is great if you put effort into it: it certainly was not my most time-consuming class this semester, but I still committed a decent amount of time to this class every week and received great results. A bit of advice: if you aren't understanding something, seek help: TF office hours, unit test graders, all of these are good ways to help you understand the information. Take advantage of these resources!
I took this class as a senior p/f in order to learn a general literacy in economics (I knew literally nothing before it) and I have found it so useful. I would never recommend taking this class as an elective for a grade, but p/f it's AWESOME. I feel as though I can actually discuss economic and political issues with basic understanding now.
It is hard, but worthwhile. It will affect the way you think about people, wealth, and the world. Not for everyone, but I enjoy it. I think everyone should know a little bit about economics. Its not taught at a lot of high schools.
The course is literally almost always taught in section; I'm not sure if all the other TFs are, but mine is just a graduate student. And in the end, you'll really end up teaching yourself everything from the textbook and Helpful Hints (!) rather than from a professor or TF.
You have to take it if you're interested in Econ. Just try to get a good TF, go to David Johnson's office hours, and do psets in groups.
A lot of it you will have to study on your own and in terms of TFs, it's the luck of the draw.
This is a good class that gives you an interesting introduction to the economics subject. However, your enjoyment of the class really depends on whether you end up liking the subject and what type of a T.F. you get.
I have to say that a lot of criticisms this class receives are deserved. Your grade will likely be determined by the strength of your TF, the P-Set questions are often huge leaps above the material covered in class, and it seems that no one can fail this class, no matter how dumb. My advice is simple and seemingly obvious; work with your friends and go to the Unit Tests, as those will teach you a lot!
If this course is ever offered with David Johnson as the head lecturer, take it immediately.
Be prepared to work through ideas and concepts mostly on your own, which is a process that bears its own academic fruit, but is often unglamorous and difficult. The TFs are good, but most of the learning happens alone in the library rather than in lecture or section.
Read the textbook yourself.
If your TF is good, perhaps you'll enjoy and learn a lot from this class; if not, be prepared to self-teach. The fact that a lot of people have taken Econ before does not help. Furthermore, the disparity between what one reads in the textbook and may learn in section, and what one must do on problems sets and exams, is tremendous.
Solid course; pretty much as advertised. Not too difficult but not easy either. Good intro to ec. Unit tests suck.
I mean, it's a topic that you SHOULD have a basic understanding of, so this class is really your only option.
Very interesting material and great introduction to economics.  It is important to stay on top of textbook readings and do thorough jobs on the problem sets to understand the material well for the exam.  Take advantage of the unit test program and TF's office hours.
Ec 10 sections are almost entirely theoretical, with a TF mostly explaining word for word the concepts written in the textbook. Then students are handed problem sets and exams with problems asking them to apply those concepts -- even though they have had no practice doing so in class. This would be a far better course if section was a time for practice problems rather than repetition of the textbook.
Hope for a good section leader.
So far, this course has been a great introduction into economics. It is not the most exciting course, but it fulfills its purpose and will teach you a lot!
Be prepared for difficulty and a poor TF.
The course starts out slow, but then it gets very interesting. If you need to have extensive feedback, you will not get it, as grading of problem sets and exams only looks at correctness and not at helping the student clear up her misconceptions. You will have to be self-directed in making sure you understand the material. Most of the concepts we learned are modeled on basic graphs of costs/revenues and quantity, so it will help to be a visual learner. However, I did not consider myself a visual learner before entering this course and found the graphs to be very intuitive. There is not much memorization involved in this course, which instead relies on developing your ability to look at markets logically and on shaping your intuitions so that this kind of thinking becomes intuitive. I credit this course for making me more likely to concentrate in economics.
It really is not as bad as people make it out to be and the workload is really doable, especially if you keep up with the readings and spread the work out. Do not take this class if you like working alone. It is much more of a group experience.
If you have a strong quantitative background, Ec 10 really isn't that difficult.  Everyone should take a course in economics during college, and Ec 10 does a good job of teaching what you need to know to be a well-educated citizen of the world.
EC10 is not a class that many people will rave about, but it is nonetheless a very educational course that gives insight into very relevant topics in today's world.
This is a good class to take because the material is so important, but the quality of the class varies hugely from TF to TF. I was fortunate to have a good TF, but if I didn't I am sure the class would have been much less pleasant.
Regardless of what you hope to concentrate in, Ec 10 is a great class to take.  With economic policy at the forefront of the political agenda, everyone should have a basic understanding of economics now more than ever in order to be a responsible and informed citizen and voter.
If you can skip it to 1010, do it. If you want an intro ec course as an elective, take it.
Mankiw is distant, but this course is a must-take at Harvard.
Be careful with it. Make sure you catch up with the readings and work with classmates.
It will be easier if you have previous exposure to economics, but also that it's probably good to have some knowledge of economics before entering the real world so it's probably worth taking for that reason
the information is presented in a rather nonpartisan manner. Definitely worth taking if you want a background in economics. very worthwhile course.
I took this class pass/fail - good idea if you are a senior looking for a great and broad introduction to economics.
Your TF can make or break this class.
Required a lot of work but I learned a lot. Pretty essential knowledge for anyone interested in economics.
If you want to learn basics of economics or pursue a concentration in economics, this is a great course to take.
Ec10 is a great way to meet other freshman and upperclassmen. It is certainly not an easy class, but if you put the work into it you will do well. Some of the lectures are hard to follow and not that informative, but go to them because they are heavily tested.
USE OFFICE HOURS ALL THE TIME
Don't take it for a challenge.
Huge course. Decent lectures. Section can be good or miserable depending on who you have. Take it early and get it over with.
It doesn't excite you--you need to bring your own enthusiasm for learning.
This class, even if you are not concentrating in Ec, is a wonderful one to take at Harvard. You won't find many others like it. Not only are you taught by one of the best professors at Harvard, but also, you learn practical material that you will use essentially for the rest of your life. This class is COMPLETELY worth it, despite your political opinions.
This is a very good course to gain a grasp on basic economics however it is a difficult class to have a working understanding of.
It is a right of passage for any ec student. Section is relatively easy and the problem sets are manageable. Go to office hours and actually do the reading and the helpful hints and it should not that difficult.
It's a good class and tests are not very difficult if you put a reasonable amount of time into the p-sets.
great course. david is the best and basically runs the course!
Do it if you have serious interest in economics.
It changes the way you think.
Read the textbook and utilize office hours and review sessions
This class is horribly boring and difficult but super useful
Only take if your are going to be an Economics concentrator
The course is extremely impersonal; grading on tests are arbitrary. Points are taken off with no explanations given
I definitely would recommend it as I believe economics is an important field but it is very difficult and the exams and problem sets are unfair.
Lots depends on your section leader. Mine was engaging but didn't know the material as well as she probably should have, and there were those two or three kids in the section who kept derailing the entire discussion with irrelevant questions. Mankiw is fine, and the guest lecturers are hit-and-miss. Overall, an okay course. There are worse, but there are also definitely better.
I had to teach myself most of the material. This class completely overwhelmed me but at the end of the day, I'm glad I know this material. Your TF makes or breaks the class. I had a terrible TF (even regularly going to office hours didn't help) and my grade reflected that.
This class is time-consuming but I think it really does teach you useful, relevant information about how individuals, firms, and countries make decisions in the domestic and world economy that all Harvard students should know.
Great! David Johnson is great. You really should learn Economics to learn how our capitalist world functions, and this is a great introduction.
It's important that you learn this stuff.
It a wonderful class to take that will help you see the world differently. It will help you understand why certain policies are so and why some things in life happen, even if not pertaining to large businesses but between individuals.
Its good info to know.
This class teaches basic skills necessary to understand economic principles and theories.  It is a great overview course, but do not expect one on one attention.  It requires self-motivation to keep up with the textbook reading.
Ec10 is a solid foundation for economics. If you put in the time (read the book, go to office hours if you don't understand the psets), you will learn a lot. David Johnson makes the P-sets tough. Also, make sure to read the helpful hints!
Despite its drawbacks I love the class and the material we learn is highly relevant and applicable. Be sure to go to David Johnson's office hours.
Skip it if possible
Definitely need a back round in economics
I took it as an elective, but now I think I want to Secondary in Ec. The material feels so relevant to life! The tests are different from what you see in class though, so make sure to do the practice tests!
Basic ec knowledge is useful whether you live under a rock or not. Ec10 is an intro course, but you'll find ways to apply it everywhere (even under your rock). Grading (especially of problem sets) and quality of teaching varies a lot from section to section, but sections follow the textbook very very closely. Tests and psets are all easily manageable if you've been keeping up. Read the green boxes in the textbook!
i found this course difficult, experience depends on quality of TF as most work is done in section, tests have a lot of tricks - can be disheartening.  i dont think i will continue, but it has provided me with a good background and mindframe through which to approach other areas of study
This is a very instructive course, however it is difficult.  In order to get a good grade, you must put in a considerable amount of effort, both on your own and with the help of TF's, tutors, and/or other students.
Very important information, but none of it is presented in a particularly exciting way.
Your success may depend on the quality of your section leader.
This is an awesome class if you want a thorough introduction to economics as a prospective concentrator or otherwise. The weekly problem sets are not too much trouble if you work with others and start them sooner than the night before. The textbook is extremely helpful and section reiterates much of what is taught in the chapters (most likely why section is "optional".) Mankiw and the guest lecturers do a nice job of applying concepts taught in the course to contemporary issues.
You cannot rely on section.  You have to use a lot of your own initiative.
This class is very helpful and practical no matter what concentration you hope to pursue. The course can either be wonderful or tragic depending on your perspective and whom your TF is. Just make sure you do everything in your power (attending office hours, reading all chapters and helpful hints, etc) to conquer the class and you should do fine.
This class gives you a basic knolwedge of the material and is good if you are a student who has never taken an economics course before and wants to understand the subject better.
It is almost entirely conducted in section so make sure you get a good TF. The problem sets are hard and takes a couple of hours to do. I have never taken economics before and find this course hard but the book is easy to understand.
Knowing economics is good for you! You shouldn't vote without taking some basic economics.  Mankiw isn't going to corrupt you with GOP-ness.  You'll just learn how the current system, the one that we have right now (not your favorite alternate system) works and then you can protest it all you like-- after you understand it.  Be warned though, you won't get a ton of support.  But that in and of itself is a valuable lesson, because your education is ultimately your responsibility and being able to take charge of it is a useful skill.
Sections are awful. All you can do is pray for a good TF
Take this class if you are truly interested in pursuing economics and if you don't mind teaching yourself most of the course
Unless you are an econ major, you will sleep through the lectures, nod blankly during section, and probably struggle through the problem sets in the back of the lamont cafe with the rest of the people who took this as a gen ed. Prepare for long thursdays.
you need to know economics to be a functioning member of society. this class is very accessible and very worthwhile. must take to graduate.
This class is not easy, especially since the questions are in-depth than the normal AP Economics. People who previously took AP Economics found this class challenging, making this class not really an "Introduction" course. The problem sets are tedious and difficult to say the least, and the teaching fellow could possibly not be helpful.
This class is easy, but with that you realize you don't learn very much.  Take as a 5th or 6th class.
Do the unit tests.
Whatever its reputation, Ec 10 is an able and not-too-painful introduction to microeconomics and would be a useful addition to anyone's education.
You may struggle through this course, but is jam-packed with knowledge every citizen in this country should possess. If anything, take it out of a sense of civic duty.
How much you like Ec 10 will probably depend on what TF you get. Mine had a pretty thick accent, and it was his first year teaching...so half the time I felt like I learned nothing in section. And the textbook is too simplistic, so it doesn't help prepare you for the difficult questions on the psets and exams. Exams are hard, but the curve is good.
Your experience in this class will likely depend on the quality of your TF, and that's something that's unlikely to change without a complete overhaul of the course. That being said, the lectures are generally interesting, and section provides a solid introduction to the material. Though problem sets often require you to do some extra fact-finding (aka working heavily with other students / contacting your TF) to get them done right, the workload is by no means unmanageable. If you've never taken an economics course, Ec 10 is a good place to start; but if you've already done Micro/Macro AP in high school, you're probably better off going straight into 1010a/b.
Good class, but don't expect it to be super easy.
Do the problem sets and readings by yourself; you won't learn anything if you copy either of these things. The lectures are interesting and the tests always have some kind of questions on them, so don't skip out.
Good intro class
its a good/interesting class..i would recommend it if you want to consider taking higher level economics courses. or if unsure about what to concentrate in.
It is really unfortunate that Mankiw has the intro economics market cornered, if only because a monster lecture class filled with Freshmen is not really very enjoyable. That said, if you've never taken an economics class, you should do it, as having some baseline ec knowledge is essential in most social science fields.
This course is not that difficult--just be sure not to fall behind on the reading! (I did, and had to read 10 chapters in a day, the weekend before my unit test...needless to say, that was a bad idea)
This class pushes a conservative/libertarian/neoliberal economic agenda - through the textbook, most lectures, and the syllabus that TFs are supposed to follow.  Such bias permeates the discussion around many issues - the distribution of wealth, taxation, the minimum wage, trade policies, meritocracy, monopoly power, etc.  I did not find this surprising, given Professor Mankiw's background, but it was definitely a turn-off. That said, if you have a good TF (the class is taught almost entirely in section), this course can be interesting and you can definitely learn important concepts - economics is an incredibly important field.  Just be sure to think for yourself and not necessarily believe everything you hear or read.
Don't take this just because everyone does; make sure you're actually interested in the topic.
Not the greatest class you'll take at Harvard but pretty good at explaining the basics of economics, which are surprisingly applicable in real life. I look at the world a little differently now. Lecture's aren't great and Pset's are annoying but tests aren't that bad and there are plenty of ways to learn the material.
It's pretty tough and a large time commitment with the problem sets.
From discussions with my friends, I found that your experience in this course depends a lot on your section leader. If he or she is competent, speaks English well, has a deep understanding of the material, and cares about his or her student's success, this course will be a great experience. If not... Good luck. Definitely try to switch section leaders if you dislike your first one. You will be with them all year.
This is a class that very section-based and your experience will depend heavily on how good your section leader is. Overall, you cover a tremendous amount of material that is decently interesting/useful.
I would recommend this class, but it was very difficult to balance the workload of problem sets of Math and Economics at the same time. If I had enrolled in those two classes at different semesters it would have made my life a lot easier.
its an intro class to an field that, like it or not, is important to know a little about. i had to do it to fulfill a concentration requirement and it wasnt fun, but it was better than LS1a as far as intro courses go.
Take to gauge as a possible concentration. Interesting course, but after this course I believe a change in plans is necessary for me.
Unless you reading the textbook, having a good section leader is key.
Obviously, this is a huge class and everything is taught in section. However, section leaders tend to just rehash what is already written in Mankiw's textbook.
This is a decent but not a very good or enjoyable class. Please take what you learn with a grain of salt. While engaged in this course, you should question and challenge the material and read plenty of outside sources, especially if you are considering economics as an undergraduate study or a profession.
This class moves extremely quickly, which makes it difficult to keep up, especially for those with no economics background. Also, problem sets often seem to go very well beyond what we learn both in the textbook as well as in section.
This class is a great background to Econ, and though you might feel like a cog in the machine, that is a necessary evil.
How well you like this course is completely dependent on your TF. MAKE SURE YOU ATTEND LECTURES! And do all the readings. The exams draw quite a bit on these.
It requires a lot of work outside of section in order to understand the material and do well on exams.
This is one of those courses that most students take, but for a reason. Many need it to fulfill a concentration requirement, while others use it as a Gen Ed. Even though it is an intro class, you will be challenged. That being said, if you put your work into the class so that you understand the concepts, you should be fine. The unit tests are a great way to gauge your understanding of materials AND you get extra points for passing them. The problem sets are time consuming, but since so many people are in the class, it is easy to find people to work with when you get stuck.
I took the class because I really wanted to learn the material, and I feel like I came away with the ability to engage in debates that I wouldn't have been able to previously. However, don't be afraid to be skeptical of Mankiw's ideas. We go to Harvard, we're smart enough to recognize what's objective and what's not.
It's a pain, but you'll be glad you took it. It's always good to have a solid understanding of economic issues just to be an informed and rational member of society.
There is not enough time to complete the tests, which is very frustrating.
Make sure to read the book and go to lecture.  Also, if you are confronted with any problems or are having trouble understanding the material, be sure to seek help because help will not come to those who don't ask.
You have to take this, and it teaches you important things about human nature and current affairs. Just be pro-active and hardworking.
It's quite a work, but it's a good class to take.
If you get a great TF, you will receive one of the greatest learning experiences of your Harvard life. If you don't, you will suffer for one term.
The tests are ridiculous. DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE UNLESS YOU ARE READY TO DEAL WITH TRICKY QUESTIONS AND CONVOLUTED PROBLEMS. Not worth it.
It's a good intro class to economics but not really a good barometer for determining if you want to concentrate in economics.
You should take this course to learn about Economics, which everyone should know about. This class is pretty hard, but everything comes together in the end.
It's not great, but Ec 10 is what it is: An impersonal, frequently irritating machine through which hundreds of students will pass every year, because Ec 10 is the intro economics sequence. It won't be terribly fun, it won't be that terrible either, and you'll emerge knowing more economics than you did when you entered the class. A good number of the guest lectures were utterly pointless, but I should add that David Johnson, the guy really behind the class, is absolutely fantastic. Go to his review sessions; go to the ends of the earth to get in his section. He's the only remotely competent teacher in the class.
You'll hear a whole range of comments about Ec 10... most of them will be negative. Truth is, Ec 10 is what you make of it. It can be completely unhelpful and unenlightening if you don't spend the time on it, but it can CHANGE YOUR LIFE if you do spend the time to THINK about the concepts. You learn SO MUCH about the world, if only you'll let Ec 10 teach you. Is the course taught almost exclusively in section? Yes. Does your TF's quality matter for this course? Absolutely. But he/she may matter less than you might think. The course's material is really in the book, problem sets, and helpful hints. With those materials, you are well on your way to learning everything in Ec 10 without your TF. Having a good TF is helpful, but if you don't, it's not the end of the world. So the moral of the story? If you are interested in Economics, want to learn what it's about, or just want to know more about the world around you, want to understand those televised political debates or recent public policies--this is the class for you. TAKE IT. :)
hard class be ready to work
Take Ec 10 if you are passionate about economics/are considering studying economics. Don't take the class because everybody else does.
Feeling like I should know some economics to be a responsible global citizen, I took this as a senior elective.  I was very disappointed in the course.  The lectures are generally boring and superficial, and the course as a whole essentially boils down to a supervised reading of Mankiw's textbook, which itself feels like something out of high school.  The course makes no attempt to present material rigorously (I lost count of the number of times I heard/read "the mathematics behind this is beyond the scope of this course."), which I found frustrating as a math concentrator, but that might be a plus for some people.  The class did do a very good job, however, of making me feel comfortable with the vocabular of basic economics.  I wouldn't expect to get much more out of the course, though.
Take it! You might hear the class is biased or that the lectures are boring, and that might be true, but you should still know economics. It's really not that hard and it's a great bonding experience.
It a great class the familiarizes you with the basics of economics. The knowledge gained is definitely worth the moderate difficulty.
Useful for learning basics of economics. Pretty interesting material, well taught and lots of support available.
It isn't perfect, but as big lecture courses go, I thought it was pretty good. Most of the time is spent in section, which is helpful, and there are plenty of opportunities to get help if you need it.
Get ready for the workload.
This course is not taught or run well at all, but every Harvard student should come out of college understanding the concepts taught in the course.  So it is necessary even though
This is not the easy course that many would like you to believe it is. It is challenging, and will require going to office hours and struggling on problem sets and exams. The exams are very challenging, and a 65% is usually the average - though the curve accounts for this. Difficult to get an A, though Bs are very realistic. The material is interesting, and makes sense. Head TF David Johnson is a phenomenal teacher - Go to his office hours!! Professor Mankiw is a good lecturer, but the class is taught in section, and so your TF will be the most important influence on your experience; most are at least fairly good teachers. If you are an Economics concentrator, you must take it; if not, it's still a great course to take.
If you are going to take Ec 10, you are going to take Ec 10; it doesn't matter how much the class sucks.
Go for office hours with David Johnson, he's cool. :)
Go in knowing the prof won't be teaching everything.. in fact, lecturing only a few times per year. Also, getting a good TF is your ticket to this class w/o reading the book.
This class is a big time commitment and the tests are very hard. The curves are great though.
The important thing about this course is not that you know how to draw all of the graphs and recite definitions, but that you are able to synthesize and apply the information you have learned.
be prepared to struggle at first
Take it if you want to learn the fundamentals of economics.
Generic economics course.  Somewhat interesting.
This class is challenging but totally doable. The problem sets take a bit of time, but they are fair and there's only 6 a semester.
While it can often seem like an endless struggle, the amount that you learn is worth it. Even if you will not end up concentrating in economics, it is beneficial to learn the basic concepts behind something that surrounds you every day.
This is a good course if you want an introduction to microeconomics.
Not fun, but an easy A
It is an interesting class and if you have any interest in taking economics I would recommend taking it.
This class is taught heavily in section and depends greatly on your TF. This class is a really important class to take before graduating from college, as everyone should have a basic knowledge of economics, but remember that it is incredibly oversimplified and therefore doesn't give you the answers to important policy decisions like taxes, etc... Be sure to take more economics classes before deciding if you are fiscally liberal or conservative.
Ec 10 is a satisfying class. If you have never had any contact with economics, you will learn a lot from this class. Indeed, I would go so far as to say that if you have even considered the possibility of concentrating in the social sciences, Ec 10 is a pretty much required class. Be warned though that the class assumes you are at least somewhat good in algebra and functions. This warning is directed at non-science concentrators, sho I think should take this course, but may not necessarily have the required mathematical sophistication to understand the elegant conclusions that the class reaches. If you are one such person, I would recommend you to brush up on your high school math before enrolling, work hard by going to office hours and unit tests, and really make an effort to try to think of economics in a mathematical sense. Mankiw is a great teacher and really friendly. He is also not nearly as fiscally conservative as people make him  look like, and this is coming from a very liberal person. However, his textbook is poor at best. In a misguided attempt to attract more "students who are bad at math" and improve his Q scores, Mankiw made a textbook that is sometimes too long on explanations and too short on mathematical rigor. The result of this "dumbing down" is to make the course less satisfactory to everyone involved. Even with this small flaws, I would be likely to recommend this course to future students. You definitely learn a lot, and the thing you learn in this course are useful in a wide range of fields. It is also a way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement (US in the World or Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning). If you are an incoming freshman, strongly consider taking Ec 10.
Like everyone says, getting into David Johnson's section is critical for this class. However, if you do not get into his section don't despair -- some of the other section leaders aren't bad either, but most importantly David Johnson holds office hours Tuesdays and Thursdays several hours a day. Go to these. They are very, very helpful.
It's not too difficult, and you can learn a lot if you get a good section leader. Do keep in mind that the professor only teaches about 6 times in a semester.
This course provides important background on economics - something which plays a large role in each of our lives.  Take the course, even if you are not considering being an economics major - it really changes the way you think about things you thought you were sure about (poverty, etc.).  The course is not easy, but with moderate amounts of work, the curve will take care of you.
It really helps to stay on top of your psets and not start them the night before they're due.  Also, do the unit tests because they help solidify the information before you have to take an exam onit.
Its a worthwhile course.
You don't need to know anything going in, but be prepared to learn fast! Sections are mostly a rehashing of the material in the chapters. Go to office hours!
Pretty hard but you learn really interesting stuff and you'll like studying it.
This course is all about whether or not you get a good TF. The material is very interesting and I believe that everyone should take this course because of the information it provides. However, this course is fundamentally flawed when it comes to TFs because some are great and some are absolutely terrible.
This class is not bad if you do all the problem sets ahead of time.
Mankiw is basically a figurehead for the course... everything you learn will be in section, but they'll take some obscure detail from the lecture, put it on the test, and pretend it's important. Otherwise it's a good intro ec course - just don't go in expecting to have face time with a celebrity professor.
Sections are a drag but the subject matter is interesting and relevant
Very easy introduction to economics. Definitely the best US in the World class, which this class for some reason fills. Much more useful than most of the others available, which seem more focused on sillier questions.
This course does do a great job of presenting the fundamental principles of microeconomics
It's good but not great...I felt like information came at a steady but not overwhelming pace...on the other hand I felt like I walked out of very few lectures/sections feeling like I had an idea to really work on or think about
unless it's necessary, i wouldn't take it.  harvard has so many better classes
Don't fall behind on the work. Prepare for exams a good week or more in advance -- do lots of practice problems! Be willing to invest time in this class and you shouldn't have any trouble.
The class may be a little intimidating at first, put dedication to the course and the concepts allows students to grasp the concepts enthusiastically.
Ec 10 isn't as painful as people say, and it does a good job explaining intro economics. Be sure to go to lecture and pay attention, since you'll lose 20/120 points on exams if you don't.
MANKIW DOES NOT TEACH THIS COURSE!!!!! Take this course because you want to learn more about economics. The lectures were boring and your TF will determine your overall experience in the course. BEWARE OF EC-10!!!!
It's a big time commitment, but a very rewarding class.
It starts off really slowly but gradually picks up speed. The lectures are not so great but remember that the tiniest thing from them could be asked on an exam. Take help on the psets if you have problems, your section leaders are happy to give you the answers.
Wait until sophomore year to take it, unless you really think you may become an Ec concentrator.
If you bought the international version of the textbook to save yourself from having to pay a ridiculous amount of money for the billionth edition of the textbook, make sure you check that the problem set question numbers match the hardcover textbook. Also, read the textbook; if you have a bad TF, the textbook will save you.
This course provides an excellent base for understanding the economic aspects of our world.
I really think that if you want to learn economics, you should take this course or a similar basic introduction to microeconomics. Of course it is important to understand different ways to look at the economic system as well (say marxist as opposed to neoclassical) however standard neoclassical economics is an important understanding to have for future work in economics or other disciplines and it is worth devoting a full semester to.
Great class; Mankiw doesn't teach much, but he doesn't have to. I had a great TF, which helped quite a bit, but really, it wouldn't make sense for Mankiw to teach to class more than he does. Ec10 is so applicable to life in general, and should be required for every student to take before leaving college.
I know that a lot of people complain about Professor Mankiw and Ec 10, but the fact is that it is the best beginning economics course it could possibly be.  The TF can really make or break your experience, but lectures (and guest lectures) are always interesting and informative, because they relate what you're learning to the real world.
Ec 10 sucks.  Only take if you have to.  You'll learn stuff, but college and Harvard especially should realize that we are here to intellectually engage with the material, not be patronized in lecture in section by re-explaining for an hour what could be gleaned in five minutes of reading the textbook.
Ec 10 is a great way to learn about economics even if you don't want to concentrate in the field.
The material taught in this course changed my view on economics, my view on numerous political issues and the way I approach my every day life. Absolutely worth taking!
I truly enjoyed this course, but I expect that has more to do with an inner excitement for economics than an outer proficiency in it being taught.  If you think you might want to learn more about economics, definitely take this course.  If you know you don't enjoy the field, this course will be livable but not pleasant.
Go to office hours. Seriously. It helps a lot. But even if you get all the concepts down and do well on the problem sets, 40% of your grade is still based on one exam.  Good luck with that.
This is a super hard class especially if you are not exactly math or graphs - minded, in which case you will likely find yourself feeling frustrated and lost much of the time. But that being said I also think it is an incredibly valuable class and I know I will be glad to have learned the material I did understand - definitely worth struggling through if you have any interest in understanding how the world actually works.
Whether you know it or not, you probably need to take this class.
Work together on problem sets and go to David Johnson for office hours- he provides the best feedback out of any TF.
Make sure you keep up with the readings in the textbook because it really helps when you work on the problem sets.
This course is a fairly good introduction to basic economics but can sometimes be frustrating when it comes to understanding the solutions for problem sets and review materials. I'd recommend taking it at some point, use because economics is one of those things that will always always come up in life.
Be prepared to do a lot of learning on your own
you need to take this even if it isn't fun.
I went in knowing nothing about economics, and I felt like I have learned a lot.  It may not be the most interesting course and psets/unit tests are a slight nuisance, but it is a pretty standard and informative introduction to economics.
It is useful more than it is engaging.
It's not the most fun class you can take unless you really really like economics, but I think that practically, it's really good. It's also interesting to see the real life situations you hear about every day in a new, analyzed context.
Great! Section TFs do make a difference. David Johnson does a GREAT job at facilitating this course---go to his course reviews!
Ec10 is useful and effective, but I doubt many students deeply enjoy it.
avoid.
You will need to work hard, especially to get an A.  If you don't know anything about economics you can still take the course.  It is good knowledge to have in general and I like the fact that I took the course because I did learn a lot.
Although the course advertises Mankiw as its teacher, he only gives lectures four times a semester, and there are some guest lectures. Two were good and two weren't. You will be doing a very significant percentage of your learning in section, so it really depends on your section leader. This course gives a solid introduction to microeconomics and macroeconomics, so I'd recommend it as preparation for taking more advanced economics courses. Also, if you take this course, you MUST go to David Johnson's (the head TF) review session. He's really effective and funny. Too bad only a dozen or so students get him as their TF.
you should only take this course if you're interested in concentrating/secondaring in economics since it is a prereq for many courses
If you think that this is a class where Gregory Mankiw is your professor: it's not. He lectures a handful of times the entire year. Two of these lectures are held the first two classes, when students are shopping and debating whether or not to enroll in the course. Another one is conveniently on parents' weekend, so all the parents can believe that the large amount of money they're shelling out is going to a great lecturer. Instead your experience in the class is largely determined by the quality of the TF that you are randomly assigned. If you end up with a good TF, you are likely to enjoy the course. However, there are several horror stories out there with TF's, so be careful.
The course is essentially only taught in section. Material in lecture comes up only as one or two multiple choice questions in the exams and isn't always clearly synthesized with the textbook concepts. That said, it's a requirement of any Economics concentrator.
Take this class if you want to learn economics! Do not take this class if you like intimate learning environments. I enjoyed this class because I am interested in economics and I liked reading about its connections to the real world. I usually ended up self-studying the material, so the lack of a lecture never really bothered me, though I do think that students who prefer more interactive learning environments did not enjoy the class. Also, make sure to take the unit tests and skim over the lectures and readings! It will come in handy. I thought the workload was manageable.
Don't take this class because everyone else is taking it, or because it's taught by Mankiw. Mankiw barely teaches, and it's not a social class. Take it if you're interested in the material or you want to concentrate in ec. Even then, if you have ec background, consider taking ec1010a instead. Also, go to David Johnson's office hours. He's great!! Also, do the readings. No really. DO THEM.
stay on top of your work
You do not feel valued as a student, so you are going to have to take the initiative and do a lot of extra work on your own.
This class is really helpful in building a foundation for economics, which everyone should have. It has the components of a large lecture class, but feels like a smaller class size because of the sections. Getting both experiences really adds to the college feel.
A lot of people that I talked to had fairly negative impressions of Economics 10, but I found the class perfectly enjoyable.  It's not necessarily the most exciting class you will be enrolled in, but the material is interesting in its way, and also very applicable.  As long as you stay on top of the readings and sections, the workload is very manageable.
There is a lot of math so if you struggle with math or don't want to do it, think very strongly before taking this class. However, it does provide excellent skills for other things outside the class. Overall, definitely a class I would recommend but with some reservations.
It is a good course to learn about the basics of economics, but you learn mostly from reading the book. The section leaders (aside from David Johnston) and lectures don't really teach you anything
Although this class can be difficult at times (the exams are difficult), this class was a good overall introductory economics course. Make sure you get a good TF who grades fairly and understands the material well.
This class can be very stressful, especially if you have little experience with economics. I probably wouldn't recommend the course, but 700+ students take it, so I guess it's almost a necessary evil.
As long as you stay on top of the reading and go to class you have absolutely nothing to worry about.
Only take it if you're interested in being an economics concentrator.
Don't believe Professor Mankiw when he says that this course leaves all normative values at the door. Otherwise, it's an easy course that is useful.
I would tell them to read before the section so that they can have an idea about what the class is about. Also, really learn the concepts not memorize how to do problems.
don't go to mankiw's lectures
its not that bad. just pay attention in section.
Since this is a very large class, you may get lost and no one may notice. Be sure to ask questions and pay attention during section because that's where all the teaching occurs. David Johnson's review sessions were amazing--definitely attend them and he will help you synthesize. Do the unit tests because there's nothing to lose. Do the p-sets in groups and help each other!
I think that your experience in this class strongly depends on who your section leader is.
It is easier to do problem sets with study groups.
The concepts are very easy but the problem sets and tests present them in difficult ways.
Take the unit tests, make sure you get a good TF, don't expect too much from Mankiw, go to David Johnson's review lectures...
It is a class that teaches you, for the most part, material that you could learn or teach yourself by reading the textbook or any AP economics textbook. The only interesting parts were the synthesis of concepts that occured during David Johnson's review sessions, which tied together the dry facts that had been taught in section into more realistic and interesting problems to think about as they applied to real life.
There are many people in it who take it because everyone else is taking it and I would refrain from doing so if you are unsure about wanting to.
You learn the basics - the microeconomics that is necessary to understand in order to have any intelligent conversation about economics and policy.
Sections, lectures, the textbook, exams and problem sets, are all taught or written by different people. I think this is why there is little unity between the concepts of economics and the questions in the tests. Reading the textbook or going to section does not prepare you to do the problem sets or take the exams. If you are new to economics, a lot of work is required to stay on top of this course, above going to lectures, sections and reading the textbook.
It is a very interesting class that involves both lecture and section however you have to be ready for long problem sets, albeit only one per week. Also tests require a good amount of studying, much like most other classes.
Its a big course - don't expect to much of a personal approach in the teaching
Just make sure you study the materials you should to receive a good grade.
If you have no economics background and a decent math background, this is a good introductory course for you to take.  It's not fascinating, but it will get the job done.
This class will introduce you to a way of thinking that is valuable regardless of one's political or academic persuasion. Truly a must-take.
If you have a good math background, take EC1010 or EC1011 instead. The course is excellent, but the math is very basic.
This course is very badly structured but the material is interesting. If you want to take a course with a professor that really wants to educate his/her students, this is not the course for you. In Ec10, your left on your own and a lot of the responsibilities of understanding the material is put on your shoulders.
This class is tough but it is necessary. If you put the effort in you will really learn a lot.
This class, despite its occasional flaws, teaches a way of seeing and analyzing the world that all Harvard students should introduce themselves to.  Take it if you want to better understand (at least one prominent theory of) how the world around you works.
It can be an interesting course. It's not one to be treated too lightly; the sections will wear on you and the homework can be tricky if you haven't gone to office hours, but not a bad way to get your US&The World Gen. Ed.
Ec 10 is an absolutely necessary course to take with information that will be useful for the rest of your life.  Do the reading and psets on your own, and you should be completely fine for midterms and finals.  Best of luck!
It is analytical and problem-solving oriented.
Economics is one of the most fundamental studies, and this is the intro to that class. If you want to do anything in economics, take this course.. Provides good foundation
The class is a good introduction to economics, but that's all it is. Keeping up with the course reading makes time spent in section pretty useless as almost all of section time is spent taking notes on definitions and concepts from the book.
There is a really good curve, and you learn a lot more than you think. You surely have to put in the effort to get the grade, but you learn a lot about the world and you'll see how economics is applicable in all areas of life.
If you have any interest in pursuing economics, take this class. A little work is required to understand the concepts, but the workload is manageable.
Economics 10 is without doubt a worthwhile course because it can enhance ones understanding of the world. For instance, this course has definitely increased my knowledge of policy debates. As a result of my experience in Ec 10, I can now talk intelligently about subjects as diverse as the economics of poverty, taxes, interest rates, pollution control, and the minimum wage. However, some aspects of Ec 10 are not ideal. For instance, Professor Mankiw only lectures a few times throughout the semester, which means that the course is taught almost exclusively in section. The quality of ones experience in the class therefore depends on the TF. Additionally, there are several guest lectures throughout the course of the term that tend to be rather dry. In terms of exam preparation, the teaching staff provides ample study materials and schedules review sessions. Unfortunately, some of the exams test on the minute details of readings and lectures rather than the big picture; consequently, taking detailed notes throughout the semester is crucial.
If you don't really like econ and don't want to continue in it don't take this course. It's miserable. I hated it. If you don't have a good TF (which is very likely), it's a million times worse. Don't risk it.
Ec 10 is good for introducing yourself to economics. It's useful for many concentrations and definitely necessary for econ majors. I'd advise taking it.
i took this class an elective. for all taking this as an elective, there are a few things to keep in mind. 1. this course is time consuming. problem sets are long and weekly (they took about 7 hours to do), in addition to reading the textbook chapters and understanding the material from section 2. the coursewide lectures and readings really make the class difficult and in many ways unfair. they are hard to keep up with, so make sure you keep up with them. 3. unit tests are a good way to boost your grade, but add on at least an extra 2 hrs of work a week. so basically, taking this class to just get an overview of economics, might not be the best choice. if you're taking it as an elective, be prepared for a lot of work, especially if you want to do well. the time put in may not be worth it. it is probably better spent on your required courses
You should supplement the course with other reading in order to get a more balanced perspective of economics.
very important knowledge yet very time consuming and difficult
Ec-10 gives you a good general understanding of economics.  It is poorly taught and you have to do a lot of learning yourself. Make sure you understand and read the helpful hints and also get a buddy to the problem sets with.
If you can opt out of Ec 10, do it. This is a miserable, time consuming course. But then again, misery loves company, so take it!!
This is a great course for anyone who is good at learning from a book. Otherwise, some students may struggle if they don't end up with a good TF (which seems fairly common). Also, students shouldn't expect anything mind-blowing in this course or to feel more informed about current economic dealings. This is an introductory course so the material can be dry, but it is fairly easy. One of the perks of this course is its light workload.
Be prepared for super specific questions on the midterms/final exams. Specific as in - referencing brief instances in the text books that might not have a meaning that is..."applicable" to the general purpose of the course but are just "checks" to make sure that you read.
This is your run of the mill large gened that is taught mostly in poorly taught sections. Your experience largely depends on what section leader you get, which is totally arbitrary. However, the textbook is pretty interesting and the material is useful information. Still, if you don't need to take this class for a concentration requirement, consider alternatives to learn economics.
It's not a challenging course. If you read the textbook before each lecture and section, you'll be fine. Also, go to Johnson's review sessions; they help so much. Take unit tests.
Economics is a very valuable course to take. The course is very well run and organized, which helps with the big size. However, the way you learn in the course depends completely on your TF.
It's not as bad as everyone tells you it is.
I found econ 10 to be pretty interesting, but with the massive number of students taking the course you tend to loose touch with the head teachers. The psets themselves weren't too difficult, but the midterms and final expect you to combine multiple concepts in one problem, so definitely look at previous tests. Overall, I think everyone should take at least a semester of this course before graduating.
It's a good course if you just want basic knowledge in the field, or if you're new to it and want a good survey course.
Realize it's a big course, so many aspects (i.e. testing, grading) are unwieldy and awkward. But you get a good overview of economics in general, which is useful just in life, and also a pretty decent idea of what it is like to study economics further.
great introduction to economics that covers a great deal of microeconomics but do not expect to be taught by Professor Mankiw even though he is listed as the professor, the majority of the class is taught by the section TF
This course is essentially necessary to begin a study of economics without having a background in it previously, but it can at times be tedious.
David Johnson is an incredible man.  Mankiw's lecturing is underwhelming.
It's not as hard as everyone makes it seem.
Great course that requires work but is very rewarding. David Johnson is the best resource - go to his office hours!! He knows the material backward and forward. Also the best teacher I have ever had
Ec 10 is a Harvard tradition, and rightly so. I would encourage any student interested in economics, politics or even current affairs in general to take this course. This course provides the foundation necessary to comprehend important contemporary developments and reveals the intuition behind the market forces that govern our society. I would encourage any student in this course to effectively use the available resources. Office hours with TFs, and especially David Johnson, can be immensely rewarding. To this end, it's important to get an early start on P-Sets so that you can have pertinent questions to ask - when given the opportunity.Admittedly, this course doesn't contain a lot of mathematics, but if you really want to see the mathematical side of this subject, you should ask at office hours. My experience has been that David Johnson is extremely willing to teach this kind of material and willing to engage with students that seek extension.
Many people take this class thinking that they want a foundation in economics that they never had before. I would say there are hundreds of other ways that you could do this efficiently, such as picking up Adam Smith and reading him. You don't have to go through Ec10.
Make sure you don't get behind in the class. The key to finishing strong will be to start strong.
It is not stimulating, but it is a subject I think everyone should have a basic background in. The course is the largest course at the school not because it is good, but because the subject is useful to understand.
If you are going to take this course, take it as a freshmen or sophomore, when you are still willing to do high school type of work.
TAKE THIS COURSE because the material covered is very relevant, useful, and interesting. However, do not expect to enjoy it much. The course set-up is not ideal and you almost never see Mankiw. Still yet, since everyone wants to major in Economics, you're going to have to take this course no matter what in the end.
This class is good and will be easy if you have taken AP Micro. That said, it is also slightly boring because of it. If you read the textbook and helpful hints, section is largely irrelevant.
Ec10 is not the best or easiest class.  It requires disciplined work outside of class, but it also provides a very solid background in economics that is useful for any field of study.
If you don't like your TF in the first several classes, request to be switched! The TF makes it or breaks it. Also, go to all of the Unit Tests and make a study group with friends to get the p-sets done each week! I recommend getting work done in an upperclass dining hall (even if you're a freshman) and spreading out until it's done.
This is a great course that gives you a great foundation in economic understanding. A great course to take, even for non-economic concentrators. It gives you the basic skill set needed to know what is going on in the economy and evaluate economic arguments.
The course is pretty much what everyone says it will be: a big lecture designed to teach the basics of economics in a short amount of time. The class is good if you want a general knowledge of economics, otherwise, probably is not worth taking.
The micro part of economics (Fall) may not be the most exciting, but if you have a good TF it can still be interesting. All in all, it is an intro economics course, so most of it will be not terribly exciting. It's good stuff to know, though.
The material covered in this class is very interesting and really makes you think about the world differently.
If you want to learn more about how the world works, take this class. You will see things in new ways. That being said, it is a long way to fulfill US in the World, and the teaching is not that great. Reading the textbook on your own would probably get you most of the information (if you're self-disciplined).
Ec 10 is a decent course, though by no means great. However, it's unavoidable for any sort of higher level courses in Econ, so there's really not much to do.
If you want to learn the basics of economics, take it. It's not substantively different from AP ec in high school, but if they didn't offer it (or you just didn't take it), be sure to get the knowledge.
BEWARE...having a bad TF will ruin this class...or Mankiw will...one or the other...it is a bummer that this is the intro ec class...interesting material but just is not taught well at all.
Its a great way to combine interests in government and mathematics.
You should only take this if you are interested in the material. If you are not, you will just feel like the whole experience is a waste of your time.
Make sure you get a good section leader. Also, do the pests by yourself, in other words you will not be prepared for your exams. Mankiw is actually really nice and smart, so don't let the liberal bias on the campus scare you from taking this class.
Honestly, I suppose I'm glad I took this course despite my overall lukewarm feelings to it. It admittedly does provide a basic foundation to economics, knowledge that will come in handy in any later profession. It also reaffirmed that I am most definitely not choosing to concentrate in economics.
Great introduction to economics!
It takes willingness to seek out help from peers and TFs during office hours. P-sets will take at least 4-6 hours depending on whether or not you know the material. Get a friend to keep you on track and to work on p-sets together. You can work out the kinks or you can look to your TF. Every part of this course is very important.
Its too, too hard. Be ready for a tough one.
It's taught entirely in section!  So unless you get a good tf (of which there are probably 2 total) this will be a very very long year
Ec 10 will provide a great economic base to students who wish to take it. I would recommend it to anyone that is interested in economics or the issues of the world. I think the course is so important in learning how the world works that it should be required for freshmen.
If you are a humanities student (especially an upperclassman) looking for an overview of economics under some grandiose intention of "educating herself," don't do it. The course is more demanding and difficult than it appears. And although it is a survey course, much of the application of material is involved. For pure conceptual understanding, just reading the textbook on your off-time might be the best bet.
The ease of this  class' material  can be deceptive, I  thought it was easy until I took my first midterm.
It was somewhat interesting yet a little dry with a fair bit of reading.
Go into this class with your eyes open. It won't always (or even most of the time) be fun.
Read the helpful hints. They are, well, more helpful than the textbook is going to be especially for the problem sets. Go to David Johnson's review sessions! They are amazing and relate the concepts in class to policy, like the Simpson-Bowles debt plan and other debates. They are by far the most exciting and inspirational part of the course so far. It is hard to understand Prof Mankiw from the balcony, so I recommend sitting downstairs in Sanders.
Economics is good to know in general and I am glad I took this course because I am far better informed now. However, the class can get dry and very graphs-oriented, and unless it is a concentration requirement or you are seriously considering economics it might not be the most captivating, interesting course to take. Also, the class is taught in section (with a couple of large lectures) by mostly grad students so the TF you get and their teaching abilities can vary wildly.
The TF structure isn't the best, nor are the lectures necessarily, but the course does teach a lot of incredibly useful information. The textbook is great.
It requires a good deal of application that goes beyond what you learn in the book.
Okay class. Materials are not that well organized, so things you learn in sections and through the book might be pretty unclear.
Get a good section leader. If you don't get a good section leader, switch sections.
It's surprisingly what an understanding of basic economics may do to you perspective on life.  If you've already taken an AP Economics class, I'd still recommend you take EC 10, as chances are there's plenty you won't have seen before.
Mankiw and guest lectures connect what you learn in the course to the economic issues of the nation and world. Section should, if you have a halfway decent TF, explain what you might have misunderstood in the book, but overall, Principles of Economics is an outstanding, easy to comprehend textbook.
Basic economics, but quite complex analysis.  Applications may be difficult for beginners.
Your experience all depends on your section leader.
It was ok. I had a good section leader, though--if you don't get a good section leader, you won't like it as much.
It is a decent class... I feel somewhat prepared to engage in further studies in economics.
If you want to learn economics this is obviously the class to take, but your grade largely depends on what TF you get.
This is a course about the fundamentals that everyone should have some knowledge of. Very well-structured, although the TFs are not very useful. Go to David Johnson's office hours/ exam reviews: he is excellent ! If you do the psets yourself, read the book, go to lecture, you will get a good grade without too much effort. The concepts are in general well-explained as are their relevance to current economic problems. A useful course.
This is not a class where you learn how to work in Wall Street or how to run a business. You learn how an economy works, which is something I feel everyone should know about especially in our our current economic climate and situation.
This is a great class and as long as your TF is good, you will have an awesome time
If you actually do the reading and do the problem sets yourself, this class is very easy. It's a great way to learn the basics of economics, so if you're at all interested in this then you should definitely take this class. Make sure you like your TF, though!
This is a great introductory economics class.  However, you really have to get lucky with who your TF is because you learn almost all the material in section.  For example, my TF Harry is kind of crazy but he's an excellent teacher.  He knows what he's talking about.  The psets aren't that bad.  You need to read the textbook and pay attention during the lectures which take place every now and then because David Johnson likes to asks questions from both of these sources on the tests.  Overall, take the class if you have even a slight interest in economics!
Get a good TF. If you don't, you'll have an awful semester.
Take this course if you want to know more about econ
A great intro to Economics. The tests are hard.
The experience you have largely depends on the section leader you get (because most of the class is taught in section). Make sure you talk to people and try to get someone who is good. The course was very organized and helps people kinda decide whether they really enjoy ec.
Don't take this class.  It is difficult to get help, the Psets and tests are much harder than the basics that are taught in section.  The synthesis that you are expected to do in this class is horrific and the TFs are sometimes clueless.
Do the readings in the textbook
The good thing about the class is that you don't really need to worry about the small quantity of lectures by Mankiw, as you learn much more in your section. If you are lucky to have a good TF, then Ec10 might be one of your favorite classes in the given semester.
This course is fundamental to a well rounded undergraduate education. Learning these fundamentals is essential to better understand and participate constructively in national and international economic debate.
Microeconomics can be somewhat dry, but the concepts learned are practical and important in understanding markets and trends in the world.
The class is very engaging, but the execution/setup of this course is lacking.
The class doesn't cover the most interesting material, but it does help you understand the way economists think about the world.  Very useful if you're planning on pursuing work in the social sciences.
Useful, and I feel like I learned a significant amount, but midterms and the final were hard! Doing well on psets and feeling like you understand the material decently is definitely not enough to do well in the course.
It can be boring, but it is worth taking.
Your TF determines the quality of your experience. If you end up with a bad TF like I did, just go talk to David Johnson!
This is a great class to build a strong foundation in economics. It is an introductory course, but the problem sets and exams require you to synthesize the material in a challenging, but fair way.
Pay attention to the guest lecturers, there are always questions about their presentations on the exams!
It's not a very exciting or stimulating class, it can at times be a little frustrating, but it gives you a solid necessary basis of knowledge in economics.
The class is easy for some and very difficult for others. The good news is that if you work hard on the course and keep up with the work and Unit tests even if you don't get a phenomenal grade you will get a fair one.
This course covers material that is useful to know regardless of your academic interests.
It could be a very boring experience sometimes, but what else can you expect from an introductory coarse.
Exactly what you might expect from an extremely large, freshman, introductory Economics course. Pretty impersonal, the teaching fellows do not all have a solid handle on the English language, the professor wrote the insanely expensive textbook, and [on the plus side] it is as advertised - you WILL learn Economics.
Even if you aren't a fan of economics, this is a course everyone should take because the concepts are so fundamentally ingrained in society.
Lots of work. All work done in section. Little math preparation for doing problem sets. Lots of people who take it have taken Econ before.
The class itself is kind of a pain and sections are very boring, but the information is definitely worth knowing, so I would recommend that other students take this class to gain an introductory education in the very important field of economics.
This is a great way to learn economics, and more importantly, to simply be better informed about the debates going on in the world.
It is a lot of work. be prepared to struggle.
Be careful about buying into everything you're told. The class tries to seem like it's telling objective truth and doesn't like to admit that it's making assumptions.
It's a relatively good introduction to economics and manageable for the most part.
not the most interesting or exciting class ever, but gives you knowledge about economics that I think every person should know
It is useful information regardless of what you concentrate in.
This class is kind of bland, but is very good for the basics of economics.
From what I've heard from other people, your experience really depends on your TF, since almost all of the first semester is taught in section, especially the first quarter.  I had a great TF and although he was tough in section, I learned a lot and was very prepared.
Really study for the midterms
This is an excellent class for any Harvard undergrad.  I learned a huge amount about economics over the course of this semester, and I know any student can reap the same benefits.  Mankiw is an excellent professor who is very accessible through his office hours.  Overall, I never found the class particularly difficult, but it was always enjoyable.
Great class with information that is applicable to everyday life. Not too difficult and problem sets don't take too much time but do require some thinking.
I thought it was a great class to take as a sophomore not concentrating in economics. I had zero economics background and didn't think I would enjoy the class at all, but ended up loving it!
Fascinating material.  It will give you a different way of looking at the world whether you want to go into econ or not.  Section is hit or miss.  If you have a bad section leader switch out in the beginning.
EC10 is an unfortunate requirement for the Economics department. Although it provides the masses with some basic knowledge of a form of economics, it does not generate a student's interest in what Economics should be truly about.
If you do the work and reading, you will do well. You will excel if you have a strong quantitative background.
This class teaches material that is important to know for life, but can get dry and tedious at times
Do the Problem Sets yourself because they are a great way of preparing for tests
Its really hard
Learn the material
What you get out of this course depends on how much time and effort you put into it.
Ec 10 is not always the most interesting or exciting course, but it does give you essential knowledge for understanding much of what is happening in the world today. I would reccommend this course, even if you're not an economics concentrator.
It's difficult, and I didn't enjoy it, but it's the only comprehensive beginning economics course Harvard has. Do all the unit tests because they're hard to fail, so they're basically free extra credit.
The TF is everything
Keep up on the readings, and GO TO SECTION.
i don't really like it... i think it turned me off from taking ec in the future because the material just isn't intuitive for me
its not all its cracked up to be. but also, the mankiw haters are really few and far between. his course/work is not biased, it teaches sensibly.
Take this only if you have to. Otherwise, you'll learn a bunch of useless crap that only professors care about. But it is a requirement for ec. Be prepared to learn useless information.
pray that you get a good tf. if not you're own your own!
Understand that Pr. Mankiw's book and lectures are often just an opinion, and not necessarily economic fact (there is almost never such a thing). If you understand that Ec10 is just a model to better understand capitalist economics, then take the course. Your section leader can often make or break your experience in the class, since Mankiw lectures so little.
Be prepared to spend lots of time on the problem sets and reading the textbook if you want to actually know the material and do well on the exams.
You won't see the professor very often... But that's okay if you get a good TF. If you get Jelani you will love your life because he is so nice and helpful and approachable. It's a good class to take, just to get general knowledge about how economics works.
This is a class that everyone slightly interested in finance or the business world should take
Very good introductory class. It is really well-organized. The material is interesting and seemingly relevant to real life. The material is not terribly earth-shattering, but is useful. Sometimes is challenging. Tests and problem sets are often difficult, but challenge you to apply and understand the application of concepts, not just rote memorization.
This class is tough. The textbook is interesting/easy to get through, but the problem sets can be really difficult and time-consuming (and the grading of them can be harsh as well). The exams are really,really hard too, but the curve is pretty generous to compensate. I feel like this is a class that everyone should take though, especially because so much of what you learn can be applied to the real world.
I took this class because I wanted to be able to speak intelligently about current economic matters - I didn't learn enough practical applications of what we learned about.
Do the reading in the textbook along with what is being discussed in section.  Also, make time for office hours; they can be very helpful.  The work is manageable and can be done well if you plan ahead.
It's helpful for learning the basics of economics.  I think its a good course for everyone to take, and it teaches you to look at the world from a different perspective.  That said, don't expect to come out of the course with a deep understanding of economics. It's an Intro class.  The works not horrible, and there are a lot of opportunities to improve your grade, so that's nice too.
Your TF can really determine how much you like/dislike this course, but regardless, it's a nice class to take since it's information that's just good to know.
If you get a bad section leader good luck, this course will be terribly difficult for you.
Do the reading before section! Always! It will help you learn SO much more!
This class isn't that hard, and it also doesn't have much of an ideological slant, as some people would have you believe, so even if you disagree with some of the things that are mentioned, just deal with it.
You should take it!
Good overview and good intro.
If you're unsure whether or not you want to concentrate in/get a secondary in econ, I would take this class to help you decide. I didn't like the class very much, but taking ec10 at least allowed me to decide against a concentration/secondary in econ. As for the class itself, the lectures are pretty interesting but the sections are pretty boring. The biggest issue is that you'll see these whacko problems on exams and psets that you don't really learn how to do in section and can't figure out based on the information in the book.
Take it!!! it is very good for your future
Very good introductory economics course. By all means take it!
A basic knowledge is necessary for understanding the world around you. Your experience in Ec10 will depend on your TF. Regardless of the quality of your TF's teaching, you should take Ec to be engaged with current events. You'll still learn a lot.
I took this course pass fail and put very little work into it.  I basically just learned from the book.  The book is awesome.  The teaching is just the book rehashed in a worse form.  Take it as you will.
It's not bad for being a quick, surface-level exploration of economic ideas.
Be ready to handle the mind of David Johnson.  Only look to the book for rudimentary understanding of the concepts, but be prepared to extend this understanding with the aid of thought-provoking and somewhat difficult questions.
Take this class! The material is not difficult, but you learn a lot if you put the time and effort. It is also a great way to meet other freshmen or simply interact with the wonderful teaching staff. Lectures are not dull and sections (at least my section with Vladimir) are wonderful. Take this class!
If you can't avoid it, you can't avoid it. Just try to actually read the textbook, it's often more helpful than section.
Basically, take this class if you didn't take economics in high school and you want a decent foundation in the field.  I'm not sure it would be all that helpful if you had taken AP micro & macro, but since I hadn't, I did learn a lot.  Make sure you get a good TF though; since the course is almost entirely taught in section, both your understanding and your grade will depend on the quality of the TF.  Also, definitely do problem sets in groups, particularly with friends with different TFs.
A great class that helps you think in a different way.
Mankiw does not actually teach this course...
This is a must-take course. You will learn the economic facts needed to develop a cogent economic and political worldview. Even if you get a bad TF, it is more than possible to do well if you ACTUALLY read the book (it's actually very interesting) and read through the helpful hints and read the P-set answers. I would recommend it to anyone at Harvard who is even mildly interested in politics and current events. It covers so much of what happens in society. This is knowledge everyone should have.
The class is time consuming and doing the problem sets is a drag however the knowledge is very important and not taking economics would leave a large gap in your knowledge making it a class that everyone should take.
Most of the learning you end up doing on your own. The course is not structured to show you how to do the work on the psets/exams.
The general course (the lectures, the book, the content) is very good. I got a good sense for basic microeconomics and will continue to take the macroeconomics part of Ec-10 in the spring. Unfortunately, however, there is a crucial element of the course about which students (especially freshmen not familiar with receiving bad TFs) should be warned.I learned very little from my TF and was often misled to believe something that was completely false. I think that more than half the class still believes that a concave-down curve is "bowed outward" not inward. And I have no idea what else I have been led to believe that might not be true. When asked questions about some of the material, he often could not come up with an answer and would defer to the class for a general consensus as to the answer. I could never trust my TF's knowledge, so I ended up mainly learning from the lectures, the book, online materials, other students, and other sections.Yes, the course's curve accounts somewhat for bad TFs, but it doesn't feel that great to know that I could've learned just as much by teaching myself economics from Mankiw's textbook.While there are some excellent TFs (David Johnson is one of them), there are some TFs that should be avoided at any cost.Good luck!
This class is really interesting and fun even if you're not an Ec concentrator. The tests can be kind of difficult for an elective, but the information is some of the most relevant stuff I've learned at Harvard, so I would definitely say it's worth it. Also, the math isn't too intimidating or difficult, even for those who prefer qualitative work.
This class is intermittently interesting, but most of the problem sets are quite tedious.
Take this course, if only because you should have a basic understanding of how the economy works. This is our best option to obtain it.
It is definitely a course the requires a deep understanding of economics and a lot of time, but if you are interested in the subject, go for it!
This course is extremely rewarding as long as you are willing to dedicate an adequate amount of time. The readings are enjoyable as long as you don't fall behind--section will then be useless. If you attend section regularly and complete the assigned work, the material will make sense and you won't have to spend time cramming for exams. This course has inspired me to continue my studies in the field of economics.
Good way to start learning Economics..Pay attention in section, because that is where the textbook material will be explained well, and go to lectures because on our 2nd midterm 4 or 5 of the multiple choice questions (out of 16) were on lectures
Recommend mainly because you need it for an Ec concentration and pretty useful in the real world. But the way it's taught is pretty bad for such an important class. Section very useless.
The evaluations (midterms and finals) are much more difficult than the problem sets, unit tests and problems offered in section.
Expect the TF's to suck
It may be a pain, but you need the knowledge for the future, whether you are pursuing an economics degree or not. The course changes the way you look at the world and why things are the way they are. Beware that all assignments and exams have absolutely nothing to do with what is taught in class - they test your innate problem solving abilities, which can get frustrating. Textbook readings are hardly useful for evaluations - they are just for your personal enjoyment. TF quality varies tremendously, so choose yours wisely.
Take this class if you plan to major in ec, or if you'd like to gain a good comprehension of how economics works, but if you aren't concerned with either of those things take a more interesting/unique class.
The content is very important and the course teaches you to think outside the box and in a very useful way. The exams are difficult and the problem sets require a lot of time and effort.
If you're interested in economics, this class is a good place to start. But realize that it's taught mostly by grad students and be prepared to teach yourself a lot of the concepts. Some people find the problem sets difficult, but if you spend time to understand the concepts (the textbook is helpful) they should be quite manageable.
Very tough class, but very informative and a great way to be introduced to economics.
The class is a rite of passage.  It must be taken for economics, and most don't enjoy it.  However, it is an experience, and you can learn a lot from it.
Take it
Painless most of the time
I feel like Ec-10 is one of those courses that is just useful to take for the sake of learning some basic principles of economics and how they impact daily interactions in society. It's really useful and explains a lot of really relevant concepts, and isn't too much work!
It's a good course to take to gauge your interest in econ
It's a great class! You learn a lot of interesting concepts with straightforward real-life applications. You have a better understanding of the economic world
Do your assigned reading before section. Not necessarily the whole chapter word for word, but the graphs and understand the general concepts introduced or else section will become a waste of time if you haven't.
It's a really big class and pretty much everyone is taking it, definitely THE "freshman class" at Harvard.
It's a solid intro econ class.
Be warned: this class, although not too difficult, is enlightening.  If you don't like economics, don't take it just because your friends are.
A lot of work, and pretty stiff, but if you get a good section leader you're golden
It's not as bad as everyone says
I would say that enjoying the course really depends on how well you like your TF. I like the material, and it's a good overview of economic concepts for people like me who took economics in high school but never really delved deeper than an extremely superficial level.
This course will teach you very useful and interesting material, though you may have to put a lot of personal effort in to feel like you understand it well.  How well you are taught the material depends heavily on your TF and his/her teaching style, but no matter who your TF is you can learn the material from the textbook, which is really clear.  This class will most likely have a lot of your friends in it so you can work together on problem sets - without help from TFs and peers the problem sets are very, very challenging.  Also, the exams are given in very short time periods so that you feel pretty rushed.  But of course, that is the situation for everyone so the curve is always generous.  I'm happy I took this class because I knew nothing about economics before and now I have definitely noticed that I understand things in the news and casual conversation better.  The ideas you are introduced to in this course are very interesting and worthwhile, it just takes effort to master the material.  The lectures are usually pretty interesting as well - especially the behavioral economics one.  Be prepared to be a bit frustrated by challenging problems, but if you  want to take this course you'll probably get a lot out of it.
This class is amazing in the sense that everything you learn can be applied to daily life. You will find yourself referring to "diminishing marginal utility" in your every day life. However, while the material of the course is amazing, there are many problems with the course itself. For instance, the class is almost entirely taught in section, with little involvement from the instructor. Additionally, exams do not reflect material learned but rather heavily weight the course readings on the website. This makes the class a bit unpredictable. Take it anyway for economic knowledge!
Take it if you want to know what it teaches
Make sure you get a good TF. Make up any excuse to transfer if you get a bad one. It will make or break your semester.
This class is very mathematical and does not go into social theory often. It is also very right-leaning. It gives you a good knowledge of economics to expand upon later, though.
Solid work required, interesting course
Very difficult and time consuming, but a good way to measure your interest in economics.
I feel that a lot of the students in this class complained that it was a difficult course. I find this to be completely NOT the case. I felt this was one of my easiest courses. During the Unit Tests, which are optional extra credit tests that are graded in groups, many of the students in my grading group seemed to have struggled on very fundamental concepts. I really think that this is an enjoyable course as long as you are not both lazy AND incompetent. If you are either competent OR willing to put forth the time to read the textbook, you will do fine in this class and get an A with no problem. Possibly an A+ if you also take the time to do the Unit Tests for extra credit (they are short at only about an hour or so each). The one thing to watch out for though is that the midterm exams are also only an hour, but they are long. You must work quickly!!! or you will not finish.
do the readings!
If you like numbers and applying math then this class will work well for you.
Class provides a solid understanding of the fundamentals of economics.
This was my first introduction to economics, and I loved it (and am now considering concentrating in it). If you don't know anything about econ, I definitely recommend checking this out. However, be prepared for some tough problem sets and some fairly unreasonable exam questions. Also, MAKE SURE YOU GET A GOOD TF! I had a great TF so I really enjoyed the class, but I have friends who had horrible TFs and were miserable all semester. 90% of this class is taught in section, so if you don't get a TF you like off the bat, I would recommend switching into a different section immediately. Your enjoyment and learning are directly linked to your TF quality.
I loved this class. I never knew what economics was, and I had the impression that it was boring and that I would hate it. However, after taking Ec10, I actually have decided to concentrate in economics. I had heard horror stories about this class, so I was very hesitant when I started, but I ended up loving it. If you even think you might be interested in Ec or if you don't know what you're interested, take this course.
Even if you have taken one or both of the APs, this course may still be challenging, as it was for me and I took both in high school. It is a bit more mathematical and certainly more intensive. It delves into topics I skimmed through in high school.
Its a good class not too hard and most people can easily get a B in it.
Don't be afraid of your TF; it helps to actually talk in section.
You will do work but it is worth it. Your experience really depends on your TF though.
Keep up with the reading, don't memorize graphs but rather understand how they are derived
If you have never taken an econ course, take it. It will change the way you think about the world.
Only take this class if you don't mind very little attention from instructors and teaching entirely in sections.
Sorry, but you're screwed - not only is it a major gen ed but a requirement for most concentrations.  Mankiw has set himself up nicely to profiteer off students
It's a good course for introductory economics, but it is a class meant to weed out all the potential economics concentrators.
Get a tutor, Go to office hours and put in the time.
Take this class if you must but know that you won't get very much help.
This class is pretty enjoyable and the material is applicable to real life. The book reading very closely mirrors section, but it helps to read the book to reinforce the concepts learned in section. The problem sets are a lot harder than any of the examples done in class. The unit tests are a useful way to practice more difficult sorts of problems, and they help you figure out what you need to study for the midterms.
don't mess around
It is a great opportunity to learn about the economics behind everyday life, and behind the policies which affect us. You see the world in a different light after taking this course.
Everyone should learn some economics. It describes how the world works. Without it, the ability to make educated decisions and determine and explain the motives of others' actions is significantly reduced.
- Experience definitely depends on the TF you get. But make the best out of it by going to their office hours. If you don't feel like you're getting the most out of your TF, then go to other sections and office hours.- Put more time into reviewing readings and notes, as it makes studying the ridiculously hard exams easier. There's a LOT of material at the end to cover, so just make sure you keep on top of things throughout the semester.
it is so impersonal and self-taught and you are by no means guaranteed of success, by which i mean mastery, of the course.
Try to think of everything that you learn as explaining something that you know but couldn't explain very clearly.  For some, it comes as common sense, for others it might be very difficult.  It also depends on your section leader.
you pretty much get what you expect -- a huge class that's almost entirely taught in section. you can teach yourself everything if necessary (it's not hard material), but having a good TF makes a huge difference. just hope you get a good one.
This class is what you make of it. If you are interested in the subject and willing to broaden your knowledge on how the world we are living in today works, this is a good start.
Take your time with the problem sets, and try to understand why each question was included.
Cross your fingers that you get a good TF.
The lectures are great, but not very common.
Prepare for the exams on your own and well in advance. Do the problem sets with buddies from your section or others. Do past exams and do ALL the readings (easy points on the exams). Be sure to be aware of what's expected assignment wise.
If you have a terrible TF resection because it will make your life a lot easier. Also take an economics in high school.
Be ready to work very hard.  This course teaches you a lot, but you have to be responsible to stay on top of your work.
This class has been one of my favorite courses at Harvard so far. I feel like I finally have informed opinions on political issues, because of a newly formed economic perspective. That being said, it's a fair amount of time (readings and problem sets)and only take it if you are interested in economics and math.
You'll have to teach yourself everything. If you're doing any sort of social science, it's kind of a painful necessity.
Make sure to synthesize everything in the class.
Mankiw only gives a few lectures, which was a bit disappointing. However, the section leaders are very good for the most part and if your goal is to gain a solid knowledge of microeconomics, this is a great course.
The course teaches you a new way to think.
The class is extremely thorough, but be prepared to learn one specific account of economics. Understanding the context for the principles that you are learning, and realizing that there are in fact alternative theories of economics out there, and that some disagreement exists about the maxims presented in the course, will certainly be important.
Don't just take it because you feel like you should know economics or to fulfill the requirement.  A lot of how much you learn will depend on your section leader so if you don't like your section try and switch out.  The class gives you an interesting perspective for viewer the world, but it may go completely against everything you know to be true about people and behavior.
Your TF is the person who will make or break your experience in Ec10.  There are very few lectures (which is a shame because the lectures are generally interesting), and all of the actual content is taught in section. I'd highly recommend doing everything you can to switch TFs if you don't like yours.Also, since the only way to differentiate grades for such a big class is to have hard exams, be prepared for things you've never seen and exams that are too long for the allotted time.
Take this class knowing that it is a very large and impersonal course experience. The midterms are very difficult to prepare for and the overall structure of the course may be frustrating, but the material is useful.
not as easy as it seems...
This course provides you with a strong background in microeconomics.  Though the problem sets and exams may seem daunting, there are a lot of resources to provide you help on these assignments - office hours, review sessions, study groups.  Additionally, the class does a good job of interspersing small sections that teach the material with lectures that demonstrate the applications of the material.
The class is not too interesting or too engaging, but it is a fairly simple and clear introduction to economics.
It's a required course for all economics concentrators. What can you do!
Ec 10 although an intro class is definitely a difficult course to take. There is a lot of reading and a lot of material to cover. This is definitely a course where you get what you put in to it.
grind
Something you have to go through. Not terribly enjoyable, but whatever
Don't be fooled by the big-name professor on the course description or the two first lectures in Sanders, this class is taught in section. If you don't get a good TF you are screwed.
The class is interesting and informative, if slightly impersonal.  Would not recommend to take on a whim (unless one is very interested in economics), but one will learn quite a lot.
There is a lot of work to manage. Go to office hours and stay on top of all of the assignments. This is not one of those classes that you can ignore until the midterm or final. Begin everything assignment long before it's due.
You won't see much of your professors.
It is a good introduction to economics and it's not all that difficult.
Not as easy as I'd expected it to be. The difficultly level of the class has been increased since last year. The readings are subjects covered in section are simple. The homework and tests were extremely difficult.
This class is a good introduction to economics, and always relevant to everyday life; you will soon be connecting many issues of today to the concepts you learn in class, which is rather enjoyable.
Easy class, take the unit tests, very generous curve. You'll do well.
My only reservation is that the exams are nit-picky
If you are looking to learn the basics of economics and gauge your interest in this field, then take this course.
Even though it's a lot of work, take it. It's important to understand the problems with the economy.
Ec 10 is an important course to take because you learn the foundations of economics which everyone should know. However, there are a few things to keep in mind: 1) this class is taught by your TF; Mankiw gives 4 lectures and you read his book; 2) the midterms and final are hard- the problems are harder versions of problems you have seen or problems you have never seen before; however, they're curved so people end up doing fine; 3) you need to stay on top of the work if you want to do well; 4) go to office hours, it really helps; 5) Mankiw is economically conservative and his opinions may bother you; keep in mind that you don't have to agree with him, you are in this course to learn the basics of economics; 6) get a good TF...this is extremely important
Ec 10 is not as practical as it may seem to outsiders who have never taken economics before.
You need to know this material.  Unfortunately, this is the only class that teaches it.  Hope for a good section leader and go to their office hours.  Try to sit in on David Johnson's section if you can -- he's the actual professor this course and the only one who knows how to teach it.
This course is very helpful if you will major in Econ, and the material really helps understand what is going on in the real world. Yet, the testing is brutal. It's unnecessarily hard, even for me who scored  a top score in IB HL Econ.
Ec10 was incredibly interesting and eye-opening. It was difficult, but rewarding.
Ec10 was great!  I say this conditionally because I had an amazing TF (Holger Wilms), and since this course is taught almost entirely in section, your TF determines a lot. Mankiw is actually a pretty interesting lecturer when he lectures, and most of the guest lecturers are quite good as well. There are only 6 problem sets (not 10 like the science courses!), and working in groups makes things go faster. Learning basic economics is something everyone should do--it's unbelievably relevant to everyday life, and this is a relatively painless course. Take it!
It's a good course if you want to sample economics, but has some of the problems of all large courses.
It's a good indicator if you'll end up liking economics.  If you're thinking about concentrating in Ec and despise the class, don't concentrate in Ec.  The class is rather bureaucratic, but that comes with having about 800 people enrolled.  If you ever have problems with the P-Sets go to David Johnson's office hours FIRST!  He writes the problem sets, and he is great at getting you to learn the "intuition" behind the problem, which will be helpful on tests.           Other notes:  You're always crunched for time on midterms, so be prepared!  The class is taught in section with a few guest economists coming in to lecture throughout the term.  Having a good section leader is an invaluable asset in this class.  Go to the coursewide review sessions- you won't be disappointed.
This is one of the most useful classes you can take at Harvard.
I really enjoyed taking EC 10 because I have a good TF. If you get a good TF, not only would your life be easier, you would also love the material significantly more.
You know what you are getting into if you take this class.  If you have an interest, take the class.
very difficult course. Kills your mark because you can know every possible concept taught in the course and yet fail the exams due to required synthesis that was not demonstrated during the actual course
Everyone should have an elementary understanding of economics, so everyone should take this course.
this class is not structured very well, and the quality of the course will depend heavily on the section you are placed in.
If a student is interested in economics, he or she should take the course.  However, since one only has a limited number of classes that one can take over the course of four years, 1 credit of this course is a lot to give up especially if he or she is not interested in pursuing economics in the future.
It is a requirement and an intro into economics that you do have to take if you want to go further into economics in this place. However, this course is not well taught and is rather challenging. Hopefully not representative of what studying economics is like at Harvard in general.
Read the textbook, but this is only a preliminary prep. You have to read all the helpful hints because the questions in the mid term and final are nothing like the ones in the textbook.
Ec 10 is a course all students should take at some point.  While all Harvard students get a firm grounding in math, English, history, and science in high school, most enter college knowing very little about economics.  No matter what students end up concentrating in, it is important to understand how supply, demand, taxes, trade, monetary policy, etc. work.
TAKE THIS CLASS BEFORE YOU GRADUATE. IT WILL TEACH YOU ANOTHER WAY OF THINKING ABOUT THE WORLD.
it gives you the basics of economics and by the end of the course, you will hopefully understand some of those terms in the Wall Street Journal.
A must take! Can change your way of thinking and analyzing the world.
take some time to really learn the material because the tests are very tricky. they want to make the tests as hard and tricky as possible so you really need to learn the ins and outs of the material and how it all works together.
Try to get a good TF
Economics 10 will provide you with a solid foundation in the subject matter, but the course itself is not very engaging. There are very few lectures, and the sections seem to focus on material already covered by the textbook.
It will sometimes get boring but it's rewarding in the end when you can apply your econ skills to real-world situations!
This is a difficult course, and the grading is somewhat unfair.  That said, it is probably the most practical class I have taken at Harvard, and if you get a good TF, you will learn a ton.  Don't be afraid to take it as an upperclassman.
This class, regardless of whether you plan on being an economics concentrator or not, is beneficial to general knowledge.  The concepts you will learn in this course are applicable to many aspects of the social and political realm such as the current economic crisis, the mortgage crisis, and healthcare.  If you want to be a well rounded and knowledgeable individual, this course is for you.
Problem sets are tediously long, but exams are curved tremendously, so it is pretty easy to do well. Just make sure you get a good TF!
Useful info, extremely bureaucratic in its administration. Tests and p-sets are pretty awful.
It's a hard class, but it's useful for anyone to take - regardless of your concentration, a basic knowledge of economics will help you at some point.
If you want an introduction to economics, for any field you are planning on going into, there is no reason not to take Ec 10.  You will learn interesting and useful material that helps you better understand what is going on in the world.  If you work, you will do well.  The tests are simply a matter of studying--as long as you understand the problem sets and review material, and read the textbooks and supplemental readings, there is no reason you should not do well in the class.  Also, go to Mankiw's office hours if you have the chance, just to say hello!  I didn't have much interest in economics before, but now I'm considering taking more classes because I really enjoy it.
Your experience in this course completely depends on how good your TF is - and don't expect to see Greg Mankiw ... at all.
A good introduction to the basic principles of economics, especially since there is no other course at Harvard that offers you to explore the field of economics without previous knowledge. I often felt lost as to what the course expected of me and how to best answer questions on problem sets and exams. Therefore, make sure you get a good TF; knowing the material from the book is simply not enough to do well.
Great economics course!
Students should take this course if they want a good grounding in intro economics. However, be prepared for the fact that it actually a section based course. I didn't realize that TFs were the ones primarily teaching the material.
Take if you think you might concentrate in Economics. Or take Pass/Fail to fill a requirement.
It is an informative course that will change the way you view the world, but you may be frustrated by the exams and lack of feedback on homeworks and tests.
If you have done AP Economics, you really should not take this course. It is a nice general class; the guest lecturers are great. It is entirely taught in section, so don't expect a lot of lectures by Prof Mankiw.
Problem sets and exams are very challenging but feature very lenient curves. Despite the section-heavy nature of the course, worth taking if you find microeconomics interesting.
If you aren't planning on concentrating in economics, don't take it! But since I am, I have found that I have learned a lot and it was a very good base class to take.
The amount of work you need to put in varies wildly from section to section, so just hope you get placed with an easy grading TF or one brilliant at teaching. Also, there are better and easier ways to get the math requirement out of the way.
This class is one of the largest at the college. As such, you'll be able to form study groups with ease. The reading and problem sets are not difficult, however, the midterms are quite intense.
Take this class because it is important to know these things; however, this course is conducted in the least fair way as possible, so find a good TF and form study groups with friends. You will master the material because it is easy, but do not get mad when your grades on the unfair tests do not reflect that.
Definitely useful information and worthwhile to take
micro is a bit dull, but looking forward to macro.
Stay on top of your work and review often
I think it's great to learn economics, and everyone should. However, if you really don't think you want to, and you don't like large, impersonal classes, I'd think of another way to learn economics. Remember that the course is a yearlong. It's nice that about half of your classmates are taking the class though.
The Q scores for this class might not be that high, but this class is valuable and rewarding because it makes you feel so much better informed as a citizen and educated person.  I don't usually like quantitative subjects and didn't think I would like this class very much, but I like it much more than I thought I would.  Many people told me to take Ec 10 as a freshman if I was going to, and I think this is good advice - it gives you something in common with a lot of your classmates and makes it easier to find people to ask questions of or study with.
A good introduction to economics, but generally the TFs are mediocre and it's a little weird only have Mankiw lecture 3 or 4 times the entire semester.
There's no getting around it if your concentration requires it. If you like it, you'll have a good time. If you don't, you'll get over it.
This is a boring class. You should only take it if you are considering majoring in Econ or if you feel that your understanding of economics is insufficient to understand current events. The number of concepts taught in the semester is astoundingly small, with applications to many apparently different scenarios that actually require no new conceptual understanding. For such a simple course, the material is explained surprisingly little. Even keeping in mind that everything we do in the course is an approximation-- something not always made clear-- some assumptions seem so outrageous that the usefulness of these assumptions is questionable.
While it has its faults, It's a good all around class that most people should take.
it may not be fun, but it's an important class to take
I do not recommend this course unless concentrating in economics is a serious consideration. In order to succeed in this course, you must be willing to teach yourself concepts that are nowhere to be found in section. If you've already taken economics, this course will broaden your understanding, albeit with some stubborn effort on your part.
You will certainly get alot out of the class...if you are willing to put ALOT into it.
This material presented in this course is fundamentally necessary to fully understand the world and interactions between people.  Though the course can be slightly challenging and at times a little monotonous, I think it is well worth taking.
This class is a bit of a hassle, but TAKE IT. Very important to understand how the world works, whether you're an ec/government/science/etc major
Be ready for too big a class.
Unless you are really interested in economics, skip it.
Something you want to take while you are in college. It's just all good to know ;)
If you're simply interested in the concept of economics, take another course. The workload is too heavy for you to use it as an elective. But if you need to take it for your concentration, then it's a good course to take. Do your reading and you should be fine.
You'll learn basic economics, but the class is rather boring. Take it if you need to take the class as a requirement or to take future economics courses, but if not, I'd steer clear of it.
It's a great way to fulfill a GenEd requirement, and economics is just something that everyone should have a basic understanding of as it's applicable to so many things occurring in the world around us; however, it has more "math"-y related stuff/concepts than you would think, and it is a fast moving course so be prepared.
It's not as easy as some people say but worth the knowledge you gain. (and it's not hard either, but you do need to put in effort)
start problem sets early so you can ask questions and be thorough.
I would tell future students that they will learn a huge amount of material from this class, and it is definitely one that they should take before graduation; however, I do think that the testing could be done in a more straightforward manner, testing on the concepts instead of testing on new ways to use the concepts.
There is much to be learned in this class, but its impersonality and rapid pace can be discouraging and uninspiring. Come into the course with low expectations and a great deal of initiative, and you will have a decent experience.
come ready to support all your economics-related intuition with graphs.
So much of this class depends on your TF. David Johnson was awesome, and presented the material in a way that made it accessible and easy to understand.
Your experience is highly dependent on your TF and how good they are.
Economics is important to know, even if just basic. This class covers quite a bit.
It is hard, but you learn a lot and go in depth in applying the concepts to modern day economic policy making/choices.
Firstly, you should know that this course is NOT taught by Professor Mankiw. Mankiw merely drops in occasionally to lend his wisdom (through lecture). So, most of this course depends on your section leader. If you're lucky enough to get a good section leader, you'll be fine. If not, then you're in big trouble. So, cross your fingers and hope for the best.
The class is very basic and includes next to no practical math.  If you have previously taken economics, you will not learn much of anything.  That being said, if you have never taken any econ, Ec10 is a good intro and will set you up to take any further classes in the subject.
It's a great class. Read the textbook.
If you take it, you feel like you're really a freshman, and you will have no problem at all finding people to work on problem sets with.
It's a good first taste of economics with a strong attempt to connect econ to current events and relevant social issues.
Its difficult and time consuming
Read ahead in the textbook. You absolutely need to do the assigned readings.
What you get out of this course totally depends on your section leader, or your determination to seek out an effective section leader who doesn't mind your sitting in on his or her section.
It's a lot of work. Don't kid yourself.
This class was easily my least favorite Freshman Fall. Preparing for the tests and doing the problem sets was very difficult to me and it felt as though the studying I was doing was not accomplishing much in terms of grade results. The only reason I'd advise someone to take this course would be to give a Freshman an idea of whether or not they should concentrate in Ec. If you're just looking for your EMR gen ed, look elsewhere.
The material is interesting and presented in a clear and coherent way but the work you do for the class (problem sets, unit tests, and exams) is often confusing and sometimes might not feel like it reflects (or reinforces) your understanding of the material.
stay up to date on the readings! pay attention in lectures!
Do not take if not serious about economics.
Although the concepts and problem sets can at times seem overwhelming, I feel that Ec 10 gave me a general understanding of economics that I will value for the rest of my life.  It really put current events in perspective, and it was amazing to hear some of the guest lecturers.
This is a good foundational course, but they do not consider some of the graver implications of the free-market system.
Recommended for people with an interest in economics, but this class gives you knowledge that is useful for everyday life-understanding the economy, how people buy and sell things. It's very difficult at first, and you will get frustrated at times, but it's part of the Ec 10 experience-you will bond with people and make friends in this class.
If you are going to take economics, you have to take this class. If not, you should just to get a general idea of the topic... the class functions very well in that regard.
Even though this course isn't the most engaging or exciting that Harvard has to offer, you do learn a lot throughout the course. Your experience will depend a lot on the quality of the TF, but even if you don't have the greatest TF the course material ultimately isn't that difficult and there are numerous resources online and through other TFs. The lectures are interesting for the most part, and provide overviews of some interesting applications of the abstract economic concepts learned in class.
take it if you think you'll ever want to take an econ class at harvard.
Yes
ALWAYS do the readings
What section you are in really matters. Go to lectures.
This is a coure that everyone needs to take. It teaches you the fundamental principles to economics - a field that impacts all of our lives every single day.
solid course. you can get a lot from the course no matter what your experience/interest in economics. Not only for people on economics.
If you feel that you need to have a basic understanding of economics, you should take this course. If you stink at math, or anything related, then you should definitely be wary as this class could hurt your GPA a little.
It is a great class that depends heavily upon which section leader you are assigned to.
The test are incredibly difficult and the workload is difficult, but doable.
Don't let the fact that Greg Mankiw is the coursehead deter you from (or attract you to) this course. He teaches a grand total of 5 lectures a semester. So 90% of the course material is taught by your TF. This is really luck-of-the-draw, but it seems from what most people say that most TF's are good. Personally, mine was excellent and I got a lot out of the course.
This class will help teach you how the world works. It's important to understand basic economic principles to be a citizen of the world - TAKE EC.
It's very time consuming and you will not get an A without putting in a lot of time.
Class is pretty standard. Problem sets can take more time than you expect. Hourly exams were fair. Final was hard, so really prepare. Having a good TF is essential. Go to David Johnson's review sessions.
Think carefully about whether this course is right for you to take, especially in your freshman year. Freshman year is a time for exploring new, exciting options, not getting stuck with a course that you may find quite boring. There is actually quite a lot of work in this course, and for some people who are not economically inclined the work quickly becomes tedious and the class becomes hollow. Also - there are problem sets, which can be long and stress-inducing. I'd day that you would have to be extremely interested in pursuing economics as a concentration or extremely interested in mico-economics in general to make taking this course worth your time and effort. One of the key lessons of this course is the concept of opportunity cost (forgone opportunities incurred from making a particular decision)- and with this lesson in mind i would really urge you to think of whether another course would be more worthwhile for you to take.
A lot of work, but worth it.
Any student interested in having a competent understanding in how financial systems in the world works needs to at least have this class.
This is a great class to establish the fundamentals of economics.
The material you learn will be very useful later on in life, no matter what you decide to do.  Unfortunately, the students' individual experiences in the course seem to be unimportant to the Harvard bureaucracy.
I would advise against taking Econ 10 unless you're thinking of doing a concentration or a secondary in economics.  There is another (gen-ed) econ class you can take that does not assume any prior background knowledge.
This course is time consuming and not terribly interesting all the time, but everyone should take it because economics helps to explain the way our world works. You will bond with your fellow freshman and be glad that you took it in the end.
Try to switch TFs if you feel like you are having a really difficult time understanding the material during section.
This is an intro to Econ that everyone should take. That being said, do not fall more than a few chapters behind and pay attention in section. It's not terribly difficult if you get a good TF, but P-Set problems will confuse you if you don't have a strong understanding of the material.
This class really depends on your tf so if you realize in the first few days of class that your tf's teaching style doesn't suit your learning style, I would definitely recommend resectioning.
The material's great, the lectures are a particular highlight, though there are few of them. Most of the material itself is presented in section, which makes your experience in this class somewhat dependent on the quality of your TF, especially if you depend on in-class presentation of material to succeed.
Good TF required if you want a good experience. Even if your TF is not exactly sane, but he or she is good, you're very lucky. Until the TF selection process for Ec10 is improved, I hope you just focus on how practical and applicable the material is. I enjoyed my class because Laurence is a good albeit pretty odd TF (but aren't we all a bit weird...).
little work, lots of interesting things
It's almost an experience. Don't expect to be guaranteed to do well, problem sets easily take upwards of 6 hours each, sometimes more, and are sometimes mostly busy work. Definitely take unit tests, and take notes in lecture.
Stay on top of the reading and find a good study group to do problem sets and you'll be fine!
Ec 10 is well structured and organized but often impersonal and hurried.
The exams for this class tend to test specific details instead of large concepts, and your experience is largely contingent upon the TF you get. Be sure to keep on top of the material, because it adds up and some exam questions pull from various concepts and try to fuse them. Work on problem sets in a group, and definitely go to your TF (if you feel comfortable) for help or review.
This class involves much more math than I thought. If you have a good TF, the course is much better. The unit tests are great, so take every one.
If you're looking for a general knowledge of economics, this is the course.
Have luck getting a good TA. And Mankiw holds only 5 lectures or so...so he is there mainly for the name.
Take it, because you owe it to yourself to learn how the world of economics fundamentally works and it is not terribly difficult (particularly if you have several friends/roommates taking it), but keep in mind that much of it (sections, etc.) is not well taught and you will have to learn much of the material from the textbook.
Economics is useful to learn. Because it is so sweeping, it is not particularly focuse nor necessarily always interesting, but several of the topics are fascinating.
Not enough support. You are one in 600.
Be prepared for hell in the form of p-sets and exams.
The concepts are easy to understand but applying them to do well on the tests is very hard.
The problem sets are very long and tedious (though not always difficult), although there are only six. The exam grading is arbitrary and inconsistent.
Taking this course felt like playing a game, and I didn't really like it. Learning the economics wasn't enough - we had to memorize small details from the readings and textbook to do well on exams. It seemed like we were rewarded more for following directions and sucking up to TFs than we were for learning the material. Also, Greg Mankiw was supposed to "teach" the course, but I felt that his presence was minimal, and he could be considered a guest lecturer at best. Don't take this course unless you really really really want to major in ec, because I guess then you don't have a choice. If you want to take economics just because it makes you a better citizen, that's a good idea, but take USW 17 instead.
David Johnson makes this class- make sure to at least go to his review sessions and/or office hours if you are not in his section. Every politician should be forced to take this class.
It's not too much work, it's a lot of fun, and it's an important class to have taken.
I thought the course was definitely worth taking. I learned a lot however be prepared for a lot of work. Problem sets take a long time to finish and usually have to consult with section leaders for help.
Know the reading for the tests
DON'T LET YOURSELF FALL BEHIND!
Good class. I thought it was basic economic knowledge that would be good to know in life but this wasn't completely true.
Hey there.  Hope you're having fun shopping for/thinking about your classes.  I'm really glad I took this class.  Really fun.  But your Ec 10 experience IS contingent on your section leader, so try to land with a good, clear teacher, and switch out EARLY if your section leader isn't strong.  I'd recommend my teacher but he's peacing, so sorry not to be helpful on that piece.  Also, thoughts for seniors and/or those taking this for an elective: pass/fail is a nice option for this class, because there is a lot of work and it's nice to not have the pressure of a grade.  I still went to section and turned in assignments, but it was nice to not have to get all the nitty-gritty details and just focus on bigger concepts.  But you'll have to decide for yourself if you can get yourself motivated enough with pass/fail.  To everyone: YOU ARE GREAT.  You are an awesome, smart, wonderful person.  Don't be hard on yourself.  You rock, so shine on.
Stay on top of the readings so that you may get the most out of section. Also before exams make sure to devote an adequate amount of time to reviewing lecture notes and additional readings in addition to covering the material as they have a great presence on the multiple choice section of the exam.
Best class at Harvard. Enthusiastic staff. Teaches you to think.
It is difficult but provides you with a good economics background.
helps gain knowledge about everyday happenings
This class gets hard...fast.  It's valuable information to know, presented in an interesting way, but be prepared for some sleepless nights and burning questions.
Your understanding of the material really depends on which TF you get. Be prepared not to rely on the book to learn the information.
It is very hard to do well in this class if you are not happy with your section.
It is a difficult class but very interesting.
There is not much work, but when you do get work, it is very difficult and time consuming. The exams are very difficult, especially with the time constraint. The curve is very helpful though. The material is also interesting.
It's difficult but it's not too bad...definitely a class that everyone should take, just to have a basic grasp of economics.
Little access to professor, hit-or-miss TFs.
It is a great preparation for the future in business and economics
You need to be able to apply concepts to do well on the exam. Memorizing concepts barely helps.
If you are interested in concentrating in economics, or think you may be, then you basically have to take this course. Reading textbook chapters before section is helpful. As long as you don't fall behind in understanding topics, you'll be fine. If you do fall behind, tutors are helpful! Get one early!
It's not as hard as its reputation.
I found this course to be really interesting, but the be prepared for some tough P-Sets and Hourly Exams.
I learned a lot.
Pretty legit class. Good lectures and great teaching staff.
This classed changed the way I look at things. It's a classic Harvard class. It's a must-take!
Go to section! Bring coffee to Mankiw's lecture
Besides the problem sets, there was generally not that much work. Just by reading the book and paying attention in section, anyone can do well in this class.
It definitely does improve your understanding of economics but you have to teach yourself a lot of the time
It covers a lot of material in a very short amount of time but the foundations of microeconomics are accurately covered.
It is a great class to take but is somewhat difficult if you don't keep up with the readings.
Painful if you don't get David Johnson as your TF. Boredom saps you of the will to work, while tediously long problem sets keep you up at night. Take it if you need to
It is not that hard of a class but there is a lot of information and reading that is necessary to do well in the course.
They try to trick you.
You might not want to take it if you don't have a particular interest in the subject itself.
Worthwhile.
Not tons of fun but not too bad either. Good shtuff to know ya know?
Amazing class, dependent on section leader. Charlie is AWESOME. The concepts you gain in this class far outweigh most others in terms of practicality. The workload is intense, but definitely doable.
It is indeed taught primarily by the TF's. Though that tend to be a stereotype of Harvard, it is actually true in this case.
You better be ready to learn abstract concepts and own them. You need to stay on top of the reading or you'll never figure anything out on your own.
Take this class! Whether or not you think you hate economics, or think you will ever study economics again, this class is a must. Policy decisions make so much more sense after this.You cannot claim to understand the world without taking this class.
Make sure you are pleased with your section leader, because most likely that is the person you will be with for the entire year. I was blessed to get an awesome section leader, which made my experience much more enjoyable than those of some of my friends.
Your section leader can make or break your understanding of the material.
Ec 10 provides a good foundation for students in economics and should be taken by students no matter what they study, but the class is quite difficult.
It's a fun, fairly easy class with a lot of students who can help you.
On a personal level, I intensely disliked this class because I discovered that Ec is just not for me.  However, I recognize that the class itself was very good and very well organized, my TF was very enthusiastic, and the material was practical and applicable.
Although difficult, this course is very enjoyable and extremely interesting, especially the readings and the problem sets. You will learn a lot! If you are interested in politics or international affairs I strongly recommend that you take this course, as it will help shape and perhaps change your views on modern domestic and foreign policy!
Read the helpful hints! They are your best resource for the problem sets.
It is very interesting and I learned a lot, but it takes up a lot of your time and the problem sets and exams are extremely difficult.
if you don't have any ec background/experience, stay on top of the material, go to office hours, do the reading, do problem sets in groups, get a study buddy, get the help you need or you will fall behind. if you don't get a good TF, ask to change b/c your success in the course significantly depends on your TF.
The material in this class is very interesting, but the way it's taught is done poorly. The professor lectures about once a month, and the rest of the time you're with the TFs. My TF didn't teach very well, and I ended up having to go to another section for help.
The quality of this class for you really depends on the TF that you get, so if you don't like yours in the beginning, do everything you can to switch into a better section because that really makes or breaks this class for you.
Your TF is the key to whether or not you understand anything. Find someone who you connect with. Otherwise you'll have to work twice as hard to learn the material. Go to office hours. David Johnson is awesome and a great teacher.
Obviously this is required for a concentration or secondary in economics, so there is little choice in the matter. Beyond that it is actually a very good course to take because it does change fundamentally how you look at the world if you come into it without any background in economics, as I did. Nevertheless, the problem sets are time-consuming and this course should not be seen as a easy and quick A.
It's a good course but it takes time.
good intro but boring class
it is a good class to take, even if you are not going to major in economics
be prepared for a tough class and only take it if you are serious about concentrating in economics
Ec 10 is spectacularly boring. But (and this is a huge but) every well educated person should have some basic knowledge of economics. So unless you plan on taking Prof. Marglin's class (the only alternative), it is not a bad idea to take Ec 10. Just know that it will be anything but exciting or intellectually stimulating.
Expect to do a lot of self-learning!  This is not a class where the professor cares about you.
It's not an easy course, but everyone should know how the economy functions.  Regardless of your opinions about economics or specifically, Professor Mankiw, everyone should take this course.
This class is extremely boring, and if you don't know whether you like economics or not, this class will help you decide.
Get through it
You really have to enjoy economics to like this class. Don't take this class for the sole purpose of fulfilling a GenEd.
Really interesting course and more enjoyable than I ever would have guessed! If you've never taken economics, take this course. I recommend it especially for sophomores who aren't planning on majoring in ec, but want to learn something about it. I did much better than I expected and learned a lot. I'm a gov major, so I know the knowledge will help me a lot. Don't let people scare you - it's manageable and worth it!
Take it! It's interesting and applicable, and of course, is the required gateway to higher economics courses--I wish I had taken it freshman year
As long as you keep up with the assignments, you should be able to do well.
If you coast through this course, you might make a good grade, but it will be bland and might seem pointless.  But if you take the time to delve into the material, you'll be introduced to a new and valuable way of thinking about the world in terms of incentives and markets.  The lectures were by far the best part of the course and should be increased, as they revealed the real world problems economists are working on.
Only take this class if you are required to. While it's a good introduction to modern economics, don't expect the field to be treated as a social science. This is a purely-positivist treatment of neoclassical economics that has no interest in investigating the truth of its own assumptions.More specifically to this course, the real problem is that there's huge leeway for the TFs in teaching their sections (which is where you spend almost all of the time in class) but absolutely none in the exams. So your success or failure depends much more on your TF than on anything else.
Stay on top of the reading. It may be tedious at the time but it is much easier to go over the readings bit by bit than for 10 hours all in one sitting. Also, try going to office hours for different TF's, especially if your one is not that helpful: don't get stuck.
The class is an extensive economics class, though difficult because of the problem sets and exams.
Take this class along with the other 90% of your freshman class. Everyone takes it for a reason.
A good course to take if you are interested in an overview of economics. Be prepared for a conservative bent to the readings and lectures, and do not put of PSETs and studying for exams to the last minute.
really good intro to economics, take it as a freshman, do the chapter readings
It'll be awful, but you just have to slog through it because they'll never change it at all.
Do not take it unless you are seriously thinking about concentrating in economics. If you are, then it is necessary. If you are not, then there is no need.
Ec 10 should be required of all students. Everyone should have the basic knowledge of economic principles that it provides.
This is a good course if you really want to understand the principles of economics, but not a good class just to take because everyone else is doing it.
It deserves the time necessary to truly learn.
I'm really not a fan of the structure or the testing.
EC10 isn't just a class, it's an experience. Taking it gets you into the exclusive club which includes about a third of your peers and it allows you to work with and get to know so many people.
While it is a class that is useful for understanding economic debates, it is poorly taught.  Because so much of the course depends upon your TF, and your choice of TF is somewhat out of your hands, it is honestly not a gamble I would recommend.
Material is interesting and important to know about, but teaching is bad. Many TFs are not inspiring at all and problem sets have very little to do with was is taught in section and can be very frustrating.
Know in advance: for all intents and purposes, it's a class entirely taught in sections. The small number of lectures are in good part there for appearances' sake (though they also give some interesting application).
It's huge, but it definitely is a bonding experience.
This is a great course to take regardless of whether or not you want to concentrate in economics.
Ec10 is great for concentrators and people just interested in economics and learning about how to reason when it comes to markets. It is very enjoyable and not an amazingly difficult class as long as you go to section.
It seems to be designed to weed people out of concentrating in economics.
If you are considering taking any economics courses for a concentration or just for general interest, take this course as a freshmen- it's great for freshmen bonding and is a good intro course that's manageable freshman year.
This a good class and a pre-req for many courses.
This course is a must, regardless of what you want to pursue in life.
Its a good way to learn the fundamentals of economics.  However, Mankiw's lectures are extremely dry and exhibit a strong conservative bias.
interesting but the psets can be kind of annoying. It winds up being like 5 hrs of work every wk theres a pset and theres 6 psets a semester
Take this class if David Johnson is still head TF and make use of him. He writes the problem sets and the exams, so he is the best person to answer your questions. He will also make sure you completely understand the material. Start problem sets early, not the night before because you will NOT sleep if you do the latter. And again, go to David Johnson's office hours. Best decision I've made in this class was to go talk to him
This class is probably loved by those who do well and hated by those who don't. Everything really depends on your T.F. I don't know how to ensure getting a good T.F but if you do you're in good shape. You'll never see Mankiw but he's great when he lectures.
It is a must-take; however, it will not be what you expect in terms of learning economics from an economic guru.
A solid introductory course to economics - enjoyable if you enjoy the material itself, although the course is not extremely engaging. The problem sets are helpful and the class is quite organized.
This is definitely a class I would recommend for people to take if they are thinking about becoming an econ major
This course is very interesting, but make sure you have a good TF!
your grade will depend almost entirely on how good your TF is
It's easy to get disenchanted with economics as a result of taking this course--don't let it happen, though! Take advantage of office hours and ask questions. Read the textbook. Put time and thought into your problem sets. Do the Unit Tests. You will walk away from the first semester having learned a lot more than it felt like you did at the time.
The psets are not bad as long as they are done with collaboration, and the TFs are always ready to help. The lectures are pretty irrelevant to the readings, but random facts from lecture are put on the exams to make sure people go.
Go to section, do the problem sets. Class is extremely easy.
If you've never taken an economics course, take this class.
Very logical course. Go to section and ask good questions.
EC 10 is a great course if you have a good section leader. Make sure to go to the unit tests as these are extremely helpful. David Johnson does a great job of holding review sessions as well.
Easy for some, hard for others. Hopefully easy for you.
We all have to do it so just get it done.  It's some great standard knowledge of economics that no one should go without.
Students should be ready to take initiative and study the material on their own.  Not everything will be covered in section, and if time outside the classroom is not dedicated to study and read, the student will be lost.
It really helps you see the world in a different light.
The class is really intersting and I would recommend it to anyone even if you're not an econ concentrator. However it is a lot of work so just be prepared to put in the time and effort.
Yeah, doing the work sucks.  It's super useful though.
Great class that builds the fundamentals of micro and macro economics.  If you like economics this is the class for you.
Great for students who want a friendly introduction to economics; the workload is definitely manageable, and the course is more so about understanding the concepts than memorization.
This class is definitely manageable, but you need to be wiling to put in the time. The TF will make or break your experience- make sure to take advantage of office hours! The curve is definitely helpful, and you learn material in the course that will actually be useful in the real world.
Ec 10 is a good intro foundation, but the material tends to very very very coached in theory. so if you want things that are applied and relevant right away, I wouldn't suggest taking the class
I feel much more capable of being an educated voter after taking this class. It's so relevant to daily life.
waste of time
An interesting class with moderate difficulty if not previously exposed to concepts.
Ec 10 is a great class to take, regardless of your concentration plans. You'll learn some very valuable tools.  Just be advised that the difficulty levels of the textbook, sections, problem sets, and exams certainly increase in that order.
This class is not what I was told it would be. It was much worse.
It was very interesting.
Workload is fair, material is dry sometimes, but a good intro course.
This is a great introduction to economics. I has a lot of interesting information that is not usually include in an introductory course of this size. However, the tests are written to the curve, meaning they are meant to be so that only 10% of the class does extremely well in the course, which is pretty discouraging. The problems sets are challenging and interesting. David Johnson (the head TF) is amazing, and going to his office hours are incredibly helpful.
This course can be a bit boring and tedious at times, especially when things are so simplified in the beginning.
Bottom line: a great intro to economics course.
Its a somewhat necessary evil.  If you read the textbook (written by Mankiw) then going to section is perfunctory.  The exams are tough, but the scale is by section, which is helpful.
Econ 10 provides essential information that every person in the U.S. should know.  If I were in charge of the education system, I would make some form of economics mandatory in colleges.
Don't be put off by the large numbers of people taking this course: it just means more people to help you out with problem sets and questions. Do the unit tests (more than once if you want) and anything extra that comes up, so you'll be ready for the midterms and the final.
I feel like everyone should have some basic knowledge of economics and this class is a good way to do it, especially for those who have never taken economics before. The class is challenging enough but really not too time consuming. It's fun to take it as a freshman because you can work on problem sets with your friends. Oh but you should take extra effort to get a good tf, even if that means changing to another section.
Take the time to go to the unit tests. They are a great way to study for the midterms and can boost your final grade. Also, refer to the 'Helpful Hints' PDFs for a quick review of the important topics.
This class sucks, but is generally the only way to get the micro requirement fulfilled by any concentration. I hear it gets better 2nd semester, and if not, that other econ classes aren't so terrible :)
It's harder than you think it will be. I came in with no economics background and while I don't think that put me at too much of a disadvantage, I had to work hard to understand things fully. Go to lecture because the multiple choice questions on exams about lectures are not that frequent but they do add up. Do well on your problem sets - that's like free points if you work diligently. Take the Unit Tests.
miserable.
this is sort of a rite of passage, and not enjoyable but often necessary. probably every harvard student should take this course, but that doesn't make it any easier to get through.
You learn the basics of economics while stretching your mind.
if you wanna do well youve got to do some serious studying
I think everyone should get an introduction to Econ. This class is not very well taught and incredibly impersonal, but there isn't really any way to get around taking it if you want to take Economics and haven't taken it in high school.
This class is really interesting and I loved the readings, sections, and lectures. The problem sets and tests were more difficult but there are extra credit opportunities and plenty of support available. Also, if you don't get a good TF the course can be completely ruined for you.
Great class, applicable to all areas of study here, so take it!
This class isn't entirely what I expected but it's still provides a good foundation. I can't say how it compares against the upper-level courses or alternatives because I haven't taken them yet, but this seems like as good a starting point as any.
Your experience in this class unfortunately depends heavily on which section leader you get. For those who are lucky and get people like David Johnson, class is great! You learn a lot and leave the class with a much more positive impression of economics than if you had some less-amazing section leader.
Make sure to choose a section with a TF who can speak English clearly.
Not really taught by Professor Mankiw, most of the material is taught in small sections with a TF. Therefore, your experience in this class varies with how good your TF is.
It's a very good class that teaches you fantastic, interesting, practical things, but it is not easy at all.
I love economics, so I found the material interesting. Honestly though, this is not an intro to Econ class. I had 1 year of economics background, and I found the material moderately difficult. I would not recommend this course for people who don't have a strong background in Econ... If you don't but want to take this course or major in Econ, I would recommend sitting down with a friend for a while and discussing the main points of Micro/Macro so you have an idea of what to expect. The sections are not representative of how hard the exams will be, so don't slack off. Also, I would suggest reading the textbook before starting the class.
It's a good class to take for the information you'll learn, but it's generally not a great course
Ec 10's a great class to take, even if you've taken AP econ in high school. Especially as a freshman, I found it helpful to take Ec 10 first semester just to ease into college life. You can always move up to Ec 1010b spring semester.
It is harder than you think it will be.
Difficult but worth it.
Be prepared to teach yourself the material.
This class will be very difficult if you do not have a good section leader.
make sure your TF is good.
Mankiw is funny. Go to lectures!
Provides a good background knowledge of economics that is necessary for everyday life.
It's a fantastic class to take. Whether or not you intend to study anything related to Economics, you definitely want to have a basic understanding of how the economy works. This class gives you exactly that.
Make sure to do all the readings but practice as well because it is not just about reading the book but getting down the synthesis.
to really understand and do well in this course, you need to adopt the mentaility of an economist. You need to be able to see everything from their perspective in order to ask the right questions and ultimately arrive at the right answers.
If you are an upperclassman, do not take it unless you take it Pass/Fail- you will not care to do the work, which will screw you
This course gives you a very good, strong background in micro and macro economics that is definitely worthwhile. It's a big lecture course mainly taught in section, so don't expect it to be really personal or anything, but other than that I'd say take it--everyone needs the foundation this course provides in economics.
It's not too challenging but requires time to learn...weekly problem sets sometimes take a lot of time
Worth taking, just get a good section leader.
The material is interesting and fundamentally useful- however the experience depends entirely on your TF. If you get a less competent one, resection for another.
I would take this course if I really needed it for a concentration requirement, or a secondary field requirement.
Don't freak out too much about the exams, even though they're long they're not too bad.
This class is interesting, no doubt. However, it is hard! Make sure to stay on top of the readings and GO TO SECTION! Your success is dependent upon how much work you put in. Also, take the unit tests--the biggest mistake I made was not taking them!
The results from this course will be as rewarding as how much you put into the course.
Economics provides skills and knowledge that is vital to understanding business both personal as well as in the nation or world at large.
The material is good to know, but be prepare to endure a lot of pain to do so.  Problem sets and exams are much harder than the material in Mankiw's book.
The course is poorly taught. Lectures do not match section at all, and you are literally screwed if you get a bad TF.
Fulfill your requirements elsewhere.
A useful introduction to fundamental economics.
Ec 10 is exactly what its reputation says of it. You should take it freshman year so that if you need to switch to Ec concentration down the road its out of the way.
Some Econ background in high school is a big benefit, though not completely necessary.  The material is very interesting, but there is rarely individualized attention outside of your TF.
This is a good class to have under your belt. It satisfies a gen ed, it's good to know for any human, and it's not too stressful or demanding.
This class is good in teaching you economics, but it is one of those classes that a lot of effort is put in for little return.
This class can sometimes feel very impersonal, but you have to keep up with the work and learn the concepts. Exams are extremely difficult, but the curve is huge.
This class is an amazing way to better understand the United States and the world at large through a unique economic perspective.
Read the book and do practice questions
The course material is very interesting but there are few lectures, so if you have a good section leader it can make all the difference in your understanding of the subject matter.
The only reason for recommending the course is that while difficult, it is curved and ec10 serves as the basis for all other courses in the social sciences and is a good foundation to have in any educational background.
A lot of work that you are expected to do on your own. Forming study groups is key!
Very helpful for many concentrations and your personal financial life.  Be careful how you section.
There's a really generous curve. The class itself depends largely on your TF, so either transfer into a good one or make friends with people who have good TFs so they'll explain it to you. This class is easy for some, hard for others, so it depends more on your ability to learn the material and apply it to practice problems rather than any background you have with economics. AP Economics is helpful, but I have friends who took it and are still struggling.DO THE READINGS. You'll understand the material better, and it'll be useful for the exam.
It's a hit or miss class.
Economics is not easy, but it is definitely worth taking.  It will change how you look at the world.  You will get some great tools for how to think about real world problems in a multitude of situations (not just as an investment banker).  I think that this is one of the few classes that everyone should take before they graduate.
The material is important for anyone to know and I had a wonderful experience in this class, but you really will have to work hard and your section and TF can really make or break it.
You learn a lot, but it can be hard and somewhat slow at times.
The problem sets are long and the midterms are tough, but you have a lot of resources offered to you, so use them all.
I enjoyed the material we learned, but the class was really difficult. Problem sets took me forever and I think the exams were really difficult.
Read the textbook, because it helps more than people think.
No need for much background on the topic. You will enjoy this if you are strong in logic and basic mathematics. It is an interesting look into the dynamics of the market as a whole.
Ec 10 is a Harvard staple. Basically half the freshman class takes it, and it's a pretty impersonal class. The problem is that most of the TFs are not great teachers. You're not allowed to switch or shop sections, and so eventually it gets frustrating when 1 out of 10 kids has a great TF who actually explains the material (since Mankiw only teaches about 5 days of the year, when in fact he's a not bad teacher who should be teaching more), and the book, while well-written, is not targeted at the Harvard student and doesn't explain everything fully. In the end, most people will still take Ec 10. But the sections are the worst I've ever seen, and this course simply justifies the common misconception that Harvard doesn't care about its undergraduates. It's a shame that such a helpful subject is taught so poorly at the school with arguably the greatest Economics department in the World. The exception, the one exception, to this is DAVID JOHNSON, the head TF. He cares about us students, he cares about teaching, and he cares about economics. He writes the problem sets (and they're hard...), but when I'm ripping my hair out at 2 AM or ripping my hair out after getting a check (some TFs don't even grade your psets with letters...they do CHECKS AND CHECK PLUSES...what is this, kindergarten?) at my 9 AM section with a TF whom I don't fully understand because he has an extremely heavy foreign accent, I think of the fact that David Johnson explains how economics will matter, and how one of the 800 kids in the class will probably become President one day and will need to know Ec, and then I feel slightly--ever so slightly--better.
Mankiw doesn't teach this course. The TF you get is the most important factor for your grade.
Understanding the basic principles of economics is important and interesting.
If you don't understand stuff, go to David Johnson's office hours!  And READ your textbook!
It is very helpful to do the textbook reading for this class, and while it may seem like a waste of time because a lot of the material is covered again in section, it will make a huge difference on exams.
EC10 will teach you a lot about the behavior of humans, both in markets involving the exchange of goods as well as in everyday, real life situations (e.g. planning to exercise tomorrow and not following through). The textbook is great, and all of my interactions with the course staff (David Johnson, Prof. Mankiw and my section leader) have been interesting and positive.
Attending office hours is very helpful.
Get a good TF
Never get behind on the reading.  Make sure you treat class sections only as reviews/summaries and not as you learning the material firsthand.
Econ 10, though a difficult course, is still one of those select few courses, regardless of your intended concentration, that you simply must take.
To read the chapters pertaining to the teachings before they are taught in section because it makes understanding what is taught in section much easier.
This course is awesome! I highly recommend taking it. It teached you alot about how the world works. However, make sure that you pick your TF right. The course can be miserable otherwise.
Don't take this class just because everyone else takes it; it's challenging and requires a lot of work. Take it only if you enjoy economics or may want to concentrate in economics. You will learn a lot, but if you don't find the material interesting it won't be enjoyable.
Future students should know that they are not guaranteed an "A" in this course simply from working hard.  Economics is a subject that you can study hard for and still mess up at the test if you don't realize the synthesis of certain topics with other topics in the (often challenging)free response questions.
This class can be easy, unless you prepare for it like it is. You'll be set for a solid grade as long as you make the effort.
The material is fun and important to learn. The course can be challenging, but there are a lot of different resources available to help, so it is important to take advantage of those (unit tests, office hours, review sessions, etc).
Ec10 was a highly demanding and pretty interesting course.  You will take up a large portion of your time completing the problem sets, but office hours are extremely helpful for better understanding the concepts.  Review sessions for exams are also really great, particularly if you have the magnificent David Johnson leading them.  Mankiw's lectures were decent, although much of what he said was already on his Powerpoint presentations.  The other guest lecturers, especially David Laibson, were phenomenal.  I loved having Raphael Rosenblatt as my section leader (though I believe he'll be finishing grad school next semester).
It is a fairly straightforward class that is not very demanding, but fairly uninteresting.  I do enjoy economics, but still this class was boring and dull.  A large portion of the course is taught in section, and whether or not you have a good TF defines your experience.  My TF was boring and confusing, which certainly altered my perception of the course.  Mankiw's lectures are also quite dry, but some of the visiting lecturers were entertaining and interesting.
Ec10 is a very manageable course. Basic knowledge of economics is useful for everything in life, so take the class!
Worth taking, very informative.
Ec 10 is the type of class that every college student should take at some point. It allows you to understand economic policies and the basics of economics that drives the world. However, the way in which students are evaluated is frustrating, especially because you feel that the three exams you take during the course of a semester do not accurately reflect all that you know and have learned.
This is a very interesting class, and provides the student with necessary information. However, it is not particularly gripping and is taught very similar to a fast, AP high school course.
take unit tests
Go to office hours for Professor Mankiw and David Johnson.  These are opportunities that few students take advantage of.
Take it only if you plan on being some sort of economics concentrator.
Take the couse! If you have a great section leader like I did, it's fantastic, and you learn a lot.
Do not take this course if you are a conceptual learner. This class has a lot of math-oriented topics, but it is not taught like a math course. Thus, you are left teaching yourself how to turn concepts into applications. This is not reviewed in section or in the lectures.
It's not easy and sometimes pretty boring, but the subject matter is relevant and good to know for daily life
Take this class if you feel like you want to learn how to manipulate formulas and study diagrams.
Think carefully before taking this course. It can be quite boring and seem pointless. That said, it is not necessarily so. If you do take the course, don't get caught up in the general EC10 hate that a lot of Freshmen and undergrads seem to perpetuate. Think for yourself and if you like the course like it! The problem with the course is that it seems very dictatorial - it is a series of facts which unless you have some motive (ie wanting to concentrate in economics or be a consultant) it may become quite difficult to motivate yourself to learn. Do think SERIOUSLY about alternatives like SW17 which people have taken and enjoyed. It is shorter and covers critical perspectives on economics which I now realize, personally, would have been much preferable to the dictatorial, sometimes very trivial and knit-picky details of EC10.Of course, if you want a very solid understanding/grounding in economics and more than just a general understanding of ec (in terms of being able to read a newspaper etc) then you this will probably be a good course. Of course, my intuition is that if you are that passionate about economics already you may well have picked up a textbook like Mankiw of your own volition and could have taught yourself much of the material.It is hard to summarize the course succinctly. A lot also depends on the section leader you are assigned (if you are Fall Freshman, that is the person who will lead the smaller-size classes which are at the foundation of the course). Note: Mankiw barely teaches this course, your actual teacher maybe (nay, is more likely to be) much less able if not pretty terrible. Do consider the benefits of a different economics course and avoid this one if you can.
If you come from a quantitative background, stay away from this class. You will feel a constant disappointment that the class hides simple facts about functions with hand-waving explanations.
I didn't really enjoy this class, but it's necessary to further explore any interest you may have in economics.
If you like econ, Ec10 is a great class. I came into this class knowing nothing about econ, and now coming out, I want to be an econ major. This class definitely gives you all the basic tools you need, and I would highly recommend it to anyone that wants a basic understanding of how society works.There are two warnings I would give you. First, the problem sets and exams aren't easy. Second, this course is highly dependent on the quality of your TF. Almost all the material is taught in section, so if you get a bad TF, this will be a miserable class for you. If you get a great TF, you'll love it!
Ec10 is a great class that's challenging, but nothing ridiculous. You are given many opportunities to show what you know, and I feel that the assignments actually foster more learning as opposed to being too difficult to understand. You learn a considerable amount over the entire year of the course, and it's a class you shouldn't miss out on, unless you are totally against math classes.
This course is underrated.  Your first year of economics is the most important, because unless you are going very deeply into it (graduate work), you get most of what you need in the first year.
Its good but doing well in it requires not only knowing economics but knowing how to take Ec 10 well - which is an entire skill unto itself.
Make sure you have a good TF or else you would have to spend a lot of time on your own to learn the material.
Students should take this class for the foundation of knowledge they will obtain; however, they should not take it because it is easy or very enjoyable.
Macro is better than Micro
Take advantage of the lectures because many famous economists speak and talk about very current and relevant topics, effectively relating the course to real life.
Teaches you the right way to think
Just get through it and make sure to do all of the little things - take unit tests, go to office hours, etc. - if you want to get an A.
A very good and thorough course to challenge yourself in understanding completely what is happening in world economics
If you are genuinely interested in economics, this class may be worth taking. It can be a little impersonal at times (enormous lectures and large sections), so be warned.
Are you really interested in economics? Take it. If not, don't as you may find it to be a little more than you intended.
The world makes sense after taking the course! I took it totally as an elective and think it will be very useful and relevant to whatever I do.
Make sure you understand the material REALLY well before you take an exam
Very difficult, exams are arbitrary
I enjoyed micro more than macro, but macro is more applicable to the real world
Ec10 is a pill you just have to swallow. It's not a joke class, so try to pay somewhat attention. If you have a bad TF, switch out while you can. The quality of your education is largely dependent on how well your TF explains things. Your midterms are then graded against other sections, some of whom have TFs who make study guides for them. If your TF isn't that nice, sucks for you.All in all, it's a large intro class with a famous professor "teaching" on it. Not my favorite class, but something you just have to get through.
This course was good a intro to economics. Lectures were usually good, but sections depend on your TF. However, the courses' materials (textbook, website) greatly supplement section and help you learn the material regardless.
This class is difficult and a lot of work. If you get a good tf, you will learn a lot, but if not, you will probably struggle. I'd recommend taking this class later in your college career pass/fail.
Read the textbook & helpful hints. Go to office hours. Do the readings--they suck, but if it's on the test you either know it or you don't.  The other stuff you'll be able to sort of BS or figure out, but the readings should be easy points.  Pray that you get a good TF--it makes all the difference.
Ec 10 does a great job of introducing students to the most fundamental concepts of Economics. I feel comfortable talking to an Economist about basic economic concepts now.
The material is very useful and it's great when you read a newspaper and actually understand the terms.  However, this is not an easy class (the exams/psets are a pain to go through), and there is a lot of material that is covered.
It teaches you how to think globally. It allows you to understand the reasons why fiscal and monetary policies are so delicate in politics.
Good for teaching econ concepts but it really isn't enjoyable. It seemed like a chore to do sometimes.
DO the readings, both chapter and articles, they make the course so much easier
very difficult exams not based oin material learned but on application questions that are too challenging to do in a timed setting having never seen them before. section was not helpful. but the course teaches you a lot about econ. Marks will suffer no matter how smart you are
This is really the only class I've ever taken at Harvard in which the old Harvard stereotype about the TF's, not the professor, teaching the class is really true. The TF's are primarily responsible for teaching the material, so if you end up with a bad TF, it can be a rough year (fortunately I didn't.)
If you are going to take it, understand why it is you are going to take it.
Very mediocre and mildly interesting class.
Take this course even if you're not interested in it at all since it is very useful in life.
This is not an easy course, but it is a fantastic one.  I left EC 10 feeling incredibly well educated about economics. Given that our world is so global today, economics (especially macroeconomics) affects all of us in many significant ways, and I for one have a different (more enlightened) view of the world.  I think EVERYONE should take this course. Seriously, I might make my own family take this course.  We should all have some understanding of economics.
only take it if you really have to. whatever requirements you have to fulfill can be done another/better way.
The class is necessary, but could be better taught. Section is amazing, my TF and David Johnson really dedicated a lot of time and energy to the course. However Professor Mankiw was practically non-existent outside of a few lectures and the occasional office hour.
Take it together with a friend. Good to learn to material, but class is a lot of work, time consuming, and often frustrating.
Something you must take while at Harvard.
good topic to know about
It is useful information that everyone should know.
Economics 10 provides a useful background in the subject matter, but the course itself is not very engaging. Most of the time is spent in sections working on problem-solving methods. There are a few guest lecturers who cover some interesting topics, but unfortunately, these are infrequent.
It's a huge class, but the material feels really practical and is very interesting.
very dependent on your section leader. make sure you get a good one
If Harvard required students to take specific courses, this should make the list. It sounds cliche, but taking a basic economics course will change the way you look at the world.
Tfs are great, useful course if you want to know the basics of economics, but I would not reccomend taking it. I would have rather read a book on the principles of economics and just educated myself to gain a basic understanding of economics.
This is certainly a class worthwhile taking. Be sure to keep up with readings and do all unit tests.
Unless you are seriously considering concentrating in Economics, do not take this course.
Valuable information, but only take it if you're really interested. A year is a long time to sit through something you hate.
I did not enjoy this course whatsoever. There are too many variants between sections, and it is luck as to whether you get a good section or not.
I appreciated the fact that this course helped me develop a better understanding of how the macroeconomy functions, why the financial crisis occurred, and how the government manipulates the economy.  However, the structure of this course discouraged me from concentrating in economics.  The lectures were very large and impersonal and the crux of the course was taught by a TF.
It's not an enjoyable experience. I found that most kids who went into the class planning on being ECON concentrators went out of the first two weeks no longer wanting to be ECON concentrators.
Overall, this was a helpful course that offered a lot of basic knowledge for those who are being first introduced to the world of economics. With that being said, there definitely can be improvements made. Professor Mankiw makes rare appearances, and sections are lackluster, at best. If you put in the work, you can perform well; however, it would have been a  much more enjoyable learning experience if the content was taught in a more interesting and engaging way. At the end of the day, it really depends on which section leader you get.
Section is worthless. Just read the textbook and helpful hints, do the psets, and do the practice exams before the exams.
This class is relevant and informative. Everybody can benefit from a basic knowledge of economics, and I actually enjoyed the course so much that I am thinking about concentrating in economics because of the course. Though it can be challenging, the information and the opportunity to hear such amazing lecturers is worth it!
Ec 10 is a course that isn't too difficult to get a good grade in if you put in the time.  Make sure you keep up with the readings - procrastinating this will definitely come back to haunt you around midterms and finals season.  If you keep up with the work, go to TFs office hours, and make an effort to review the online materials provided, you will be able to do well.
This course exposed me to economics, and allowed me to learn basic concepts useful in day to day life.
It is a really rewarding class and the material is very interesting, but you must put in a ton of work in order to do well.
I am very glad that I took this course. I feel that to be well educated, a basic understanding of economics is essential. Many students may steer away from Ec 10 because of the size of the course, but I didn't really find it a big problem. Section allowed for small discussions, and the course brought in very impressive professors. Ec 10 is also lucky to have David Johnson as the head TF. He is an incredible teacher - energetic, funny, and passionate about Economics.
It is a lot of work, and difficult, but it is very interesting and a lot of useful information was taught.
The information is useful and I think everyone should take an intro level economics course at some point during their time here. However, if you take this class for a letter grade, you will need to put in a lot of time if you want to do well. Otherwise, I'd recommend taking it pass/fail if you just want to learn the material.
You'll probably have to take this class if you're social science oriented.  It will be incredibly useful, but also arduous.
I would tell them to be cautious about the level of work and grading system
It's worth the amount of work and stress you will put into it.
The infamous Harvard class. Definitely doable, not too bad of a workload, but tough exams. Be sure to find a good TF!
DO THE READING. READ THE HELPFUL HINTS. TAKE THE UNIT TESTS.
Take Ec 10.  Your peers may gripe while they are in it, you may gripe while you're in it, but, in the end, you will all have gathered a great working knowledge of economics that will help you in other coursework and in life.  We are not born knowing about supply, demand, interest rates, and inflation, but they are not difficult to understand (at least on their most basic levels)--it only takes a good intro like Ec 10.
Good information, just some parts really suck.
Great class for building an economic intuition
It sucks.
While Ec 10 is a lot of work and can be stressful, the material you learn is extremely interesting and useful.
Everybody should know something about basic economics.
The material Ec10 teaches is incredibly important--everyone should know something about the economy because you can't escape it! I had a fantastic year in Ec10 because I had an incredible TF (Holger Wilms)--make sure you get a good TF and you'll really enjoy the class. No, Mankiw doesn't teach often (although he is a pretty good lecturer when he does teach), and yes, there are 800 kids in the class, but it's worth it. Not too difficult, either!
Take it!!!
Ec-10 is an interesting class that covers basics economics and gives you a sense of what you concentrating in economics might really be like; although not the most engaging class, it can be more involved if you choose to put more into it.
Great class. Every Harvard student should take it.
it's pretty easy, but expect all the problems that come with a huge class like this. it's hard to get solid feedback on stuff, especially exam answers. some of the lectures are...sleep-inducing. still, it's a decent intro to economics and if you like the subject it's worth it.
Good material, annoying class.
Teaches you all the basics of economics
A necessary evil
this course will make you work hard and what you get out of it will depend strongly on the strength of your tf
Go to David Johnson's exam reviews. Seriously - best part of the course. Also, do the Unit Tests.
If you don't need to take it, or you can take another Economics class, don't take this class.
Be prepared to work your butt off. It's easy for some, but most people I knew spent days studying for the final exam...without moving from one spot. But you can only study so much...
Just not super engaging. You learn a decent amount for sure. Its not too challenging. Yet, the class just seems like such a machine.
It is a good course.
Gives you a solid grounding in economics if you work hard on problem sets, read the books, go to David Johnson's office hours/review sessions, and have a decent section leader.
It's not the most exciting class, but it's not difficult. Don't expect to feel engaged very often.
This course requires a lot of outside work.  Make sure you keep on top of the readings and take advantage of office hours.
shop TFs
In my opinion your experience greatly differs depending on your TF.
To read the chapters to be discussed in section before you cover it in section. Will make section a lot more comprehensible.
Go to David Johnson's office hours!! Do the problem sets well and make sure you understand them - they are the best way to learn the material and great preparation for the midterms/final.
good intro econ course, can get tedious at times though
No matter what you're going to concentrate in, take Ec 10.  I can't imagine myself not knowing all the things I have learned in this class.
Wonderful course! This class is beneficial for both those who plan to concentrate in Economics and those who plan no further economic studies. I learned so much in this course from the leaders in economics that are applicable to the "real world." My experience with Ec 10, and especially in learning from my great TF during section, made me discover that I want to continue further studies in, and possibly even concentrate in, Economics.
Your grade will not be determined by how well you know the material, but instead how much you play the subjectivity game.
It is a course with great subject matter that will allow you to better understand today's financial issues and the guest lectures are a great exposure to different areas of economics!
Economics is essential for all students.  The course is well structured and section is well taught.
The material is great and relevant but the problem sets and grading is brutal. Also, change your tf if you don't like him/her.
This class is a must take it will give you an amazing introduction to all pertinent issues in economics.
This class made me see the world in a different way. That sounds very cheesy but it really was applicable to real life and I think will really help me in the future. Even if you don't want to concentrate in anything close to Economics I would still take it.
If you want to get a solid foundation in economics or simply want to explore the field, take Ec 10. It will challenge you in terms of the exams and the problem sets, but you'll come out each semester knowing a lot about the world of economics. The lecture series is also a great component of the course, so make sure to actually go to those. Also use the course website to your advantage. Read the helpful hints, do the readings, and also do the practice sets that David Johnson posts before the exams. All of these will help you get a good grade in the course. I also recommend taking the unit tests to not only help boost your grade, but they'll give you great preparation for the exams.
Take this class at your own risk. You will only have a rewarding experience if your TF is good. Otherwise you are on your own, trying to catch up to what all your classmates are learning in their sections and you are not. I had an excellent TF first semester, and a very poor TF for the second, and that made all the difference.
lectures weren't that great; section was really helpful, but that's because i had a really good TF. some of the pset questions and the grading scheme were kind of ridiculous, so you really need a deep understanding of the concepts in order to do well.
Take this class.  It is frustrating and annoying at times, but absolutely vital to understanding current events and living.
don't fall behind or else you'll get more and more confused
Not as painful a class as everyone says.
Get a good section leader. That is what makes the most difference in how well you do in the course.
Take this class if you want to be able to read the newspaper and understand what is going on!
Have a genuine interest in economics pior to this course.  Do not simply take this course because it's a popular freshman course.  It can become easy to get behind on the material and coursework if you are not interested.
You will cover a lot
TAKE THIS CLASS IT WILL MAKE YOU THINK ABOUT THE WORLD DIFFERENTLY PARTICULARLY MACRO AND PARTICULARLY WITH DAVID JOHNSON AS HEAD TF. PROBLEM SETS ARE ANNOYING BUT HELP A LOT. YES IT IS A BIG CLASS WITH TFS BUT THE TFS USUALLY ARE PRETTY GOOD.
Whether or not the logistics of the course are preferable, the material is so relevant and so important that I recommend that everyone take this course. It's not an overwhelming amount of work, it is consistent and predictable, and what you learn is so important no matter what you become. The sections are really hit or miss, and I hit, which might affect the legitimacy of my recommendation, but I think it's worth it even if you sleep through every section and just read the whole textbook instead.
Ec 10 teaches you the concepts you need to know to understand the world and specifically the news. It is definitely a big time committment and can be difficult, so you need to be willing to work at it.
By the time you finish Ec10b, you will be pretty burned out on introductory economics at Harvard.  That being said, Ec10b is similar to Ec10a in everything but content.  If you like/were able to tolerate Ec10a you will be fine in Ec10b.
I found out I definitely am not interested in ec.  The class itself was okay....I just personally really didn't understand a lot of it/want to understand a lot of it.
This is the most important class you will ever take at Harvard
Material is important and interesting and David Johnson is a demi-god, but problem sets are often not related to what is taught. Good intro to Economics, but don't take it because of Professor Mankiw. He's not around much.
It's taught with a mildly conservative bias, and assumes absolutely no knowledge of calculus; it can be very frustrating for informed students.
This is a difficult course, however it provides vital information that facilitates the comprehension of what is going on around the world right now.
If you have any interest in economics, this course is a necessity. If you have any desire in understanding basic political debates that touch on economic issues, this course is a necessity.
Pay attention in section and read the helpful hints and practice problems.
I am very glad I took this course.  It is a moderate amount of work, but it is very applicable knowledge.
Try to get in David Johnson's section.  He is a great teacher.  Also make sure to read the book content before the material is covered in section.  The "helpful hints" on the website are a lifesaver.
It is a solid class.  A building block for economics.
It is pretty challenging and time consuming but the knowledge you will gain is exremely valuable.
The grade you get is random to some degree :(
take it if you're required to
This course is mandatory if you want to have a broad understanding of how the economy works. This is important whether or not you are concentrating in economics or not. The midterms and exams are really difficult because they are all problem solving questions that really test your innate problem solving skills rather than what is in the textbook.
Useful information. Worth taking if you are interested in social sciences.
Anyone should take this class because it is very relevant to what's currently happening in the world.
Macro gives you a lot of knowledge you should really have to better understand the American economy / the federal government's monetary policy / what the Federal Reserve does. It's also not too hard--just a lot of memorization and practicing formulas. I would say: take it!
Lots of work, but you learn a lot.
Everyone should take some form of economics.
This is a great comprehensive overview of economics that will be helpful to everyone, even students not considering concentrations with any ties to economics. This course does however come with one caveat: it is luck of the draw if you get a good TF or not and that makes all the difference.
very interesting material and a great introduction to economics for those who don't have any experience/knowledge/background in the field
Take Ec 10. Even if you think economics isn't for you, it will open you up to understand how the country is really run.
Everyone should take at least an introductory course in Economics. It's pretty crucial to understanding the modern world. Since my economics class in highschool was pretty standard, I learned a lot of really valuable information from this class. As long as you don't mind a figurehead professor, as long as you get a decent TF,and as long as you haven't taken micro and macro before, you can really get a lot out of this class.
This is a must take. Taking this class will enable you to understand broad economic concepts discussed every day in the newspaper, etc.
Definitely not a walk in the park, but a very good introduction to macroeconomic theory.
Ec10 is a very solid introduction to economics... you will definitely get a feel of the broader subject and understand what you would be getting yourself into as an Ec concentrator.
the grading scale in ec 10 is very rigid. Be aware of that. Don't miss any of the unit tests. The exams are significantly more difficult than the class would initially have you believe.
Like all huge lecture classes, there's that personal interaction with that you just can't replicate (Why does Harvard keep deluding itself?). A good introduction to economics if you have a good TF.
Take it if you are interested in econ. Not very hard.
This class provides a solid introduction to basic economic principles. It will help you understand economic policy in the US, and only in the US. It will certainly help you understand the current economic debate and the teaching staff makes an effort to focus on current issues as much as possible.However, the course teaches economics from one perspective only - that is, from a right-wing perspective. Government intervention is generally presented as something bad, as are higher taxes and most kinds of state-run programs. Be aware of this when you enter the course and do not let yourself be led astray by these biased claims. Do not expect classes to support debate of any kind. Your TF will be hit or miss, so make sure to find out which ones are 'hits' in the beginning and attend their office hours.
It's a really good intro economics course, and it's worth taking just to get a strong background in the subject even if you don't plan further work. It's as good as a large introductory lecture course could be.
take it if you need it
It's a lot of work and you'll have to really take initiative to do well, but otherwise, if you get a good TF, it's an interesting class that definitely applies to what you see happening in the real world. It's very useful, especially macroeconomics in the second semester.
Ec10 is an introductory class--if you have any background at all, try to place into 1010 or, even better, 1011.
Ec10 can be a really amazing class if you have a good TF, but if you don't it can be one of the most painful experiences ever (I know because I switched TFs between semesters and I didn't realize how fun the class can actually be when you have a teacher who cares about his students).
I would definitely suggest taking this course not only because it's well-designed but also because I've found that an understanding of economics can really help you see current events and other fields in a very different perspective and with greater understanding
This is a great course if you want to learn about economics. I consider it a must-take because the material you cover in this course is going to be relevant in life no matter what you end up majoring in.
This is an enjoyable class if you are interested in economics even in a cursory way.  Be sure to put adequate time into the problem sets, they can hurt you if you neglect them.
Get used to it. You're going to have major issues with it, but just be known that Economics at Harvard doesn't necessarily have to be like Ec10. You can't really change how Ec10 is taught. =
This class was very mind-opening in terms of learning about how the market works.
Ec10 Macro is a good deal easier than Ec10 Micro.  The most noticeable difference is that the problem sets are much more straightforward in Macro.  This class is a good litmus test for prospective Ec concentrators.  If you really enjoy doing the problem sets, think about concentrating in Ec.  The guest speakers are awesome.  Find a good section to attend.
It is hard, but rewarding.
Do the unit tests and extra problem sets.
Your experience can vary greatly depending on your section leader. While it is hard to request to be placed in a particular TF's section, take advantage of the range of teaching staff and be proactive in searching out a TF that you can learn from in office hours at the very least.
Not bad class its not amazing but its solid. Exams are tough but there is a curve. Really depends on if you get a good tf or not.
1.) This course is not easy; you get out what you put into it. If you put in a lot of effort, you will learn a TON. I know that doesn't sound helpful -- but seriously, you take Ec-10 to learn about how the world works. If you're just taking it for a Gen-Ed, look elsewhere.2.) In terms of time commitment -- if you didn't take AP Econ in high school (and I did not), you will probably find yourself going to office hours a lot in the beginning. So outside of 3 hrs of class per week, plus some psets which take several hours, plus reading the textbook/articles, plus Googling stuff you don't understand (do it!), you can already be at over 10 hours per week of outside work. So, it's a time-consuming course, but you get SO MUCH out of it if you put the time in!3.) GO SEE DAVID JOHNSON. I can't say it enough. He makes this course.
Ec 10 is one of the most practical classes you can take at Harvard, and for that reason everyone (not only Ec concentrators) should take it. It makes you understand how the economy works, and you read articles differently after you actually understand GDP and inflation and how oil prices affect unemployment. That said, I found it to be difficult a difficult class-the textbook is lovely, and problem sets are "challenging"...but you will make some of your best friends and best Harvard memories while working through psets with others late into the night in dorm basements.
Ec 10 is a course definitely worth taking, I think it's something that everybody should know if only to better understand the news. Especially  second semester, since though I liked microeconomics more, I think that macro was what did the best job of clarifying some of the muddier issues being discussed with regards to the US and world economies. Be aware that this is a BIG CLASS, you will feel like a number and have to work very hard to get any help or attention, even from your section leader.
Truly one of the greatest classes at Harvard. You will apply the things you learn here to nearly every other class you take. You walk away with a powerful knowledge of economics and the ability to argue smarter. Workload isn't bad and tests are curved to raise grades substantially.
This class is not too difficult if you pay attention in class.
Worth taking although micro is more interesting.
It is a very rewarding class because the material is very applicable to real life. The exams are difficult but the course is curved very favorably so the grading is generous.
*sigh* in the end you'll be glad to have studied it but it's just soooo evillll.  everything about it!
Take Ec-10. It's basic economic knowledge that everyone should know, and it gives you a solid grasp on principles that will be useful to you for the rest of your life.
Ec10 is definitely the most useful class I have taken at Harvard, in terms of applicability. I now feel like I can read any article in the New York Times and truly understand the economic concepts that are discussed. Not the most exciting class, but definitely worth taking.
It was a great introductory class and it really gave a great foundation for future econ classes, definitely a must-take for Econ students or anyone interested in learning Economics at all.
Learn a lot but it's a lot of work
Every student should take this class before they graduate.
Good class. I'm not an econ concentrator, but I will certainly use what I learned in this class. It will shape many of my choices in the future.
It's pretty useful and gives you a good foundation in economics. David Johnson is sort of crazy and obsessed with SYNTHESIS but he puts together a challenging and at times entertaining course. Make sure you go to section; there are entire portions of the course not in the textbook and section can be really helpful.
Make sure to do the readings. It's a good introduction to economics but it's not a great course. I don't know if you really learn a lot from Mankiew's lectures.
Solid teaching and very useful knowledge
Stay on top of the readings.
On First Looking into the Realm of EconomicsMuch have I travell'd on the yellow brick road,And many goodly states and kingdoms seen;Round many western islands have I beenWhich bards in fealty to Apollo hold.Oft of one wide expanse had I been toldThat deep-browed Adam Smith ruled as his demesne; Yet did I never breathe its pure sereneTill I heard Keynes speak out loud and bold:Then felt I like some watcher of the skiesWhen a new planet swims into his ken;Or like Mankiw when with eagle eyesHe star'd at the Yard  and all his menLook'd at each other with a wild surmise Silent, upon a peak in Annenberg.Phil Keats Yao, A Disciple of Darlie Chavis(You should take this course)
This class is extremely difficult but necessary in order to be a more aware person.
A lot of students think Macro is harder than Micro, but for me I liked Macro much better than Micro because it just made more sense to me as it was more applicable to the current economic situation. The course is hard if you're not used to math and science problems, but to remedy this I highly recommend reading the textbook beforehand and taking notes. I did this for the second semester, so when I went to section the material was a reiteration of what I had already read. This made it much easier and concepts actually stuck in my head so the tests were also a lot easier. Also, then I could focus on asking questions on things that didn't make sense to me and problem sets became a lot easier.
Make sure you make the connections between the principles and math you're learning in class and real-world applications of economics; also think critically about the curriculum, because it sometimes has a conservative bias.
Taking this class is a bit of a gamble.  It is definitely worth it, if only for the basic insight into the world of economics, but there is a decent chance you'll have a worthless section and have to learn everything from the textbook.
Ec10 gives you a basic understanding of economics that is very helpful in understanding of current events such as the economic recession.
It is definitely a lot of work and on a tough curve, but it is a great class to take.
Take this course if you want to learn the ABC's of economics. Sometimes, grades might not reflect your enthusiasm or actual knowledge in this field, which can be disappointing. But that is not the purpose of this course so what you should get out from Ec 10 is your understanding of how people manage scarcity and how they live in a market system. Economics is a euro-centric field as it originated from England and it is a field that might seem volatile because reality and theory do not always go together. Honestly, this is frustrating. But David Johnson makes it all the more lively so I would say, take it.
This course will give you a very solid introduction to the fundamentals of economics. Be aware that the psets take a while, and that the exams will likely own you. Fear not, the curve is considerable.
Just pray to god that you get a good TF or else you'll be doomed. I ended up learning most of the materials by myself.
If you take this class, you'll soon realize that Mankiw's just the figurehead. David Johnson, the Head TF, is the person who writes all the Psets and Exams, and he's a VERY good teacher. I highly recommend this class if you're interested at all in knowing more about the world, and I think the knowledge I've gained about the economy from this class is something everybody ought to have. Just be prepared for some frustration along the way.
While many people complain about Ec10, I found the material pretty interesting. I think the class gets its bad reputation from the exams, which can be a bit unfair at times, but if you stay on top of the work and study a decent amount the workload is absolutely manageable.
It's pretty boring and no one really enjoys the class.
This class is crucial for your understanding of how the world works. You need to learn this material so unless you plan on reading the book on your own or taking an Intro Ec course over a summer somewhere else, you need to take this class. It enriches your understanding of the rest of your studies. That said, this class can be very unorganized and it ALL DEPENDS ON THE TF. My first semester, I had a TF who was really nice just not the best teacher for me. So first semester was rough but 2nd semester, my TF was a BOSS. He was the coolest dude ever and he was super smart. He was super helpful and I actually enjoyed Ec10 with him. (minus the problem sets lol) To sum up- Great material that every college student should be exposed to but you're going to have to put in mad work.
It's an interesting course that all students should take.
Good course to take
The class is part of the Harvard experience.  You're learning about the principles that are the basis of all financial transactions with 800 other people, and it's a great feeling.
This class is designed more as an introduction for those certain they want to concentrate in Economics - not those who only want to take one economics course.
its tough, but interesting.
You should take this class, but it's not fun. It is essential learning though,
Alright Ec 10, you've given me a full year of your sections, lectures, and problem sets. I'd like to separate my review of the course into two parts: the first addresses potential students, and the second addresses whoever is in charge of Ec 10. Let's start with the students.First, this class has fewer lectures than, well, anything. This is not a lecture class. It's taught mostly in section, and the lectures are a sorry afterthought to what you learn in section. Logically, then, your experience with Ec 10 depends on which section leader you get.Not only do you NOT get to pick what section leader you get, you don't really get to switch out of the one you're assigned to. Why would they do that, you say? Well in my experience, it's because the quality of section leaders in this course is below the standard of other courses at Harvard (I'm looking at you, CS 50). I loved my section leader, so this is not even a personal opinion. When you have 20 students in Lamont Cafe trying to finish a problem set and 3/4ths of them can't figure out what the question means because their teaching fellows either (a) didn't explain the material properly or intelligibly, or (b) didn't teach the material at all, you know there's a problem. It's really unacceptable. But I'll get to that in a few paragraphs.There are other ways to get some substance out of this course. The "Helpful Hints" online are pretty good. But this course really shines in David Johnson, the head TF. If this course was taught in lecture by him, I would give each of these ratings a perfect score. He somehow communicates ideas with ease and clarity. His review sessions taught me more in an hour than my section leader did in a week. That's what is unacceptable. There is such a disparity between TFs that what you get from this class depends on who teaches you. It doesn't affect your grade much--your grade is normalized across section--but the administration of this course has repeatedly said that this course should help you with real life, with understanding real events. Speaking of which, let's have some more lectures please? Professor Mankiw, I love you. I really do. But we either need to see you more often in Sanders Theater, lecturing us with your nectar-like wisdom, or you need to put David Johnson on a pedestal and have him teach a chapter a day (seriously though, he could do it). But your segmented way of teaching Ec 10 using untrained TFs who teach different things at different times is NOT okay. Freshmen: you'll probably take this class. But I think you'd get more out of this class if you just bought Mankiw's 218th edition textbook and taught yourself (the textbook is very well-written) than if you toiled through 9 or 10 AM sections for a year, potentially learning little in the process. If you do take it, do your best to learn the material, and don't rely on the course itself to teach you anything. If there's anything that shocked me into college after coming from high school, it's this class.Leaders of Ec 10: you need to change some things. Yes, there are a few cute freshmen who are SUPER interested in Economics. They're the ones who stick around after lecture to chat with the speakers, or visit office hours. But if you want to keep your spot as one of the most popular courses at the College, you need to get your house in order, and fast. Take a few pointers of CS50. Aim for the highest quality TFs--and here's a tip: SMARTER TFs does not mean BETTER. There are people I had for unit tests who explained concepts better than my section leader. You need to get people who can eloquently and clearly explain these concepts for people who have NEVER taken the class before. You need to teach the lowest common denominator. If you can please the person who takes this as an elective, you might be able to actually teach some students some quality economics.And give David Johnson a raise. And make him a lecturer. Seriously. He's Ec 10's last samurai.
EC 10 teaches material which is incredibly relevant, interesting and useful, and it teaches this information quite well.  Unfortunately, it is also a very big course, which means that a lot of your success will depend on the quality of teaching fellow you get, and you may get a bit lost in the process.  Personally, I am disappointed with the feedback on assignments, and the apparent disconnect between what is taught and what is tested; however, I am still happy that I took the course because I have learned a great deal.
No one has any idea what's going on. Just learn how to take a test that you don't know any answers.
Might as well take it because like a third of the class does
its great to learn economics, but i definitely have my reservations which i will not share here.
Sit down, do the readings, go to lecture and section. you should be all set.
a course that everyone should take
Macroeconomics is a really fascinating course that is much more relevant to real-world events than micro.  The course materials are all really good to use, and the explanations to all of the problem set and exam answers online are really well thought-out and thorough.Definitely make the effort to keep up with the readings, unit tests, and homeworks, because these are the best way to learn.  Also go to office hours!
If your TF isn't good, this class may be difficult. Make sure you seek out a TF that you can understand and get help if you don't understand the material.
You get out of Ec 10 what you put into it. Go to office hours, read the news paper, be engaged.
The tests are very difficult. Not a very fulfilling course for me personally, but perhaps for people who have a strong Ec background they would find it good.
take it. easy class, easy curve, and you don't want to be screwed over and have to take it as a soph or a junior if you didn't think you'd want to take a class that has it as a prereq
It's an experience I find hard to separate from freshman year at Harvard.
Macro is more confusing than micro. Make sure to pay attention in section and read the helpful hints carefully, because there is a fair amount of material that is not included in the textbook.
Anyone who hasn't taken an economics course should take this course.
Definitely a class you should take in your four years.
It's a useful course, but be ready to teach yourself everything.
Be aware that this course will fall short in teaching quality and motivation. You will, often, be on your own, and you will have to deal with the professor's, the course's, and the textbook's inadequacy at providing a well-rounded presentation of economics. The course as a whole is biased to right-wing economics and if you are interested in learning in an environment that raises questions and debate, this course fails miserably. It does, however, succeed at giving students a basic working knowledge of basic economics; if you are thinking of taking it for this, then do it (I did), but be aware that the overall experience will probably be lacking.
Be warned -- this course is not as easy as it seems. You will definitely have to put in work into getting a good grade, and sometimes, you'll think the tests are somewhat unfair because they disproportionately test lectures and online readings. However, you will lead the class with a strong grasp of basic economics, changing the way in which you think about the world.
You might as well take it.
As long as you do the problem sets yourself you will get a lot out of this course and also do well in it.
This class is really great. The material is applicable to real world examples. Definitely a Harvard Experience. But, the tests are questionable. Unit Tests don't do anything when everyone does them....
Full of useful information, pretty difficult in terms of how much material there is.
This is a great class to take, especially if you're a freshman and still figuring out what you would like to do (concentration-wise). Don't worry that it is large - it is taught predominantly in section. Guest lecturers are great. The class is not particularly hard, although it can get difficult at times.
After the first midterm, you will understand better how to prepare for the one-hour exams.
If you want to be an economics concentrator, take this class. If you decide you don't like it after the first semester, DO NOT do the second semester. I regret this decision so much. It does not get better after the first semester is over.
Look for a good TF if not you will surely dislike the class. Dislike is an euphemism for the word that I really wish to use.
really good intro to ec. but you have to know that you are getting yourself into a huge class that can often feel like an impersonal machine. my tf was great, and that made a huge difference. definitely go to david johnson's review sessions because he is the MAN.
This course is superficial and uninteresting. The material is not presented persuasively, and we are expected to internalize assumptions rather than understand why they are true. Part of the reason is the avoidance of math; some of this material, it seems to me, cannot be taught honestly without rudimentary calculus. Instead, we assume that all relations are linear. Though I think a case can be made for the usefulness (if not veracity) of this assumption, the fact that the course is based on it, and no justification is ever given, smacks of intellectual corner-cutting. The case to made would be that if actual economic relations are not linear, we generally have little knowledge of them beyond the first linear approximation.If you like memorization classes, this is not a bad choice. Otherwise, avoid it.
Only take it if you are willing to put in the time to understand it.
i'm not sure i'd take this course again unless I wanted to major in economics.  I feel like there must be better ways to learn basic economics without so much math
The second semester of Ec 10 is actually really interesting! I liked macro a lot better than micro; it really is a lot more applicable to real-life issues. If you took Ec 10 in the fall and are somewhat unsure if you want to continue, I encourage you to do it. It's worth it - you'll learn a LOT! Quick note, though: spring semester Ec 10 is a lot more fast-paced.
Stay strong and get it done. Don't drop out midway! And make a friend group to do psets in you won't regret it. And do unit tests they aren't very difficult and graded more than fairly
Do the readings, they're easy and helpful. Sections can not be very helpful, especially if you get a bad TF, so be prepared to do a lot of the work on your own through readings and helpful hints. Definitely still take this course, basic economics is essential to basically every field.
it is a useful class, but there are too many students in it to be taught effectively and to be graded fairly
Make sure you know and revise sem.1 further over Christmas. There is a LOT of content.
Figure out which tf is the best and try to get that tf...
You will have some of the best Economists in the world lecturing in your class.
If you've taken AP Econ, consider taking a higher level course. If you do take this class, take the unit tests.
This course is very interesting and rewarding. I am so glad that I took this course, since I now am able to understand a lot of political discussions that I would not have been able to understand before taking this course.
Unless you plan to concentrate in economics, I would be very wary to take this "classic Harvard course." The pedagogy and the exams are not unified, and the sectioning of the course makes it difficult to sift through the bureaucracy. Your experience in this course will be determined by the TF you are assigned.
Ec 10 isn't the most engaging class ever, but it's enlightening. Learning about economics gives you a different world view; if you're not going to learn it on your own, learn it here.
This class is huge; the course directors structure tests around a curve and not around whether or not students understand the material.  With that being said, it's not terribly difficult.  If you can live with that then by all means take the course.
It's a good coarse and I do recommend it.  The teaching, however, is not very good.  The materials, the subject, and the (once every blue moon) lectures are great.  But you have to do most of the grunt work (learning the graphs) on your own.
For Ec10, you very much get what you put into it. Most of the course will be self-taught, and when you have questions expect to wait a while at overcrowded office hours. If you love economics, this course will be great for you. If you're just curious about economics and are looking to fulfill a math requirement, this is not the right choice.
Material is interesting but not taught very well. Your experience will depend on whether your TF is good or not.
This class was just not good.
A good class to take
Don't let the size of the class overwhelm you.   There are plenty of opportunities to meet with Prof. Mankiw and David Johnson during office hours; make the most of these.
it is good
While some might not find it enjoyable, this class helps make students more informed about the way our society runs, and would help them make better decisions, be they economic or political.
Relatively easy class if you are a quantitative person, but still very interesting material.  At first I was upset that Mankiw barely teaches, but if you have a good section leader, section can be amazing.  In some ways, my ideal class--problem set based & quantitative, but easy with relevant material.  I love that I can now understand WSJ articles.
It's a GPA killer, but you actually learn really relevant and interesting material in the Spring Semester.
your experience depends on your section leader
If you're not a quantitative person, be prepared to have to "work" in this course to understand what is going on. DJ's Psets are kind of silly sometimes, and I found his  review sessions unhelpful generally.
The lectures are hit or miss. Some are very interesting and worthwhile, and others are dry and not particularly interesting. Although much of the course seems trivial since it cannot be applied to real life, the material at least gives you a framework of economics and helps you understand current events.
Do not be afraid to take this class even if you have never learned any type of economics; taking Ec10 was a rewarding experience.
The class can be hard! You have to be interested to put in the time to "beat" the curve.
Macro is tougher than micro, so try to stay on top of things. It's harder to cram and be successful since the concepts are a lot more interconnected.
Great class, it requires a bit of work, so be prepared to work hard!
Your experience in this class is determined by your section leader. Get a good one, and this class can be fund for anyone. Get a bad section leader, and this class can be painful.
read the articles
This course is a new way in which to view the world.  It is moderately difficult and requires a desire to go beyond the required material in order to fully understand the concept and their real-world implications, but if you do that, it is rewarding indeed.
If you want to learn basic economics, this is the course. If you plan on concentrating in Ec, or think you might, this is the course. Don't be fooled by the shopping week lectures - this course is taught in sections. Thankfully most of the TFs are good. All in all, a good intro to the Econ concentration: If you sit there passively, you will get a good education, be lost in a sea of Econ people, and never meet any professors or TFs. And if you reach out to Mankiw, David Johnson, and your TF, you'll probably get a better education, along with actually developing a relationship with your professor.
You have to take Ec10 to get anywhere in economics.  It's not going to blow your mind but it offers a passable introduction to economics.
This course teaches you how to think like an economist. Insight, I feel, is the most important attribute that can be attained from this course.
Don't take it unless you have to.
Do not continue with the macroeconomics half of Ec10 unless you really enjoyed microeconomics and have a strong desire to learn about international economics and public policies involving economics.  Your experience with Ec10 strongly depends on your section leader, so play close attention to his/her teaching style.  Ec10 challenges you to think about a hundred different variables affecting a situation all at once.  The problems sets take many hours to complete, but office hours are very helpful if you are struggling. Definitely take the Unit Tests as they give you extra credit AND are really great practice for the hourly exams. Mankiw may get the credit for the success of Ec10 (with minimal involvement), but it's really up to you and your TF to make the experience and learning process what you want it to be.
It's a terrible class that is unfortunately a requirement for ec concentrators. Don't take it as an elective, even though I think it is very important for everyone to have a basic understanding of econ.The subject is great. The course is bad. Seek out other entry level econ courses and take those instead if you are able.
Make sure to get a good TF- it could make a world of a difference.
very useful introduction to the field of economics and useful even for non-concentrators
Much better than micro.
Confusing and unpleasant.  I regret taking the course
This class is all about what you want to put into and get out of it.  If you utilize the unit tests and your TF (or get Head TF David Johnson - he's amazing!) you can really learn a lot of useful information that will help you make sense of the economic situation in the world today.  The problem sets require a lot of thought, and the exams can be tough, but this class gives you a chance to work with peers in a helpful way, master interesting material, and understand a bit of the past and present of US economics.  I liked macro much more than micro, and am definitely glad I took this course.  It's really rewarding to complete the whole year, as well!
Unless you want to be an ec concentrator, take another intro to ec class.  You want to learn a little about both macro and micro, but devoting a full year to it is too much especially if it is not required.
This is not only one of the better taught and better organized intro classes at Harvard, but it is also one of the classes, regardless of your concentration, that you probably will find to be extremely useful, as it applies to everyday events affecting our own lives.
economics is important, that's the only good thing i have to say about this class
Liberal or Conservative, Capitalist or Communist, everyone should take an introductory economics class in order to be an informed citizen of the Industrialized world.  Also, go to Prof. Mankiw's office hours!  He may not give that many lectures because the class is best taught in section, but he's great to talk to in person and cares about Ec 10 students!
The course is not difficult if you go to section and do the textbook reading before the exams.
I thought I wouldn't really like economics that much and that I was just taking this course to become a better informed citizen.  I do feel like I'm a much better consumer of information now, but it also turns out I like economics a lot, and I'm thinking of getting a secondary now.
The exams are HARD, and the p-sets take a lot of work! The course material is super relevant, though, and there isn't all that much work week per week. Get ready to "synthesize"--this is not a course in which you're asked to spit back material.
Look at the Helpful Hints and do all the readings and psets! Also, read the book before your section classes!!!
This class sucks
Ec 10 is a Harvard institution - as a student in the course, you're participating in something that tens of thousands of students past, present, and future are a part of, and that's a neat feeling.
If you're good at math, this is going to be easy.
get a good section leader! not necessarily the head, but one who's teaching you can relate to
The grading in this class is very unfair. The class is easy, though.
Everyone really should be required to take this course. It's extremely useful and the class is fun if you approach it with the right attitude.
This is a broad strokes class- don't expect detail or derivation of models/formulas. Also, remember they're teaching to the masses- lacks personal aspect.
About economic theory.
Though most of the material is straight from the textbook, much of your enjoyment of and engagement in the class depends on the talents of your section leader.
This is a good class to learn the basics of economics through.  It is kind of slow and the problem sets get annoying, but it is not badly taught and not a big time commitment at all.
You're going to want to take this class. You may not always like it, but it's very worthwhile, and all your friends are going to take it, so you might as well. It's a very solid intro into ec that helps you look at the world and better see how and why things work the way they do
If you are not that interested in economics, take it pass/fail. But it's definitely interesting and it teaches you useful stuff.
Ec 10 rewards you for the amount of work that you put into the class. If you do all of the readings and attend section, you will do well. This class is taught predominately by TF's, so just hope that you get a good one.
The material covered in this class will give you a strong foundation in economics. However, the class is poorly done. The teaching fellows do not teach well, and what they teach do not appear on the PSETs or exams. Additionally, the head TF makes the exams way harder than anything that's covered. He says that during the exams, you should be "learning". That's not exactly what you want to be doing during a test, especially if you've taken the time to study the material.
While it is tempting to take this class, since so many people take it, and since it is an easy class, it is a total waste of time. If you are interested in economics, take Ec 1010 or 1011 instead, which will be a harder, much much more interesting and rewarding.
Tell them be ready for the tests. Everything else is overrated. Nothing is intuitive
It is helpful if you can do readings before section, otherwise section can be a waste of time
It is essential to your life knowledge
Go to David johnson's office hours (or whoever the head TF is).  He writes the exams - whatever's important to him will end up on the test. And he presents the information in an engaging, comprehensive way.
Must-take.
A necessary evil.
This is a great class. Concepts require you to use common sense instead of trying to memorizing a bunch of facts. Just think how to make the most money and you will be fine.
I would take it merely because it is a prerequisite course for virtually every course in the social sciences department and is also a general education course. That having been said, however, the course in and of itself is not remarkably rewarding unfortunately.
The material of the class is something you have to expose yourself to sometime. However, the class as implemented is hit-or-miss, based on what TF you get.
The course is a great introduction to anyone who may be interested in economics. The things you learn are very useful and applicable, and you can get a good grade if you just commit to doing all the readings and going to lectures/sections. If you are not willing to put the effort in, I would advise against taking the class.
Your TF really matters for this class. Make sure you get a good one.
The course felt like it went on forever. Macro was more interesting. Make sure you keep up with the work and understand the material as you go, because it's easy to fall behind. Definitely worth taking just to understand the global economy better.
brutal course. don't take it unless you want to be an ec major. I don't know why you'd want to be an ec major though...
You should probably take this class if you want to do econ to make sure you actually want to do econ.
I wouldn't take this course unless you had to.
Ec 10 is a great course to give you an understanding of economics that is helpful for all of life in the future. Macro is easier than micro and the workload isn't too bad at all.
take this course only if it's required or if you are interested in getting a basic ec background, but i wouldn't say it's fun or thrilling or super engaging
This class may be a little bit biased sometimes (very occasionally), but it does inform a person of the basics of economics and really helps a person understand a lot of the things people talk about on the news about economics. Also it makes a person a more independent thinker as one can now critically analyze what many politicians, journalists, or pundits say about economic policy and where they get it wrong and where they get it right.
If you work hard you will do well in the class, but working hard involves keeping up on the readings and paying attention in section. If you slack off in the beginning of the semester it will be hard to catch up.
Economics gives the basis for understanding not only the economy but how life and society runs. Take this class.
Good to know the basics, but a real pain of a class
Good introduction of the basics, but I don't like the way its taught.
Requires a lot of work but is very enriching and a great introduction to economics.
This class will provide you with a new framework to approach the world, and everyone could benefit from taking it.
It is a tough course.
If you have any interest in learning about how economies act in the real world, I'd recommend United States in the World 17 instead. This course has a terrible structure (taught almost entirely in section, but with exams standardized across the course) and refuses to deal with the shortcomings of economics in any way. Overall, it's probably the least intellectually-stimulating course I've ever taken. The material is easy and easy to learn, but expect to feel like a middle schooler.
It's a great class, and definitely take it for a good foundation if yo're concentrating in economics!
This class is what anyone criticizing Harvard would hold up as their prime example of the problems with a large research institution. A hot-shot professor who doesn't teach, reliance on graduate students who may have a poor command on English, and a huge mass of students graded on a curve. That being said, I think learning economics is very important for anyone's understanding of the world, and one should take this course if only to be better informed about politics/economics.
The material you learn in this class is very relevant and really you should know the basics of economics.  but it is an absolute struggle especially if you do not get a good TF since you have the same one all year. Basically this class is a gamble and can hurt your GPA but you do come out of it with a greater knowledge of whats going on in the American and world economy right now.
Econ is useful, but you could probably learn everything useful in THIS course by using Wikipedia. I would definitely try to find another way to learn economics, though, since it is extremely practical.
It's not terrible, but it's not that great.  Take it if you think you might want to concentrate within this department, but don't take it just to fulfill a GenEd.
The quality of your time in Ec10 really depends on your TF. Overall the course serves as a good, detailed intro class to economics.
it requires a lot of time and effort, but if you do all of the problem sets and unit tests, you will do relatively well in the class
it's a required class for ec concentrators and secondaries -- you'd have to take it regardless. macro has real life implications -- you'll get a better understanding of the financial news after taking this class.
This course introduces you to all the basic intuition behind the economics ou read about most frequently in the news.  You'll rarely see Mankiw, but if you get a good TF, the course can be very rewarding.
Take if you like to be given theories without proof backed by intuition.
Good experience but not very well managed course. David Johnson should be the true leader of the course, not Mankiw
Do as many unit tests as possible and don't fall behind in section
Lots of work but all good stuff you should know about basic economics.
Must take class if you ever want to make sense of more than half the things going on in the economic/political world. Difficult at times, but the work is EXTREMELY worth it. I took so much away from the course so that if I were to be plopped into Wallstreet, I would know how to answer a couple questions.
This class lacks individualized attention and unorganized. Section basically teaches you nothing, and just spits out what is in the textbook. However, if one does devote time to study on one's own, it is highly rewarding and one can learn a substantial amount from this course.
Huge range of students taking this class, from AP ec students in high school to kids with no prior experience in economics.
Be prepared for some hard work. If you are willing to put in the time this could be a very rewarding course.
Take it if you need to, otherwise it might not be worth it.
There are much easier ways to fulfill a GenEd, and easier ways to get an intro to econ if you don't want to concentrate in it! (See empirical and mathematical reasoning in the gen ed catalog.) If you do sign up for it, go to David Johnson's reviews and take the unit tests! Know lectures and grey boxes in the textbook for midterms - make them free points to offset stuff you don't know.
It will make you understand what's really going on in the world
Look, you have to take it if you want to concentrate in Ec or do a secondary in it, so you don't have a choice. The class isn't that great, PSETs are often annoying, the midterms test much more your writing speed and multiple choice ability than any EC knowledge, lectures don't happen very often and are sometimes uninteresting, other times they rock (Larry Summers gave us a presentation on the financial crisis and I loved it). So yeah I mean all I have to say is good luck, you will survive, forget about Ec 10 and not really think about it after you're done. The head TF, Mr. Johnson, is actually the real professor of the class, and he does really good review sessions. Prof Mankiw is really just there for show and do like 4-5 lectures a year.
This is the type of course that you should take, that will be helpful down the road, and teach you basic economics that you can apply in the real world. However, at the same time, it is a course that you either love or hate, and your experience is mostly attributable to your teaching fellow. Also, exams are frustrating because oftentimes you feel that you are unable to demonstrate all that you know and that you have learned in an hour long exam.
It's not perfect, but given the nature of the class (with hundreds enrolled) it's a pretty good effort.
This class embodies every possible negative stereotype of classes at a large research institution: a barely-there professor who barely every lectures, unregulated and not at all passionate teaching fellows, a grading curve that makes no sense at all. This is easily one of the worst classes at Harvard.
It's a necessary evil.
Ec 10 teaches you a lot. It's not as tough as its sometime thought, but you do cover a lot of material. It's good knowledge to have and I feel I can have a much for informed debate about the economy after the course.
This class is useful and gets me to think about economics even outside of class. Although the lectures are large and impersonal, if you get a great TF and you understand the material, you will love the class.
I would tell future students that this class is a good introduction to basic economic concepts and theories, but it is also a great way to figure out if you really want to continue studying economics.  Although the instruction received by students can vary greatly, the basic material does give students a taste for the concepts they will encounter in other upper level economics courses.
Take a harder economics class if possible.
Good to know the basics about the economy. But I would not recommend unless pursuing economics later on.
Good course, better if you know people in the class (which is almost a given considering the size) to work in problem sets with.  Sections and lectures can be boring, but the book and helpful hints on the course website are always there as a backup.  Unit Tests are supposed to be optional, but the way the grading system works makes them almost obligatory.
It is a very tough class with a lot of work.
This class is a good basic coverage of micro and macro economics. However, if you're not great at math, be prepared to work harder. The course moves quickly, so go to office hours. The problem sets are difficult as are the midterms and finals. Reading the book is so helpful, so don't blow it off!
All depends on your TF and how much time you put into it.
Your experience in this class is completely dependent upon your luck of the draw with section. If you have a tf whose teaching style is incompatible with your learning style, I would recommend that you switch immediately because that TF will teach you for both macro and micro.
It's your basic introductory economics class. A few bells and whistles (renowned guest lecturers) but pretty much standard stuff. Get a good TF and you're set. If you want to concentrate in ec, you have to take it. If you're interested in any social science, Ec 10 is definitely related to all of them and will help you understand them. Not really recommended otherwise though--there are shorter gen eds to take.
It is one of the worst taught courses at Harvard. Not worth your money, but unfortunately a requirement. Consider taking 'A Critical Approach to Economics' (US in the World) if you can.
Make sure you get a good TF.  Be vigilant when you first get sectioned.
It's a good class to take. You should definitely do it before you graduate.
Ec 10 gets a lot of flack, but it's not that bad. Plus, I feel like I did learn a lot of things I didn't know before about the economy.
This course is the worst at Harvard.  You can't hear Mankiw's lectures.  The guest lecturers are irrelevant and normally have no real relevance, except for obscure facts that will show up on midterms.  The course is designed to mess you up and weed out the Ec concentrators from everyone else.  Except those students have already taken Ec.  Probably the Ec AP in high school.  I really disliked this course and don't recommend it at all.
Ec10 is one of those classes that you usually end up taking because you have to. I took it as a junior, and can guarantee that, in comparison to the other "big intro classes" that you need to take, Ec10 ranks pretty highly.
Form close bonds with your classmates, so that you can collaborate/commiserate when the going gets tough. Section TFs come in varying qualities of teaching; don't be afraid to go to David Johnson's helpful office hours and ask for help when you need it.
Pay attention in section and in lectures. The material is not too challenging. Be sure to always do your problem sets. It helps so much with understanding the material.
Take this course if you want a great, thorough introduction to economics.
It really matters who your tf is.  If you don't like your tf, find a way to switch.  It completely changes your experience in the course and really influences how much you can learn and how well you do.
You will hear many complaints about this course, many of which are true - it is large, it is sort of impersonal, and your experience does depend on your TF.  That said, this is the best way to get an introduction to economics at Harvard.  The second half of the course especially really enables you to see the world around you with a new perspective.
This is an amazing course and definitely worth taking for any student.
This is a great class that helps you think about the world in a new and more robust fashion.
If you need it, suck it up and take it.  You can probably get by with minimal effort.  If not, don't.  There are better ways to learn econ.
Great course for the introduction of economics.  Works for concentrators and non-concentrators alike.
Ec 10 gives an excellent overview of economics, and teaches you "how the world works" on an elementary level. While not necessarily the most exciting or action-packed course, it is a good, worthwhile way to gain a better understanding of our economy.  Problem sets take time, but office hours are extremely helpful.
This is an awesome class.  take if you are interested in economics
This is great intro to economics and helps you look at the world in a more fiscally enlightened manner.
the material isn't 'riveting', but does build you a very solid economic foundation if you want to take more upper level ec courses, and/or you want a basic understanding of the economic context we live in.
Your TF matters a lot.
This class is difficult but a teaches a way of thinking that is very helpful in being successful.
Ec 10 may be a bit challenging for those who have never taken an economics course in the past; however, it does provide you with very useful knowledge about the economy and how it works.
It's an intro class, so it's not going to be super exciting.
give a good first economics understanding
You should definitely take it just to become a better consumer in the everyday world.
I enjoyed the material and absolutely loved my TF. I hear the TF makes a huge difference, but I got lucky and consequently loved the class. The lectures were interesting, though, and didn't mind the textbook.
Don't do it.
Ec-10 is one of those classes you just have to take. If you're interested in the concentration, you actually have to take it. But even if you are not, this class teaches you logical thinking that you can apply to any concentration, and, like I said, it is just one of those experiences you have to have at Harvard.
Good class if you can get a good TF. Exams are difficult but the curve is helpful.
GET A GOOD SECTION LEADER, collaborate on psets and study hard for exams! Take advantage of OH's as well.
Ec10 is a solid, though basic, introduction to economics.  It is well-organized and gives a good overall sense of the subject at Harvard.  It wimps out on math, which is good for those who are not math inclined but not so good for others. Overall, this course is better than most give it credit for.
DO NOT take this class unless you absolutely have to in order to fulfill concentration/secondary requirements or if you have an avid interest in economics. If you are just looking to get a foundation of knowledge of economics, don't take this class. The costs far outweigh the benefits. The TFs are awful, the textbook is dry, and the only redeeming aspect of this course is the excellent guest lecturers. DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS UNLESS YOU ABSOLUTELY HAVE TO.
Macro is much more enjoyable than micro and makes more sense.  Although the topic is confusing and the growth and synthesis models may make your head spin.  Don't get behind and take your unit tests!
I recommend that you take this class in order to get an introduction to economics, but keep in mind that the class is a pedagogical nightmare. I recommend it only because there is no alternative in Harvard College. Be prepared to teach the material to yourself and do not expect much teaching support or engagement from Prof. Mankiw.
Be careful.  It is such a popular class and I felt pressured to take it, but I would really think twice and reconsider.
It's not a sensational course, but the course material and the way it's taught is contemporarily relevant and, in my opinion, very important to know.
Such an important course to take at Harvard. I feel so much smarter having taken this class and it helps me understand and view the world in a whole new way.  It's a must.
If you get a bad TF, drop the class. Most TFs are bad.
It's probably necessary that you take this class; but if it's not, don't do it.
It sucks
If you want to get an introduction to Economics, this course goes a bit past that, but regardless, it is still interesting.
How well you learn in this course is likely defined by how good your TF is.  Study for tests by reviewing basic concepts and practice, practice, practice.
this class is definitely the most useful class I've taken at Harvard so far,but you have to be willing to put in the effort b/c it is extremely challenging and a lot of work.I would take it P/F if not a concentration requirement.
The overall course is great, but it also varies a lot from section to section.
Ec10 is a good course. I don't know about the organization of the course, but the material is interesting and useful. If you want to study economics you will have to take it anyway. But if you're not an ec person, I would still recommend taking it because it teaches some basic things about our economy.
You can't graduate from Harvard without taking this, or at least you shouldn't. It's almost a sin to miss out on this amazing opportunity to be taught by some of the best economists in the world. You'll also be surprised at how much you learn: basically you can sit on the board of the federal reserve and no one would know that you only took intro econ (well, unless you push it).
No student should graduate without taking this course.
great class to take even if your not concentrating in economics
Whatever you end up studying and doing in life, a general understanding of the principles of economics will make you a much more capable member of society.
Ec 10, though not the most exciting course, does open doors to other, more advanced, more exciting courses and provides a basic understanding of economics.
This class gets a bad rep for no reason. I do understand that some TFs aren't the best, but if the material piques your interest (something that you should try and gauge during reading week), I actually think that it is taught quite well. Mankiw's textbook sets up most of Econ in a logical and smart fashion. Be prepared to work: read the book and understand the Psets, or else the course will be substantially more difficult.
It is a difficult class, but helpful in the real world.
This course provides many of the resources, all that it takes is a lot of organization and much dedication to excel.
This is a good class to take because it teaches you a lot you will use in the real world.
The class is very easy if you already know some macro, so it may not be helpful to take. But if you haven't taken a macro class yet, it's very helpful.
While lectures may seem bland and boring at first (that doesn't really change), stick with this class if you want something that actually teaches you how the world works.
Keep up with the readings!
Study groups, must read book, ask plenty of questions
Overall the course is very, very fair. What you put in is what you get out. The curve is a life-saver.
This is a great course to learn basic Economics. Everyone should take this course, as knowing some economics is crucial in everyday life. The problem sets and exams can be brutal at times, and a lot of preparation and work is necessary to do well on them. However, you'll be proud of the work you've put in when you've completed this course.
This course is a great course to take no matter if you plan on concentrating in Economics or not. Definitely one of my favorite classes that I've taken here.
Lectures: sometimes interesting, irrelevant to the material taughtSection: where you learn course material, depends greatly on TF, graded based on performance compared to sectionProblem Sets: time consuming, but equivalent to material on examsExams: challenging, usually nicely curvedOffice Hours: go to David Johnson's, you'll do much better in the class, guaranteed
Definitely don't miss the guest lectures
A very important class that I'm glad I took, but one that will be what you make of it. Actually trying hard on p-sets and doing unit tests makes a big difference.
You get to learn a lot about macroeconomics, which is what is going on in our economy today. It's useful and interesting if you've ever wondered about the meaning of interest rates, the money supply, lower taxes, etc.
Keep up with the reading and go to section.
EC challenges you and makes you think about how the world works.  The structure of the class is kind of lousy, but make sure you get help outside of class if you are confused.
I think it's a good class for everyone to take just to be more informed about the world
Ec10 is your standard large lecture course. Most people take it because they think they should, rather than out of a love for economics.
This course is the basics of economics, hard at times but necessary to understand further.
I had never taken an economics course before Ec 10. It's not the most well-organized course, but it tries to accommodate for unlucky students (those who happen to get a bad section leader) with 'helpful hints' and unit tests. Those certainly help, but don't make up for a weak TF and a weak textbook. I ended up learning some concepts really well and others poorly, so I think the course is just so big that it's messy. It's okay, only take if you need the most basic intro to Ec.
hard but with it
Ec10 is... Ec10. It's a large class, so be sure to get a good section leader; you'll probably hear a lot about David Johnson, but there's plenty of TF's that are nice graders but also teach the material well.
It's Ec 10. I took it just for the sake of taking an economics class (and for the gen ed credit I suppose), which I wouldn't recommend doing. I expected to learn more about how economics works in real life; this class is a lot of drawing graphs and solving problems based on very simplified models that make a lot of assumptions that don't really hold in real life. The quality of your experience probably depends a lot on your TF. I didn't really go to section so I mostly learned from the textbook, which is very well written; it's totally sufficient for first semester, but there are a lot of concepts discussed second semester that aren't really covered in the textbook.
Ec 10-you should probably take it. Some of the criticism is valid, but what the class teaches you is integral.
Don't bother reading the required readings, only read the conclusions and introductions. It takes way too long
Take it more seriously than you may expect. The material is fascinating.
Not very good
TAKE IT! It's difficult but it's worth it! It's a great learning experience and David Johnson is a awesome Head TF. Go to his office hours, take the unit tests, etc. Use the resources they offer so you can really master the material! It's a great class if you budget the time to dedicate to it.
Understanding the principles of economics is essential to being an effective citizen no matter what you do with your life.
It's good to know economics.
it's challenging but useful for the real world.
Great class! The experience might not be that great (as it is hyped up) but you will definitely walk out feeling strong and good about what you learn. You actually get intuition from this class and that's amazing.
what you hear is generally correct. Mankiw doesn't teach the course, and it's kind of a pain to deal with.
This does the job of being an introductory economics.
If you have any interest in economics, you should take this class. The material you learn is relevant to your life, especially the guest lectures. Don't be taken by surprise -- this is not a large, easy freshman class. That being said, the work is manageable if you budget your time well.
I would only recommend ec10 if you are thinking about concentrating in ec, in which case it's a requirement. If you're taking the class in the hopes of learning the basics about the economy, like I did, you really only get that from a very small portion of macro and I would therefore not recommend it.
This class is not nearly as good as it should be, but you also don't really have any choice about it because it's the entry level economics class.
I would say "unlikely to recommend" but seeing as this class is a requirement for many concentrations or classes you probably should take this class. Economics is also a useful subject to be familiar with, but this class is not very organized and be prepared to do most if not all of the learning on your own.
Moves quite slowly and is taught almost exclusively in section, but very good if you want a not too challenging course that gives a good intro into economics.
This is a very popular course at Harvard. I took it because of this and because I have never taken an economics course before and was considering an economics/business concentration. The knowledge is practical, but I did not find it very interesting, personally.
It is a lot of work but if you enjoy the subject it is not too much of a struggle to get through everything
Get as much exposure to David Johnson as you can; he has been teaching this so long he knows the material like the back of his hand and has unbelievable enthusiasm for it. Going to office hours even once every 2 weeks will be well worth it.
Whether or not you've taken an economics course in the past, Ec10 does a pretty competent job of teaching you the foundations of macro and microeconomic theory, which is useful information to know regardless of what you want to concentrate in. However, it's important for you to know that most of the class is taught in section (you rarely see Mankiw...he lectures maybe six times the entire year), so a large part of what you take away from the class depends on who your TF is and whether or not you make good use of office hours. Definitely attend Head TF, David Johnson's office hours and review sessions when you can. He is a very engaging speaker, and a great help when you're stuck! The exams are difficult, but the general score curves are pretty generous, so it's not a huge issue.
Better hope your TF is good. If so, you're in luck. I had a great study group, a great TF, and generally a great time in Ec 10. The tests were a wreck, but hey, I understand the material so I guess I'm okay. Take the class.
You should definitely take the class. Tests are hard, but you learn so much about the way that markets work, and this type of knowledge is essential for any job you wish to have after college!
an interesting course that emphasizes a synthesis of concepts
Economics 10 should be a graduation requirement. The material is extremely engaging and relevant. If you read the textbook, start problem sets ahead of time, and take the unit tests, Ec10 should be a great experience.
I never thought I would be interested in economics, but after taking this course, I will likely concentrate in it. Highly recommended.
As a junior taking the course, I definitely felt like this class was a quintessential intro course - you learn a lot and they make exams fairly difficult to get a good distribution. Overall, great course, and I'm glad I took it even though it wasn't really related to my concentration. Read the book, ask questions, do the unit tests, and don't fall behind.
Go to david johnson office hours!!! he is an amazing guy and makes everything make sense. taking this course will really change the way you see the world
Ec10 is what you would expect of Ec10. It is an extremely large course that is mostly taught by section leaders; however, there is still a lot to learn from it. Ec10 does not merely teach economic theory and memorization, but rather actually makes you think and apply economic methods to real world problems. In this sense David Johnson does an excellent job of crafting challenging questions. Even though you may be confident with the material after sitting in section or reading the textbook, problem sets and tests will challenge you, so I would recommend Ec10 to everyone considering skipping into Ec1010 or Ec1011.
I would not recommend taking this course unless you intend on concentrating in economics and already have a background in economics. If you think, as I did, that it would be interesting and good to learn, think again. The class is very hard if you have never taken economics and they ask a lot of you on problem sets and exams without giving you much preparation.
This is, no doubt, the most important class offered here at Harvard. The information here is GENERAL and is IMPORTANT for EVERYONE to know about every day life.
It's a difficult class that you need to spend a lot of time practicing and reading in order to know the material well.
This is very good knowledge to have.
It is a fun and important class to take in your Harvard years.
I think that it's incredibly useful to learn the information covered in Ec 10, but if you aren't really looking to commit to the full year, perhaps seek a more enjoyable elective and review the material on your own.
Economics is essential to modern life, but this class is awful.  Sections are boring, Mankiw is annoying, arrogant, and biased, and the textbook is more of the same.  The class isn't too hard though and you can commiserate with all of your friends, who will also be taking the class with you.  The guest lecturers are a bright spot though.
I would tell everyone to keep in mind that this class is very math-based, and it is not the average econ class. It is much harder than that!!
Ec10 is a great class if you want to concentrate in economics, or even if you just want to learn about the subject!
Psets are tough, but definitely work in a group. The course work in useful even if you are not planning to concentrate in Economics.
It's a good class.  I learned a lot over the past semester, but the tests can be annoying because they have so much multiple choice.  Go to your TF office hours for help on the problem sets.  Don't expect it to be a seminar, it's a huge class.
The course is boring but useful.  It is definitely a standard introductory economics course.
For all the bad thing you'll hear about this class, it's really not that bad. Though a lot of the class depends on your TF, there are a lot of great TFs out there, and the subject material is really hammered down so you know what's going on.
You learn a lot about economics and it's pretty useful.
lectures aren't always worth going to
If you are an adult going into the world and you know nothing about economics you are in trouble. This is a good course to teach you about what you need to know about economics
This class is mandatory for economics concentrators (unless you pass out of it because of the AP test), so most will have to take it. This class definitely gives a good overview to economics, but it can be tedious at times. The class is huge, but you don't know that because you rarely have lectures. But, that means you meet in section a lot. Teaching quality varies greatly by section. This is one component of the class that is unfair. If you realize early that you do not have a good TF try and think of an excuse to switch sections. The tests are tough, but the homework isn't terrible, just time consuming and sometimes tedious.
If you've never studied economics before you will get a lot out of this course.  This was my first course in econ and I'm very pleased that I had the opportunity to explore this subject at Harvard.  It has definitely expanded my way of thinking about the world.
Ec 10 is a quintessential Harvard experience. Although the experience depends largely on who your TF is, since nearly all of the material is taught in section, the material is useful and relevant -- especially since we broaden our perspective in the spring semester to study how the US and world economies as a whole work. It can get confusing, though, since there are so many more variables and nuances to macro. A few tips:1. Read the TEXTBOOK, it helps a lot! It's also well-written/easy to read. Plus if you have a bad TF you can always rely on the textbook.2. Read the HELPFUL HINTS posted on the course website they are so helpful (hence the word helpful)3. Take the UNIT TESTS (they're a great grade-booster and do a good job of summing up what we've learned).4. Skim the textbook chapter summaries before the unit tests.5. Go to David Johnson's REVIEW SESSIONS before exams...they're magical.6. Form study groups/friends taking the class to work on PSETS together. (Don't split up the PSET and each do separate sections; instead do the whole thing yourself and check with friends/discuss concepts you might not understand while doing them.)
Obviously, I can't not recommend this course because it is a requirement for so many things. However, I do feel that your experience with EC10 is entirely dependent on your TF. It can make the class extremely frustrating, especially in my case where my TF didn't cover things. But overall, EC10 is a staple course here at Harvard, and despite the poor teaching, it all ends up being okay.
Its alright.
I would tell future students exactly what was told to me: You need to take Ec10 and you will learn a lot, but it isn't a particularly involved class and you won't learn from Mankiw.
Take this class! They do a great job of teaching you logic and the fundamentals of economics!
If you took Mirco in the fall, then Marco is not that much different in terms of structure and how it is run. I had no economics background from high school. In terms of the learning the material, I hardly touched the textbook and most of what I learned came from doing PSETs. I also took the time to understand the correct answers posted for both the PSETs and practice problems for tests. Go to section because there will be much more information that will not appear in the book. Other than that practice, practice, practice!
This class is amazing for anyone interested in economics and important for anyone just looking for an elective.
Go to David Johnson's office hours
This class covers lots of information but is very helpful in providing a strong foundation in economics.
Go to David Johnson's review sessions, they are very helpful!
Great way to get to know freshmen. Try to switch out of section quick if you don't like your TF.
A solid introduction to economics, but for someone like me--better suited for reading and writing rather than economics--it was tough and required a lot of work.
Ec 10 is an amazing class. Every undergraduate at Harvard (particularly those interested in politics or public service) should take it. It provides a fair, balanced introduction to the principles of economics. If you want to be taken seriously when debating economic issues, you have to know this stuff.
This is a great introductory course and I found that the principles I learned were applicable to everyday life. However, your experience in the course does largely depend on your section TF.
EC 10 is a right of passage. it's not fun but you need to take this to get through the rest of your life without looking like and idiot.
take econ in high school
Does not hold you by your hand. Too many kids. You gotta fend for yourself. Mostly fair and insightful test of your mastery of material.
it's ok
Although this is a basic, intro economics course, there is quite a lot of work and preparation for exams. Problem sets are fairly difficult, so be sure to ask your TF if you have any questions. The exams are hard, but there is usually a generous curve. It teaches important concepts of the economy that everyone should know, so even if you aren't planning on concentrating in economics, you should consider taking this course.
Though the first semester of EC 10 is not the most excitng, macroeconomics gets a lot more interesting, especially if you are interested in how economic policy affects people's lives. Though it doesn't seem like it at times, all of the course material covered is related and can really help illuminate the basics of macroeconomics.
Very good course in that you will develop a solid understanding of some basic concepts that will help you become a more informed voter and citizen
You will learn valuable things for the future, though you won't necessarily enjoy it all the way along. The material deals with a frustration combination of common sense and less obvious reasoning. It is challenging to stay present at the lectures, whether physically or mentally, but it helps to sit near the front -- definitely doesn't help to sit in the balcony with friends, if you're trying to pay attention. Make use of David Johnson's office hours if you want to get excited about the material, or your own TF's if you want to get a handle on how to deal with questions on the problem set in a relatively straight forward way. If your TF is awful or not great--which definitely happens--make use of the office hours of other TFs.
Ec10 is your basic intro class.  One added bonus is that it is taught by some of the most accomplished economists in the country.
Everyone should take it.
take to broaden horizons, understand NPR, learn to schmooze at Harvard Cocktail Parties
Its ec10. you have to take this or jump to ec1010/11. if you dont know ec, take it. if you took ec in high school, jump ahead
Make sure to work on and understand completely the weekly psets yourselves.
It's wise to keep up with readings.
Good, solid class.  Basically you get out what you put in.  Teach yourself the material and you'll be fine.  If you do the reading and the PSets and go to section, you should ace this class.
This class essential for who wants to pursue a degree in Economics, and for those who want to have a good perspective on how the real world functions. However, this is not an exciting class.
The course material is interesting but the course itself is drawn out and rather laborious. The tests are disproportionately difficult, and even so the curve allows pretty much everyone to escape with at worst a B or B+.
It's a 750 person course, so it is what it is.  The textbook isn't too bad, but it won't help for any of the assessments.  The problem sets are very challenging.  There are WIDE, WIDE disparities between sections based on your TF.  Some simply spend section writing the textbook vocab definitions and graphs on the board, read them out loud, and let you copy them down.  Others synthesize the information and ask questions that lead toward understanding.  Some TFs grade Psets on a check system, others on a point system, some drop certain psets, others don't.  The differences are unacceptable -- we don't get to choose our TFs.  That being said, I don't think I regret taking it.  I wanted some understanding of the country's economy before graduating, which I did gain.
If you want knowledge about the economy that far surpasses what any other economics course in the country can offer, take ec 10. If you want to be informed about the Fed's actions, about fiscal policy, about the bond market, this course provides you with the terminology and skill set to intelligently discuss what is going on in the world today.
This is a class that every single Harvard undergraduate should take. It's not that hard, and if you've never taken a class like it before, you'll learn a lot. The textbook and problem sets are well thought out and written, and the teaching staff is very capable. Every concept is explained with impressive clarity. Your mileage may vary depending on your TF, but in the end, you can learn the concepts very easily just on your own with the textbooks and problem sets. Take Ec 10! You won't regret it.
Start p-sets early
Take it, you will learn a lot. But it is poorly run.
Not as easy as everyone makes it sound.
Take it!
Be prepared to work. A good grade isn't hard to get but a great great is hard.
Be prepared for an impersonal feeling, a potentially not so great TF, and a few boring lectures. But if you work hard you can get a lot out of the class, and they will do a good job of getting you versed in the fundamentals of Economics.
You cover a lot of material so it's important to stay on top of things.  It's basically a boring course that does give you a fairly solid economics background.
Be sure to read the green boxes
Ec 10 teaches a lot of concepts that are certainly important and relevant. Some parts of it are more exciting than others, but they really do a good job of trying to make sure that you really understand everything thoroughly. This means that sometimes the tests and problem sets are a bit tricky but you'll be glad you did it.
That it is hard.
This course gave me a great foundation for understanding current events and the lectures made me more aware of different aspects of economics.
It's just one of those classes you have to take if you want to concentrate in Econ.  I recommend you go to sections and office hours as much as you can.  Psets aren't too bad but the midterms and finals can be much more difficult than the material you learn in class.  Do the unit tests and work hard and you should be fine.  The material and course is not interesting, but you have to get through the class to concentrate in economics.
Ec 10 gives you the knowledge and tools to understand and formulate opinions about many of the topics commonly debated. I entered this course close minded and ignorant to the science of economics; however, I have left economics with a firm  understanding and respect for opinions different than mind.
Definitely knowledge required for leading a more aware life -- even if you pick up a newspaper, you will recognize many things you went over in class. This is a class you should take regardless of your grade or concentration!
Good class, not great.
It's the quintessential havard freshman course. Don't miss out on it.
Be sure to do all the readings. They really help you understand the material in class!
Good if you want to concentrate in economics.
Ec 10 is what you would expect. The material is quite interesting, but the teaching relies on prepackaged material--Mankiw's book and Johnson's problem sets--rather than good teachers.
I took this class pass/fail, which I think is a great idea to do if you can.   It allowed me to get the major points of economics so I now understand the news and understood the presidential debates much better, while having it be low stress because it is incredibly easy to pass.  I think ec is great class that every undergrad should take to know for themselves and this is really the only way to do it at Harvard. Taking it pass/fail allowed me to study minimally, do most of the psets and still easily pass.
If you're concentration is Econ, then you have to take it. If not, then still take it because it is very applicable to understanding very applicable concepts. The psets are a pain though, you will spend many hours at your TF's office hours trying to finish them.
Your T.F. makes or breaks the class. My fall semester one got fired and the one I had this semester was SO much better. As a result, I did better this semester as well. A lot of work though if you want to do well and have never taken economics like me. Don't expect to receive a lot of help from anyone....READ THE TEXTBOOK! Get a tutor early on because they do run out (shows you how poorly managed the class is)
Stick it out through micro and macro is a lot better and relevant.
Sometimes it can be not so interesting, but you definitely will learn a lot of really useful things.
Take this course if you have the slightest interest in Economics. Your TF might be the worst TF there is, but there is always David Johnson! Go to his office hours, talk to him, ask him anything you want, he is a very good TF and teacher, and knows how to explain concepts very well.
Have people to work/study with
Can be a hard class, but if you put in the time to study and do the work you can do well and learn a lot and it is a very rewarding, relative class.
Ec 10 is a large intro class that probably does a very good job of teaching foundational economics skills. However, I thought it was very poorly taught and run. The p-sets were extremely hard and require one to do a lot of extra work trying to decipher what the questions are asking. They didn't seem to match what we learned in section - they were harder and different. It is also necessary to go to your TFs office hours if you want any hope of getting started on the right path.
Macro is much more enjoyable than Micro. The speakers are incredible, and it feels truly relevant and in some ways transcendent. Learning about the financial crisis from Larry Summers in Ec10 in Sanders Theater? Sort of crazy. But as always, although the negatives about Ec10 come along with it. Very tolerable, sometimes enjoyable, other times torturous.
Very dependent on TF. Iwan was awesome!
Learning the basics of economics is an important skill and it is worth taking this course because the analytical skills are useful, but it is not a particularly engaging or well-taught class.
difficult but very useful in life
Make sure you have a good TF and you attend office hours and read helpful hints and keep up with textbook readings!
Look, it's Ec10. If you don't have a basis for economics by the time you've graduated college, you've seriously missed a vital part of liberal arts education. The course, all things considered, is a pretty good one, and a great freshmen bonding experience.
This is a significant class in any undergraduate's career. I study chemistry and found this course incredibly relevant to my life, and fun.
You should take this course if you are fairly sure that you are concentrating in economics, and it will give you a very good baseline understanding of what to expect in future courses.
Only take this course if you're interested in concentrating in Econ. Most of the people I talked to agreed that macro was harder than micro, so consider your options VERY carefully when deciding whether to continue after the first semester.
I think the first semester was much more informative.  I think macro is simply too complicated to be presented in such a simplified fashion.  While the simplifications in micro can be tolerated, they simply confuse the macro concepts.  I wouldn't recommend the 2nd semester.
Definitely a great way to be introduced and achieve a baseline understanding of economics
I enjoyed micro but didn't enjoy macro. Macro felt unfocused and wasn't taught as well as micro (not in terms of the TF, just in terms of the curriculum and the class' approach to the material). It's a good freshman class to take, though.
This class is just one of those intro classes that you hate but have to do for your concentration.
It's a great primer for  economics department.
Stay on top of things
More likely than not, if you're reading this, you have to take this course because it is required for your concentration or secondary, so my recommendation of whether or not to take the class is moot. However, I will say that this course is a solid, albeit dry, introduction to many economic concepts you will likely learn more about in future economics classes. The highlight of this class is definitely the guest lecturers. There are some very interesting, incredible people who come to speak to Ec 10. I found section rather unnecessary because I would read the chapters in the book that we would be going over and then the would just have the book regurgitated back at me in section.
Don't take it if you're not quantitatively inclined.
Make sure you read the book and all the helpful hints--seriously.
A good class to take no matter what your intended concentration. The lectures are the best part of the class.
It definitely requires a fair amount of work and you need to stay on top of the material, but there are a lot of pieces in place to help you with that (i.e. problem sets, unit tests, section, etc) and, overall, the course is a great introduction to economics.
Interesting material but there are brutal tests and annoying p sets
You need to study 5 plus days for all midterms and the final. The material is turned around and made much more difficult on exams.
Do NOT take this class unless you plan on concentrating in economics or it is required for something.
Go to David Johnson's Office Hours-- they will help you
David Johnson is an asset to this class. He and the bond market will never betray you! I believe that he deserves to be teaching at Sanders as well.
I really don't think there's any point in recommending or not recommending this class since I think most of the people who take it do so because they have to for their concentration or something else. The class is the kind of class people think of when they think of Harvard (which is a shame, because most classes here aren't like this): a disinterested professor who lectures about four times a semester and doesn't seem to want much to do with students, plus a bunch of grad students who may or may not actually know what they're doing in front of a classroom. That said, the class taught me economics, which is pretty much all I can ask of it.
They have to be on top of their readings to actually understand the topics taught in section.
Find a good TF! It is really the make-or-break-it part of the class. If you have a good TF, put effort into the psets and go to office hours (both your TF's and David Johnson's), it's an incredible learning experience. If you don't it's pretty awful. If you get a bad TF, you're allowed to switch TFs within your grading group.
Mankiw doesn't do any real teaching, you only go to his lectures to hopefully take notes on something that may be in an exam, not to learn. The real learning happens in section.
The problem sets and the books teach you the basics of economics, however the test lean toward David Johnson's beliefs.
There are so many students that the class is kind of hard so they make a real curve. Section really depends on your preceptor - try to switch if you can get a better teacher. Lectures are interesting.
Get a good TF.
you can do well in this class as long as you do the psets
Ec10 can be difficult if you're not solid on math/graphing, but it's worth the time you put into it to understand the economy. As far as grades go, they try to help you out with a curve and the Unit Test system, so I wouldn't let that be a deciding factor in whether or not you take the class.
Take it. Even if you're not concentrating in Ec, it's useful to know this material.
Only take it if you're considering economics are a concentration. If not, a whole year of Ec becomes brutal after a while if you do not necessarily have an interest in finance. It may be relatively useful to know, but the course just becomes a burden after a while.
The course covers interesting material. However, section is not very helpful so you'll pretty much have to learn everything on your own if you want to do well.
A way to fulfill US & World where you might actually learn something!
Life knowledge. Everyone should have to take this class.
Ec 10 is a lot like Annenberg food. It's usually serviceable, never spectacular, but is a Harvard staple. Its convenience usually outweighs its mediocrity.
Incredibly valuable basic knowledge to have
The macro econ part of EC10 is more fun than the micro
Not the greatest of courses - taking it as a junior was a bit odd. You can get through the problem sets/unit tests without knowing the material, but you will need to learn it for the exams, which is best done by doing the problem sets/unit tests well.
It is an interesting intro class.
While the course itself lacks a bit of organization and the TFs are not all equally qualified at teaching, in general this is a very useful class. The content itself is very relevant and David Johnson does a great job, especially with the psets, making the material applicable to real world situations. Economics is a subject that is constantly a matter of international news so having even a basic knowledge of the topic is, I think, pretty important. Ec 10 is a great way to obtain that knowledge.
good class, most people should take it
It's no easy class, but I came out with a much better understanding of the world around me.
If you read the book you wont get less than a B. Awesome curve on tests.
Some people find it boring at times, but the material is essential if your interested in anything from economics/business to politics. And yes, David Johnson is the best teacher I've had here so far.
Take it even if you have already taken AP Econ. There are some topics like trade barriers that are covered in this course. If you have taken AP Econ, this will be an easy A.
Ec10 is what you make out of it-- you can grumble through the psets or you can use them as a great tool for relating what you're learning in class to real world issues! You can use office hours or you can let them pass you by. If I could do it over again, I would invest more in the class. The material can be really interesting if you get into it!
If you're interested in learning how government policies affect your life go for this class.
If you have any interest in Economics, you don't really have a choice but to take this course. I might caution you to wait until after your freshman year to take it to (1) see if you actually have an interest in Econ, and (2) get a sense of how you'll manage its rather regular workload.
Just do the psets on your own and do the reading before section. You will have to do everything eventually but will be 10 times more difficult if you delay...
Though this is not a top-tier difficulty class, it is easy to get complacent and not study properly for the exams, they are challenging especially for someone who has no economics experience.
Even if you have no interest in pursuing economics beyond this intro class, you will benefit from Ec10.  The material will help you understand the way society functions, and it will give you insight into your own personal financing.  The course will be what you make of it.  You will get the most out of it if you read the textbook, participate in section, attend lecture, find a study group for problem sets and exams, and go to the unit tests!
You have to be prepared to do a lot of work on your own and drawing from many resources, like the lectures, problem sets, section, and office hours, to prepare for the exams.
Be ready for long Thursday nights staying up late to finish the weekly problem sets. The tests are very manageable and not too difficult.
Even if you have no plans to concentrate in economics, or no love for the discipline itself, every student would benefit from at least a basic understanding of economic theory.
Well, you'll probably shop EC10 at least once. The experience depends on your TF so if you have a bad one switch out as fast as possible.
Everyone should take this course! The material is so relevant to real life, even if you are not interested in concentrating.
Do the readings! They tell you everything you need to now for the course.
It's the best way to get a general economics view at Harvard, but it's hard to be invested in the class with so many TFs and there is little support if you need help.
This is a very standard intro class at Harvard. Despite its flaws, I think everyone should take this course to see how Harvard classes work. It's a good transition class into college classes. It teaches you the basics of Econ, but as you can see in some of the other classes, there are problems when the class is huge.
While this class does cover a wide variety of material, it doesn't have much depth in any subject. You know you have to take this class, so try to enjoy the guest lecturers and take the mundane parts with a grain of salt.
This class is definitely good for "life"-it has helped me understand the world around me much better, especially in terms of current events. However, it's definitely not a class that you will enjoy.
It's Ec 10. You'll have to take it anyway. Try to make the most of the course, there are a ton of potential career pathways that are opened through taking this course.
- A solid introduction to among the most important subjects to understand in order to be an informed citizen. Solid structure. Not too hard.- Make sure to maneuver to get a good tf at the beginning.- Go to David Johnson's office hours. He is a gifted teacher, even if he's over exuberant and sometimes a bit intimidating.
#DavidJohnson'sReviewSession
This class is a useful class and the lectures are really interesting, but you will have to learn almost all of the actual content from reading the textbook and doing problem sets. It's not the greatest class at Harvard but I would still say it's definitely worth taking.
The stuff taught in this class is definitely stuff that every human being needs to know about how the world works. Although you'll find yourself often frustrated with the over-structured programming of the class and the infrequent appearances of your professor, the challenging nature of the exams and the problem sets will give you a truly synthesized (as David Johnson likes to put it) understanding of the key economic concepts.
I am one of the few who really enjoyed this class.  it does a great job of promoting intuitive understanding, not mere memorization.The Psets are tough but worthwhile.  Go to OH for help on them and theyre not bad Also, read the TB chapters before section.  It makes the class so much easier
EC 10 is NOT as bad as many people claim. Yes, a lot depends on your TF, but even more depends on you. If you get unlucky with your TF, don't use that as an excuse not to study. You can do it. Is it a really easy class? No. A really hard one? No. It is a very good intro to economics though and I feel like I learned a lot.
It's more challenging of a course than it seems at first. Go to office hours for problem sets, make sure you take the unit tests, and read the helpful hints!
I definitely learned a lot about economics because of this course, but I did almost all of that learning on my own by using the textbook and helpful hints.  For some reason lecture and section were not very effective learning tools for me.  Unit tests are relentless, but I guess they kind of help to keep you on top of the material.
It's useful to know some stuff about economics, even if this isn't the most thrilling class you'll ever take.
Ec 10 is one of those classes that it seems like you need to take. However, if you think you have sufficient background to skip straight to intermediate level (Ec1010 or Ec1011) I would recommend that route. Ec10 is not very well organized, the problem sets are not indicative of anything taught in section, and the exams aren't really based on the problem sets. The course seems to rely heavily on previous economic knowledge or else slogging through unnecessarily 20 page long "extra readings" in addition to the entirety of Mankiw's textbook. If, like me, you have never taken econ before, this may unfortunately be your only option. The lectures are the best part, and you can attend those without being in the course.
Ec 10 is a solid course for anyone that wants an in-depth introduction to economics. The section component of the class is not ideal though.
Ec10b is a great introduction to macroeconomic theory. It also did a good job of teaching U.S. macroeconomic policy history. The problem with Ec10b (and Ec10 in general) is the variability in the quality of the TFs. But if you get a good one (as I had), Ec10b is a worthwhile experience.
It teaches you a lot, but you have put in effort to learn more than the textbook offers.
It's a useful introduction to the material of economics and it does a fair job of explaining the material clearly and concisely.
I really enjoyed Ec10. I was fortunate enough to have a very good TF and it had a huge impact on my Ec10 experience.
Be prepared to learn in section and go to office hours!
If you don't think you would major in Ec and have another class that looks more interesting to you, I would take that before Ec10. That said it is not a BAD class, but definitely not one of the best at Harvard. If you're someone who thinks you should take an Ec course just for the sake of it, just reading the Mankiw book might be enough to get exposed to the concepts.
The class itself isn't all that interesting. That being said, it is pretty easy, the curve is great, and it is knowledge you absolutely need if you are planning to take another Ec class here.
This class should only be taken if you need it to go on to further econ courses or if you think econ is necessary in your life, otherwise it is not very enjoyable.
This is the king of all large intro courses, but it's the sort of course that every Harvard student ought to take. The sense of community you get from being in a class with so many of your peers is awesome (it feels like you're taking on a giant). On top of this, it gave me a new perspective on everything I read in the news and generated a love of Economics in me.
This is class is not fun. It is hard and you have to have interest in economics in order to do well.
I took this as a sophomore elective and am SO glad I did! If you are interested in economics at all, just take Ec 10. It is REALLY not that hard--do the readings, do the pset (with friends!), and go to your TF's office hours if you have questions. Aside from section, that's 6 hours a week. It is absolutely manageable. The exams get tricky sometimes, but the curves are great. Also, don't take this just because you want to go into finance!
This class is shitty.
Economics is such a fantastic study of everyday life. Macro especially really elucidates economic news and policy discussions. The course is pretty easy, so don't worry about taking it with other classes. I knew nothing at all about econ coming in, and now I'm going for a secondary in it. The lectures are alright, but the book and section (which is how the course is taught) are awesome, especially if you're with Trisha.
I think this class is a great introduction to economics but you need to be willing to put in the extra effort in seeking help outside class, particularly if your section leader isn't as qualified as some of the other TFs may be.
Much of this class depends on your section leader, so be sure to get a good one. Not my favorite class in terms of teaching style, but useful for real life.
The class can be hard for some and easy for others. But, the material is very helpful to know. Now reading a newspaper on the economy makes much more sense, and helps me understand policies and ideas around the economy.
This course is a wonderful introduction to economics, but make sure to go beyond the book. Learn not just from the material given to you but also the problem sets. The problems often take you in a new direction from what the book covers.
Its a tough course, but you will learn to think like an economist
If you're particularly good at math just take Econ 1010 (or 1011)... the course moves fairly slowly.
Its a good class to take - it will provide you with a solid understanding of how the world works, and I think that a basic knowledge of economics is crucial.
great comprehensive course
Solid Class. Solid TF. Solid Professor.
I do not think Ec10 is a good course. The instruction in section is weak, there is a huge disconnect between what is taught and what is tested, and it makes economics uninteresting.
its a commitment, but worth it if you want to learn economics.
take it but work hard, not as basic as you may expect
for me, the second semester was much more enjoyable. when you get into chapters 30-35, you can really see how what you are learning applies to the actual economy. the outside readings show that people like ben bernanke are using the same basic tools as you are learning
Take this class if you want a general understanding of economics in the world, but be prepared to put time into it.
Stay on top of your work and do the unit tests.
If you are at all interested in economics, you should definitely take this class. You learn a lot the subject and the textbook is easy to read. Having said that, this class isn't for everyone because sections are often dull and problem sets are very challenging and require a lot of time to complete.
The course is awesome, interesting, and useful. If you have doubts about taking it, don't! All the material is very comprehensible and shows how large economies function and influence each other. It is interesting and the workload is very reasonable. The course does not attempt to cram an unrealistic amount of material into a semester. You will come out having learned, not memorized, economics.
Try as hard as you can to get a good TF because your grade will greatly depend on this! Also, some people worry about whether or not you can take the macro part of the course without the micro, and you can do just that.  The only thing is that the course heads seem to ignore the fact that there are students joining who didn't take the course first semester and so it is assumed that you already know the procedure for problem sets and unit tests.
Ec 10 probably isn't anybody's favorite Harvard class, but I definitely liked it better than I anticipated. It can be a grind at times, but it is certainly doable if you keep up with the work, and it gets a lot more interesting once you get to the macro half of the course.  The course is well-organized and structured, midterms and finals are fair, and the combination of Psets and review materials is very good preparation for the midterms and finals.  They really don't play "hide the ball" in this class.  Try not to save the Psets for Thursday night.  Also, as long as your TF is ok with it, typing the non-graph portions of Psets can be helpful.
Economic arguments are extremely useful in other classes.
This course is manageable, but organization is key. Schedule time to do the readings and start problem sets early, and stick to it mercilessly. Go to EVERY lecture - some of them are real gems - and take all the unit tests. This is the only way to both do well and actually gain something very valuable from this course. Great overview for any academic background or pursuit.
Take this to learn this, not fulfil a requirement.
Only take if you have to.
you learn so much, but the extent of your takeaway depends on how much time you put in
Although I wouldn't recommend this course I would suggest not to get caught up in the hype of hating it. Just do the readings and actually spend the time on it and it will be fine. The exams aren't that difficult. Again, as long as you spend the time you can do reasonably well.
Tests are hard
Keep up with the readings and do as much of the problems sets on your own as you can.  Utilize office hours and review sessions.  David Johnson and Greg Mankiw are great sources.
Don't take Ec 10. This is common knowledge toucan gain by reading the book. This class ha useful material to teach, but is taught unfairly. You will not get the same information as your peers. Even though the content is worth it, the structure of the class is horrible.
it sucks, but you should take it
I found Macroeconomics to be highly more engaging and intersting than Microeconomics. You will find that if you have taken AP Macroeconomics (like I did) then this will be a much easier stroll in the park than Micro. There are cool things to synthesize in this class and everything you learn can be applied to the way the economy is currently shifting in the world. Word of advice: Go to David Johnson's office hours! They will literally help you open your eyes to the meaning of why we learn econ.
This course is a very standard intro course - large and impersonal. The sections make it better in terms of having more individualized attention, but even for sections, there was little interaction and discussion.
Great class. You'll be able to pick up the newspaper and know what the "Economist's perspective" means. You'll also be able to see through some of the political lies. I took this in the Fall and Spring as an elective and have no regrets.That said, it does depend on your TF a lot. I was fortunate enough to have an excellent TF (and yes, there are good TFs besides David Johnson) so I enjoyed the class a lot.I'd say this: make time for office hours (I tended to need them more this semester than I did in the fall, as the psets involved more critical reading and interpretation of real data) and read the textbook (it's very helpful and some of the material isn't covered in section).
This is a comprehensive introduction to Economics and covers a lot of material. The assignments are fairly straight forward. If you do the problem sets and go to section you will do well.
An interesting class, much, much, much better than the fall microeconomics semester. The only reservation I have is how necessary it is to take this class before 1010 or 1011. I know people who went straight into those classes and were fine. However, macroeconomics is a fascinating subject. Every person should understand how the economy works.
The course and material itself is wonderful, but the way it is graded is not.
This course is challenging and frustrating. Although you will learn a good deal of economics, the problem sets and exams require a level of expertise that is difficult to acquire through section alone. In order to do well you have to either be naturally gifted or attend all the office hours and spend an unnatural amount of time working with the book/review materials.
Prepare to study and be subject to an interesting curve.
This class is a great class in enhancing one's knowledge about both micro and macroeconomic theory.  It is rather difficult but the challenge is both refreshing and worth accepting.
This course is invaluable. It offers a great way to think and provides you with the necessary framework to understand economic goings-on in the news. Everyone at Harvard should take this course, if not the fall portion then at least the macro component.
This course should be meant just for economics concentrators.
This course definitely weeds out those who don't truly love economics. For the most part it is uninteresting and tedious.
Be prepared for difficult problem sets and tests that do not correlate with what you have been doing in class. The textbook is pretty straightforward but section and assignments complicate the things in the book.
It's a good class, but it's really not all that necessary. I feel like it's not that fundamental or necessary of a course, even though it might seem to be.
This is a good class to take and you will know very quickly if economics is for you or not. Either way, the information learned will be very useful for you in life.
Requires a lot of self-learning if you have a bad TF
I highly recommend Economics 10 because it is one of the most useful courses here at Harvard. The information you learn in this course is one that is very helpful in understanding what is happening to the economy. If you want to learn about bonds, how the Federal Reserve works, how monetary and fiscal policy affect the quantity of goods produced in the market, unemployment and inflation, the market for loanable funds and how net capital outflow relates to the trade account, then take macroeconomics!
This will help you understand the world you live in.
Do not take this course because you will come out feeling disheartened
Go to office hours. Do all the problem sets. Hope that you have a helpful and nice TF. Go to all the unit tests. Put in all the effort needed and you'll do well - put in an average effort and you'll do average. Up to you.
Get ahead on the psets, they are brutal.
Go to office hours, especially David Johnson's. Read the helpful hints!
Just take it. You might not enjoy it all the time, but you should take it anyway.
Ec 10 is a solid introductory economics course, but you will have to make an effort in order to get personal attention in the class. Go to unit tests, since they are helpful. Also try to get into david Johnson's section: He is a fantastic teacher, although probably a stricter than average problem set grader.
Ec 10 really teaches you about the world around you in the view of economics. Although it has it's faults, it will teach you how to look at economic issues with an analytical eye and I really feel I've learned a lot from it.
Take this course to become an informed citizen/voter.  Don't expect much from Mankiw.  David Johnson is where it's at.
Entirely depends on how good your TF is. Lectures are usually quite interesting but they don't always directly apply to the things that you are learning at the moment in section.
Not a good class to get you excited about economics.
Make use of David Johnson's office hours as much as possible, and if you have a bad section leader,try to switch out immediately.
This class really changed the way I think about  a lot of real world issues like the financial system and my own money decisions. It's a great introduction to economics and it will be really useful to you in other classes and your life outside of Harvard.
The course isn't that challenging and one will learn a lot of very good material
This class is going to be a struggle, but it is a group struggle that really isn't too bad in the end. The problem sets may be rough, and the teaching may be spotty if you get a bad TF, but Ive compared what Ive learned in this class to my friends at other colleges, and it is a joke how much more we are doing than they are. Many of the topics that we take for granted after midterm 1 for the second semester are not even covered in a standard intro Ec class, and it makes you realize how valuable Ec 10 is to your total understanding of the United States. After completing the entire course, I really feel that i am comfortable with the economy in general, and now I can read Newsweek articles and completely understand what the hell they are talking about.
David Johnson is amazing and economics is worth understanding. If you have any interest in economics, David Johnson is your guy.
You get an intro to econ. Pretty straight forward.
Still math phobic, but even less rigorous. Most of the equations seem arbitrary, and the conservative bent is more pronounced.
Take this class if you want a good general introduction to the class.
This class is like a really bad high school class. You have to take it, but try really hard to get a good TF and go to a good TF's office hours. Also, don't be brainwashed by Mankiw's conservative economics. This is just one side of economic theory and is not a science even though it is often presented as such.
learn the material somewhere else
Be prepared for a horrible experience but one that every miserable harvard student must go through.
Although some say that it is okay to skip right over to the 1010 or the 1011 series, Ec10 offers rudimentary overview of the most principal ideas in economics. Even with this knowledge offered in class, students can gain understanding of how economic policies affect society. Ec10 is a classic Harvard experience and David Johnson makes it so much more relevant! A Must-Take!
I had some difficulty with the course because it wasn't very interesting and presented some very complex concepts, but it still gave me a lot of valuable, practical information.
This course is great if you have never been exposed to intro econ however the size and general layout make it a not so intimate learning experience.
Ec10 teaches you so many important things but you also have to take initiative in order to get a lot out of the course.
this is a very interesting class. You will learn a lot but you must be ready to work for it!
A lot of work and will need a tutor
If you are interested in Economics, this course will give you a great introduction.  I can open the paper and read and understand almost any article about the economy.
In order to do well, you have to read the textbook on your own time.
take this if you have to, not because you want to
Especially if you have never taken an economic class before, Ec10 is a fantastic introductory course that gives a very comprehensive overview of micro and macroeconomics. It is a good gateway for further coursework in the subject and allows you to build a solid foundation of knowledge about the US economy. The line-up for guest lecturers for the course is always fantastic, with many of the biggest names in the economics field today. One thing to note is that this course is primarily taught in section by graduate student TFs, so that may something to consider if that is an important factor in course selection for you.
Course experience and difficulty varies widely according to which TF you get.
It can be a lot of work, but is not that bad. Go to David Johnson's Office Hours and thrive.
It's definitely something you need to learn at some point of your undergraduate career
Take the class if you want a very comprehensive course on economics but be prepared to really do a lot of learning on your own.
Don't take Ec 10 Macro without Ec 10 Micro unless you think you have an excellent grasp of the material.  It's not just about stuff you learn from the textbook, but also recent events and application of information in ways that are much different from many other classes.
One of the few classes at Harvard you absolutely must take before you graduate.
I had no economics background and I really enjoyed learning the basics.  That being said, macro was kind of hard for me and unit tests are annoying.  Psets aren't bad though.
I honestly loved Ec 10, especially second semester (macroeconomics). It wasn't always the easiest course, but it was a great balance of difficulty and learning. I feel like I got so much out of this course, and my only regret is not taking it earlier (I took it as a junior).
You know what to expect if you took the first part of the class. Problem sets and exams are about the same length and difficulty. I think macroeconomics is inherently more interesting than microeconomics because it involves more policy, but nothing in here will surprise you. This class has surprisingly little overlap with AP Macro - that class will make this one easier, but it is still worthwhile to take this class.
This class has a strong neoliberal/conservative orientation (after all, Mankiw advises Romney), and the structure of the course (giant lectures, synchronized sections) discourages critical thinking or dissent from the orthodoxy presented. If you want to take higher-level econ classes, this is a necessary prerequisite, but take the course with a heavy grain of salt. If you don't think you will take more econ, I might take Marglin's "Critical Perspectives on Economics" instead.
It is a must take while at Harvard
Ec10 does a great job teaching the basics of economics. Even if you dont plan on concentrating in econ, these are concepts that are so important to learn just to follow current events! Take it!
This is EC10 (not CS50). If you want a large class that is also a "quintessential" Harvard class and is run well. EC10 will not fit the bill. Take CS50; you will thank yourself for the favor later. EC10 has its place in attempting to describe our world and empowering us with theories as to how to explain the apparently inexplicable, but this course is just so unbelievably bad in its execution. To use the terminology, there is a severely inadequate allocation of resources here - little to no effort is given in ensuring the uniformity of sections. And, as a result, you could end up with an incredibly foreign TF who cannot speak English well at all or even begin to explain basic Economics, while the curve is at the mercy of those who are in sections with TFs who know how to teach. I have no doubts that all the EC10 TFs understand the material to a very deep extent, but a TF understanding the material alone DOES NOT CUT IT. One MUST be able to ACTUALLY teach the material, as well. It does us no good if a TF has a PHD in Economics but can barely formulate an English sentence to explain what they know, now does it? If you want to be a stereotypical Harvard student and follow the Econ route like everyone else, this is the place to start if you did not have access to AP Econ in high school. Otherwise, I would advise you stay away.
The class is challenging but you do learn a lot and have fun along the way
Read parts of the book before you take the class. If you fall asleep, it is a good indicator that you will not like the class. If you don't and are interested, then you are likely to be an Econ concentrator.
EC10 is an effective introduction to economics and its way of thinking. The course brings in a star-studded cast of lecturers whose enthusiasm ranges from infectious to missing-in-action since the Reagan administration. Unless you have an excellent section leader, i.e. David Johnson, or are fascinated by economics, the course is mundane. The assignments are painless and the exams test understanding and intuition more than content knowledge. Get your intuition right and the course will be a breeze.
It's Ec 10. You'll take it regardless of anything written here. Welcome to the Harvard tradition of thinking inside the box (cash box).
Ec 10 is a class that everyone should take because the material itself is something that we all should know. That being said, the class itself is not easy nor perfectly run - the problem sets are extremely time-consuming (the readings don't really prepare you to complete them).
harder than it looks
This is not law. Take everything with a grain of salt and do your own research.
Ec 10 is a weed-out class. Do not take it as an elective. It is very demanding and can hurt your GPA. You will get as much out of it as you put into it.
You might think that since Ec10 is popular, you should take it.  You might think that since most freshmen take it, you should take it.  You might think that if you want to know about economics in general you should take it.  You might think that since you need to fill an economics requirement you should take it.  DON'T TAKE IT.This course is horribly designed- it is embarrassing to Harvard that this mediocrity is acceptable for the biggest class of its biggest concentration.  By far the worst class I have taken at Harvard.  Take Critical Economics with Marglin, read Wealth of Nations in Social Studies, but do not take this course unless you want to go into finance.
Only take if you are considering an economics concentration or secondary
Tough, frustrating at times, but rewarding.  As a senior science concentrator, I decided to take Ec. 10 as my one and only ec course. While I walked away from the class having learned a great deal, I had to put in a lot of work. Your TF and the amount of time you put into studying are the two factors that will dictate your success in this course.  This course isn't easy; you are required to apply economic principles at a higher, more detailed level (which at times, seems stupid and useless). If you're interested in taking an ec course for fun, look elsewhere.  But if you have the time and are willing to put in a lot of hours, then this course is for you.
If your TF is performing poorly during the first semester, do yourself a HUGE favor and try to switch out.
Just take it.
It was well organized and coming from no economics background, I found that it catered to my needs nicely. The professors and TFs are quite accessible if necessary
Get a good TF!!! Don't bother reading the book, just learn the equations.
Your experience with this class depends entirely on the quality of your TF.
alot of work on problem sets and the exams are difficult but the information is worthwhile
The material is important to know, but if you're taking it as someone who probably won't pursue economics any further, there are other courses that teach this subject matter in a better way.
Use the textbook, as it can be pretty helpful. Go to the Head TF's office hours--David Johnson really knows what he's talking about. Learning really depends on your section leader's ability to teach or your ability to digest the information in the textbook. Exams can include questions, particularly short answers, which leave everyone wondering what they're talking about.
It's a lot harder than I thought it would be.
Overall, Ec 10 is a fantastic class, with interesting and very relevant material. I believe it is very important for every Harvard student to learn the basic economic principles taught in this course. The class is taught in section (it would be absolutely ignorant to argue that Mankiw should lecture the material - students wouldn't be able to ask questions and students would be lost). It is a very large class, and as such, it can seem daunting sometimes to find help - BUT - TFs hold office hours every week (many times before the problem sets are due) and David Johnson is an absolutely amazing teacher - GO TO HIS OFFICE HOURS, and to his review sessions before every exam. Take advantage of Mankiw's office hours as well. Most TFs are good teachers, but you will be expected to synthesize the foundation you receive in section with lectures, problem set questions, and exam questions. It is likely that you will never have seen an exam question before that night, but you will have the tools necessary to answer them - I learn something new every exam! Grading is fair - one-third of the students receive A/A-, and two-thirds receive B-/B/B+. You should be prepared to spend 4-6 hours on problem sets, and additional time reading and studying, but if you put in the effort, you will leave will a solid knowledge of intro economics. I highly recommend this course for anyone, whatever your concentration.
It is taught horribly, but the subject matter is very helpful for understanding current events.
Somewhat boring, but the information is useful.
The class is rewarding, but it requires a lot of work.
I took this course, because I think it's useful to have a basic understanding of economics.  This course gives you just that.  You will probably find this course annoying at one point or another, but it's not bad and is useful in providing the basics of economics.  Make sure in Macro that you pay attention in section and lectures, because a lot more questions are taken from sources outside of the book than in first semester.
It's a solid introduction to mainstream, neoliberal economics. But it also leads you to think that there are no other alternatives to the most widely held theories. Expect normative arguments to be dressed up as scientific facts.
The material that this course covers is very useful but I would not recommend that future students take this course if it is not relevant to their respect fields of study.
This is a great way to learn more about economics, which is important for everyone to have some exposure to-regardless if you want to pursue a concentration or secondary in Ec.
Do all unit tests and for sure go to office hours. Especially with David Johnson. Also DO THE PSETS. Makes life easier when you actually work through the problems instead of cramming
Solid course. Macro was more interesting for me than micro, and I think that's the case for most people. It's not as easy as some make it seem, but it's also not an overly difficult course. You're enjoyment of the class depends GREATLY on your section leader, so try and not get stuck with one that you don't like.
The sections are terrible but having a general understanding of economics is great. I would take but they should make it entirely a lecture class and just have David Johnson teach it.
Fantastic course that will allow you to understand how the world works much better than you did before. Even if you get a bad TF, you can still have a great experience and get an A if you read the books and the helpful hints.
Ec 10 is a good class to take if you are interested in Economics, but if not, it is a terrible experience and is not very interesting.
Make sure to keep up with readings and go to lectures, no matter how pointless they seem. The course may seem easy because there's only one problem set a week, but the midterms and final all make sure you have a complete understanding of the material. Be careful.
For students without any background in Economics, this is a great survey course that fills you in on all the major points in basic Economics - so long as you luck out with good section leaders.
Make sure to keep up with textbook readings, they really help!
If there is one course you should take, it's Ec10. Its real world applicability is priceless. All the economic/business news will actually make sense. You'll also see how utterly ignorant politicians are when it comes to economic issues.
as a freshmen, consider waiting till sophomore year to take this class
If you want to be an econ major, take this class. Otherwise, if you don't find yourself super engaged  with econ after micro, don't take macro.
You don't need to waste your time with this course to learn the principles of economics. I felt like my biggest mistake was taking this class. It dragged me down during the semester.
I think everyone should take Ec 10.  It is extremely relevant and necessary to understand.  Plus David Johnson is the best!
its harder than you can imagine
This class is long, and at times frustrating, but still worthwhile, even if you aren't going to concentrate in economics.
It's not the best course, but introduction classes rarely are. Work through it and by the end you will have learned a lot, if nothing else.
This class teaches you so much about the world. I feel like I just understand the financial and political worlds so much better now. Definitely a class you want to take, even if you don't plan on going into the business world. It is just a good skill set to have. And there is always a nice curve on exams.
pretty useful for life
Read the textbook.
Take Ec 10 if you're interested in the material, not if you're looking for great teaching, because it is the most inconsistent teaching experience you'll ever get at Harvard.
Ec 10 is harder than it seems, especially Macro.
Your interpretation of this class will be heavily determined by your section leader. If you don't have a super on-top-of-it section leader, this might be a hard class for you. You should expect to study a lot on your own to do very well. There is not any personal attention in this course, so you have to be okay being independent to enjoy the class.
Ec10 is a good introduction to economics.  It is definitely tricky, so it requires a lot of input of time to do well and really understand the course material.  I would definitely recommend taking advantage of office hours and coursewide review sessions.
I think that like most classes your good understanding of the course is dependent on how you are taught and on your own initiative to learn the material.
Honestly, although I hated the class, its very doable. I really enjoyed Ec10 a lot more than Ec10b. Anybody who tells you that Ec10b is easier, may have lied. They are probably humanities majors who couldn't do math in Ec10. If you understand graphs, you will do well in both semesters. Read the book BEFORE YOU GO TO SECTION. It will make life a lot easier, when you decide you should read the book after.
You know what it is
The class is a necessary evil if you are interested in economics. It is your only option. Otherwise, I wouldn't take it.
To incoming freshmen considering taking Ec10: THINK IT THROUGH. Don't take this course unless you are SERIOUSLY considering concentrating in Ec. The course is poorly taught, the exams are difficult, and the course overall is just extremely frustrating.
it is hard and unless you really want to go into economics and are serious about it, dont take this class
Well worth the effort. You learn a lot.
This course simply does not use enough math. Very infrequently is data used to back up the theory. Macro is better than micro in that more real-world examples were mentioned. The worst part of this course is the TFs. The TFs are sometimes good but most times really unsatisfactory. David Johnson is brilliant and excellent, so sneak into his section if you want to learn anything substantial. I would recommend reading a basic economics textbook over the summer, then taking Ec-1010 instead, as they deal with actual numbers and use calculus, which is a crucial piece of economics that Ec-10 failed to implement for fear of scaring people with no math background away. If you MUST take this course as a concentration requirement, utilize David Johnson, and try to think about how calculus will factor into the problems.
Unless you really dislike big lectures or economics, I would highly recommend this course. The teaching quality can be hit or miss (depending on your TF), but the knowledge you gain is invaluable in understanding how the world works and how we can change it. Even if you don't plan on becoming an Economics concentrator (I'm certainly not), I would still recommend taking this course.
just pay attention, take good notes, and read the book. you'll be ok.
This course is difficult, and the support system is not the best. Though the course requirements were well explained, not much help was given in accomplishing them. In particular, the problem sets were very difficult and required information that was rarely given in class.
The information you get in Ec10 is stuff that everyone should know. Lectures aren't terribly exciting and often repetitive. Ec10 really holds your hand and walks you through everything--with Unit Tests, etc, getting an A should be fairly easy even if you don't have ec background.
This isn't an easy, or necessarily enjoyable, class by any means, but I honestly think every Harvard student should take it. Ec 10 provides you with the basic knowledge about economics you need to understand today's economic and political climate and form rational decisions.
This subject matter is important, but in some ways it is presented too much in a vacuum in Ec10. It becomes much more interested when given some context.Section was not helpful and but for my TF taking attendance I would not have gone.
Don't take it just because you think that you have to take Ec10.
Ec10 is a great class to take as a freshman. You meet a lot of other freshman and you learn things that are extremely applicable to real life. Especially during an election year, knowing economic principles is very important. It is not a hard course.
If you are not interested in Economics, this course might grind on you. It can be dry, and even boring at times, and the problems sets are tedious. That said attending David Johnson's office hours are tremendously rewarding and make the problem sets come to life. The more you see David Johnson, the better this course will be for you.
Look, it's not the best-run course, but if you haven't taken any Econ, you should. It's just...kinda important to know.
This class is a solid, straight-forward introduction to macroeconomics, and I found it more interesting than microeconomics in the fall term because I could see how the concepts applied to U.S. policy issues today. However, be warned that your experience in this class will very much depend on the quality of the T.F. you get because almost all the material is taught in section. Mankiw only lectures 4 times a semester, and the guest lecturers are often important people, but they're usually hit or miss.
Keep up with reading.
It's a classic class, a big machine, but it gets the job done.
This course is hard, the work often tedious, and sticks to models which you may or may not agree with or believe correspond to reality. That said, most people will learn quite a bit about the economy in this class, and if one works hard, I think that one can learn a lot of interesting, important things.
Everyone likes complaining about Ec10, and you will too, but take it. Very useful, maybe a little boring or frustrating at times, but all stuff you should know.
Necessary class to take, but don't expect much individual attention or good feedback.
Yes, it does help you gain a deeper knowledge of economics, which helps contextualize current events. But the psets and sections are uninteresting.
this class is a lot of work. Expect a solid introduction to economics. You will have to memorize and apply many models and equations. Memorization is not enough; the exams are structured such that you will need to apply what you learn, often in a new way. Section leaders vary greatly and that can have a big effect on your learning. Definitely a class you need to actually do the work for. Psets are long but manageable.
Honestly, you're better off with 1010b.
Don't expect to be blown away, but it's a solid intro course. Easy to get B range, hard to get A range.
It's all interesting stuff. It's a very difficult way to learn, though. You have to be a committed self-starter and practice the homework/reading EVERY day.
I think that if you are at all interested in learning about macroeconomics, this is definitely a class that is worth taking.  It probably won't be your favorite class because it's not like the material is extraordinarily fascinating and you don't really get to talk to the professor unless you really want to.  But, it'll get the job done and it won't be not enjoyable while it's at it.
this course is a great way to learn some basic economics- something that everyone should have a familiarity with. however, there are some discrepancies in the course that can make your experience better or worse.
Go to office hours with pset questions, that's the only way you'll learn anything not elaborated upon in the book. Section does not help. Prepare to be frustrated with the inefficiency of the class.
I mean, you have to take it, so just grit through. Pay attention to David Johnson and try to get switched into his section because its unfair for the kids who arent in his seection....we're not used to his weird synthesis obsession.
This class teaches you a lot and in the end I am glad that I took it, but it was a struggle all the way throughout. I had no background in economics whatsoever and very little knowledge of current economics in the world, both of which really held me back. The most frustrating part of this class is the TF problem. If you get a good TF you will do well in the class (if you try). But if you get a bad TF you won't do well even if you try really hard (unless you already have a background in economics).
I feel that this class is most likely a class that you will not enjoy taking, but it is a class that you will feel greatly expanded your knowledge base.
Try to keep up with all of the reading. The class seems really hard unless you are caught up with sections.
Take advantage of office hours.  Understand how to work every problem on every problem set.  Learn why things make sense -- not just how to work specific problems.  If you do these things, the course will be a breeze, and you'll learn a lot of very useful tools for understanding how the economy works.
Its Ec10. you either take it or ya dont. but don't accept anything they tell you as absolute, positive, fact. That is bullshit.
only take this class if you want to have a basic understanding of economics or for concentration requirement.
I mean, it's Ec 10.
It's a well-run course which covers interesting material. Take it!
The problem sets take a lot of time, but are very rewarding
go to lecture
Not for the quality of the course, just because the information is important knowledge for everyone.  David Johnson's office hours and review sessions were the only pedagogically successful part of the course.
Take this course if you have any interest in the social sciences. Actually, pretty much everyone should know the fundamentals of economics, but the course itself is unfortunately subpar.
Take it, just so you can understand the world better.  You don't need to love economics, you just need to love better understanding how markets work, and where you fit in them.
If you have no background in economics, this course can be useful in providing basic intuition for future classes.  Unless your math is extremely good, I would recommend that you take this course before jumping directly into a higher economics course.  It can seem a little high school at times, but it's a pretty good standard introductory economics course.
Know that you're taking an Ec course.
This class is a little dull, but necessary.
Take this course if you have to (concentration requirement). Other than that, unless you have a very serious interest in economics, I would not take it.
This is a great class that will help you the rest of your life. Don't listen to those who whine about it. Yes, its a hard class. But its worth it.
You should know what you're getting into - Ec10 is another one of those large, lecture-based classes where you get very little individualized attention. It truly matters what TF you get - it changes your whole experience. Additionally, you never really see Mankiw - he lectures maybe 5 times the entire year. Unless you go to his office hours, there's really no interaction. Most of your learning will come from going to David Johnson's review sessions and doing the problem sets he writes.Also, the curve for tests is pretty large - you can get a 80/120 and thats an A-.
I didn't like this class as much as micro. That said, this class is still something valuable to sit through. It's important to understand what GDP is, what short-term effects government policies have on the economy, why the government passed the stimulus bill, etc. No, this class wasn't the most fun I've ever had, but yes, do take it, because you learn some valuable info. :)
Your experience will depend a lot on who your section leader is.  It's not fair at all but what you get out of this course is kinda luck of the draw since most of the course is conducted in section.
This class is hard and frustrating, but so amazing to learn. The information will allow you to think in entirely new ways you never thought possible. The one piece of advice I will give: GO TO DAVID JOHNSON'S OFFICE HOURS ALL SEMESTER, and AS SOON AS THE MIDTERM REVIEW MATERIALS ARE POSTED. I cannot stress this enough. He shapes the course, and if you want to get an A in the class please use him as a resource.
The class itself is not great but an introductory economics course is nonetheless a "must-take"
Graded very hard. Hard to tell your grade in the class.
You should not get your moral values from economics. Use economics to best apply your moral values that already existed.
This class may seem somewhat daunting but the awareness that you get about so much that is going on in the economy will help you in any concentration here or any field outside of Harvard.
Having never taken economics in high school, this class was somewhat challenging but ultimately pretty rewarding.  Take the unit tests; they really help both your grade and your understanding of the material (which, given the curve, are two entirely different animals).
If you got a 5 on macro, you should skip the course and take 1010.  If you didn't, you should take this course.  I think everyone should at some point take micro/macro simply because it's so essential to understanding much of what goes on in the world around us and politically.  The leap from 0-->ec10 is much larger than ec10-->ec1010, so if you have experience with econ, you should take 1010.As for the actual course, the lectures in macro get a lot of bigshots for lectures and there are a lot more of them than in micro.  Sections are hit or miss, but if you don't get a good section, then you can always go to the office hours of other TFs to balance that out, and it's really not that big of a deal.
This class is a good overview of economics, but it definitely took some studying throughout since I had never had an economics class previously. It's frustrating at times but I'm still glad I took it and was opened to this field.
You'll learn a lot of interesting information in Ec10. Definitely know that they will ask specific multiple choice questions about the lectures (I didn't know that originally). The tough part is that even if you feel like you understand the material backwards and forwards you could get to the test and feel like all questions are coming out of left field. Sections may add to confusion rather than help, but the reading materials and problem set answers give you most of what you need to know.
Stay with the readings
Everyone should take ec.10!
Ec 10 is interesting in that it successfully introduces an important subject and way of thought. However, the course something much to be desired, because it is taught almost entirely in sections run by TFs.
On average, considering both the micro and macro semesters, this course is mediocre at best. It is NOT enjoyable and the course is very badly managed. Almost all the TF's, from what I have gathered from others and personally experienced, regurgitate the textbook without question. Your grades on assignments (mostly exams actually) depend upon whether or not you think along similar lines as David Johnson (the head TF and writer of exams/homeworks), not necessarily whether or not you studied/know the material. And the official graders sometimes have no idea what they're doing. Feedback is not simply bad, but truly awful: they'll mark off tens of points for simple errors (including algebraic errors!), refuse to read paragraphs of explanation, get confused by fractions/percents, rarely write anything meaningful on your paper aside from checks and X's, and will sometimes (though less frequently) mark correct answers wrong. What keeps this course going may be the interesting content, but even this can occasionally be obscured by the lecturers' boring droning or - even worse - the condescension and superficiality of their discussion (e.g., the lecture on tuna fish sandwiches attempting to justify privatization, which possessed NO hardcore evidence and was literally laughable in its content and presentation). The lectures, the textbook, and the scripts that TF's blindly follow are quite biased in favor of some kind of conservative agenda. For example, look at the unusual discussions of minimum wage, unions, taxes, healthcare, the government, social democracy, welfare systems, etc. In taking this course, you SHOULD ABSOLUTELY NOT accept all the material as fact - take everything with a grain of salt and challenge it (do your own research, read OTHER ECONOMISTS' positions, etc.). While on average I said the course appears mediocre, in my personal opinion, it gives Harvard a bad name: it is by far the worst course I've taken at Harvard, both in terms of management and the inspiration of its students, as there are many people I talked to who feel left behind, unheard, or altogether disenchanted from the study of economics. This is clearly not fair - and something needs to change!
Don't take it for fun.
Only take it for one reason: if you want to major in economics and need this requirement. Do not take it for an intro to Econ (micro is better for that), an unbiased survey (it leans far to the right, as Mankiw worked for Bush), or an engaging lecturer or section. It is a shame that Harvard misinterprets the popularity of this course as a vote of approval for the poorly run Ec10.
This class is kind of a hit or miss. People who have taken economics classes in high school tend to very well. If you are new to economics, it is easy to fall behind very quickly. Remember, some students taking Ec10 have already received 5's on their AP exams.
This course is very useful and you learn a lot. But a lot of time is needed to learn the material and be ready for tests
Not worth getting through as a gen ed requirement, unless you're really striving to be an investment banker.
This is pretty solid and interesting class. The actual work and tests are a little annoying, but you'll learn a fair amount and come out a more well-informed member of society.
Brutal class, but necessary if you want to do anything in economics. Good to have a base in economics so everyone should take it, but no one will enjoy it
This is a class that is challenging but rewarding and I think all Harvard students should take it at some pont.
This class is very predictable and structured, and I really enjoyed it because my TF was good and I was genuinely interested in economics. However, for students who do not care for economics and prefer a more discussion-based introduction to economics, this class is not enjoyable.
You can't really get out of taking this course if you are at all interested in economics, but it's not that difficult to get through.
Read the book. Super helpful. Go to office hours too. You will learn a lot from them and start psets early.
its hard
Very difficult, prepare yourself for a grind
it's an intro course.
Be prepared for awful TF's
Good introduction to macroeconomic theory if that interests you.
The subject matter of the course is truly valuable and interesting, the way it is taught is far from optimum.
Really great at teaching you some fundamental concepts (externalities, trade offs, value assigned) and also has allowed me to actually understand financial and economic analysis in newspapers etc
If you keep up with readings and do all the review questions provided before exams, this class really isnt that bad! Also, its hard to make it to unit tests sometimes, but I would definitely recommend them as good way to review course material and get to talk through concepts you dont understand.
I would recommend that, if you have any interest at all about the the world works, to take this class. It provided me with a good introduction to financial markets and the thought process behind the economic decisions of the Fed. The psets are not bad at all (you can finish them the night before). Section can be kinda hit or miss. Some section leaders integrate the material well into current events and can explain the material well, and some just regurgitate from the textbook. If you can, I would recommend just sitting in on David Johnson's section to really understand how the material you learn works. He provides current events before each section ,and how the concepts we are learning relate to these events. As opposed to most section leaders, he goes levels above the basic understanding of concepts and applies them to multiple problems. Overall, a good course.
--
This class is necessary, but is not the most interesting class you will take.
Really interesting concepts. It's worth putting in the time. The class is not very well run though.
If you want to be an econ major you have to take this course, so just suck it up and get it over with.
Don't expect to come away with anything that you can apply to the real world.
Fairly boring, but effectively teaches the basics of economics.
I feel like a more informed citizen with a fundamental understanding of economics, understanding not simply what decisions the government and Fed make, but why they make those decisions.
The second semester of Ec 10 is both easier and more interesting than the previous semester
It's a good class and I think basic economics is something that everyone should know
It is fundamental economics that is not too difficult to grasp but is a difficult course with all of the work. If economics is at all interesting to someone, this is definitely a class to take.
This class is essential, mostly everyone takes it.
Everyone should take EC 10.  It really reshapes the way you think about a lot of things going on in the world.  The problem sets can be a bit tricky, and they tend to throw curve balls on the midterm exams.  The curve is pretty generous, so don't worry.  If you get stuck with a bad TF, go to David Johnson's office hours!  This class really helps you have an informed understanding of many current events.  T
lol Ec 10.
The Professors and TF's dont care about you and try to crush you on exams
I really enjoyed ec 10 overall, and I think economics is a course that everyone should take during their time in college. In general, I think economics gives you a greater understanding of the way our world today works so that you can confront difficult and important decisions, particularly in the political or financial realm, with greater knowledge. Also, I enjoyed the information I learned in this course and found it to be not only useful but interesting.
If you're an Ec concentrator you have to take it. Otherwise, I'd tread with caution. Learn Econ on your own over the summer, you're gonna be doing the same during the school year since section is little to no help.
The macroeconomics portion of Ec 10 is a valuable course which expands on a lot of the topics presented first semester.  However, the course is disorganized.  As such, you will have to teach yourself most of the material, particularly if you have a bad TF.
Take the class and pray for David Johnson as your TF, otherwise it won't be enjoyable.
Macroeconomics is somewhat different than microeconomics, but don't underestimate it. It's less mathematical (?) but does require you to keep more concepts in your head at a time that you will synthesize.
Ec. 10 is what you make of it. Don't allow yourself to have a bad experience just because you get a TF you don't like. There are a ton of resources you can use to supplement your Ec. 10 experience. For example, you can always go to different TF's office hours or even go to their section. I highly recommend going to David Johnson's office hours. That guy is ah-mazing. He's patient, funny, and engaging. He doesn't just answer your questions, he makes you think beyond your questions and have you relate them to current events. I learned a LOT by going to his office hours, even though I had a different TF. Plus, I recommend you read the chapter in the book before you go to section so you have a better understanding about what is going on in section :) Plus, the guest speakers  are the best in their fields and some give out pretty interesting lectures :)
Anyone should take this course, no matter what concentration or field of interest--Economics touches on everything... and ec10 helps open the door.
Take this course. It's not very hard, but it will change the way you view the world.
Don't get behind with the material. Otherwise, it's a great class that you will learn a lot from starting at any level.
Mankiw never teaches. The section leaders are either great or awful. Prepare to pay over $150 for a book and teach it to yourself because exam questions involve a whole lot more than what the book tells you.
Get ready to work out, but its worth it.
It's not worth the general education requirement, as useful the information is.
Good general knowledge to have and you find it either really suits you or doesn't.
The course moves very quickly, we do a new chapter every section, with three sections a week, and the chapters in the textbook are fairly long and take a while to read and comprehend, especially if you want to take notes as I do. This makes it incredibly easy to fall behind and catching up in this course can be very difficult. This course consumes so much time that it can be hard to balance with all of the other courses you are taking. Exams seem to go above and beyond what we have learned and having read and understood the textbook is not nearly enough. Even when I studied I never felt prepared for a test. Problem sets make Thursday nights long and miserable. The only good thing about this class is the curve that saves your exam grades. I will say, however, that you do feel like you learned a significant amount by the end of the course when you read an article or hear a news story about the economy and understand it.
Typical big, intro course. Problem sets are pretty hard though
Everyone should take this course, because it prepares you to be a responsible citizen and voter.
Although it is a large class, I found the lectures to be really interesting and the content to be extremely useful.
Microeconomics sucks, but Macro is pretty cool and relevant.
This is a poorly designed class. I definitely don't recommend it.
Ec 10 is one of the most popular classes at Harvard so be wise about how you approach the class and if you would like economics to be your concentration, it seems more like a weed-out class
Read the book!
Find a good TF. If your TF sucks, switch. If the one you switched to is worse, ignore them and go to David Johnson's sections.
take it only if you have a strong interest in ec and you like math
don't freak out, enjoy the learning and the curve will help you out
You will learn a very simplified version of economics where everything is straight lines.
This is a good intro class if you make full faith efforts at doing the problem sets. Otherwise, the section component of the class on its own is not enough to learn economics.
This course teaches important principles that are good to know even for students who don't plan on concentrating in economics. It will help students better understand current economic events. Also, the course isn't a lot of work and is fairly easy.
Most useful class taken at Harvard so far! Sections are boring as ____, but you learn so much and it's really helpful
I mean, it's Ec10, it's not the greatest course in the world, you take it because it's introductory economics.
Ec10 is an important class to take if you haven't taken econ before. It's a great intro course that has many guest lectures given by other professors in the economics department and so that provides a glimpse into the professor's teaching styles, etc if you want to pursue further courses. It is true that the class depends on the section leader you get because much of the class is taught in section.
Economics has changed the way I understand the world. This course is not taught perfectly--anyone can tell you that--but you will never forget what you learn, and you'll be glad you took it.
I would say that it's an interesting class that is probably one of the most applicable you can take at Harvard in terms of taking lessons learned in the classroom and transferring them to the real world.
Problem sets = hard but interesting class
It's not too hard, especially if you took economics in high school. Just study and every lil' ting gon' be all right.
I would say that Ec10 is one of those courses that is popular for a reason, but you may want to really ask yourself if you really want to take this course. While I feel like I've learned some great things in this course, there were times were I felt like I could have just taken a few other different courses in the Ec department, especially after I realized that I didn't want to be an economics concentrator. In short, if you need the course for some requirement, suck it up and take it and it's not that bad. However, if add/drop time comes around and you aren't feeling the course anymore, I would suggest that you at least consider dropping the course. You will also probably need to look intently for extra help if you need it.
You might not enjoy it, but you don't really have a choice. Guest lectures are generally interesting, but you learn most of the material in section. How much you learn (and how interesting you find the material) will depend heavily on your section leader, but assuming you get a good one, this class isn't all that bad. The textbook isn't very helpful given that the material on problem sets and exams is far more in-depth, but if you pay attention and take notes in section (or have took Micro/Macro AP in high school), you'll be just fine.
Don't take this class unless you absolutely have to.
Economics is incredibly useful. It's just something you should take because it will make you a better citizen.
It's really good for you to learn how to think this way.  The first semester is better than the second semester.  Take the Unit Tests on time.
Awesome course.  Textbook is expensive but extremely well written. Don't complain that Mankiw doesn't lecture often, because you wouldn't learn much with that kind of format. Take this before you graduate.
This is a very useful class, but will be challenging.
Every student should take the full Ec 10 sequence; it's useful and full of things that are good to know.
I appreciate that I learned a lot about economics so that I feel more comfortable talking about the economy in its language and vocabulary. However, I did not like the way the course was taught. It is too big and it all depends if you have a good TF because the lectures are not very helpful in learning the information. The exams dont really test you on the information you learn in section
The course moves very quickly. If you like economics and find yourself not liking it in this class, don't be discouraged from the economics concentration because disliking the class is pretty common.
Know the concepts. Do problems
Well, it's Ec 10. I certainly think the class could be taught better, but it's worth learning economics in a general sense.
This class feels different for everyone, but at some point it will definitely be challenging. It is very worth taking for the value you get from learning concepts that apply to, well, the economy we live in. You will certainly better understand the terms thrown around on the news.
Be prepared to put in a lot of effort on your own.  This class can be easy if you're willing to work hard.
Struggle through it
You learn the basics of economics--but I feel that there might be better ways to do that. If you don't get a great section leader (e.g. David Johnson), the experience will be pretty boring, I say. I have some regrets not doing Ec1010 or some more engaging class instead. But with relatively easy workload and focus on theory, this may be better for folks who just want that "background" knowledge on economics.
This class gives you a very good background in economics.
You will learn a lot of interesting things about economics. The problem sets are sometimes challenging, but they really do make you learn. The course is taught almost completely in section, but the guest lecturers are cool. Take the unit tests: it's my one regret of the year that I didn't take advantage of that opportunity. TF's office hours are also hopelessly important and helpful. If you are interested in learning a lot about the basics of economics this course is great. Sometimes, it won't be your favorite, but it is an informative learning experience.
Second semester is not as straightforward as first semester. The concepts are a little more fuzzy as even economists have not come to a consensus on some of these topics. However, it is a very useful course to help you understand many of the economic policies around the world today.
You'll learn about econ, but it won't be pleasant (unless you get into the one section that is taught well). It's a solidly mediocre class, but it fulfills a lot of requirements.
So I think there should be two versions of this class. One for people that find the concepts discussed in the class interesting and want to learn more about how they apply to the real word and one that covers details and specifics of graphs and stuff like that for people who actually want to concentrate in EC (or know that they are good at it). I think this class tries to strike a balance between those two, but fails. The lectures seem disjointed and like an entirely different class. Section covers the hard ec concepts and basically ends up being GRAPHS, GRAPHS, GRAPHS. Note to freshman: you don't have to take Ec just because everyone else does....
Definitely a good start and overview of the basic concepts of economics. A class everybody should take regardless of its size and flaws to obtain an insight into economics and how markets work.
helps you understand what's going on in the world. helps you read the newspaper. take it.
David Johnson is your friend. Go to his office hours. He will help you. A lot.
It's worth it to take ec10 to have a basic understanding of markets and the Fed and the economy but I didn't find the material particularly riveting.
The TF's are almost all awful. Mankiw rarely lectures. Most of the guest lectures are boring (though occasionally interesting) and David Johnston (the most promising part of the class) really only has contact with you twice a semester unless you're in his section.
Take Econ. It's the most applicable class you will have ever taken , and you know nothing about the economy from high school. This class will teach you how to read about the economy, and how to participate and contribute in discussion of the economy.
This course is a solid introduction to economics. It's huge and Mankiw could really care less about the students. Nevertheless if you want a general background in economics, you should take this course.
Ec10 is a solid foundational class. Your experience in Ec10 depends heavily on how good your section leader is, as nearly all of the class is taught in section. I'd recommend it if your interested in macroeconomics at all. It's a lot more applicable than microeconomics and teaches concepts that everyone should at least have a background in.
Do not underestimate this class! The key to doing well is getting a good TF. If you are dissatisfied with your particular TF, try to attend David Johnson's regular section hours. He is the only one in EC-10 who actually knows how to do things.
expect to teach yourself the course material
Ec 10 is a good introduction to economics. Every student should take it before they graduate.
This course requires a lot of work, especially if your TF is not to par
it's not easy, but good things in life don't come easy
Great course. Take it even if you think you will never use economics ever again.
study the helpful hints read the green parts of the book
Microeconomics is not only about how to be rich and manage one's money. For me it is also about philosophy that can be taken out of the monetary context, and it will still work. It is a class about real life. Macroeconomics is more policy oriented and is slightly more engaging for the reason of its high applicability.
Take this class because you practically have to, but don't really expect to enjoy it.
In Ec10 you definitely learn some very important fundamental economic concepts, which will serve you well as an informed citizen even if you don't take any more economics classes.
Macroeconomics is a valuable class because it is important to understand the basic structure of the economy. This class helps you understand world events in greater depth. However, Ec 10 is a lot of teaching yourself. Unless you get a good TF, it can be hard to understand some of the topics in the class. I would recommend taking this course even if you don't want to go into economics because it's important to understand more about finance and the world.
You really should take Ec before you enter the real world, the class teaches you a lot about it. It's designed for freshmen so pretty much everyone can handle it, and I found the material interesting. Section is a waste of time if you have a bad TF, so I guess try and get a good one? Lectures aren't great either but the tests and psets are actually pretty good at synthesizing (get used to that word) the information.
only if you want to do economics
It is all on your own. You need to do the work and you need to attend lectures and sections.
Make sure to go to David Johnson's sections instead of your own- if you can. It's a big advantage
A class that depends on a lot on your section leader. Lectures are sort of boring. However, there is so much information/course material to be learned - if time/effort is put in, you'll come out of the class with a lot more knowledge than before.
EC10 is a necessary class, but not one that anyone relishes taking. Listen closely to your TF, since he/she will be the decider of your grade in the class. Also, think critically of the materials being "proved" to you, since they are often still hotly contested economic theories.
Don't take this class unless you are going to concentrate in Ec
Just go to whatever section is best- the decrease in your section grades will  be outweighed by the positive effect of being taught by a TF who knows what they're talking about.
This class is a really good taste of economics. You should take it if you are trying to decide if economics is the right concentration for you, it will certainly help you figure it out. However, if you have a superficial interest in economics and just want to learn something that could be applicable to real life I would suggest taking a different course for example a General Education course in Societies of the World etc because there is less of a focus on the details of economic theory and more of a focus on real world applications and implications which may prove more useful in the long run.
This course is brutal because of the workload, class time, and ultimately all that is taught is theory.  Only take this course if you have to for an ec concentration.
You have to take Ec 10 in order to take any higher level econ courses. Unfortunately, it's a mediocre course. If you're interested in econ like I am, I'm sorry but you're just going to have to slog through it... There are more interesting courses awaiting in the future.
if you want to take it
The class provides a lot of great information. Not the most interesting presentation and kind of tedious, but worth taking.
Although there are definitely some things which can be changed about this course to make it more engaging and less similar to a high school course, i'm glad that I know macro.
Don't take it unless you are seriously thinking of concentrating in economics. The class is poorly put together. I'm glad I took this class because it showed me that I should not concentrate in economics; the department must be bad to have such a terrible intro class.
The Spring part of EC 10, Macroeconomics, provides a solid foundational understanding of macroeconomics, including the historical narrative of macroeconomy, current economic policy, and the theoretical backbone of the course. Unlike micro, all of the components of macro seem to fit seamlessly together into a larger trajectory. Though the course is not without its problems, it is solid and recommended.
Utilize office hours! TFs are extremely helpful and David Johnson is incredible. He inspires students and pushes them to see the applications of economics in current issues. I learned a TON from this course - you really get out of this course what you put into it.
Be wary if economics does not interest you.
Studying economics is the most important thing a Harvard student can do.  It defines our own lives, our careers, and most importantly, American policy.  Please take Ec10. Everyone should.
This is a course that makes you think a lot about economics. Don't think this will be easy because you did AP Econ. Micro is manageable with the AP knowledge, but you really need to study for Macro. Be careful about the wordings in the exams.
People hate on this class a lot, but I enjoyed it a lot and found the course material very interesting. The only trouble is that having a bad section leader can really hurt or help you and that is out of your control.
You have to really want to do this and dedicate a lot of time to this class in order to take it.
Read the chapters, go to office hours, attend lectures and suggested panels, don't complain about the tests or p-sets and just do them, become friends with David Johnson.
Material in ec10 is useful whether or not students want to go into economics and so it can be useful for anyone. Due to the size of the course, however, the overall experience occurs in sections and depends on the teaching style and capabilities of the section leader.
The entire course is taught in section. So your section leader ultimately makes or breaks how enjoyable the course is.
it is hard. you will hate it. but it is good information everyone should learn.
You just have to take it to move onto more interesting economics.
This class provides knowledge about the world that every intelligent person should come to know and understand in order to make better decisions not only for oneself but for the country
I dont know many people who got A's without having taken AP Econ. This isn't that difficult a class; there is just a lot of information. Go to lecture, pay attention. Dont copy the p-sets, it will bite you later. Very applicable and interesting information.
not bad at all
Great introduction to the basic tools of economic analysis
Really interesting if you get into the material.  If you don't put in the work it won't make sense and the class will be hard.  Just do the readings
Good Class - but it all depends on your TF
Mankiw needs your money from textbooks to buy himself another Mercedes. The class is poorly taught because it completely relies on your TF. The lectures are interesting and insightful, but Mankiw is very stubborn and only teaches what he deems important. The tests he writes are extremely difficult and test whether you can see through a myriad of information, rather than if you can solve economic problems.
This class is not always fascinating and at times can be difficult, but it is really stuff that you need to learn. It's applicable both in your daily life (smaller-scale) and in the grander scheme of things (politics), and can help you really take a look at your views and back them up with actual understanding. Overall, I think that it's actually pretty interesting, but like any course, with its dull points.
Expect section to be fairly boring if a) you're not in David Johnson's section, and b) you've done the reading. That was me last semester. This semester I didn't bother doing the reading until after section, which is actually nice because there are some details that you don't catch in the book until you've learned the material once through. Additionally, guest lectures can sometimes be deathly boring, but make sure to try to take notes on them anyway because they may pop up on the exam (one free-response question, for example, was based on the position of a guest lecturer on a specific issue). Finally, read the helpful hints and do the unit tests. They're good review and sometimes the helpful hints really crystalize an idea explored briefly in section. If you have time, also read over answers to psets, because David Johnson is really good at expressing the logic you need to reach the solutions.
Pretty painful if youre not a freshman, but only because its a huge freshman class. Use the Helpful Hints, theyre what the tests are based off of.
- Useful basic knowledge that everyone should know.
This course provides a fundamental introduction to Economics. I had never taken any economics before, but was always curious. I feel much more knowledgeable about Economics and can live my life with an Econ eye. However, the structure of the class is very tedious/annoying. I'd recommend taking pass/fail if you can to avoid unit tests and stressing out so much.
May not be the most pleasant, but will give you a strong understanding of macroeconomics.
Only take this class if you know that you will be dedicated to learning the information. It is very easy to get behind and never really catch up.
I think if you want to learn something about economics and you don't mind problem sets, this is a good course to take. If you are interested in learning about economic issues in the real world, and you're not into problem sets, there are better courses to take.
take Ec 10. you have to, it's a Harvard experience not to be missed
DO THE PRACTICE TESTS. (and the Unit Tests) otherwise the exams will shock you.
Take this course, but take it with a grain of salt.
take it to learn about basic economics
Big class that everyone takes, but it's a great class that is highly applicable to everyday life and the workload is definitely manageable.
The course is very segmented, with not enough overlap and reinforcement in concepts between section, lecture, textbook, homework, and tests. A lot of work is left to the student, which I found very difficult. That said, the class gives a good overview of the economy, which is a useful skill. I would take this course if you wanted to know about the economy - otherwise, don't bother.
It's very difficult to learn everything you need to know from the class for the exams. A lot of the questions on the exams require synthesizing the material in ways that the class does not neecessarily cover. Getting a good TF is also incredibly important and incredibly difficult.
Ec 10, particularly the macro portion, is really helpful for a general understanding of the way the economy works.  The second semester is much more interesting than the first semester, so if you didnt like the first semester, stick around, it will get better.  The lectures were much better second semester.  The tests were harder, but you learn a lot more.
I definitely preferred the fall semester of Ec 10 to the spring semester, but macroeconomics is more applicable to the real world than microeconomics.  Not the most interesting course at Harvard, but one you should definitely take since every college graduate should have some background in economics.
Good if you plan on concentrating in stat or econ.
Don't expect this class to be the best class ever. However, the subject is very interesting and relevant to current events. Read the textbook and go to all sections. Also, read through the pset answers online because the entire class is basically "guess what David Johnson is thinking of?" David Johnson is terrific, though.
It's not a great class, but it's mandatory for every Ec concentrator.
Must take if you wish to become an informed citizen
Great class overall, but try and get a really good TF.
I was better able to understand the social world and the benefits and costs of macroeconomic decisions. Sections were very well taught, and I feel like I can understand everything in Business Weekly or the Wall Street Journal. It is an excellent class and you will walk away being a more informed person on the economic and social world.
Despite the fact that this is a very commonly taken, popular introductory course, it is incredibly difficult. The exams make up the majority of your grade, which makes things very stressful. There are a wide variety of resources to help you succeed -- but only if you have time to use them in addition to your other classes and extracurriculars. If you are ready to prioritize Ec10, go for it, but do not take it lightly as a way to fulfill a GenEd requirement, as I attempted to do.
While macroeconomics is an important subject to understand, do not underestimate the difficulty of this course.
That unless you want to concentrate in economics, you should steer clear.
Make sure you have already taken some classes in economics, or else you will find it very hard to follow.
Take AP Econo
Ec 10b is a fantastic course.  If you ever want to have a reasonable understanding of macro-economic issues that are facing our economy, you should definitely take Ec 10b.
Get a good section leader. It will make or break you.
A great introduction to economics. The professors and TF's are awesome
Your section leader makes or breaks the course, but no matter what you can have a meaningful time in this class if you do the work and readings.
It's one of those classes you just have to take. Not a pain, but not dazzling either.
It is difficult, but very helpful and necessary if you are interested in economics as a field.
Take it.
This class teaches very applicable and interesting material, much more so than econ 10a. The course is also fairly well structured, although your experience will depend heavily on who you get as a section leader.
The class teaches important and relevant concepts of macroeconomics, but takes a fair amount of personal initiative and time to be successful.
It's an alright class. You'll end up hating economics but it's really not that bad.
I would say that you get out what you put into this class. A useful introduction to economics.
It's... okay. Not great but not horrible either. Meh.
You learn as much effort you put in.
This class is wonderful and you should definitely consider taking it
Ec10 is often taken approached by students with a blase attitude, simply because many students have to take the course if they wish to continue on in economics. However, this class can be interesting if you engage and think critically about the material, and truthfully is a fairly easy class that only needs a bit of time commitment in order to do well.
Ec10 is a flawed class. It's laughable that Mankiw only shows up to lecture a few times in the whole term. What's more, the fact that we're forced to buy Mankiw's textbook, a textbook that doesn't cover half the material that we're responsible even though its written by the Ec10 professor, is pathetic. Ec10 will be a shell of its former self without David Johnson. All of that said, I am glad I took the course because I now have a good grasp of basic macroeconomic concepts.
straightforward class. switch out of a section ASAP if you suspect the TF will not be good. Hope they get someone as good as DJ to be head TF next year. Do the Psets on your own before going to office hours if you actually want to learn/ be prepared for exams.
You will learn a lot but recognize it will be on your own if you have a bad tf. The key is to find a different tf who actually teaches. David Johnson office hours are pointless because he never lets you finish your question and then goes on a tangent about some other point.
Definitely be prepared to do the work, can be boring at times
Make sure you read and take advantage of problem sets and unit tests to try to master the material rather than focus on grades
This class is OK, but don't expect to be blown away. The guests lectures were all frankly mediocre. The quality of the class really depends on who your section leader is and if you get lucky.
Talk to people about their TFs. Some are SIGNIFICANTLY better than others, and it really does change how much you get out of the class. Its unfortunate but thats the way the world is right now.
There are a lot of topics that are taught that are very worth knowing. However section (depending on your tf) can be an absolute drag and completely unhelpful. Darn.
Pretty dry course, not that interesting
Complete all problem sets and go to office hours or read the textbook. Attending section and lecture alone will not yield great success in this course.
Take this course! You'll gain a strong foundation for economics that can also be applied to other fields and real life. I'd advise that you always attend the lectures and read the textbook to get the most out of it.
It is course that taught me much about the inner workings of the economy I live in today.
It is a good class to take as a freshman.
Took Ec10 in part to gain the quintessential "freshman year" experience as well as to learn econ in more depth (I'd already taken AP Macro). Former worked better than the latter... you will gain more information from this class than from a typical high school macro class, but not much.
Do the unit tests, pay attention in section
Don't just take this class by default. An understanding of economics is very important, and economics is an interesting subject, but the course is very ambitious with the quantity of material it attempts to cover, particularly given the fact that it is mainly taught by TFs. Be warned that it will require a lot of work outside of class, and if you don't have a good TF, you may struggle.
Very interesting course. Success and enjoyment will ultimately stem from how effective your section leader is at teaching the concecpts and making them interesting.
Just read the textbook, do the pset in groups, skip section if possible and you will get a B+
The course materials are well-written, and the class is a great intro to Econ overall - although like any class taught in sections, the experience can depend a ton on your section leader.
It is what you make it.
Definitely take this class if you are even remotely interested in economics. It can get boring at times, but learning the theoretical economic concepts will allow you to understand the world much better than you did before.
its a necessary stepping stone but not easy.
This is a very easy class. As long as you steadily do the psets and do the unit tests, you will have no trouble doing well in the class. It's exactly similar in structure to EC10a. Almost 90% of the people taking EC10b took EC10a in the Fall.
It can be super boring but is useful information to know.
Great chance to learn about the world
You really should take ec 10 if you've never taken economics before and probably even if you got a five on the AP exam.
Everyone should take economics! This is a difficult class but it is well worth it. You will come away with a new perspective of the world and be able to understand how our government makes decisions.
Mankiw is like a ghost.
great class -- I learned a lot of really useful and applicable things. I found it to be a very interesting subject, but it really depends on the person. It also depends on how good your TF is because it is taught almost entirely by them.
Much like Ec 10a, your Ec 10b experience will largely be defined by your section TF. Nicole Gilmore is really quite good: get her if you can  she's a very thorough instructor, and she's really good at tying the course material to real-world topics. (Note: if you've taken AP Econ in high school, jump to Ec 1010/11b, and just come to the Ec 10 lectures.)
Basically you are going to take Ec10, because everyone does.  And that's fine.  I am not an economics or social science major, and so I found this class to be extremely frustrating at times (it lacks the rigor of pure science, which I study).  But it is useful if you want a working knowledge of the macroeconomy and you don't mind being at the mercy of the cryptic problem sets and exams.  Protip: the class is basically a semester-long review of the textbook--little to know additional information is actually covered in section.  Take of that what you will, but if you're like me and specifically want to take economics to gain a working knowledge of the economy, not to go deeply into the field, save yourself two course blocks and just read the book.
Do the psets and learn the material -- then you'll get great grades
Ec10 is not easy but it's a really good class that gives you opportunity to gain a much better understanding of the economics and economic policy. Having a great section TF is imperative because they will teach you 90% of the material. I've never taken economics before and still found the class manageable.
It's a difficult course and there is much to learn. However, it could be a more interesting and relatable course. Because the decisions that happen politically and economically affect all of us.
Although this class does have flaws, if you might be interested in economics this is a great class to feel out that interest, as it does do a good job in that aspect.
Start the p-sets early, go to lecture, just being there will help with the questions on the tests.
Go to office hours. Best of luck without David Johnson.
Don't.
The work at times may seem tedious and it may seem that TFs are intentionally vague about the material to make it more difficult, but overall the class is a solid foundation. The workload isn't too bad.
This was a great class! The problem sets and exams were challenging, but definitely manageable, and the TFs do a great job of making themselves available to help. Also, the Unit Test system provides a great opportunity to master the material as you go along (and thus make studying for the exams less stressful) and boost your grade.
Take Ec10b if you are considering concentrating in economics or if you'd like to be more knowledgable about economic issues in the world today.
Section can be so, so painful if you have the wrong TF. Some like this better than 10a; I thought it was much more difficult but also more applicable to the real world.
It's tough. Have fun.
Definitely worth your time.
It is a good class to get a basic understanding of how the larger economy works
The material you learn in the class is incredibly helpful and useful. Careful of the exams in that they at least partially rely on luck in that the partial credit and the exam open-ended questions can at times feel incredibly arbitrary.
I think that Ec10b is a class that everyone should take, because the material taught in the class is very applicable to our society and if for no other reason, it helps you have a better understanding of the political debate and it makes you a much more informed citizen. However, because David Johnson, who was the heart and the backbone of EC10 and who made this class such a great one, is not going to be at Harvard next year, so I am very skeptical of the quality of the class for next year.
The experience depends very heavily on the quality of your TF. Exams are relatively straightforward, you will do well if you put a reasonable amount of work in.
It will not stand your hair on end in a good way or a bad way. It's a solid class that gives you useful information about the world around us. Ec 10b is a course that is beneficial for everyone so it may be worth suffering through if you're not a huge fan of the class.
Graduating Harvard without taking Ec10b is like graduating elementary school without learning to read.
The class is taught very conservatively it is a biased course
do not underestimate the difficulty of the course; your success in this course is very much dependent on how much work you put into it.
You have to take it, not particularly great.
Only because its a pre requisite
This class is worth taking for students who took the AP or did not. While the section component is lacking, the lectures make up for it. More material is covered than in a high school class and the problem sets start to tie themselves to current events, making the course more interesting and engaging.
It is very difficult but if you keep up with your work, psets and reading the textbook you can get a good grade.
Ec 10b is harder than Ec 10a
Difficult but worth it
This class can be hard but the actual material is really helpful and worth taking time to understand. Definitely take time to work with people, both staff and students, to understand the material as you go.
Plan on learning things on your own. Don't have any personal opinions. It was mostly a indoctrination to welfare economics
This is the last year David Johnson directs the course. Just about everything is going to change for future courses. Normal followup to Ec10a, so most of you know what to expect. The material felt noticeably more difficult for me personally. Questions can sometimes become more confusing because certain concepts don't fit in as well with other concepts (unlike Micro, which can essentially be reasoned about like math). Also, more random semantic information (i.e. lectures) needed. TF quality still matters a lot here.
Necessary, but not fun.
Do the pset work and readings on time. Spring term is brutally short. Also use OH if they are good as those of David Johnson because other people's quuestions might help you understand things you taught you knew but actually did not in the first place.
Whether you get a good TF is not up to you but, for instance, by going to David Johnston's office hours and truly engaging in producing the best you can for the weekly problem sets and seeking for help after classes can improve your experience in Ec 10b drastically.
Well this is a basic course that's needed for a lot of other classes, so even if there's a lot of flaws you still have to take it and bear through it.
It is not as "mathy" as you may think.
You'll learn a lot of basics
Interesting material, but frustrating because it's Ec 10.
Take it only if you have to.
No comment
I unexpectedly loved microeconomics, so I signed up for ec10b because I figured I should take the second half of the course. Unfortunately, macro did not agree with me. Taught very much in the same style as ec10a, just material is a little more abstract in concept but super helpful for learning about real world economic and terms that are thrown around all the time. GDP, stocks and bonds, trade balance, what causes recessions... stuff everyone should know, especially when it's used to make political/voting cases.
Don't expect this class to change your life. It will help you understand how the world functions.
You'll learn about macroeconomics and be able to explain a lot of current economics events. However, there are unclear expectations regarding psets and the class experience seems very dependent on the quality of your TF.
This class will more than likely determine if you're willing to continue in economics or not. The material can be challenging at times, but other students are the best resources in the class.
Be aware that this class lost its soul when David Johnson left. It was good last year, but be cautioned that it will be totally different next year. David Johnson's creativity and teaching ability will be missed.
A good introductory class that will allow you to better understand current policy debates. Not overly difficult but could be if you get unlucky with your tf.
This course can be kind of difficult because some of the students have already studied econ thoroughly in high school. Use the coursebook. Take notes and do the helpful hints.
Ec10 is an intro class, so it's HIGHLY unlikely you'll have some transformative intellectual experience. But as a concentration requirement, it's not too difficult, pretty interesting, and low on work compared to some other introductory courses. Keep up with the readings.
Enjoy the class and you will do a lot better.
A great class and a nice way to solidify basic knowledge of economics, which is crucial to any concentration. Very low workload and easy overall. Like ec10a it depends a lot on your section leader. Would proceed with caution since David Johnson will no longer be heading the course.
This class is absolutely necessary for a foundational economic background.
Difficult class but super informative and applicable knowledge!
Ec-10 is a bit of a slog. No ideological balance and little nuance, but you do learn a lot about Macro in particular
The practice problems will be your key to success in this class! Make sure you do them and ask your TF if you have any questions.
Hope for a good TF.
Make sure you peruse the practice test before exam day because looking at these will give you an advantage over the rest.
Go go office hours whenever possible.
Gives you a great background to economics. Unfortunately the current Head TF (David Johnson) is leaving, meaning the course may be worse next year, unless a very good replacement is found.
bruh! Take this class!
Just find people in the class you feel comfortable working with. AND, if you think you'll need a BSC tutor, get one early because they run out of EC10 tutors very quickly. Definitely go to the review sessions.
Ec 10 is a class that I think every Harvard student should take at some point, even if it is unrelated to their concentration. Although the workload of the class can be annoying, you do learn a lot of basic knowledge about the economy, which I think is crucial to being a functional member of society. I think a great deal of how you do in the class depends on if you get lucky with a good TF or not. Make sure to do all the unit tests, because each one bumps you up by 1 percentile. I enjoyed the class overall but from the perspective of someone who had never previously taken an economics course, it was frustrating when we were taught concepts (which were seemingly very easy to understand) but were not taught how to apply them to problems...then had the problems thrown at us on homework assignments and exams.
if you take it make sure to do all the review materials, doing well on the exam is contingent on that, not how well you understand concepts etc.
IT IS GOOD
Good not great class made more interesting by lectures.
This class is a lot of work but will change your life.
The course didn't change my life, but it was interesting.
Not having taken economics in high school, I came in nervous in regards to taking both micro and macroeconomics. The help and availability of professors and TF's eliminated such feelings, and I learned a great deal about economics and the US through this course.
Ec10b is, on the whole, a great course. The first thing I'd say right off the bat would be that our experience with the course was largely defined by Head TF David Johnson, who is leaving at the end of this year. Without his lead in writing the exams, the course could be very different next year and very unpredictable as a result. When it comes to the content, I personally find this introduction to Macroeconomics extremely eye-opening. It really enables you to understand the underpinnings of the U.S. Economy and leaves you financially literate to read reports by the Federal Reserve and the like. The work is intuitive at parts but not difficult on the whole, and I would highly recommend that every Harvard student takes Ec10b at some point simply because of how transformative it is.
The concepts you learn about in Ec 10 are necessary for a basic understand of how the world works. Sure, TF's and the lectures are often quite lackluster, but if you just think about the limitless ways you can apply economic concepts to life, you will understand the benefits.
It's a necessity to the Harvard experience.
It is a difficult class because exams dictate your grade and if you mess up one it is hard to rebound from that.
This is a good class with a reasonable work load, but it is huge and not very personal.
Ec10 is one of the "staple" classes at Harvard that it seems like every undergraduate ends up taking at some point.  It is a very thorough introduction into economics, much deeper than what other "intro" courses go into at other schools.  And the class does make you a much more aware citizen.  Unfortunately, the class lives or dies on how good your TF is; some are great, while some are not so great.
This class is a pretty manageable class as long as you put the time into it.  Be sure to do the psets and make sure you understand every question because they really help during the tests!
If you want the basis in economics, that's the perfect course for you. But you need to be ready to work very hard! This is not a course for the fainthearted.
Gotta put in the work or it's not worth it.
Only take this class if you have already taken some form of AP economics in high school, or some other form of college level economics.  It moves very quickly and covers a lot of ground without regular quizzes or tests to check if you are caught up and understanding the material.
Better than Ec 10a and more interesting too.  This course teaches you a lot, and if you ever wondered why there was a financial crisis in 2008, you will learn that for sure.
If you liked Ec10a, you'll probably like Ec10b. If you did well in Ec10a, you'll probably do well in Ec10b.
this class is worth the struggle through ec10a. i dont think i could take a class anywhere that could make me a more educated person. it helps you grasp at ideas that you often just hear briefly mentioned in the news, it helps you become a more educated world citizen, it demands that you question your beliefs about economic theory that may have been imposed on you, whether conservative or liberal or moderate, and it opens your mind.
This is a class that teaches you to think critically about real-world situation and apply the material beyond the examples discussed in class. You can get as much out of this class as you put in. I highly recommend all students take this course at some point at Harvard as we all interact with the economy every day whether we are economists or not, so understanding its foundational principles and mechanisms seems vitally important to all citizens in my opinion.
It's necessary, but it's not fun or particularly easy.
It's a good introduction into economics, and I think that the material taught is basic material that everybody should know.  Though the class is painful, the knowledge is useful.
tis solid
It is challenging and the grading is horrible but the material is worth it
Take unit tests, attend office hours, and work hard on your psets.
I'm so sorry that you won't be able to have David Johnson as part of your course. You missed out
Ec10b is a great class to take for everyone, as global economic trends are very important to understand in the modern, ultra-connected world we live in.
It is a very popular class, and that comes with it's drawbacks. You learn a lot, but it can feel impersonal at times. I think there are a great deal many more rewarding classes you could take instead if what you want from this class is to fulfill a GenEd requirement--our time at Harvard is limited after all.
You will learn a bunch. You won't have fun doing so. You probably won't be terribly well taught, but you will learn. And you need this as a prerequisite so you might as well just take it.
if you want a B, take ec.
This teaches vital skills to living in this world. Yeah sometimes the tests might be hard, but you learn the material well. I think everyone should take this class.
Just take 1010
This is a difficult course but I felt that I learned a lot.
You need to be extremely dedicated to learning everything from the beginning.
Ec 10 is like broccoli. It's not the most pleasant tasting thing but it doesn't taste bad and broccoli is good for you.
I'll tell it to you straight. This course has caused me a lot of stress, a lot of late nights, a lot of pain and a decent amount of suffering. I've pulled multiple all-nighters to work on problem sets for this class, I've gone to office hours almost every single week to ask my TF about confusing points, and I've vented for hours about how confusing the exams can, at times, be.  But I finally realized how much I've learned about economics after I turned in that last final at the end of the semester. As painful as this course was to study for, I can honestly say that I'm grateful that I took this class. I realized that I have a much greater understanding of economics and how it informs my daily life. For an introductory course, Ec10 will give you a fairly rigorous understanding of macroeconomics in a way that is interesting, directly tied to current events, and highly relevant to your life.In addition to Ec10b, I also took Ec10a last semester; I would highly recommend taking them both, and I think most people do in order to fulfill one of their gened requirements. Ultimately, I think that Ec10 is one of those experiences that you have to go through at some point before you graduate from Harvard, whether you're interested in concentrating in Econ or not. Hope this was helpful, and best of luck with course selections!
It's a large class for a popular area of study at Harvard.
This class is great because David Johnson is passionate about the material, pushes students to really embrace and understand it, and is just generally an amazing teacher. Your TF is basically the person who techies the whole class, and if you get a bad TF then you will have a bad experience. Lecture is boring and usually unnecessary. Not super engaging or interesting, pretty difficult Psets and exams, you need to actually be interested in macro if you want to do well in this, especially with a subpar TF.
Start p sets early!
The subject matter is useful and, honestly, necessary to know.  However, I found it more difficult than 10a and I really did not enjoy the course. At all.
Be prepared to work if the material doesn't click with you at first. Better than micro!
Material is unorganized. Teaching is highly dependent on section leader.
Very applicable to the world around us.
Mankiw's name is on the course but that's about it in terms of his involvement. The workload is pretty fair as long as you do the reading/attend section.
Gives you a good base in economics
It's relatively painless. Take it if you are interested in ec. If not, there are more rewarding classes to fulfill the math and USW gen ed requirements.
This course isn't amazing, but if you've never taken economics before, this is a must-take class either way, because the subject material is enlightening. Mankiw sucks, David Johnson is awesome, and your section leader will be hit-and-miss, so don't expect to fall in love with macroeconomics from day one.
This course tough, but I really learned a lot from it. Try and get a good section leader; it makes a big difference!
It is tricky as a Gen Ed, but I really liked learning some broad economics, which can be applied universally
You get out of it what you put in...Also, there are lots of subtle relationships between economic variables which subconsciously get hammered into your brain and, somehow, are mechanically spewed out on the exam. I assume the intuitive understanding of these mechanisms will come in handy when discussing economics in more ordinary circumstances in day-to-day life.
It is what it is
Definitely put time into problem sets and make sure you do the exam review material - the actual course work will not prepare you fully to do really well on the exams.
It makes you feel like a cog in a machine  in the nicest way possible.
If you want to understand how the economics world works, this is the course for you. Even if you are not an ec interested student, this course will give you the knowledge necessary for you to be able to make sense of the economic world, which is a skill we all need.
This class is amazing. It presents the economics narrative in an engaging and challenging manner. David Johnson cares that you learn stuff and he puts so much effort into ensuring that you get something tangible from his class. It's a real real real pity that he is not going to be here next year because he made this class for me. His office hours were absolutely the best part of the class and where I learnt the most. Also, if possible the TFs should be screened properly before being allowed to teach because students could suffer under a bad TF who cares nothing for teaching and does not have a good grasp of class material.
Interesting and easy if you are willing to put in the work. You get out what you put in.
Big class; taking it feels kind of like taking a cruise.  You're told that you're moving, but you really have to look around to get a sense of how things are changing.  The pace is lethargic but pressing.
Take this class even if you don't plan on doing economics. It is important to know this stuff.
The course is structured exactly like microeconomics (EC10a), so if this appealed to you last semester, it will likely meet your expectations. The material is a bit more difficult, but easy to manage if you go to section and stay on top of the readings.
Only take this class if you took ec10a or have some prior knowledge of economics. Otherwise it'll be hard to keep up.
just do it
Keep up with the readings and enjoy the lectures.
A lot of bang for your buck. You're put to work but it's worth it
This course is well run but not particularly challenging.
While this course is not the most interesting course at Harvard, the information is incredibly relevant and the work load is far from overwhelming. Each student's individual experience with Ec10 is highly dependent upon your TF because lectures constitute a minimal part of the course. Basically, this course is something that you just have to take to get out of the way, but it's popularity can work to your advantage because it is likely that you will have friends to study and do problem sets with.
Economics at Harvard is a great course taught by world-class professors. The concepts they clear are clear and concise, and the lectures always add an interesting dimension to the course,
It is a bit difficult because the homework is a bit unclear sometimes. However it's wonderful to become a better citizen/more educated about relevant inssues.
you probably have to take it, but may not enjoy it
Stay on top of readings and find a good pset group!
Sorry David Johnson isn't there. I hope Mankiew is gone..
I feel as though I now have a seat at the table of current economic conversations in our society today. I think this is a very important tool for people to have.
Ec10 enrollment is on the decline and for good reason. The class is terrible. You are a number. Don''t waste a class of your Harvard education.Learn this stuff online and take something else.
Ec10b is a great class if you want some introduction to Economics, but it is what you make of it. By nature of it being sure a large course, TFs and professors will not be on top of you to keep up, study, and get your work done. If you put in the work, you can get a lot out of it.
Go in ready to think
Make sure you read each chapter before section. It is a huge helper in understanding the course. It moves fast but the online course documents helps a ton.
It is a necessary burden.
It is a really useful course and you actually can learn a lot IF YOU WANT TO. The TF's are usually really bad, so I recommend reading the book and talking to whomever seems to understand the subject. Also, try to read magazines and see how what you learned can be applied in the real world.
Very interesting material.
It's amazing, sad that David Johnson's leaving though.
A very good course that every undergraduate should take. If you want to know how the world works, take Ec10.
How much you enjoy and how easily you learn the material depends completely on your TF, but take the course.
Although Greg only gives around 5 lectures (tops), working in section really makes you understand the matter and care about it. Materials and exams are fairly easy even if you don't have any previous economics experience, which makes you try to appreciate the matter more rather than just learn for the exam. A must-take!
TAKE IT.
This is a very worthwhile class to take! If you want to take a quintessentially Harvard class and leave with a better understanding of how the financial world works, this is definitely a good use of your time.
If you are interested in economics or just in learning about the world, this is a great course!
Ec10 is a necessary evil. Not all the sections are created equal, but overall the class is not too bad.
Bruh this class is vital.
Basic Economic knowledge is a prerequisite of engaged, critical citizenship; Ec 10 will give you that and more.
Don't take it just because your friends are.  Take it because you should probably understand economics.  Or don't take it, and just read the paper.
Make sure you ask for help when you need it.
Macroeconomics will help you become more aware of the state our nation finds itself in.
It's Ec 10. You've done it once, you can do it again.
This course is a great background to macroeconomics. If you have minimal knowledge about economics and the financial/monetary system of the US, as well as the world, this is a great class to take to get a better understanding about better concepts. I think your experience depends heavily on the section component though, which is the majority of the year (you don't have many lectures, most of the course is run by section). I had Steve White as a TF and he was hands-down the best tf (and possibly teacher in general) I've had at Harvard. He was hilarious, down-to-earth, hard-working, knowledgeable, etc- I've never met a tf so dedicated to getting to know each student personally. Not to mention the 24/7 help he gives online, and all the resources he provides outside of class. If you get him, even if you don't like ec, you'll be sure to get something out of the class.
Do the problem sets seriously!
This class is hard at times, but so worth it.
Go to lecture. Many students don't, and short answer questions on all three exams will test specific elements of lectures that will be hard to answer if you didn't go
The course- whether you decide to concentrate or not- prepares you for life. Take it without hesitation; you will not be wasted. Everyone deserves to own such an analytical framework.
This class covers interesting material and provides a good baseline for future economics learning.
Much more interesting than 10A - hang in there!
No matter what field you are going into, you will learn how money works how the world operates and things that all citizens should know.
There is a lot to study for the exams so start early and practice often.  There are a lot of questions on the exam and so you really have to get the intuitions behind the answers down quite quickly in order to succeed and do well.  Don't skip out on section because there are aspects of section that are not covered in the book but that will be on the exam.  Same goes for lecture.
It is a great way to start your freshman year!
Ec10 is good overall, but is very dependent on your TF, since that is who will teach you the most in terms of actual class time.
It is much harder than AP Econ from high school
Somewhat of an impersonal course. Find friends to do problem sets with.
put emphasis on the Psets
take it if you might be interested in economics, but it's not the most fun course..
Necessary class
You need to know this eventually. Might as well start now
DAVID JOHNSON IS GOD you have missed out on a grand era
It gives a good introduction to Economics, and the materials taught in this course are good to know as an educated member of society.  If you're even a little interested, then why not.
Super interesting course material. Makes news much more interesting to read now that I understand what is going on.
This course is very manageable as long as you are on top of the day to day material. Be prepared in section and spend plenty of time on the problem sets because success on the exam is highly correlated with good performance on the problem sets.
Very solid class. You get out what you put in.
It's a great course. Don't shy away from it just because you took AP Economics and want to move on--it's a totally different course in a lot of ways.
This is a class so many freshmen take, so you will have a great support system among classmates and friends. However, it is very difficult, especially when you have no knowledge of economics to begin with
Don't take this class unless you need to.
Might as well take it. Good experience and bonding with the rest of the Freshmen class that all take it. Foot in the door for economics. I have no real complaints!
Study hard for the exams and do the unit tests
It's worth taking. You're (probably) not going to love it, but you never know. But it's important stuff, and knowing it will probably be nice later in college and in life.
The class is completely dependent on who your TF is, make sure you get along and understand your TF and that he/she has a good knowledge of the material.
I am glad that I took this class.
This class is definitely more difficult than Ec10b, but it is such an informative class and helps you make sense of things you read in the news and just understand things about how the country is run in general.
Great way to learn about an important subject
Difficult class but valuable. Learn a lot about the basics of macroeconomics.
This class helps you understand what the heck the news is talking about.
I think its a great class for everyone to take even if they're not planning on concentrating in economics because it informs you about real-world issues that will continue to be relevant for the rest of your life.
Make sure to stay on top of your work. It is a class that must be taken as prereq for anything econ so you just have to go through it
It's an intro Ec course. Take it.
Everyone should have a basic understanding of economics. Take it!
It is boring and difficult, don't just take it because everyone is taking it.
psets and exams are tough. put in the work.
It's a decent course.
Macroeconomics is extremely useful to know. I had a good experience with this class, and I'm glad I took it because I feel more informed.
If you want to be an ec major, this class is required. It's great if you get put into a good section (steve white is the best!) but if you don't, it's not going to be a fun class. There are tradeoffs though, if you are in a bad section, it is likely that your curve is going to be better.
This is a big Harvard class; the material is good, the course is not. Unfortunately, if you want to study economics, you must slog through Ec10.
Not very compelling math or logic behind the principles but relevant ideas
It is an important subject, and I think everyone should take it despite the shortfalls of the class itself.
It is not an easy course, but it is a rewarding course.
This course is essential for any student at Harvard--not just concentrators! It teaches you so much about how the world works and makes you a better, more informed citizen.
Economics is crucial to being knowledgable citizens
Your Ec10 experience largely depends on two things: your section leader and how much work you put in. Whether or not you get a good section leader is pretty much entirely out of your control, but if you put in work on the psets throughout the semester, there's a lot to learn from this class. It gives you great tools to think critically about issues facing society, and definitely made me a more aware citizen.
Don't let this course sour you on economics study in general.
If you're interested in Econ, Ec10 will be a good measure of whether you want to pursue the field as a concentration or not
I did take away a ton from this class and overall I'm very happy I took it: that said, go into it understanding that your experience will hinge heavily on your TF. Regardless, it's an important subject to learn, but know what you're getting yourself into.
This class really taught me so many tools that I can apply to real-world problems. It's the perfect example of a class that taught me academic skills that also make me a more informed citizen. I feel as though I can better discuss monetary and fiscal policy. Yes, the class is difficult and many times you have to teach yourself the material; but it's enlightening and worth it.
How much you like the course will probably depend on  how good your TF is
Hard, but worth it.
good class but some work forsure
Depends a lot on the section leader you get.
It's a little difficult but very interesting.
I took ec10b without 10a and barely found it more difficult than any other student in the class.  You pick up on how the class works fairly quickly and then it's smooth sailing from there.
TFs will make or break this course.
This class is very rewarding and not too stressful. Definitely take it if you have an interest in economics.
Good class, especially if you have a good TF
If you know you want to do economics, then take Ec10a/b. If you are unsure if you want to do economics, then take Ec10a. If you like Ec10a, then take Ec10b but if you don't like Ec10a, then don't waste your time taking Ec10b.
This course was great for learning the basic economic concepts and ideas.
The TF you get is very important.
This class is worth taking because economic principles are worth understanding, but do not expect a wonderful, well-organized course.
This class is definitely a struggle, but everyone should take this class.  You will learn so much about basic economic concepts that is invaluable.  This class takes a lot of work and the exams and psets will not be a walk in the park.  However, this was a good foundational class and fulfills a gen ed so why not.
Taking this class will definitely give you a great sense of macroeconomics and (really) how the world works; it's very applicable. As far as advice goes, I strongly suggest going to as many office hours as possible to get through the psets. I also advise doing the psets in groups (make sure you still do your own work; not only is that cheating, but in the end, you won't understand any of the concepts and you'll have to work harder come midterm season).
Learn a great deal about how the economy works in reality and not how it seems it would in the news and in politics
Take Ec, unless you've got a free week on your hands in which you can just read the textbook.
This course is a very good introduction to concepts in macroeconomics. It makes it easy to understand the theories and the applications, while still being very exciting for students. It gives students a basis with which to understand the world around them which is quickly changing.
Not a lot of current examples discussed in section. Can be very monotonous.
Don't rely on what is taught in section to help you with midterms or problem sets. Definitely go to office hours, that's where I learned most of the material. Problem sets are always interesting and directly help prepare you for tests!
It's a decent amount of work, but if you go into it optimistically and with the desire to learn you will do great.
You should take the course because economics is important.
You have to take it if you are concentrating in ec. It's overall a badly formatted class. Honestly, I would advice you think strongly about if you would really want to concentrate in EC.
The course is challenging yet very interesting for anyone planning on concentrating in economics or just with an interest in the subject. Requires lots of time and outside of class preparation.
Its not a great class unless you have a good TF, but the material covers things everyone should understand.
Just take it. It's part of the experience :) Keep in mind that you are expected to be very self-driven in this course.
Do not take this course. You can find a much better way to begin an Economics concentration. This course will kill your desire to study this topic.
You have to take this course if you want to learn economics.
Consider why you're taking this course as opposed to another economics course.
A fundamental class for understanding our society at large. While there are great lectures with Mankiew and other guest lecturers, your main interactions with the course will be with your section TF and Mankiew's book "The Principle of Economics." Be 100% sure to get a good TF, otherwise your semester will be hell. Also watch out now that David Johnson is gone. He was an incredible head TF.
It's a good intro class to macro.
This class is full of other freshman and is supposed to be an introductory class. The curve is generous, but problem sets are extremely hard. It is definitely nice that the class is split up into sections so that you can ask your section leader for help and to learn in a smaller setting.
Good intro to Economics but the psets take hours and the midterms/finals are quite hard. Make sure you study in time for those because you will be given a lot of material and you will be fine!
Definitely take this if you are at all interested in any fields related to economics or just for basic background knowledge of economics
Nothing.
Go to office-hours
Be aware that a huge amount of your success in this course is contingent on you being proactive -- if you get stuck with a bad TF, you'll need to teach yourself the material, attend office hours, do extra practice on the website. It's attainable, but this is definitely the kind of class where people fall through the cracks if they're not on top of their work.
I found this class more difficult but also more interesting than microeconomics. I enjoyed the number of real world applications this had. Other than that, the course is very much similar to Ec 10a and I would recommend taking it.
This class is not that hard. Do all the Psets and then try to form study groups to compare Psets. Also do all of the practice problems for the exams.
Do the practice tests - not only do they help your grade, but the graders are amazing at teaching you topics you don't quite understand, and also pointing out things you hadn't even realized you didn't understand.
Easy to do if you show up to section and read the book, as well as take extra credit unit tests.
Ec 10 is the only introductory economics class offered at Harvard, so take it if you want to use economics in the future. However, take everything that you learn in the class with a grain of salt. Understand that the course offers a biased sample of microeconomic thinking, and claims objectivity for extremely subjective statements. Students who take Professor Mankiw on his word will leave the class believing it to be simple economic fact that raising the minimum wage increases unemployment or that the Laffer Curve has real-world implications when there is not anything close to consensus on these ideas within the economic community. The course teaches a philosophy that values profit over people and uses a logic of generalized assumptions backed up by little concrete data.
I think that the worst part, absolutely worst part, about Ec10 is that there are so many TFs. There is so much variability in the quality of TFs and material taught in sections that it makes me so uncomfortable and frustrated to a point where I didn't care about Ec10.
If you took ec-10a, ec10b has the same structure.  The concepts are slightly different but overall it has the same slightly more chill vibe. I recommend the ec10 sequence.
macro is really interesting; a great foundational class
Great introduction to economics that all students should take to become more informed citizens
really informative
Not the best class, but broadens your knowledge base.
Doesn't seem like instructors have too much enthusiasm for it
It's important to know about economics
Ask for help and clarification from the teachers and tf's
As a massive class, one of the biggest at Harvard, taking EC10 is just something a lot of kids do. It doesn't seem like the best class at Harvard, but certainly a positive experience overall.
The exams are challenging and the problem sets take some time. As a result, be sure to attend section and office hours. If you dedicate a decent amount of time outside of class and engage with the material, then you will probably do well. The topics covered in Ec 10 are interesting, so the time that you take to master the concepts would be well spent.
you need to make your own success
This course is basically "teach yourself". You don't want to take it, but you have to, since everyone's an econ concentrator. If you can skip it, by all means do it.
Macroeconomics is very difficult if you don't do the readings or pay attention in section. You can easily get lost in the course and catching up will be difficult.
I had already taken AP Economics using Mankiw's text, and this surprisingly really hurt me here and I wish I had just taken 1010. Because I had already learned all of the concepts I definitely slacked in the day-to-day work simply because I had more pressing (new) work in all of my other classes. Don't expect an easy A if you've already taken Mankiw's economics and already have a tough schedule because this class just became bottom of the barrel for me which is kind of sad because the content isn't that hard. Also the TFs put shifted the material a little bit at times that didn't align perfectly with the Mankiw text.
I've heard other Ec courses are better.
This will be slightly challenging, but worth the time and effort.
Get a tutor.
This was a good course. If you get the right section leader, this can be an amazing course. Yes, the exams were difficult, but not impossible and if you put in the work, it's not bad. The lectures can sometimes be interesting, but at other times kind of boring.
Macroeconomics is an incredibly fascinating field of study, in my mind. Unfortunately, what you learn about the subject in this course depends almost entirely on the caliber of your TF. The lectures from famous faculty are nice supplements to the course material but provide little in terms of educational value if your TF did not present the appropriate background information to you during section. Mankiw, of course, does not show up, but everyone knows and expects that. All that being said, you come out of Ec10 with a better understanding of how the world works, and as such I recommendreluctantlythat students take it.
This is a tough course, and unless you're actually thinking about concentrating in economics, I suggest you find an alternative general ed course.
It is a time consuming class so I would say take it if you are genuinely interested and/or need it for your concentration.
It's a good class to build your foundation in economics.
G-Unit Mankiw is the best
Only take this course if you want a secondary or a degree in economics or are interested in macroeconomics. I am pursuing a secondary so had to take it, but I didn't think it was taught as well as microeconomics and didn't enjoy the material very much. Thankfully I don't have to take more macroeconomic theory courses for the secondary, so it was just one semester.
Great course, teaches you so much about macroeconomics and just how the world functions in general. Thank you thank you!
you really need to like economics to take it.
It's memorizing a bunch of random terms/indicators/trends.  Much less intuitive than Ec10a, and much harder.  Honestly I loved Ec10a but Ec10b was kind of a slog.  Keep switching sections until you get a good TF.
While it's true that this class will give you a good grasp of Economics, reading the textbook by itself can teach you as much (or even more). Lectures are almost always annoyingly uninteresting.
If you're an ec concentrater you'll have to take this course, but know that now that David Johnson is gone, no one can really predict what the class is going to be like this year.
I personally liked this course much better than microeconomics. It is more theoretical, and a lot more involved in the real world.
make sure you understand problem set questions, do all practice exams
Ec 10 is a great introductory economics course. Although all of the components (lecture, section, readings, unit tests, problem sets) can seem like a lot of busy work, you really get out of it what you put in. Staying up to date with the assignments allows you to take faster advantage of being able to understand current events. Overall, I really enjoyed the course. David Johnson was amazing.
Good for knowledge base, but make sure you have a good TF.
not the best class, but basic economics is something every citizens should know and understand.
Take Ec10b! Although without DWJ this course will be lame.
it is worth taking
If you've already taken Ec10a, then you know exactly what to expect from Ec10b. The material is less quantitative but more practical, and you actually feel like you could use what you learned in an educated conversation about the economy and the role of the government. The format is the same, and your Ec10b experience is completely based on what TF you get.
If you're not interested in EC, do not take it. If you have to, then do, but if not, don't regret it.
It is a lot of work but in the end you do have a good understanding of general economic concepts
David Johnson makes this class, and I hope for the sake of future students that they found someone as great as DJ to teach this class.
This course is very comprehensive; many real-world connections are made in the problem sets and course readings. That said, the evaluation and instruction is conducted in a very bureaucratic manner. The professor and guest lecturers aren't incredibly accessible, but if you really want to meet with them, it is certainly possible.
Macroeconomics is much less concrete than microeconomics. Specifically, many of the theories presented in Ec 10b are controversial/contradictory, which can be frustrating if you're analytically-minded. As for the course itself, if you've taken Ec 10a you know exactly what to expect. The only difference is a slightly higher number of lectures.
Great but too big and highly dependent on your TF.
Have fun!
It will be hard to tell what this course will be like with out David Johnson---if your not going to be an ec concentrator, I would recommend not taking this year.Do not read the textbook.Start the PSets early.Take the Unit Tests.Be ready to both accept and spit-back a lot of BS.
Love it or hate it you'll understand economics when you're done
It is very hard
David Johnson ran the course this year and is leaving so watch out - he made the course, not Mankiw. Next head instructor might make it worse, DJ is hard to follow up.
The Teaching fellows are in many cases absolutely awful and it is a total crap shoot whether you get a good one or not. If you took econ in high school you should honestly just skip the course.
it's important to have a foundational knowledge of economics, and this course will give that to you
This class is helpful in gaining understanding of economic pressures in the real world.
How you feel about this course is entirely contingent upon your TF. Seriously. The lectures are okay, if not particularly engaging, but section is where you really learn. So if you don't feel like your section leader is a good fit, make sure to try to find another one.
Economics opens your eyes about an incredible array of world issues. An introduction to economics is essential to the undergraduate experience. Ec10 is, in my opinion, a must take class. That said, this course could be infinitely better taught. Mankiw gives three or four lectures, and guest lecturers come in once in a while, but most teaching is done in section. Especially in macro, we learn a few things in section which are not taught in the book, which makes for a significant learning divide between sections. This class is important, yes, but it will probably not be fun. If you really get involved with the material you will take away important things, but you probably won't enjoy it.
helpful to know about
You learn so many skills that you will need to understand how the world works
It's sort of a necessary evil, like many introduction classes. There's a nice sense of camaraderie because so many people are in the class. If you have a good TF, it's manageable. If you don't...good luck
There is a lot of work
Don't take it for fun. It's tough and I'm only doing it because it's for my concentration.
Go to the lectures. Even though most are not heavily tested, some are extremely interesting and can inspire you.
I would definitely take this class. It was much easier than I expected it to be (I had no Econ background) and I think everyone should take an Econ course at some point. Make sure you get a good tf, because it is taught almost completely in section, but if you have a good tf, you should enjoy this class!
you have to have an interest in the subject before you take the class because otherwise you're going to be miserable doing the work.
The course gives a good basis in macroeconomics, an important field to understand in both your career and in life.
So much in this course is dependent on who you get as your section TF.  If they are a good teacher, you will do well and it will be an extremely rewarding class.  If they are not, it will probably be a bad experience.
Do all of the assignments and synthesize
Ec 10b is much better than Ec 10a. You learn a lot more about business and international business. The material is more interesting as well.
You will barely seen Mankiw, unless parents are there. How good your experience is depends on your TF.
Ec10 provides a great introduction to Economics. In one year, you learn the basics of economicsyou're taught the academic models, historical examples that relate, and a new way of thinking. Additionally, the small sections allow you to meet a bunch of students which is great as a Freshman.
This class is worthwhile- it provides you with a solid understanding of macroeconomic mechanisms that enables you to understand and question the reasoning behind policy decisions. The assignments are fair but can be deceivingly tricky- be sure to keep up in the textbook as it does a great job explaining basically everything you need to know.
It is a very good but tough class.
it's a necessary evil
I think it is important to understand what is going on in the economy but the section component is  redundant and boring and does not prepare you for PSETS or the exam.
Ec10b is the best course I've taken at Harvard so far. The class will greatly improve your understanding of the world. It will change how you analyze political issues and probably also expose you to the idea of the importance of compounding interest (which will make you a better investor in the future). David Johnson, the TF's, and Professor Mankiw all really push the students to try to get the students to apply the material to the real world. I think that they were successful and I can honestly say that now when I read the newspaper I'm able to understand much more.
Good class but lectures are useless.
It is useful if you are planning on concentrating in economics, but it feels like a mass produced course and is not individualized
The class is not fun and hard to do well in because the book doesn't prepare you for exams.
I truly enjoyed this class and thought that it was wonderful. I would recommend it to anyone that is interested in economics. Make sure that you keep up to date with the readings both from the textbook and online. The section leaders are amazing, there are wonderful resources, and you truly learn a lot.
The macroeconomics half of Ec10 is interesting and relevant to the real world. Problem sets are challenging and should be started early in the week. Go to office hours.
Take this course. The class gives you an overview of the field of economics and will make you a more interesting, thoughtful, and well rounded person. If you are freshman, definitely take it. If you are upperclassmen, only take it if you are willing to stay engaged - otherwise your grades will suffer. This class opens doors.
Much easier and better than Ec 10a. The psets I would say are the worst part about it, just because they are so long and complicated a lot of the time. The material is much easier to master and has more real world applications.
I took pass/fail just to get a solid background in macroeconomics and it was definitely worth it. Section is very helpful, lecture not so much.
This class is good for learning macroeconomics
This class can be frustrating because it presents economics as a science and presents only neoclassical models.  But it's a decent introduction to economics.
This course really "gives you a seat at the table" as David Johnson would say.  What you learn in this course about long run and short run fluctuations can help you to understand news reports and other talks about the current state of the US economy. The questions can be difficult to interpret on exams, but if you try hard to learn as much as you can and take advantage of all of the help that is offered (go to DJ's office hours!), this class will be worth it.
Ec 10b provides a very thorough introduction to macroeconomics, and you leave the class with enough skills and knowledge to analyze economic scenarios that you might find in the newspaper, for instance. Even if you have taken an introductory economics course before, Ec 10b will help you consolidate and piece together concepts, showing how they fit and work together.
Though it will give you a basic understanding of economics which is useful to everyone, the class is not very well taught and a lot of your knowledge amassed will be from your own work and reading the textbook.
David Johnson structured the course very well. Mankiw... I don't know much about what he does for ec10.
Ec10 is not one of those classes that you will remember for the rest of your life as the best part of your undergrad career. Instead, you will take it since it is necessary, and every contributing member of society should have a basic understanding of economics. So go grab 700 of your closest friends and get ready to learn about supply and demand.
Run as efficiently as a machine
The problem sets took a very long time. While the subject matter is interesting, your experience of the course will depend greatly on the section leader you are assigned to and the enthusiasm of said section leader. Some prepare awesome review packets while some are fairly uninteresting and don't do much to make the course discussions lively. Knowledge of the assumptions of modern classical economics is vital, but any intro economics course is likely doomed to be at least moderately boring. Take it, but don't expect to be blown away by exciting economic theory. Getting a lot from Ec 10 requires a lot of self-motivation, and as a non-concentrator I found it hard to muster motivation for 10b, especially with the last problem set.
I took this class as a gen ed because I wanted to take something different. It was definitely not an easy gen ed, but I found it really interesting.
stay on top of studying... don't let those exams sneak up on you
Ec 10 is definitely an experience. Having taken it as a sophomore, you'll probably get more enjoyment if you take it as a freshman, but it's still a decent class. Knowledge of economics does make you feel like you know what's going on in the world. Take all the unit tests because they help with your understanding and your grade.
This course is really hard, but if you stay on top of the readings and assignments you will be okay. It's really important to do the problem sets as far in advance as possible, so that you can go to office hours and really work on understanding the concepts.
It is a great class. Go to DJs OH - he kills it in class.
Take it!
You have to take it but it's poorly taught. You'll have a good experience if you get a good TF but it's kind of a crapshoot.
Ec10b is just like Ec10a... It teaches you valuable information, but does it in a relatively boring, uninviting manner. The Ec department could really spend some time revamping the course. Maybe make it more welcoming like CS50?
This was my favorite course by far. If you are considering economics, business, history, social studies, government, anything really in the social studies and humanities area you should definitely be taking this class (ESPECIALLY IF YOU ARE THINK OF DOING GOVERNMENT). I feel like my perspective on the world has been greatly enlarged and I feel much more confident debating and speaking on public affairs and current events. Ec10 is a must however much of your success, unfortunately, is based on the strength of your teaching fellow (something I NEVER say). Also, know that the material in the book is not all that you will need to understand the material and be able to put them into practice for the test. Many equations and rules needed are in section, not the text, and some even required a little bit of outside research (Investopedia is a great resource for very basic Economics inquiries).
The class can be made as easy or as hard as you want it to be depending on how much work you are willing to do. If you do the readings, take the unit tests, and see your TFs when you have questions, it can be a very rewarding and manageable class.
I enjoyed it because it was very relevant to the real world economy today, but I also had a great TF, so the course really depends on that. The midterms are ok and the final was ok, but it helps to go to office hours and really understand the broad concepts in the course and how everything works together as opposed to just pure memorization. It's a synthesis course.
Good way to find out if you want to study economics
It is a solid class, you will probably have to teach yourself a lot of the information however it is not too dense.
This is a great course if you want to get some background in economics in terms of theory and some quantitative methods.
Use the "helpful hints."
It changed the way I look at the world and politics.
This class was interesting at times, but it doesn't look very thoroughly at economics in the real world. Overall, I enjoyed the course, but I wish it had been more applicable at times.
This class is required for a few concentrations, so many will have to take it; however, if you just need a US and the World, I advise you take another class. There are so many better courses that can give you a more enlightening experience, you shouldn't waste your time in Ec10 unless you have to. It's just pretty boring and very theoretical.
The grade you get in the class is a direct result of the amount you put in. GO TO OFFICE HOURS.
Definitely attend section, do the readings, and the psets.
Recommending this course is a bit irrelevant, because most people need to take it and many others simply want to gain a basic understanding of economics, no matter how dumb the class is.
you should definitely take this class even if taken pass fail-- very important to know these concepts in general
NA
Don't be afraid to switch TFs if you feel its necessary. However, you won't know how another TF teaches unless you go to their office hours or attend one of their sections. As hard as it is, start your problem sets earlier than later (at least understand the questions by Wednesdays) so you can go to office hours and work it out there. Don't take short cuts with problem sets by having others in your collab group do all the work! Make sure you are understanding by working through problem sets.
it is pretty boring but useful
Very good introduction to basic concepts of economics! A MUST TAKE before graduation if you nothing about economics
I'd tell them that they should take AP Econ in high school so that they don't have to take the Ec 10 series at Harvard. There are much better classes to take than this one.
It is very valuable to learn more about how the economy works. That being said, this course is not easy and requires a lot of time, which should be considered when constructing a semester schedule.
The class is annoyingly difficult and time-consuming, but obviously a worthy class of taking and one that most people should take. Besides, nothing I write here is going to persuade or dissuade someone from taking it.
The course is poorly taught and poorly run, but probably essential if you have any interest in the social sciences and/or economics. Don't take for Gen Ed.
Great and necessary information to know about how the world works; not too difficult and easy to excel in if effort is there.
Is more difficult than you would imagine!
Take it for the sake of learning economics. There's nothing really special about the course, but I'd say take it just to learn economics if you've never had a class in it before.
Understand that taking Ec10 means navigating the bureaucracy of the course, i.e. the possibility of having an inexperienced TF who doesn't effectively communicate material, potentially unprepared unit test graders, huge lectures, etc. The information learned, however, is interesting and can be applied across several fields of study  this is the joy of taking Ec10
I believe that every student at Harvard should take this course, after taking this course you learn so much about how the world works and the interconnectedness of the global economy
TAKE IT and you will understand a lot more about how the world works.
Work hard, go to office hours
Section was strong. The high correlation between the textbook and the course was also a plus. I liked the application to real world examples with the guest lectures and unit tests were also helpful.
Ec 10b isn't much better than Ec 10a. If you weren't a fan of Ec 10a, you're probably not going to enjoy this course either. Everything is presented a bit vaguely and there are definitely disparities in terms of what each section teaches. That being said, everything relates to current events, so that's a plus. I'm an Ec concentrator, so of course I have to take this course. It's pretty much your standard "Intro to Macroeconomics" course with a bit of a kick. Most things are straight forward, with the exception of a few concepts. Definitely recommended for those who are interested in having a basic understanding of how the economy functions and want to learn more about past and current economic conditions.
This. Class. Sucked. So. Much. I cried. I almost quit. But I'm not going to let Ec10 win. So I manned up and I finished! I am so not concentrating in Economics. This class was soo bad. Why can't Harvard just have a Business major?!
This course is as time-consuming/difficult as you make it. If you decide you want to understand all the introductory level concepts at a more subtle and exact level, then you will need to consult supplementary materials, vivisect concepts, ask David questions, and likely become more confused. And he will probably say that you're "overthinking." But he's wrong because it's impossible to overthink something that is too simplistic to start with. This initial stage of confusion is when you realize that you indeed "know nothing," in Socrates words. Yet hope lies in persistence. The stage of overthinking is, in fact, not after you have understood the material, but after you have understood it at a very elementary and superficial level. Overthinking is that magical moment when you see the actual chaos beneath all the simplified material presented. You must think further and harder to resolve chaos into order--at long last. As Aeschylus said, pathei mathos. Even though you could merely learn the oversimplified concepts and ace the test (because you won't be confused by exposure to higher matter) and spend about a quarter of the time you would otherwise devote to a more rigorous pursuit of truth. But what is life if not the pursuit of truth? Will you commit, in Camus' words, "philosophical suicide"?
Much better than Ec10a. You learn so much about Economic Policy and real applications.
It can be a pain, but I'm very glad I stuck with it.
Ec10b is naturally very similar to Ec10a in structure. Your experience is probably really dependent on your TF. I had a great TF, and I had a very good experience in Ec10b. However, the lectures tend to be boring, and a lot of people end up dozing off or not even showing up as a result. The exams were harder this semester, and the concepts were perhaps slightly more difficult to grasp, in my opinion. The main difference is that Ec10b relies a little more on section material than Ec10a, meaning studying the book is not as effective for Ec10b. As long as you understand the problem sets, the book, and do the exam review materials, you should be fine. Also, make sure you take the Unit Tests!
The people who end up concentrating in econ do it in spite of, not because of this course. Be sure to get a decent TF, of which there are few. This is important since a large part of the course is taught in section and is not at all based on the textbook or online postings. Speaking of which, don't buy the textbook - it's pretty useless.
Though an annoying and sometimes exhausting class, I learned an incredible amount of Ec 10 and would recommend it to anyone who feels ignorant on the subject.
Great class! Teaches topics that makes you view the world differently. I highly recommend it even if you're not concentrating in economics!
this class is very good to see if you want to further pursue economics
Take it. It's ec10.
As long as you read the book or go to section and can synthesize what's being said, you will be fine.
Don't let lectures discourage you... actually pay attention, you will be tested on that information.
This class goes well with ec10a to give a good overview of basic economics, and is helpful in determining if you want to pursue further studies of economics.
Be ready to work on Psets on thursday nights
This class was great. If you didn't like Microeconomics (Ec10a) during the first semester, I would highly recommend sticking it out and taking Ec10b. I loved the second semester of Ec10 because the concepts we discussed are easily applicable to every day life.
Except a reasonable amount of work, but work that is manageable and interesting.
This class is too much to a machine.  The pset and test questions are too wordy/ convoluted and if you are not in David Johnson's section, you will have no idea what is going on.
As a foundational course, I would recommend this course to anyone looking to start studying economics (a requirement). However, I would not recommend this to someone simply looking to satisfy a GenEd.
Don't take this unless you're genuinely, passionately interested in the economy and US history.
It's a challenge but it's worth it in the end
Take this class if you are interested in learning the basics of macroeconomics, and I would recommend this course to someone who isn't thinking of concentrating in Ec, but would like to gain some of the real word value associated with knowledge of the financial markets.
A great introduction to Economics.
no one cares about you since there's a ton of people, but if you invest yourself in it you learn a lot
If there were a better introduction to economics, I would offer you take that, but there really isn't.
Ec 10 is a great intro class that everyone in the college should take to give you a basic understanding of the economic reasoning that people exhibit.
This course can be dry at times, but if you like government and policy, you will definitely enjoy it.
Despite its problems, this class is worth taking, simply because the basic knowledge of economic structures are hugely important to an understanding of our our world economic system works.  That knowledge can lead to so many other fields, which is why I would recommend this class despite its flaws.
Generally, the material is more rewarding than 10a's.
If you put in the work on the problem sets and read the textbook, this class shouldn't be an issue. The questions on exams are straightforward and section presents everything in an easy to understand format. Finished the class with a much greater understanding of macroeconomics, especially the economic system in the US and financial current events.
The course is not the most interesting out there but it does provide you with really important knowledge of how the economy works. So take it if you want that knowledge, but don't expect to be mind-blown.
Go to DWJ's office hours whenever you can.
Great Class
Ec10b is pretty much what you will expect from Ec10a.
It sucks, but its something you have to do. Try to make the best of it by working with someone from your section on the PSets
Synthesis is everything! Attend your section and do all of the unit tests.
It's a good class--much more public policy oriented than micro and without all the practical applications. It's kind of like an application of micro's thinking to the larger economy, which makes it useful for policy but less interesting and useful generally, in my opinion.
This course is excellent if you want to understand how our economy works. If you have never taken economics before, this is knowledge you want to have regardless of your major or career plans. Like many large courses, to do well you must make sure you are keeping up with the material. No one will necessarily notice if you are not until the exams, especially because problem sets are usually done in groups. Problem sets are very infrequent during certain parts of the semester, but material is still being covered fairly quickly. Always read the helpful hints!!
If you are a mathematically inclined person, take a look at 1010b or 1011b before taking 10b. If I could go back in time, I would not have taken this class.
You've probably heard about David Johnson and how great of a head tf he is. Spoiler alert - 2014-2015 is his last school year teaching here. If you haven't taken Economics yet (which I highly recommend you do anyway), try to take it with Johnson. Even if he's not your section leader, his open office hours and reviews are fantastic. He's a dynamic teacher that makes graphing a supply curve interesting. That said, this really is a course you should take anyway, even if it is pass/fail.
Ec 10 is relevant to a lot of fields and your personal future life so I would definitely tell people to take it.
Interesting material; however, the experience you have definitely depends on how good your section leader is. It's a luck-of-the-draw situation.
This course depends almost entirely on how good your TF is. Good TF = Great experience. Bad TF = Horrendous experience. Get a good idea what your TF is like, and if they aren't going to be good, try to switch sections. I won the TF lottery and had Steve White. He is unbelievably dedicated and a fantastic guy. I'm planning on concentrating in Ec because of his teaching. Get him if you can.
Interesting subject; important to learn
I would tell them that this class provides a useful background in Economics.
It is difficult but you get out what you put in. You learn a lot.
It is a class that is taken by so many people who think that they want to concentrate in Ec, but so many people struggle in this class that many of them drop the idea.
If you're an economics concentrator, you probably are going to take this class. Your section experience really depends on what kind of TF you get. The lecture experience was also definitely varied. Definitely don't miss out on taking unit tests -- they are really good preparation material for the big tests, and help your grade out a lot. Don't be afraid of going to your TF's office hours -- they'll really appreciate it!
good stuff
It is a tough course at times, but taking it gives you a good base to understand how economies work. It was much more interesting than microeconomics and dealt with issues that were more relevant. Take it if you would like you get a good sense of how economies operate.
If you want to learn macroeconomics and are new to the subject, this is the course to take. It covers so much and really gives you a strong economic foundation and a relevant understanding of what is going on in the world.
No matter what your major will be, Economics is a staple of life and so everyone should take this class
Ec10 is fantastic in terms of material covered. It's a lot of material but it is very useful material and the teaching is wonderful. It will require a lot more time than a general intro class but the more time you put on it, the better. Most people take it because they are required to, and I believe everybody should be required to take this class!!
Ec 10 is a good introductory course, but keep in mind that it's designed to weed out people who aren't serious about economics. It's not difficult, but it does require a fair amount of extrapolation. You have to understand and apply the textbook's economic concepts in a more complex way than you're taught in section; just memorizing them as taught isn't sufficient. A good class though!
it's a must
Take the unit tests! Not only can they help your grade, but they also are great reviews of the material and helped me do the problem sets and take the exams.
It's a very different class than micro and is much easier to understand.
It is annoying, but you have to get through it, and it will help you understand the economy better.
Seek out David Johnson for help and enthusiasm, and be wary of the quality of your TF - if she/he is not well versed, you might have to devote much time at office hours and rereading parts of the textbook.
with the right TF, this class is great!
You should take this.
This class is tough but it is really interesting and has a lot of real-world applications. It is MUCH better than ec 10a.
While this class wasn't very engaging, it's necessary to take if you want to do anything with economics at school and definitely covers a lot of material in macroeconomics. Since the class is taught mostly in section, a lot of your experience in the class depends on the section leader. I had a great TF who was really good at teaching the information, but I know friends who had worse experiences. It is cool taking a class that so many other freshman take, because it's so easy to find people to work or study with.
Ec 10 is a decent introduction to economics.  The section component is beneficial, but don't get excited for Mankiw's lectures (they're boring and will put you to sleep).  Problem sets are manageable (only 6 a semester). You will probably find yourself questioning why you got so many points off on tests, though, because your graded tests will come back with no explanation as to why you were penalized. Overall a decent course - don't take it for a Gen Ed, but if you need it for a Concentration/Secondary, it's a necessary evil.
I would definitely recommend taking Ec10, no matter what your concentration is. You'll leave being more informed about the world and having a better sense of the world economy. You may end up having a good TF or a bad TF, but if you really want to learn the subject and figure out why it's important, go to David Johnson's office hours. He challenges you to actually think and explains the relevance of the pset questions. Take this class! It's worth your time.
If I could go back in time and brainwash myself into making a different choice I would. You want to learn economics? Buy a different textbook and read it or take a summer class at a community college, but you're not going to get a solid introduction to economics in this class.
I loved Ec 10! I learned so so much in this class, especially the macro component, that enables me to better understand current events and how the world works on a really fundamental level. The material was challenging but ultimately manageable if you do all the work and take advantage of the resources David Johnson and the course provide. Make sure to seek out help if you need it at office hours--there are such high returns on working to really understand the material, and I found it incredibly interesting. Also, some of the foremost economic minds in the world come speak to this class, which is a really cool experience.
Do it if you want to learn more about econ theory in general
Good to take because economics is important to understand for life. Freshman year it works because everyone else takes it, moderate difficulty and medium workload.
Ec10 is an introductory class, nothing more. You don't really learn too many applicable things.
This course is a necessary prerequisite not just in terms of department requirements but in terms of understanding how the economy works.
This course is great, especially Ec10b. It does take a lot of effort in order to truly feel like you're learning, so take that into account.
It's Ec10, you have to take it basically, and it's going to be rough, but macro is kind of interesting.
If you are a math oriented student and have the ability to place out of this course, definitely take the 1010b or 1011b, as the fear of using math in this course makes the material seem unnecessarily confusing. Everything taught is too general and the section component does not prepare you whatsoever for the exams.
It's a hard class but it teaches you about a lot of topics that you really should know about. I think it should be highly recommended to freshman because I really wish that I had thought more about taking it last year rather than sophomore year.
This class is challenging. I found it more difficult than Ec 10a, but that doesn't seem to be the norm. I don't know what the quality of the class will be now that David Johnson is leaving.
It's great, if you keep an open mind.
Teaching 600 students isn't easy, and in ec10 it shows. However, a working knowledge of macroeconomics is almost essential for anyone other than hardcore science or fine arts concentrators. That working knowledge it does give you, through a good textbook and challenging yet educational P-sets.
The quality of the course is highly dependent on which TF you get. The Mankiw text is not very engaging and not at all helpful in the course. David Johnson's materials are the most important, and they are the most informative.
Ec 10 can be hard and frustrating. But, you do learn some things that I think are important to know about how the world works. It's a good class to see if you really do like economics. I just found out through taking this class that I really don't like economics.
It's a nice introduction to economics course. It helps you understand the workings of the economy which everyone should know. As long as you read and pay attention in section, the class shouldn't be too hard.
Take this course 100%. Read the helpful hints, listen in section, and the class will be a great experience for you!
This class basically allows you to understand how the world really works...you can read the WSJ without questions/confusion.
Honestly, you'll need to take this class - and economics is incredibly useful for practically ever field. It could be taught better, but for a class of this size, it could be worse.
It's hard and very frustrating at times, but the information is very applicable.
This is not a good class. Ec10b was better than Ec10a, but that's more of a personal opinion of the subject matter. Both of the classes suffer from the same problem: the very structure of the class is flawed. Almost every other class is based on its lectures or full class meetings, and the section is there to complement the material learned in class. This way, if you have a poor TF, you're still able to be successful in the class. In Ec10, the entire class is built around your sections. If you get unlucky with your TF or if you get really lucky and get the head TF (David Johnson) then it greatly affects your experience in the class. Leaving this much up to TFs, and not to the tenured professors whom we've entrusted to teach undergrads, is the main problem with this class.
This course is a must take.  Not because its the greatest class ever but because its useful material. Just take it.
You move fast and cover a lot of information so don't get behind
Macroeconomics is a bit tougher than micro. I think this was because instead of building on a few models, each chapters presents new theories. However, it is also much more interesting. I enjoyed this class, and was fortunate to have a great TF.
I personally enjoyed macro much more than micro. If you lower your expectations for how you will do in this course you will probably enjoy it.
You might love it, you might hate it. The point is, this information is important to know for anyone in any field. It's challenging, but you will leave this class with a lot of great knowledge. I would recommend this class for every Harvard student.
A solid class
Practice/review (psets, helpful hints, old practice exams) is the key to excelling in this class.
Make sure to do all the work and do the unit tests.
You should only take this class if you 1) know you are going to concentrate in economics, or 2) if you have a strong desire to learn foundational economics. Otherwise, the course will be a drag and it's just a very annoying bureaucratic course in which you have to jump through a lot of hoops (weekly problem sets, biweekly unit tests, sections, lectures, midterms) in order to do well on everything. Ec10 was one of my least favorite classes this year, not necessarily because the material was boring (because sometimes it can be interesting and thought-provoking) but because the class was taught poorly, at least in section. You will learn a lot, just not in section. Your section leader will probably make or break the class for you, so switch TFs for 10b if you didn't like your 10a TF's teaching style. Also do the unit tests and pass them because no matter how annoying they can be, they do help you in the long run. I wasn't particularly thrilled about Ec, but then again, some people really enjoyed it. It all depends on you and your interests.
Good course, great material. Section determines experience in the course.
Ec 10 is a fantastic course; led by Professor Makniw it provides a great introduction to a very important topic.  The sections are useful and make up the majority of the course, but are still complemented by interesting lectures.  I strongly recommend this course to anyone who might be interested in Economics.  It is well run and will not disappoint.
Listen and engage do outside studying
It is a rough ride because it demands a lot of not-quite-fulfilling work, but it is a useful introduction to Econ.
As Ec10a this a solid introduction to economics. I would recommend to anyone because even you are definitely not going to concentrate in economics, learning about it is very helpful.
The particular TF you get plays a big role in enjoyment of this course and can make material simple or difficult to understand.
A knowledge of Economics is essential, no matter what you end up doing. Although not everyone has a great experience jn the class, you truly do learn A LOT.
Ec10 is certainly an experience. The highlight will probably be David Johnson. The grading is confusing, the textbook is unwieldy, but it's worth taking if you want to understand the basics of economics. Furthermore, some of the guest lecturers are pretty phenomenal. Even if you don't take Ec10, I would advise sneaking into Sanders for some of them!
The normativity embedded within the way they teach this course can be annoying if you take the course too seriously. You'll probably get the most out of this course if you keep a somewhat critical eye on what it's teaching you, even though the assessments encourage you more to simply regurgitate. It gets more interesting towards the end though, and really isn't too much work - you can get by in the course by drawing any graphs they teach you with your mind mostly on other things.
Definitely take this course even if you don't want to do economics in the future. This course helps you understand real world events and policies much better and is not a time killer with the weekly pset. I feel much more informed about the reasoning behind economic policy. It's hard to find courses like this that are immediately applicable to recent events and to reality.
It may seem easy because everyone takes it, but to do well you really have to put in the time and effort. GO TO OFFICE HOURS.
This is a very efficiently organized course! I came out of this course with a deeper economic knowledge than I had expected, and the constant emphasis on real-world applications was incredible.
It was great. Learned a lot about the way the economy works, and have such a larger understanding now.
It is sooooo hard
Be ready to have to teach yourself a lot of the information.
I'm not quite sure what I got out of Ec10 but given the chance I would take it again.
You will get a lot out of this class if it is your priority. If you put in the time to actually do out all of the psets, and in addition take the unit tests, you will do great on the exams. Make sure to attend David Johnson's OH that are open to all students since he tends to synthesize the material well, and will most likely hint at the most important questions on a pset that will later be tested.
Fall semester sucks, but stick around for spring. It gets better
Ec10 was by far the most practical and perhaps the most important course I have taken at Harvard thus far. Macroeconomics, even at this basic level, really helped me approach the rest of my coursework (and understanding of current events) in a significant way.
They know you've got to take this course, so they expend zero effort to make it enjoyable for you.
you need it and what you learn is useful. given that, it sucked. i hated it.
This course is a great course to learn general information about the economy. Even if you are not concentrating in Economics, it is useful information to learn.
You're section leader matters a lot, so if you do not have a good section leader go sit in on a friend's section instead. Also go to the big lectures, the speakers all have very interesting things to say about economics. This material is very applicable to the real world.
It's worth the work. You learn a ton and become informed about important issues that many americans and many of our peers--even those at Harvard--are ignorant of
Literally everyone at Harvard should take this class. It gives you a great understanding of the world.
It was hard, but doable.
Your TF can make or break your Ec10 career.
This course is really great even if you are not interested in concentrating in economics. I think that to be a model citizen it is important to have some knowledge of the economic system and this course gives you all of the information necessary to contribute to every day conversation about this topic.  Also, this course is really geared toward the student.  The professors and TFs are great about being around to answer questions and the course work is set up in a way that is user friendly for the students.
Its a great course
Make sure you get a TF that is easy to learn from and willing to help you. Makes a huge difference.
Ec10 is a great course to take because it provides a really interesting introduction to economic thought (whether you plan on concentrating in Ec or are just interested in the topic). It requires a lot of time to do well and understand the material, but is worth it.
Stay on top of your reading! It's easy to get behind!
Be prepared for the midterms
If you want to concentrate or secondary in ec, you have to take this unless you skip to a higher level ec like 1010 or 1011. If you've never taken ec then you can't get out of this. Do the textbook readings and the psets! And go to DJ office hours!!
Go to office hours (especially David Johnson's and Steve White's)
It can sometimes be tedious and very time-consuming. Many students who take it do not enjoy it very much, but it is a definitely good class to take because almost everyone does (it's the class taken with the most amount of students). It's also a good introductory class to learn about all of the economic concepts, especially if one is considering the subject as a concentration. And even if one isn't, the class still teaches many useful ideas that one can actually use in the real world.
A bit boring but necessary stuff
It is a great class but very difficult and takes alot of time.
The material is very rewarding and will open your perspective!
This class is a good introduction to macroeconomics, but be wary about the size of the class, since it will definitely lead to minimal interaction with the professors and feeling like you're just one in hundreds of students.
If you are interested in economics and have not been formally exposed to it before -- or if you are interested in other social sciences -- you have something of a civic duty to take this or an equivalent course. Your enjoyment will depend on your TF, but the lectures and subject-matter are highly informative and deal with very important public policy issues.
DJ's synthesis of the material really is incredible, and if you put in the work to understand what the course is trying to teach you, the practical knowledge and general understanding of the economy you'll gain is truly incredible.
Ec 10b is a good course and explains many of the Macroeconomic concepts that one runs into in the news and current events.
intro econ is a class that has such foundational knowledge for understanding how the world works. learning about the financial systems that dominate our economy as well as the structure of a firm and its decision to produce or not is fascinating. BUT this class is a lot of work if you want to do really well. do the problem sets - don't just glide along within a group - READ the textbook and go to office hours.
David Johnson is the world's best TF so pray you get him, the class is better than Ec10a and more real world
Ec10b is much, much better than Ec10a. The material is much more interesting, the problem sets are easier, and it is all around much more relevant. Take it, even if you hated/struggled through Ec10a! But, keep in mind that this is still Ec10 and can only be so great.
Take this class if you want a basic foundation in macroeconomics. You definitely learn a lot in this class, and the best part about it is how applicable it is to the real world. There are six problem sets throughout the semester that usually take about four hours to do. They're of varying lengths and difficulties, though, and some can take a lot of time and be really challenging. The first semester exam was pretty difficult, the second was easier, and the final was very difficult. If you put in the necessary time for this class, though, you'll get through it and be fine.
The Ec10 sequence is a very good intro class if you want to major or secondary or even just know some economics. The material is very interesting and useful.
Although the material and psets can be a bit difficult, I learned so much from this class. Macro is  very relatable to real life, and I feel that I have a much better understanding of what is going on in the world today. When I hear about the Fed in the news, I actually know what that means now. This class has also made me more aware of overall issues in the economy as we continue to recover from the crisis. I definitely recommend this class to anyone who wants to better understand what is actually going on in the world. Also, the TFs are amazing!
Some people love macro, others love micro. Overall, it's Ec10. Nothing to get excited about, but there can be moments that surprise you. Just pray for a good TF and go to David Johnson's review sessions.
It's one of those courses that everyone at Harvard takes and is standard for anyone considering the social sciences.
The material learned in this class is invaluable. Go to David Johnson's office hours
It is a great introduction to economics, although it focuses heavily on the US economy.
A better class than it gets credit for, but if you're a competent person you should strongly consider taking Ec1010. This class definitely aims for the lowest common denominator at times.
It's not very entertaining, but it is well taught and you learn a lot.
Not only for concentration, but this course is a course everyone should take to understand how the world works.
Ec10b provides a good introduction to macroeconomics. David Johnson is great, but most of the other teaching fellows are not. My teaching fellow was clearly not qualified. If you can, take 1010b instead.
Your learning experience is dependent on who you get as a TF. If you are unsatisfied, ask to move.
Welcome to the best economics program in the country! EC10 is a bland course, with a little excitement in guest lecturers, but if you have ANY interest in doing economics whatsoever, take Ec10. It won't drastically change your mind, but even if you don't decide to do econ, at least it teaches essential knowledge for any citizen.
Ec10b is pretty different from Ec10a--less math, more conceptual. It's an interesting course, I enjoyed the lectures from 10b more than 10a. I think you learn more about things that you didn't know before, 10a was sort of common sense.
Read the textbook and take notes while you read. Definitely go take the unit tests.
don't take aubrey clark's section.
Make sure to go to office hours!
This class is very useful for understanding the real world and how it works.
Ec 10b is a great class, just stay on top of the work and it is really rewarding.
Everyone should take this class at some point in their Harvard career. So many people take it, it feels like a rite of passage.
It is a great course that everyone should take to prepare themselves for life.
Ec10b is a class that teaches you basic knowledge about how the world works. It gives you a lot of useful information that you'll need in life.
Make sure you take the unit tests. Not only do they give you extra credit, but they help you understand the material as well.
This class is boring and if you have to take it, do. But otherwise, its not worth it.
At times, the material is much more challenging than macro, but if you try to really understand the reason behind certain shifts or events, everything begins to become very intuitive. A lot of your understanding is dependent on which TF you have, as usual.
The information is applicable and essential background knowledge, but the course itself is not the most well taught.
The material taught in macro very interesting because it applies to current events and daily life, but you will probably be frustrated studying for tests because they cover material outside of what was taught in section and the textbook.
The class has everything going for it except the class itself
Do not take the second semester of economics unless you are actually interested. It is okay to drop it.
Definitely a necessary and useful class. Room for improvement, but still helps understand a lot.
I found Ec10b material significantly different from Ec10a, although the basic structure was the same. I felt like some of the concepts weren't explained that well or were explained in a hand-wavy way. In general, though, if you do the psets yourself and go over the practice exams to study, you'll do fine.
Micro and macroeconomics is crucial for understanding how societies work, so everyone would benefit out of this class.
Take it!
If you take Ec 10, do whatever you can to get into Steve White's section. He is incredible! Even if you don't get lucky enough to be in his section, he has a great, very useful website. He makes the course very accessible to everyone. David Johnson, too, is a very useful resource. Go to his office hours!
This class isn't very engaging so make sure you really like economics before taking it.  Also consider ec 1010.  THey try to make the class easier by distilling stuff down to the point that by "simplifying" the material it makes it more complicated understanding how everything is related.
The subject material is great! It can be challenging, but as long as you stay up to date on readings/PSETS/etc., you will learn a lot and do well.
It's a large class but doesn't feel like it. If you put the effort in, you get a lot out.
A must-take class; not well-taught and not well-structured but a basic intro into the macroeconomy
Take this class, but be prepared to maybe not understand everything.
You kinda know what you're getting into if you took Ec10a. I found macro to be more difficult than micro but I think it was actually the other way around for most of my peers. Not too much work and pretty useful basic information if you're going to be doing any work in and around the social sciences.
It's not the most fun class, but you do learn a good amount about economics, and it's not too hard. I think it's just something that's important for people to know.
This is so well run.  There are a huge amount of resources available to help students - unit tests, problem sets really foster deep comprehension, office hours, online supplements... If you do poorly in this class it's because you're not taking advantage of all the available resources.
Great into level macroeconomics course that does not move too fast and is easily understandable even for someone with no economics (besides microecon (Ec10a)) background.
A great intro Ec class.  Be interested about the field of economics before you take it, though because, it is intense
Stay on top of reading and take unit tests.
I took this class because I thought economics would be useful to know. I struggled in the beginning because economics does not come easily to me, but the help I received from David Johnson made this class for me.
good luck
More of Ec 10a, you kind of know whether or not you want to/need to take this course. A lot comes down to having a good section leader. Very different focus and type of thinking needed though compared to micro. Less math, which may make it easier or harder. Guest lectures I found slightly less interesting.
It's Ec 10. You probably have to take it--I wouldn't take it if you don't.
This class gives you crucial information that makes you a much more informed individual when you are reading the news or pursuing other academic endeavors at Harvard.   That said, it depends a lot on your TF whether or not you will enjoy the course.
Take this course. Don't listen to the negative reviews. The content of this course is something every citizen needs to know, certainly every Harvard student.
It honestly really depends on your preference of macro and micro, but I thought that the concepts we learned in macro were much more applicable to the real word and if you are like me, having never had any prior experience in economics, this is a great introduction.
As a prospective business/ finance person I found EC10b to be much more applicable to the real world and what I may encounter in the future. It often overlapped with business comps I did as similar ideas were introduced with the bond market. If you are not sure whether to take b after a, I suggest you do.
Don't just take this course because everyone else is.
You have to take it for ec. interesting material. just get through it. go to section.
This class provides you with pretty good information about macroeconomics and has information that everyone should know in order to be able to know what's going on with the economy in the country. However, I thought it was a poorly taught class and that I was never prepared for the exams, no matter how hard I studied.
if you do not know any economics take this class
I understand the 2008 recession now! But that's more so because of my section leader than the class itself.
Ec10b is an amazing class that teaches you really important concepts in a clear way. Assignments are dumb (there are annoying online quizzes and random assignments), but lectures and sections are taught really well, the TFs really know what they're doing, and the book is extremely clear and well-written.
Great class to take. Even if you're not going to be an Economics concentrator, this course will teach you things that are generally useful to know for life (especially 10b).
Study hard and go to office hours
A lot of the stuff is very boring, but necessary to understand more interesting, relevant economics topics
For those that say that macro is better than micro, do not believe them. The topics covered in macro get to be too broad and sometimes there seems like there is no apparent structure. Free response questions get to be a lot harder.
I
The course material makes this class worth taking. Macroeconomics is very big picture and very relevant to being an informed citizen. Ec10b makes you want to read and be able to understand the front page of the Wall Street Journal every day. The course has all the same problems as Ec10a, problems that to a large extent might be expected with a 600+ student class.
Go to office hours
You will learn economics.
If you are interested in the subject, and want to get a better understanding of the economy as a whole, this is a really informative course. That said, it is a massive class mostly taught in section, so you likely won't get a very personal experience. Still, Ec10b is worth taking for its content alone, and it is not the hardest class either.
Definitely worth taking even just as an elective. Taught me a whole lot about the tradeoffs  governments face in maintaining their economy, and a lot about random stuff you hear in the news. Also not that hard and not that much work.
This course enables you to understand how the economy works. It is truly a nice introductory course for economics in the future.
The class isn't a ton of work, but it is important to keep up with the readings. Exams are tough. Study! Definitely a manageable course even if you have no background in economics like me.
Its a challenge but if it comes to you then its worth while.
If you have never taken econ, you are kinda forced into this course. It's not terrible, but be prepared for difficult midterms and finals.
Everyone should know the basics of economics.
Ec is ec. It's what you expect. You get what you put in. I found macro to be easier and more interesting.
It's hard, but knowing economics is useful. Plus it counts as a math credit, and it hardly has any math at all.
If you've never taken economics before (or even if you have), this will help you know the basics about how the world works.
Although I often found this class to be difficult, I believe that the knowledge I gained from this course will be invaluable later in life.
Unless you need this class as a requirement, do not take this course. If you do, make sure you have a great TF like I had.
If you have never studied ec before, take EC10. I don't think I could have taken a better introductory course to economics. Professor Mankiw is great (he gets lots of criticism and hate for being a Republican but it is mainly from those who are taking EC10 because it's an easy class and not because they are genuinely interested in studying economics) and the guest professors and other teaching staff are amazing. You will be able to do fine even without learning much, but it is definitely possible to learn a lot from EC10.
Find a good TF.
It's not always the best organized course, but the material that is covered is taught very well. The gaps you'll have to fill in with Office Hours and a little bit of luck. Good basis for economics, and if the world view appeals to you, then it's a must-take.
I was skeptical about taking ec10, but now am considering taking more advanced economics courses. I really enjoyed this course! That being said, the problem sets and exams were sometimes poorly written.
You will do best in this class if you do the readings before you go to section and don't wait to do your problem sets until the night before they are due.
Definitely take advantage of office hours.
Basic knowledge of econ is very important
Take it.
Sometimes the lectures can be gruelingly boring. People say that economics is a pretty good skill to have - only true with the right section leader. If you can, get the best section teacher ever - Julie Weltman - she is so helpful and chill, goes out of her way to make sure you understand the material. She made Ec 10 bearable. Otherwise, the insanely high price for the MindTap account where you turn in your problem sets and quizzes is completely useless. I don't give a crap if Mankiw says he gives some to charity, it is still God-damned high. Pressure everyone to switch back to paper, book is much cheaper to find as a textbook, not a freaking ebook.
I would only recommend it because you have to take it
Don't take this class, it is way worse than EC 10A, the concepts aren't explained as well, and it is an emotional drain.
Take only if you plan on becoming an ec concentrator. Otherwise, don't waste your time on this class and do something you love instead.
I think EC 10 is very useful just as a person living in society with an economy. It is exactly what you would expect lecture wise, but your section experience is heavily dependent on your TF.
Get a good study group! And if you don't like your TF, switch because many of them are amazing.
This is a useful class to take because it is always good to have a basic working knowledge of economics, however the way the course is presented can be at times frustrating. This is also not a throwaway course, meaning that it does take a good deal of time and thought.
Takes a lot of time
Ec 10 is not that difficult of a course if you read the textbook/go to office hours. Make you sure you take your time with every problem, although they are not intrinsically difficult there are a number of issues regarding semantics.
It is best to work with friends on problem sets
The material is very interesting, and the lecturers are generally pretty good. However, the material is more confusing than in Ec10B, especially in the second part of the sememester.
read the textbook, then take 1011 or 1010. don't take ec 10, it's not a great class
If you took EC10A, you know what to expect. Personally, I found EC10B to be less accessible in terms of content since almost everything is theory-based, but also easier in that if you memorize what you need to know and do the practice problems, you should do well on the exams.
Ec10b is a rare class at Harvard that is both easy and you learn really important stuff.
This class has a very minimal workload.  Do the readings and stay on top of the topics.
Go to lecture.
Ec10 introduces you to a variety of economic concepts which will help you better understand the way people make decisions. Economics is applicable to everything!
P-sets and exams are often not fair, but course widens your understanding a great deal.
The grading in this class is weird in that nothing is set in stone until the very end because of the grading-group system. There is a weighting of 20% on each midterm and you know the raw scores and general range (i.e. As, Bs, Cs..) but there is no definite "I have 19/20 or 17/20" or anything concrete until the very end of the course, which can be frustrating.
It is a good course. Don't be afraid. As long as you put in the work, you will do well.
Not a super fun course, very introductory and dull. Only take this class if you need it for your concentration or secondary.
This class was the best part of my freshman year at Harvard. The lectures are incredible, the material is relevant, and work is manageable. It is also a great way to meet people, as the class is very large. It's a phenomenal class, and I highly recommend it.
The workload is fine but the exams are very difficult
Psets can be difficult, so go to office hours!
The material and type of thinking taught in this course are a great addition to your liberal arts education.
Don't take econ just because you think this is the gateway into the finance world- only take it if you are interested in the material.
Take advantage of the lunches! Don't procrastinate on studying for the final. The amount of information covered is considerable.
This class follows the same structure as Ec 10a.  The course employs a few concepts studied in Ec 10a.
it's hard and it is not always fun, but if it's something you enjoy then you'll learn a lot
That it is hard so take other classes that can balance it out.
If you took Ec10a, you'll like this class  a solid one to put in your schedule. Gives you a great understanding of economic policy debates in the news: free trade, tariffs, financial markets, etc. I feel like I'm able to understand mainstream news, political debates, financial TV channels, and the stock market much better now; this class has been more practically useful than almost any other course I've taken here. Workload is doable, about the same as Ec10a. If you were fine with 10a, take 10b.
The course requires some effort, but as long as you don't shirk your responsibilities it is very useful and doable
be willing to invest time and try to understand things conceptuallly and "optional" things like unit review and helpful hints really shouldn't be optional because they are super helpful
Good basic Freshman class
If you are interested in economics, the only introduction ec class Harvard offers is Ec10 so I would take it but be ready for a class that is both difficult and frustrating for several reasons. Although I learned a lot in this class it was as a result of my TF who truly cared about his students and did an amazing job at teaching. If I did not have that TF, Ec would have been very unbearable and a struggle. Ec10 is worth taking but if you have never taken econ before like I did, know that it will be a challenge because there are many people in this class who have taken ec before and are taking it as "an easy A" or to reinforce their knowledge. Although I come out of Ec with many qualms, I also do not regret taking it because it taught me to work hard for what I want and to remain persistent.
The class is big, but don't be overwhelmed. There are plenty of resources available for extra help and individual attention.
Going into Ec10, you hear a lot of people saying how its so horrible and awful, kids walk out of exams in tears, and it's the worst class ever, but honestly that's all a bunch of crap. Ec10 isn't that bad and you could definitely thrive in it if you put in the work and really hone in on your skills.
This class makes you feel like a dot on a curve. Very large, very impersonal, did not like the feel at all. Discourages you from being an econ major at Harvard.
Take this class to see if you are interested in economics. It is not the most interesting class here and the subject material can get very dry. The class truly depends on your TF. If you do not have a good TF, I highly recommend switching.
Ec10 will definitely be the center of your course load for the semester, but everyone should take it at some point.
Ec10 is as great of an introductory economics course as you make of it. If you put in effort attending lectures, reading the book, and paying attention in section, it can be a fulfilling course to give you an intro to macroeconomics!
I would say this is a great course and take it
Get a good TF and it will inspire you. Or else go to the head section leaders OH
Read the book, go to office hours, go to the unit review, attend section and you will do well in the course.
Its really important to review the material weekly in this course. It's easy to just review before each midterm, but there is a lot of information covered.
It's a good course to learn the basics of macroeconomics, but it's definitely a bit dry. Having a good section leader will help a lot.
Definitely take this course just to understand the economy and broad macroeconomic concepts like the Fed and inflation. It's a good deal of work but an interesting topic.
Tests are very hard. PSETS aren't that bad, but they can suck a lot. You don't have to do any of the reading in the class to do fine.
you have to like ec to enjoy
It certainly won't be the best Economics course you take at Harvard, but Ec10 is a necessary step in pursuing Econ. as a concentration or secondary. Plus, for as much criticism as the course gets, I think that people take for granted how much they actually learn. Plus, Mankiw is unfairly censured.
It's a well-structured course and the subject matter is interesting, but not too easy
The class is manageable with a great TF.
Tests and problem sets are similar, if not tests a bit harder. Expect that you will not know the answer to all the questions, especially the lecture questions. The course is more designed to teach you the very basics, then you have to do the work and extra problems to actually take the next step and understand the midterm problems. The course really truly depends on your section leader, as you will be learning from them and going to office hours for them.
If you've never taken economics before, I would recommend taking this class. I learned a lot about the world and have become much more informed about how the country works and its policies.
Manikew is great, awesome professor, and all the TF's are amazing teachers.
useful, broad, take even if you don't wanna do econ
Find a good TF and stick to his or her sections. A good TF makes all the difference for Ec10.
Its a good introductory course.
The content of this class is a lot more interesting than Ec10a, and the exams overall I would say a generally easier. However, the class structure and way of teaching is exactly the same as 10a, so if you really didn't enjoy that class perhaps consider not taking this Ec10b. Overall though I think this is a class that is worth taking throughout your Harvard career, as Economics has so much to do with everyday business and politics that a base general knowledge of the subject is useful.
It's somewhat boring.
I mean, it's important stuff. It applies to the real world. I think everyone should know basic economic principles, and this is the class that teaches that
Honestly just a course you have to get through if you are an Ec major -- but does teach you a lot about how the national economy works
Stay on top of your stuff early and you will be fine in this class. Go to lecture and have a good study group for psets.
Honestly Ec is hard and kind of sucks! But it gets your empirical reasoning credit out of the way fairly painlessly for non-math minded people.
Necessary evil class. It provides a good foundational understanding of economic forces that every student should know, but the course completely depends on your TF. Also, hands down the most disorganized course ever. Problem sets, exams, extra help, everything has mistakes and is hard to follow.
Only really take if you know you want to concentrate or do secondary in Econ or think you might. Please do not take this as an elective, don't do that to yourself.
Does it matter? You'll take it anyway.
Section is boring, but Ec 10 isn't as bad as everyone says. I've learned a lot, and I'm glad I took this course.
Macro was interesting, and WAY better than micro. However, at the end of the day, not a strong class compared to other awesome classes I could have taken my freshman year.
keep up with the readings. psets are long but not too bad
The content in this class is largely interesting and applicable. You will leave with a strong understanding of the central concepts of macroeconomics. However, these positives are (in my opinion) outweighed by the negatives. The class is structured poorly. Everything important and necessary is taught by TFs, some of whom are great, but some are terrible. Exams and PSets are very challenging, sometimes too much so. Exams are purposefully brutally difficult so that practically everyone does poorly and then they just put a massive curve on it.
In general, a good intro macro class. If you don't like your TF or their teaching style in the first few classes, do not hesitate to switch. A lot of the course instruction is done in section so having a section leader who can make constructive use of your time is essential. Also, Unit Review is worth the extra investment of studying just a little bit each week.
Think carefully if you actually want to do ec, if not, don't take the class
This class is quite challenging if you have no prior economics background--if you haven't taken the AP, I would recommend self-studying key concepts over the summer because all the people who HAVE taken econ before wreck the curve and the course goes over a ton of content super quickly. The psets are fairly do-able, especially if you go to office hours. However, the exams are ridiculously challenging and not at all representative of the material taught in class. Also your experience in the course will heavily depend on who your TF is--there is a large quality discrepancy which is funfortunate.
DO. THE. READING.
Read the textbook and the Helpful Hints! Knowing these materials thoroughly is important for doing well in the class. The practice materials for the exams are good for testing your understanding of the material but often do not reflect the exams themselves.
the tests are hard and the TF's don't help a lot
It's just a great intro to macroeconomics, which is a really important subject for anyone to learn.
If you took AP Macroeconomics in high school, I would very seriously consider taking Ec1010b instead of this course.
it is a lot of work and it depends on your section leader. If you get a bad feeling about your TF try and SWITCH
This is a fine introduction to Macroeconomics.
Ec10 is a classic Harvard introductory course - it teaches many basic concepts, many of which you will likely remember after the class.  It goes into much detail and you will take a lot away from it, especially if you currently know nothing about economics.  However, it could be quite challenging at times, and if economics/math is not your thing, it could be a struggle.  I know many people who do not typically tend towards an interest in economics did not enjoy the class.
grading can be pretty harsh (in terms of grade assignment at the end of the year), so make sure if you're taking it, you're taking it for yourself & for the subject material.
This is a great class to understand the basic economic principles that guide the domestic and international economy. I found this class to be much more comprehensive and relevant to the real world than microeconomics. Although this class requires quite a bit of work (because the exams are very hard), the content I learned in the class is definitely stuff that everyone should study at some point in their college careers.
The class does not give a novice to economics the attention they would otherwise deserve. If you are interested in economics, I encourage you to take the course for nothing more than the sheer necessity of doing so. When one read the textbook, they will become acquainted with economics, but the time it takes to understand the content depends on the TF you receive. Success in the class, beyond your own initiative and hard work, is incredibly dependent upon your TF (in my opinion, more than it should be).
Take this course not because you think that it explains how the world works, because it doesn't, but because a lot of powerful people think that it explains how the world works and it's helpful to understand how they think.
Take the class, but switch TFs if you feel like yours doesn't suit your learning style.
It's EC10. You know what you're getting. It's not a particularly interesting or life-changing class but it fulfills a Gen Ed/concentration requirement
difficult class, intro class for this concentration, but learn a lot of useful material to apply in the real world.
Your experience depends solely on your section leader. If they are bad (and there are bad section leaders) you are not gonna have a good time. I was lucky and got a good section leader, which allowed me to get through it all alright and have a good time.
Everyone should learn basic economics so take the class.
Please read the textbook it helps a lot to be on task instead of cramming
It was an interesting and good class but I feel as if economics may just all be made up. It's also very dependent on how good your TF is.
Very solid introductory course for both ec and non-ec concentrators alike.
Definitely a must take for anyone that want to do the econ track. It is hard and you should keep up with readings. Solid course though.
I would like to tell future students that this class is rigorous and demands continued effort. Although this is true, you learn a lot and have many resources at your disposable to make the process easier.
Study the book well and attend sections; as long as you put the effort in, you can do well. Attend office hours to do your psets.
If you have done any amount of economics before then this will be a very easy class for you. A lot of students have not and they bring down the curve. If you've done any amount of AP Macro then this will be a class you can mostly cruise through. Remember to go to unit reviews, they help shore up any gaps.
Though I liked Ec10a better, Ec10b was definitely a good intro to economics. The textbook is clear, and p-sets are more manageable than those in Ec10a. There were also a lot of real-world applications, which I appreciated. Beware: your experience may depend highly on your section leader. Mine wasn't great, so I often went to the office hours and review sessions of other TFs.
Good class
do the unit reviews; look at lecture slides online and go to lecture as well - take notes in section on random formulas
I would recommend getting a tutor or setting up weekly meetings with your TF if you're having trouble with the material. If you fall behind in this course, it is very hard to catch up.
Economics is key to understanding how any modern society works. Take this course if you don't want to be an ignorant voter/citizen.If you have a pretty good handle on the basics of economics (got 5's on both AP Macro- and Microeconomics) consider taking Ec1010b.
Be prepared to not enjoy the class but rather understand it is a mere intro requirement for the concentration which you could like.
It's intro ec, but I shouldn't have to say this. The foray into using MindTap is very silly - the website is often down and the features could easily be put on Canvas so every student doesn't have to buy a brand new textbook every year. Additionally, section is very hit and miss. Finally, exams and psets often have questions that don't test true knowledge; rather, they test how well you can read the question and pick up on their trick. However, the class, on the whole, isn't awful. It's useful stuff to know, definitely better than micro.
Make sure to stay on top of assignments.
I liked Ec10a much more than Ec10b. This could be because I just dislike macroeconomics. I just found this class less interesting than Ec10a.
This class will give the fundamentals to economics.
This is a great class to be an educated citizen nowadays, but at times will get intense when studying for and taking exams. Other than that, quite enjoyable (if you get a good section leader). If you don't, read the textbook, do all the practice exams, and go to unit review all of which are things you should do even with a good SL.
Although the course presents itself as relatively simple and low-pressure, it does require an effort on your part. Do not neglect it and always stay on top of the material. (Also, guest lectures are very important: make sure what each guest lecturer's main point is before you leave the lecture hall because, odds are, you will be tested on it.)
If you want to do ec, you have to do this, it also helps with understanding of politics and policy
This is a good survey course but be wary of the one-sidedness and simplicity of the presentation and be curious about the lack of diversity among the guest lecturers/the Ec department in general.
I would take this class if you are interested in government policy in economics. If you are more interested in the entrepreneurial side of economics, I would just take Econ 10A.
It's overall good, just don't expect everything on the exam will be taught.
Make sure to not get behind.
This course really gave me a strong foundation in macroeconomics without taking up an excessive amount of time. There are great resources to reach out to for help if you do not fully understand a topic, and lecturers are all very interesting and relate class content to real world issues.
Class is fine. Pay attention in section and go to office hours and you should have no trouble doing well.
This course provides an excellent basis for understanding macro economics and gives you an idea of how to approach understanding broad trends.
Learn Ec! It's important as a citizen, and the class is pretty low time-commitment (aside from prep for exams, which are actually pretty hard and require lots of time)
Do the Unit Reviews, try to skim the textbook, and go to other TFs office hours for help on the problem sets, ask around since your TF might have office hours that are earlier in the week and if you're in the boat that doesn't start the pset until the night before it can be super beneficial to have office hours options on Thursday or Friday. Ask your TF if they can tell you where they are or ask friends what their experiences are with their Tfs. For the exams start studying in advance and know that the final will most likely cover heavily the last couple of weeks.
Very dense foundation class.
It is good class if you want to learn more about economics
You have to take this course to be a knowledgable citizen of the world, but it is a shame that they make it so difficult to wrap your head around all the concepts especially if you are brand new to economics. The exams and PSETS can be very discouraging but push through it anyway because one thing I did learn is how important macro theory is to understanding our civilization even if you do not want to be in finance or banking later in life.
Ec 10 as a whole is a pretty amazing class and will teach you A LOT if you know nothing about economics. It's really really easy if you keep up with the readings and really take time to understand the concepts and then participate in section. Lecture is kinda useless so don't feel bad if you skip it.
If you're interested in how economics affects policy you should definitely take this course. It can be a bit tough sometimes but it's worth it for anyone interested in economic issues/fiscal policy
Good class, sneaky hard
This class has very important content and great information. The topics are fascinating. However, the section component of the class is definitely lacking. It's definitely worth your time though!
The textbook is great. Took it pass/fail, probably learned as much as not taking the course and just reading the textbook.
This class is an excellent, thorough introduction to the principles of macroeconomics. Though it is often impersonal and lacking in support, the course is not extraordinarily challenging but is rewarding in that it conveys a means of understanding the impacts of monetary and fiscal policy.
This course does introduce you to macroeconomics, but it is difficult and time consuming.
Take this course, but only if you're able to self-study. You're essentially learning the whole chapter in one day, and then cramming a lot more for the exams in the week between practice materials being released and the actual exam date.
The material covered in Ec10B is so important for every citizen to know. It is really hard matt make an informed diction about whom to vote for without some foundation in economics. The lectures in Ec10B are extremely interesting in my opinion. My main suggestion is to take advantage of office hours.
Very good
Definitely go to the Unit Reviews
If you are not super passionate about economics but feel like this is useful information to know, think hard about whether the stress is worth it.
As someone who had never taken economics before, I thoroughly enjoyed this class and found it quite useful as well.
This course will change the way you think about life in the age of globalization, give you an understanding of the systems that make modern life possible, and make you a more informed citizen. The content is interesting and the assignments are rewarding; if you have any interest in economics, politics, history, or finance, take this class.
I mean, it's the intro to economics, a popular concentration.  It is something that has to get done.  It's not going to be your favorite class, but I think in the end, you will be pleased looking back on it.
This class is frustrating in a number of ways. It presents more conservative view points as if they are mainstream and never gives any room for push back. EC10b in particular also has a lot of info you have to learn at the end and not much at the beginning so it feels lopsided and you don't really get the chance to process all the info you learned in the last 2-3 weeks. It's pretty similar to 10a.
Class is not too difficult if you stay on top of the readings and go to office hours. Certain parts can be pretty dry though, specifically at the beginning of the semester.
Everyone should take this class if you haven't taken economics before.  Midterms and exams are tough, but fair.  If you read the book, take all the unit reviews, and do psets, you will know the material and do fine.Also, Mankiw is a pretty cool guy (regardless of public opinion) and you should go to lectures out of respect for him and for the really cool/important people he gets to come lecture.  Need more incentive?  You already pay something like $150 per each lecture, most of the lectures are really interesting, and there are lecture questions on exams, so go.Lastly, Steve White is the man.
This class sucks, but its mandatory so
It was poorly run. Avoid if you can
If you're not an ec concentrator but you have an interest in economics, Ec10 might not be a bad choice. It's not terribly difficult and every now and then the guest lecturers are interesting. At the very least, you'll get to understand things like what the Fed does and what fiscal policy is and how supply and demand work.If you are an ec concentrator, you probably don't have a choice in taking this class. Going in, just be aware of several things. First, this class will lull you into a false sense of security. Psets and quizzes will be easy, and then the exams will be a nasty surprise, because they're quite a bit harder. Second, this class isn't always very well-run. Unit review is great, but psets are often full of errors and mindtap (should it be used again) was a real pain in the ass. Third, try and get Steve White as your TF. It can make a big, big difference.Ec10 is not going to be your favorite class at Harvard, but if you have to take it, it's not the worst thing in the world. You will probably learn something and some of the guest lecturers are very, very cool (don't miss Ed Glaeser), but you'll have to deal with some pesky quirks of the class as well.
This was actually my favorite class of the semester, and maybe of my entire freshman year. I would honestly recommend it to you even if you don't intend to concentrate in econ. You learn so much about how the world around you operates!Most of the guest lecturers were also really interesting, and the course is genuinely well-taught: both the textbook and the sections are thorough, and you won't get any surprises on the exams.
Definitely worth taking even if you don't plan on concentrating in Economics. It covers lots of really interesting and relevant material and isn't that difficult. Probably my favorite class at Harvard so far.
The majority of your experience in this course will be one of ~500 other students, so essentially, highly impersonal. Your section leader may change this a little bit, but for the most part you are on your own so I recommend going to office hours.
Ec10 contains fundamental information that every college student should understand in order to be an informed citizen/human being. For example, you'll actually understand the nuances of what people say in the news about the state of our economy and POTUS's proposed changes to various policies (i.e. taxes and incentives). That said, nothing I learned in the course itself was particularly unique. In other words, if you have no interest in getting an ec concentration or secondary, save yourself two semesters of a poorly organized, very mechanical class and just read the textbook instead. You'll probably get the same amount out of it (and you can just get a used copy of the textbook from an upperclassmen instead of paying the ridiculous $140 for a unbounded textbook and an access code!!! @mankiw)
Take it if you're at all interested in the Ec concentration.
You should take EC10 because what you will learn is so important and will change the way you look at the world. But if you want to do well in the class, be prepared to put in some solid work. If you actually want to do well, you should read the textbook.
this is a good class to take because it'll give you a good fundamental base of economics but there are significant structural issues like expensive mandatory textbook, crazy variation in TF quality, excessively complicated exams, etc that requires a second thought before taking the course
It's a prerequisite. Do it
The material on the test will come from so many different places besides the textbook. Try to develop a good relationship with your TF, go to office hours, study helpful hints throughout the semester. Study problem sets as well.
If you took Ec10a. It is worth taking Ec10b because you will learn more valuable information about our country. You must be interested in every area of macroeconomics or else you will hate this class. Also be aware that all macroeconomics is fake and theoretical because we just don't know what works.
Great way to get an introduction to economics! Not too difficult and the ability to hear from various speakers is amazing
It is a totally manageable class if you do all the work and study. It was extremely extremely useful if you care about understanding the condition of the economy, government economic policy, etc.
10b is generally more enjoyable than 10a because the material is more accessible and useful. I fail to understand how students can struggle in this class. If you read the textbook slowly and take notes, you will get at least a B+. If you attend section, do all the problem sets yourself, study hard for examinations, and read the supplementary material on Canvas, you will easily get an A or A-. If you are smarter than the median Harvard student, you will easily get an A or A-.
Still a good class with much relevance
Ec10 is a Harvard Classic and it is absolutely worth taking. Everyone should have minimal economic knowledge in order to understand economic policy etc and Ec10 teaches this, no more but no less. There is no reason not to like this class unless you are really not interested in Economics at all.
Make sure you go to section and ask your peers if you are covering the same material.
Class does a great job of explaining complicated ideas in a simple way. Very fulfilling to understand the issues of unemployment, inflation, etc. in a nuanced manner.
worth taking to be a better informed citizen honestly.
The content in this class is very valuable, and I definitely don't regret taking it, even as a non-ec concentrator. However, it definitely has its downfalls. It is quite disjointed and there often hoops to jump through (having to look at graphs from a link on a problem set rather than the graphs being there for you, having to consult multiple sources to figure out what you're actually supposed to be learning, etc.). That being said, I didn't find the course very difficult, despite how much people complain about it. If you actually read the textbook and go to section/lecture, you'll be fine.
It's a good course to take if you have zero knowledge of economics. The textbook is very comprehensive and you will come out of the class with an understanding of important concepts in economic theory.
I would recommend taking Ec10. The cause is well designed and generally well taught (depending on the section leader). I really liked being taught in section because it allowed me to learn the material in a more casual environment.
it's hard
It's ec10b- if you need it for a concentration, take it. If you want to take it as an elective, I'd look elsewhere. The class does a fairly good job at introducing you to the basics of macroeconomics but isn't incredibly stimulating.
Study extremely hard before the tests and midterms
Although it might seem challenging, it is not. Take it!
Go to every class and lecture, and read the textbook ahead of time!
It teaches a new and hugely important method of thinking about goverment and finance.
ec10b was easier for me than ec10a. It could have been because I understood how to take notes and do the psets for this course. Also, attending office hours or meeting with your section leader is extremely important and useful for the psets and other assignments and exams.
mankiw is a republican and he needs to make this class more affordable like uh DAMN who tryna buy this >$100 mindtap quiz bullshit like seriously, tryna teach these kids economics and taking advantage of them economically
This is a difficult class and, though it provides a foundation in economics, I would seek easier alternatives to understanding how economics works.
It is hard work but if you keep up with the work it isn't too bad
To really do well in the course you need to go to lectures and section. Material is not covered well enough in the book to not be going to section, which is where concepts are really connected and key information is discussed.
I highly recommend it, but it'll cost you a pretty penny.
I wouldn't take this just because you feel like you need to understand economics. While I learned a lot of theory, I still don't feel like I understand policy as well as I would like for the time I invested.
This is a course that covers the concepts at the surface without any math.
The class may not be organized/executed in the best way, but the material is relevant and worth learning. Also, the guest lecturers are really experienced and interesting.
The exams are very difficult, but they are usually curved so that the vast majority of students receive a B- to B+. Also, there are other ways to boost your grade like Unit Reviews that can help if you do poorly on one of the exams.
This class taught me everything I know about economics. It was really useful and I feel like the information I learned in it will be very applicable everyday. This said, there were some details about the way the course was run that seemed unfair and un-uniform. Not everyone was able to having the same learning experience.
Do the reading, take notes, and ask questions. If you stay on top of the material, you can do well. Do not skip the unit review, they are actually pretty helpful and can really help your grade!
This class is not going to be amazing or phenomenal or mindblowing, but it will give you a solid foundation in economics. Regardless of what you want to actually do with your life, understanding the basics of macroeconomics is extremely helpful, and this course provides that information.
this is overall a good class - it teaches important principles. it can be dry at times, and is not an easy class, but if you put the work in it will probably be fulfilling.
The class is a solid introduction to macroeconomics. The tests are difficult but there is a large scale.
From speaking to friends, I have found that the response to this course is very dependent on your TF. I was very fortunate to have a wonderful TF thus I had a great experience with the course.  I found most of the material useful for both potential economics but also to simply become an informed citizen.  Sometimes the problem sets and exams were frustrating as they were not directly related to the material taught in class but in general I had a positive experience in the course.
Steve White <3
If you don't like your TF or feel like you aren't learning from them, find a way to transfer right away. Your ec10 experience is basically section and guest lecturers, and you won't do well unless you learn well in section.
You will learn a lot of material that is very useful. I encourage everyone to take this class...I didn't expect to enjoy learning economics, but to my surprise I loved the class!
It is an amazing course that teaches you to approach the world from a very interesting and objective perspective.
Ec10 is an extremely important class to take freshman year. Even if you hate ec and don't plan to concentrate, take the course. The stuff you learn in the class is relevant to everyone who interacts with an economy (aka you!!!!). I didn't take Ec10a in the fall and deeply regretted it, so I took Ec10b in the spring (which is totally fine, I felt as if there were no disadvantages except perhaps structurally--it took me a little while to get into the groove of how the course functioned whereas everyone else knew what was going on). I really recommend taking this class!
You'll learn a lot in this class. You may not really care about a lot of it, but it's good to know. Carol is the best TF. She makes the material interesting, and she's amazing. Anne runs the course--her psets are messy, beware.
How much you enjoy the course entirely depends on the quality of your TF. I was immediately discouraged because my TF didn't entirely know what he was doing, and I know several students in the class have had a similar experience.  In order to do well in the class with a bad TF, some students have to spend so much time outside of class learning the material their TF couldn't teach them. It's very hard to get an A without a background in ec unless you spend countless hours outside of class going to office hours. This is a poorly-designed class, and I do not recommend it.
The tests are extremely hard but the curve is very generous. Read the textbook and get a good section leader and it shouldn't be too bad.
Ec10b is very disorganized. You learn a lot if you put the work in, but much of how well you do on the exams depends on your section leader. Tests are hard and don't reflect well what you learn in section, but the curve is huge. Go to the head TF's office hours every chance you get! Wouldn't necessarily recommend if you're looking to take a macro course "because it's important to know something about economics." There's definitely a more enjoyable way to do that.
keep up with the helpful hints, read the textbook
If you've taken EC10A, this class is very similar. The only difference is that you sort of orient everything around one equation (that for GDP) and then look deeper into that equation. This means that course material builds on itself way more than it does in EC10A. As an aside, the TFs are the life of this class. My TF was amazing, and I also went to the office hours of other TFs who were similarly great.
This is a very good class for economics and completing gen-ed requirement, but it is difficult if you do not have much knowledge in economics or if your TF is not that good. Tests are not easy and lecturers are boring.
Be sure to complete the p-sets yourselves. Of course, you should get help from TFs and peers, but make sure that you understand everything, as the exams often return to these important concepts. If you do the p-sets right the first time, you won't have to scramble as much for the exams.
There's definitely variation in the level of instruction between TF's in this course, but I would highly recommend it to anyone who's remotely interested in economics.
Take this class if you need it as a concentration requirement.
Ec 10 is a pretty easy, painless, pset method of getting the USW gen ed. Also, you really shouldn't be graduating from Harvard without understanding what the Fed does so just take it.
you must be invested in the material to really have the drive to succeed
Ec10b will make you much more informed about what's currently going on in the world, and works off of some of the concepts in 10a. It's really rewarding if you put the work into the class and take advantage of all the resources that are available (office hours, etc.) to help yourself out.
It is very necessary to attend all sections and lectures to get the most out of this course.
I believe EVERY student should take Ec 10 A and B. It provides a wonderful foundation for ANYTHING that you wish to do in life.
I'd recommend it because it teaches you the fundamentals but don't expect to find it to be an extremely intriguing, engaging or well taught course, which can vary significantly with TF. Don't expect to learn much from the "professor" of the course, Mankiw.
As I said in an earlier response, the class really favors people who've taken economics before, which makes it harder for you to do well if you haven't. You really need to put a lot more time into this class than you think you will. People will say "oh, ec is easy" but I really haven't found that to be true. You can get a lot out of it, but the workload is really a lot bigger than you'd think. There's also not much support, which can make the class really difficult. But you'll learn a lot, and macroeconomics is probably one of the most important things to have a grasp of in this century, so the class is worth it. Much more useful than microeconomics.
It's a pretty good survey course. I got something out of it.
You learn a lot of useful material in this course! But do not expect an intimate section setting, frequent lectures, or DIY homework assignments. Instead, expect to spend extra hours meeting with classmates to convene on problem sets, visiting office hours, or scheduling 1 on 1 meetings with your TF.
Make sure you are prepared to spend time going over the difficult material because there will be tricky concepts.
It's an okay class. Just go to Anne's office hours and she will explain everything amazingly well.
that you need to READ THE BOOK before each section or else it will be very overwhelming and difficult.
interesting
This class is the elementary class you must take during your time at harvard, required by many concentrations. When taking this class, keep in mind that this is not just a elementary course. This class requires much effort to keep up with the material and keep up with the communication process wth your TF>
Make sure you get lucky and get a good TF. A lot of what you actually take away depends on how good your section is.
Look, it's not as bad as many people make it out to be. Mankiw is a decent guy and you will actually learn material very relevant to the world.
I think Ec10 should be a required course for all Harvard students.
Read the textbook.
be prepared to do a lot of work, but it is not so stressful that it is not enjoyable.
Ec10b is the better half of the Ec10a/b sequence. It covers more interesting economic topics and the guest lectures were for the most part more interesting.
You have to take this class to be an Ec concentrator (for the most part), but that doesn't mean it's a well run class.
I loved this course. You'll learn a lot and be challenged to a reasonable level, and the amount that you'll gain in understanding how the global economy works is invaluable.
Go to lectures, take in the chance to learn from the world's top economists (even if they're moderately boring)
This is a very good and very interesting course, but the textbook is very expensive, and you have to buy it to get access to the quizzes and the problem sets.
Ec10B is just like Ec10A-- I would strongly recommend taking this class to understand the world around you. Most importantly, as always with Ec10, your section leader makes or breaks this class.
It's very tough.
This class is difficult, but a necessary course for studying economics in the future.
Something everyone should take
This is one of those courses that nobody loves, but is tolerable, and lots of people have to take. I had no econ background but was interested in the subject, so I really didn't have a choice. You get very different experiences from the class depending on your TF, and almost the entire class is taught by TFs. Take this class if you don't have an ec background and want exposure to the subject, but skip it if you took a decent ec class in high school.
This course is a requirement for a number of concentrations so most students suck it up and just take it. However, because the teaching by the TF's is not streamlined students end up with drastically different understandings of the material. I appreciate the curves but I wish we didn't have to rely on them for decent grades.
This class is a standard intro Macro class. Most of the class is pretty dry and tedious, but, a lot of times, you will find yourself going, "Wow, that's pretty cool."
Learn a lot of about economics and pretty interesting if you're interested about learning the Fed, monetary policy, and fiscal policy
Constant errors and corrections being made to the problem sets. For such a large, well-known, and popular course, the students expect better, a lot better. This really is inexcusable. The TFs should complete the problem sets before they are released to correct for any errors.Also, the exams were generally very poorly written. They often failed to test our knowledge of the material as it was taught in section and in the textbook. Instead they focused on abstract material and the questions and answers are regularly worded abstrusely such that it become not a test of our mastery of the material taught but rather of our ability to decode the questions.Moreover, the exam questions relating to lectures are terribly written. They are so narrow-focused and detailed oriented that there is absolutely ZERO incentive to go to lecture because the lecture questions will be a guessing game regardless of if one attended lecture or not. They should instead focus on the broader message of the lecture, not on some negligible detail, especially when phrased in the format of "which of the following was NOT mentioned in lecture by Professor so and so".Also, Professor Mankiw does NOT teach this course. It is taught in section with an occasional guest appearance by Mankiw in lecture.
It's the second half of The Mankiw Experience.. you know what you're signing up for.
Be prepared to have to supplement some of your learning with outside sources.
It's fine
If you want to get a lot out of this class, you're going to have to work extra hard. It's not a course that's super engaging, one that will provoke your deepest analytical thoughts, - except maybe before exams - but I think it's very important information to know. Overall, the workload isn't that bad, but the material is a bit dry.
I would tell students that it is important to reach out to potential tutors or TFs if they do not understand something.  It can be easy to fall behind.
The TF quality will make or break the course for you. Go to Anne Le Brun's office hours!! That woman is amazing.
The exams are tough!
Good intro to economics. Probably would say is an important part of the freshman experience (half your friends will take it too, it'll be good bonding, etc)
Take it just so you get the basic vocabulary/functioning of economics. This is coming for a humanities major so yeah, take as you will.
Don't expect a super personalized experience.
This is a good course.  It can be difficult and but I believe that I have become a better citizen of the world as a result of taking this course.
It's good background info, it just is an annoying course if you haven't taken Econ or if your TF is bad.
Take the PSETS seriously, a lot of the exam material is modeled after the PSETS. Go to the guest lectures because it's worth it and because valuable exam points are about the guest lectures.
Very good intro course that is not too difficult to do well in if you do all the readings and psets fully. Lectures are kind of a waste and you need to make sure that you have a good TF but if that's the case the textbook is good and the material is interesting and informative while not being too difficult.
If you want to learn how governments and any other policymakers mane decisions and the impact of these decisions, then I highly recommend this class. It combine some math, current affairs, logic and writing.
I didn't do that well with EC10A, but I'm glad that I stuck with EC10B instead of doing something else to fulfill the US and the World Gen Ed. Take this class to learn a lot about how our economy works.
You get out what you put in - read the textbook
I wouldn't recommend it but you have to take it
Odds are that you will take the course sometime during your time as an undergrad... It's a good gauge for whether the degree of your interests not only in economics but also social sciences in general.
Tough class but you gotta take it if u want to do economics
Typical ec class. Macro is harder than micro. Curve is harsher. (A- average in 10a, B+ average in 10b)
Be careful. If yo don't like EC don't take it.
If you have to take a course on economics, this course is not bad, it's just a lot. As in a ton of assignments that should not take very long. It's probably because it's very geared toward freshmen.
Very useful but very hard
read other textbooks, not just Mankiw's
Really depends on section leader: I felt very meh about this class for most of the semester. Having not taken 10a (but taken AP Micro in high school), I didn't feel like I was at a disadvantage, but definitely try to be as engaged as possible with the material and think critically about economics to get the most out of this course.
The class is very large and you will be an anynonynous unimportant student with not much special treatment. It's worthwhile as a class because this is basic stuff everyone needs to know
If you can, take Ec1010
This class is structured markedly differently from ec10a.
I wasn't a huge fan of ec10a, but am really glad I stuck with it and took ec10b. One of the most frustrating things about 10a was the quality of the assignments (not great), but I think there were fewer assignments in 10b and the concepts were assessed more clearly. I also liked that in 10b, all the concepts build off each other so by the end of the course you really understand the basic forces behind the economy, and can see how interconnected these courses are.
It is a necessary course that is difficult but manageable.
I'd only tell someone to take this if they want to concentrate or get a secondary in Econ.
this class is very poorly run, but super easy, so if you need an easy class to balance your schedule and learn something useful about the world, this is a good choice.  But in no way is this class life-changing or enlightening in any way.  The lectures bring in cool speakers, but otherwise you could learn all of this material out of a textbook in a day.
If you're just a humanities person, you'll struggle. Also good luck with Mankiw's expensive textbooks. And do protest that they drop Cengage because IT CRASHES ALL THE DAMN TIME!!!!
Students should be prepared for a real challenge, especially if they haven't taken Advanced Placement economics before.
This class will provide a comprehensive overview to macroeconomics, and the lectures are all pretty interesting. That being said, I felt like section did not adequately prepare me for the midterms; be prepared to spend a lot of time reviewing on your own.
Great course if you like economics/ want to learn more about it.  However, know your abilities as follows:If you are a genius, skip to 1010b. If not, you will get an AIf you have taken economics before, you will get an AIf you are neither of these, but put in effort, you will get B+/A-, but NOT an AIf you are neither of these but put in little to no effort, you will get B+If you think you are dumb, the worst you will get is a B :).
Don't take this class unless you are genuinely interested in pursuing economics here at Harvard.
It's Ec 10, so you'll probably be taking this anyway. But the experience of this course is extremely dependent on your section (you'll be lucky if you get John for your section leader!! love him so much!!) and the content isn't really inspiring or great at all.
Even though I'm most definitely never going to pursue economics beyond this course, it has proven very useful in terms of reading the news and understanding very real economic debates. It's tough and there are definitely many kids who have take the AP equivalent of this class and find it far easier than someone approaching it for the first time (like me), but if you have a good TF who's dedicated to helping you understand the material and you put in the time and effort, there is a pretty good payoff.
Exactly what it says on the tin. An introduction to economics. Don't expected to be thrilled, but certainly not a waste of time. Worthwhile concepts that are relevant to everyday life.
Join study groups and get help if you need it.
nothing
the best introduction to ec you can have
Can be as interesting as you want it to be.
Take this class if you want to learn the material but expect to deal with a subpar learning experience from section and a terrible time with a consistent exam experience.
This course is taught by graduate students who do not always have an adequate grasp of the material.
Great if you are considering economics; do not take it if you are not. The material is a medium-level difficulty but the questions asked really force you to think on a higher level. You learn a lot of really relevant things in terms of understanding world and national politics, but I don't think it is really an "introductory course" by any means.
Ec10b suffers from being completely and utterly boring in every sense of the word. Do not take this class because everyone else is taking it. Do not take it if you simply want to learn general theory about the broad field of economics. Only take this course if you plan on pursuing economics as a concentration (or are considering it).
It is definitely a class worth taking, and provides a solid base of knowledge. Aspects of it may be frustrating, but if you invest yourself in it you will learn a ton.
Good class
I would recommend this course mainly because I liked the content and because I liked my own TF (some TFs are not as good as others). Otherwise, I found the nature of examinations to be a little too stressful, and the curve/recurve process is a little frustrating as well.
Knowing Econ is great and pretty interesting. I personally preferred micro to macro (Macro gets a bit circular and confusing at times), but everyone seems to have different opinions. Most class time is section, so your TF makes or breaks this course. Mankiw is a good lecturer when he does lecture; the same cannot be said of all the guest speakers, many of whom had interesting subject matter but bad teaching ability. However, going to all lectures is important, because not going will screw you on the multiple choice. The textbook is much more basic than the course and not absolutely necessary, but extremely helpful. Get it from the Lamont reserves; it reads quick so you can easily finish a Unit in under 3 hours.
This is a good introduction to macroeconomics. If you have taken AP Economics in the past you might find it pretty straightforward, though it does introduce new material.
This is a good introductory course but very poorly taught.
If you took Ec 10a then you know what to expect, pretty much. Macro is easier than micro, but it can also be more confusing because it's horribly unscientific, and I don't think this is just an Ec 10 thing. The field of macroeconomics seems to be populated almost entirely by humanities-oriented people, content to offer nothing more than vague guesses about the future and unconvincing explanations of the past.
Study every week on a constant basis. Do not leave everything to the end.
It's so frustrating that this is the only introductory economics class taught at Harvard. It would've been impossible to take 10b without 10a for people with no economics background, and it was overall incredibly challenging and the class moves really fast. I took it to learn more about fiscal and monetary policy, and how the government impacts economic growth, and this class was so much more than I bargained for. I would recommend it to people who think they might be interested, but preface the recommendation with noting how extraordinary much time you have to spend on this class to actually understand all the material they throw at you.
Make sure you try to get yourself in a good section--it will make or break how much you enjoy the class.
This is the class you need for econ, and while it's not the best class at Harvard, it's not the worst either.
This is the course you want to take if at all interested in economics.
If Anne LeBrun is still the head TF, stay away. If they take it anyway, I will stress to them to get a TF who actually knows about what they're talking about.
It is exactly what you would expect it to be.
Do all the readings
Requires a decent amount of work and interesting
This course is a great survey to Macroeconomics and will get you thinking like an economist.
This course is, quite simply, a basic introduction to macroeconomics. If you haven't taken an economics course before and want to concentrate in the department, or just want to have a basic understanding of the field, this is the course for you. Personally, I didn't love it (because I'm not interested in economics -- I took it for the basic understanding and the GenEd), and I found macro much more challenging than micro. As with Ec10a, your experience with this course has everything to do with your TF, so if you don't like him/her in the first few days, switch! Christine was an amazing TF, although unfortunately this is her last year.
Do not take this class because you feel like you should or because everyone else is. Knowing a few new things about economics and how the world works is not worth the suffering if you are not good at economics and also do not enjoy it. I highly encourage thinking twice about taking this course - it's not super well-run and I would really only take it if I saw a future in economics.
It's annoying but can be rather interesting and is obviously necessary.
This is important stuffshould probably be a required course for all citizens of the world.
Go to office hours and make sure you understand problem sets. Ask questions in section.
You're going to take this course if you want to learn econ or concentrate in economics no matter what I say here...and anyway, I have never taken another intro ec class, so I can't compare Ec10 to another baseline
Take this class because you have to; its a better introduction to macro economics than your AP Macro Class. I took AP Macro in high school and got a 5 on the test, but the material makes so much more sense at a fundamental level now than it did after AP Macro. This course allows you to explore the subject matter more in depth rather than just accepting it as face value. Worth taking and not skipping for sure.
Use the textbook
interesting but really frustrating in how it is set up
This class is better taken with a background in economics. That's not to say you won't do well - some students do really well without ever having learnt anything about the subject. But the course is so temperamental with grades that you will be safer placing out of it and taking an upper level economics course right away. The textbook is biased, Professor Mankiw is an enigma, the TFs are a lucky draw, and you are given absolutely no feedback on midterms which makes it hard to know where you need to improve. The curve can also be really unpredictable. I really didn't like Ec10.
Ec10 is all about the TF. If you have a shitty TF, you're screwed. Also, the grading is weird. However, it is a Harvard staple and a pretty good intro to the field. Pay attention to the guest lectures because you can end up taking cool classes with those profs later on.
Do the readings, go to lecture, and go to office hours!!!
Ec10b is a pretty standard intro class. It required a lot of memorization, and often exams tested more on information retention than application of concepts.
This class is your classic large intro college course. The material is definitely manageable, but it can be hard to feel like you are truly interacting with the professors and TFs. I would also say that the material you learn is pretty interesting in terms of understanding the real world, since a lot of these things impact the economy and most people don't stop to think about it unless they are in a class for it.
It is a solid economics foundation.
You HAVE to go to office hours. It is crucial. Take it from a guy who didn't go in first semester and got rocked, and then went in second semester and found the p-sets to be very simple and straightforward. It's a worthwhile class, you just have to know the tips and tricks - and going to OH is one of them.
It's okay. There are better Econ classes I heard.
Very nice course, but you have to put in some work.
Stay up to date with your work.
This may not be your favorite class taken at Harvard, but it will be one of the most applicable and you will definitely learn a lot. It can be tough if things get out of hand, but there are a lot of resources and people willing and happy to help.
If your TF is not a great teacher then you will have to put in a lot of independent work to Succeed which is very possible with enough work. Great guest lecturers!
It requires more work than you think to be successful
Your success in the class is very dependent on how seriously you take the PSETS.
Take Ec10 if you think you may want to study economics in any regard (or you want to confirm that you don't). It's more or less what one expects from the 2nd largest course at Harvard: you're sort of treated like cattle.
Take this class because you should have a basic understanding of macroeconomics to be a Harvard graduate, but don't expect to enjoy it. Hope your TF is good--that determines how much you will enjoy the class and how well you do.
It is a good class that helps you to understand the absics of economics and putt them into a real world context.
After this class, you will know if econ is really for you
Take this class if you are interested in Econ but understand that it's not well taught.
Although it is difficult in some respects, I would recommend it to people that are not concentrating in economics because I think in the political and economic climate that we live in a basic understanding of economics is essential.
It's a very middle-of-the-road course, and great for those who want an introduction to macroeconomics.
Do not take this class unless you are serious about economics.
Take it
It is material that I find interesting because you can relate it to current events and it informs discussions.
It's harder than you think it will be!
Ec 10 gets a bad reputation, but I don't really know if its because its taught poorly or just because its not a very interesting subject. In either case I think its very useful to know the basics of macroeconomics just for the sake of looking at current events in policy etc. Not a terrible class and fairly small workload as well.
You will learn a lot if you put in the effort.
If you stay engaged, and pay attention, and care about learning the material, it can be really cool and interesting. You can learn a lot about the way the world works. I left the class understanding a lot more about macroeconomies and how their interactions affect the world.
It may be somewhat poorly run, but the content matter is simply very important.  The guest lectures are cool.  Plus, it isn't the toughest class.
Everyone should take this class. As someone who had no economics background but was interested in how the world works, I found this class absolutely fascinating. This class is essential for EVERY Harvard student.
Definitely for those concentrating in economics.
Go to section, attend the office hours, and keep up with the readings in the textbook.
It is necessary for learning basic economics if you have not already gotten that from high school or elsewhere
Make sure to really put effort into the problem sets and understand them
Overall, it's a necessary introduction to economics. Don't expect much interaction with the professors - your class will be almost entirely taught by teaching fellows.
I really liked Ec10b! The lecturers truly were super interesting and Ec10b gives you the foundation to understand what is happening in the news and what are the implications of new policies etc. I definitely recommend this class; the workload is very manageable and I think that the knowledge you gain is essential to make you a better citizen (as it might challenge/alter/shape  your views on politicians and parties).
Make sure you get a good TF, it really makes all the difference and there are some really bad TFs out there.
TF quality is important, although this course is definitely doable with a bad TF.
Great intro to macroeconomics if you want qualitative information. I would have preferred a bit more math.
It's good to see if you like Econ
If you do the readings, go to section, take the unit reviews, and keep up with the material, when it comes test time, it is not bad.
Go to head TF's office hours every week!!
Only take this course if you absolutely have to. If you want an introduction to economics pick up a book (not written by Mankiw) from the Coop, google guides, or lookup YouTube videos. Anything will be better than this course.
I think the material you learn is good to know and could spark a ton of potential academic interests.
This course is something people need to take if they have any interest in economics. That being said, it is difficult. There is a generous curve but the exams will definitely knock down your confidence a bit.
Reading the book and helpful hints definitely helps.
I came into this course wanting a general exposure to economics and I cannot tell you if I've learned anything from it. Grading/teaching is arbitrary, and the amount you put it in no way corresponds with what you get out.
Go to Unit Review. It helps keep you on top of the material and the extra credit is nice.
It's important to have a basic understanding of Econ no matter what your major is.
Really important information to learn about the world regardless of what you want to concentrate in
For a big introductory course, you feel like you can get individual attention.  Also, it's just a good class to take -- it helps you understand your world better.
This class is incredible for learning the basics of economics. I went in with zero prior knowledge on the subject but came out feeling like I could understand the framework of most economic discussions.
Because the class is mainly taught in section, a good section leader is a must. If you're unhappy with your leader, ask to switch. Great foundational class as well, everyone should take.
come ready to work and go to section and read
If you want to go into economics, this course is necessary. If you have even a little background in economics and want to take the more interesting courses, I would look into learning this material on your own.
Take this class to get a very good basic understanding of economics. However, at times there can be a lot of work and it can be overwhelming but if you keep up with the reading it is manageable.
If you can add, subtract, and read, you can take this class. Whether you want to depends on you: do you enjoy pointless, long lectures by important people and a real crapshoot of section leader skill, take it. Otherwise, skip it.
This class was great! I've learned so much about economics, it is a really well-run course, and Carol is the best TF! It's one of those life-skills sort of courses that give you a sense of a thing that's relevant to the real world.
Be prepared to work.
It is necessary but not very enjoyable. Go to lecture because you may discover a passion for a specific field within economics.
This is a fairly stock ec course - not terribly hard as long as you follow along with the material and go to office hours if you have questions. It will sometimes be very interesting when you read parts of the textbook/learn about concepts that link to real-world policy decisions/what business magazines cover, but at other times lectures will be dry/section may be rather boring.
it's hard
Take this course if you are very interested in economics or if you have to take this class for concentration requirements.
Really horrible class. Very little attention, and even as someone who likes to teach myself a lot, the material is horrendous. I have no idea why someone would use graphs to accomplish what simple algebra can teach.
This class is very manageable and is worth taking.
If your passion is elsewhere, don't feel like you have to take Ec10b!
Do your work, read the textbook and study. It's a fun course and they don't ask too much.
If you want to be a competent person, then you need to know econ. Ec10a/10b are great ways to do this. The theory is pretty engaging/rigorous, but the grading is easy.
Take this class even if you never do econ again. It's good to have a basic understanding and the logic is applicable to lots of other fields.
You need to take an economics course before you graduate. Just take it
I think you can learn a lot in this course if you invest time in it, and you can get by without trying too hard if that's the path you want to take. Your experience REALLY varies with how good your TF is, since you learn basically everything from them. The course is also really conceptual, much more so than 10a. Your answers will rarely be numbers.
Every freshman who has had no formal economics education in high school should take this class.
Take this course whether you know if you're going to concentrate in Economics or not. The course teaches you skills that are applicable in many other situations and classes.
Ec 10b is much like 10a, but the material is much more conceptual and large-scale, so at times it can seem boring/illogical. But if you have a strong relationship with your TF, a support system for tricky psets, and **take unit review**, it can be a lot less stressful.
Go to the lectures! Even if you do not know who the lecturers are, chances are they have done some pretty cool things in economics or related fields.
This class is good to take if you want to know some basic economics and understand economic matters in the news.
It's a good overview of economics, but can be a very frustrating class. The relatively few times that Mankiw lectures, combined with a generally pretty impersonal feeling that comes with such a large and pretty hands-off class can leave students feeling disillusioned and unenthusiastic about the course. My TF was very good though, so that made it better.
The textbook is your friend.
Stay up to date with readings and do the unit reviews. Go to office hours for help on problem sets. Do practice materials to prepare for the exams so then you know what you need to focus on.
This class is great for a base knowledge of economics, but I found it tedious. Theorems and generalizations about things are not for me, but if you like looking at the economy as a whole it's a good class to take.
Be prepared to read the textbook thoroughly. It will be almost impossible to do well with only the section material.
I would definitely recommend taking Ec10 as a first year student -- it's relevant and honestly something you should have basic knowledge of at the very least. That being said, this is a tough course, and very dependent on who you have as your TF.
You end up learning a lot about Economics even with prior knowledge.
Different from 10A but still interesting
This course is critical in gaining an understanding of how economics (and the world) works.
This class is very difficult.
This course is extremely difficult, especially the exams. You really need to already know economics to take this course, even though they tell you you don't. But it's a concentration requirement so it's kind of a necessary course.
Good class that gives a good background for macro-economics.
I liked Ec10b and learned a lot from it. The textbook is pretty clear and confusions that remain after reading it usually get resolved in section. Most of the guest lecturers are pretty good, and it is cool how the course integrates a lot of different people with differing viewpoints on subjects. Even if you don't want to pursue economics, this course provides a general foundation that is good to know I believe.
This course provides a good introduction to economics. While the large course size poses some drawbacks and it feels like a machine at times, it does do a good job of exposing someone to economics.
gives you a fair grasp of basic macreconomic theory
The class is overall very good, but the new head TF (Anne Lebrun) has a habit of making very unclear tests and answer keys. These tests also rarely correlate with the material that the course puts a lot of effort into making you understand. If you are not going to be assessed on what they emphasize in class, what is the point of emphasizing anything?
Ec10B is much more intuitive than the fall, but it is still difficult to get ahead of the curve if you have no econ background.
good way to wrap up econ 10.
This is a good overview of basic economics concepts. It's not a super difficult class, but it is challenging at times at a reasonable level.
Take if you think you want to do Ec, if you don't, don't bother.
As the intro to economics, take this class if you have any interest in the area whatsoever. Not a particularly difficult course, so long as you keep up with the work. The class is heavily dependent on section, but you can make it work regardless of who your TF is. Be willing to ask for help, always go to office hours with the HEAD TF (in 2016, Anne Le Brun), who is super helpful, especially with figuring out problem sets. Do every single unit review! It really makes a difference!
If you pay attention in section and do the psets you will get an A. It is easy to slack off and fall behind though.
Good foundation class, but only take if you are really interested in the material, as it takes time to genuinely engage with the concepts
It's worth taking just to know something about economics. If for no other reason, take it to be a better citizen.
Though this course can be a little monotonous at times, I think it should be required of every college student. It teaches you that there are always pros and cons to every economic policy.
The exams are the most important part of the grade, but going to ALL of the Unit Review sessions will push you up the curve as well, so don't miss them.
Teaches you ec. No hard math makes it more palatable. Most of the class is taught in section. Do the readings, they help more than you think.
It is a useful course--but the format is sometimes a bit frustrating
Some people find this course easier than 10a, some harder. Ultimately, the actual material, I think, is easier, but the curve is higher for the most part, because people in 10a who weren't very good or good at econ dropped out. That said, the guest lecturers in this class i thought were much more engaging, the material on the whole feels entirely more applicable to the real world than 10a felt. The homework and the exams are a similar level of difficulty, so don't worry! Overall, I recommend you take it even if you aren't planning on concentrating in ec. just because when you finish 10a, you really lack a lot of the context provided in ec10b. Of course, all of this depends on your section leader. Cross your fingers and hope you get a good one! (usually you'll just continue with your TF from last year)
Ec 10b is an enjoyable class! The concepts discussed in section are very applicable in the economy today.  The psets can be tricky but office hours are super helpful!
tests are hard but I feel more knowledgeable about ec and its intersection with other fields
This class is a super foundation for economics and I would recommend it to any student at Harvard, in any major.
It's the most middle-of-the-road course at Harvard
It's certainly not the most interesting class you'll take at Harvard, but Ec10 is a solid intro class that you'll need to get anywhere else in the economics department. Section matters, so go--and make sure you have a TF that can make the material make sense to you.
I thought the course material for Econ 10b was more interesting than 10a. Though the course is structured the same as Econ 10a, so if you did not enjoy Ec 10a you should probably not take this course.
Standard intro to Ec class. Boring.
The material is very comprehensive and well-connected, and I enjoyed learning how to think about real-world economic decisions by the Fed or the Government in a more analytical and critical sense.
how you will enjoy the class depends of your section leader.
Because of the size of this course, it can only be so good. However, one does learn much through problem sets and does come out with a much deeper understanding of economics than can be gained in high school classes.
It gives you a solid understanding of economics which is important for everyone to know, but you must be willing to put in the work to properly get that understanding.
This is a very large course, so one can occasionally feel like "just a member of the crowd." However, this presents an opportunity to speak with professors so that you can get out as much from Ec10 as you put into it.
I think that this class can be useful for anyone regardless of their intended concentration. The concepts that we learn about are very applicable beyond any work environment.
Every student, no matter your concentration, should take this course. It is a pinnacle to understanding the world.
Good class (in combination with Ec 10a) to get a foundation for economics regardless of whether you're using it for a concentration or just as a Gen Ed
Ec10 is an excellent introduction to studying Economics at Harvard. If you have an interest in studying Econ here, you'll have a much better idea what the Department is like after taking this class. It's definitely not life-changing or a course you'll write home about, but you learn a lot of the fundamentals that you need to take some of the truly fascinating Ec classes that Harvard offers. It's pretty astounding the group of guest lecturers the course attracts -- Take advantage of their expertise and go to lecture. Also be cognizant of the fact that your experience will depend greatly on how helpful your section leader is, as most of the class is taught in section.
This class is very much worth it. You'll learn a lot. It'll be a pain to do, but you'll feel good about it after it is all over.
This course provides what it promises: You will learn the basic concepts of macroeconomics, but don't expect it to turn out to be more exciting than it sounds...
Don't miss out!
It is very difficult but can be done. Stay on top of work and study the right material. Don't stress out on exams.
Because of the subject more than the course.
It is really pretty relevant to anything you are thinking about doing in life.
This class truly informs you of how the world works. Sometimes money does make the world go 'round, so it's better to understand rather than to ignore.
I believe it is an important class to enroll in, but it may seem very difficult to understand and grasp at times.
One of the most useful classes in terms of applying an economic sense to understanding the world around you. Not so good in terms of instruction - I happened to have a good TF, which made the class, but I heard from other students that bad TFs led to a horrible Ec10 experience. Lectures, for the most part, are not used in the class - some are captivating, others can be boring. Nevertheless, take this class if you want to read the Economist or know what people are talking about when they mention "government debt", "budget deficit", "the Fed", etc.
Try to stay on top of the problem sets and ask your TF for help with them so you understand all the material. Try to find a very good TF if you can. It can make a world of difference.
This class is straightforward and you learn a lot! It feels a bit like high school in that you're mostly learning in medium sized sections and from the textbook, but that wasn't necessarily a bad thing!
If you like econ this is the class to take
IF YOU GET A BAD TF, SWITCH SECTIONS. Your TF makes a WORLD of difference in your experience of the class. With a bad TF, this class is a) really difficult and b) not fun at all. Some of them simply don't know how to teach or even aren't that familiar with economics. After the first month of Ec 10a, I switched from a terrible TF (who was fired after first semester because he was really that bad) to a fantastic TF. With her, ec 10 has been fun and relatively painless - I'm considering concentrating in economics.
I am a humanities person, so this is really not an area that I am very interested in or proficient at.  I am glad I took this class because I feel that it has made me a more educated overall person, and given me a better understanding of what I see as pretty fundamental life concepts, such as how the stock market works, the impacts and mechanics of fiscal and monetary policy, etc.  So basically I didn't actively enjoy most of the material, but feel I benefited from learning it.
the class is difficult at times but also very informative
it all comes together at the end so don't worry in the middle
Its graded on a curve and the exams are very very difficult! The class lectures and section information are not enough to do well on the exams.
It's a doable class that's pretty interesting and is a foundational block for other econ courses. Just don't slack off and you'll be fine.
It's not hard at all. Just do the psets and go to office hours. You're guaranteed a B pretty much.
Very difficult and requires a lot of time and effort
Macroeconomics is CRUCIAL to understanding how the world functions. If you are in government or social studies TAKE THIS CLASS. The topics are VERY interrelated and macro provides a strong base to build on.
Whether or not this course will be a good experience depends on your TF.
if you have never take econ before, take it your sophomore year once you are more settled, a ton of work, the exams are crazy hard, what TF you have really makes a difference
If you don't have any economics background, make sure the other courses in your schedule aren't rigorous so you can spend more time studying in advance.
Content is more interesting than Ec10a, but the format is the same.
Unless you're seriously looking for an intro to economics, two semesters of Ec10 might have a large opportunity cost.
This is much easier to understand than micro.
not much
Lectures can be boring, but sections and general material learned are very interesting and important if you have no economic/financial background.
10b is macroeconomics. If you took 10a but didn't like it b/c it was micro, this class is for you.
It is a lot of information to understand, the tests vary in difficulty and breadth.
This course is a good way to understand the basic principles of economics. In the long run, it will make you a more informed citizen. While there isn't much time spent with Professor Mankiw, the information is still taught well in section and the exposure to some of the world's best economists as guest lecturers is very informative.
It is what you hear it is. A lot of work for exams and problem sets are a pain, but decently interesting material.
Ec10 is too big - TFs all teach slightly different material.
Ec10 is tough and not the best class, but definitely a big intro course that every freshman should consider taking.
Good Luck. you'll need to work hard.
If you don't need to take it, it's not a necessary class
I personally am very happy I took this course just to learn a bit about real-world markets. It's not exactly an easy gen-ed but it's pretty low commitment and easy for people who think quantitatively.
There are adequate resources to succeed in this course, but the effort needs to be there.
Take this if you're considering Econ.
It's Ec10. You're probably taking it either way.
This is such an important class in being able to understand the world.
Good material to know. Just prepare for a tough class with some hiccups in class structure
This class is a lot more difficult then it might seem. There is a lot of work that must be put into the class outside the classroom in order to get a full grasp of the material.
Be prepared to learn a very important aspect to the modern world and one that will allow you to more capably understand some of the big headlines you see in the news.
While it's not time-consuming, the tests are difficult and the curve is rough, so don't take this class unless you either want to concentrate in economics/social studies or are REALLY interested in knowing economics. You'll probably get an A- if you work hard, an A if you're already good at econ/really freaking smart (by Harvard standards)/work stupidly hard and a B/B+ if you do literally nothing.
Any course conducted at this size is sure to carry its problems, and the section experience varies across TFs, but as a citizen of the world you MUST take this course. My personal interests in government couple nicely with Macro, and any politician or lover of government/politics is woefully ignorant if they have not take Macro. NOTE: I did not take Ec 10a or high school econ, and jumping straight into Ec 10b is definitely manageable. All you have to catch up on, in my experience, is elasticity and indifference curves. Easy peasy lemon squeezy.
This class is something that needs to be done if you intend to concentrate or secondary in economics. If you need a math gen ed, but do not need any further work in the economics department, I would hesitate to recommend the course, since it might be better to take a one-semester math gen ed that is taught better.
EC-10 is not the only econ class at Harvard.
Be prepared to do psets every Thursday night but it is manageable if you keep up with your readings and pay attention in section.
Everyone needs to learn basic economics -- Ec 10 teaches just that.
It is a typically Econ course at any other school. It is not intended to be easy; however with that being said it also isn't supposed to be impossible.
You'll really get to understand how the world works around you. It makes you into a well-informed citizen. Take it even if you don't plan on majoring in Econ.
Ec10 is very basic. Take it if you are interested in something that involves economics. Don't expect a lot out of it. You get out what you put in. You won't be inspired, but it sets you up for more interesting things.
Ec10 is one of those things everyone loves to hate. for me it challenged me and though I found it difficult, I learnt a lot of lessons in life like perseverance so you should probably take it for your personality, maybe think twice about your GPA.
Interesting and helpful course, no matter what field/concentration you decide to pursue. However, if you are not ready to cover 3 chapters in a week + hard problem sets + super hard exams, you might need to think twice before taking it.
This course covers topics that everyone should have a fundamental idea about. Course quality is super dependent on your TF...
It's a fairly easy class if you do the work, but I don't find the material all to interesting.
Read the text book and go to section.
section makes or breaks your ec10 experience, choose your section leader wisely
Mankiw is the best.
It will give you a basic understanding of economics that everyone should get at some point in their lives
This class is a fantastic and extremely thorough introduction to the study of economics
Good intro class if you are interested in how the business side of the world works
Pretty much everyone who isn't premed takes this course by default. It's really interesting and you get a good sense of the breadth of the field of economics and you learn the basics. Sometimes the psets are difficult, but there are lots of resources available if you take advantage of them. Guest lecturers were really cool and interesting. Make a study group early on who you can do psets with.
The concets learned here are very insightful and important, even if the clas itself is not always the best.
The course is quite difficult for an introductory class, but you learn so much about the Principles of Economics.
The amount of material learned is very large but most of the topics are interesting which makes studying and doing course much easier to get through
This course provides a very good introduction to Macroeconomics. Take it for sure if you are interested in Macroeconomics.
The course covers very interesting material, but the exams can seem quite different from the p-sets/practice problems you do. However, the curve for the class is generally quite generous, so you are able to focus more on the actual material and not stress out as much on grades.
Necessary to get through; not too bad if you enjoy economics
Great class that doesn't require too much work, but it suffers the same pitfalls as many of the other large introductory courses.
Even if you're not going to concentrate in economics, I would recommend this class because it gives you lots of really good background knowledge to understand what's going on in the world and is applicable to lots of other subjects. It is somewhat difficult but totally manageable.
It's a lot of work, but if you put in the right amount of effort it's not super hard to get a good grasp on the concepts. Psets take a while.
Ec10b is just like 10a- well organized, good access to resources, etc. Of course it depends on your TF too.
Macroeconomics is more useful for understanding the world around you. However the course is tedious if you are not already interested in economics
Find the best TF you can find, if you don't like your current TF, switch
Don't fall behind on the readings.
I think everyone should understand basic macro, regardless of your area of interest.
This course provides an understanding of extremely useful information for life.
Good intro course, but personally I didn't find it very interesting (except guest lectures, which applied all the theoretical stuff we learned to real life examples). Gives you a "zoomed-out" look on how the economy works, but I prefer more concrete topics.
Really good, manageable class if you get a good TF. Not too much work, good payoff for the work you'll put in.
Much better than Ec10a. Makes you study the textbook a lot, and do a lot of self-learning (which makes me learn the material even better). I find figuring thing out for yourself the best way to learn.
Only take this course if you have already taken some econ in the past or know for a fact that you will be concentrating or pursuing a secondary in this field. While the material is great, it is not something you can't learn on your own time. The biggest setback is that there are large discrepancies between what is taught in section to what is tested - be ready to feel unprepared for every test and problem set. Additionally, Mankiw only lectures a few times a semester, and I'm not really sure what he does for the course besides provide the textbook.
Lots of work
I took this class solely to learn something about economics, and found the course terribly disappointing. The likelihood of getting a poor TF is high, and the material taught in lectures is often a repeat of information or totally unrelated to what is being studied in section. If you don't have to take this class, don't take it. A waste of time, energy, and too stressful.
Ec 10b is better than 10a, but it is  not particularly well-taught or consistently taught. It is a slog in many ways. Mankiw lectures irregularly, and students end up behind the 8-ball as far as the quality of their section leader. It is a necessary evil and features more real-world application than 10a, but not much. Take it if you must and want to understand the news a bit better.
Good knowledge to have - useful for other classes such as gov and is very applicable. Sometimes you are just expected to understand concepts without an in depth explanation, however on the whole a good class.
if you can, Dan West is the best TF!
this is a great class for anyone interested in economics. this is a great class even for people not interested in economics: we hear about the "economy" all the time in our every day life but this class actually takes you behind the scenes so to speak and teaches you how our economic actually functions.
Its boring but every student should take it.
Do the textbook reading and take notes during section. Attend lectures and review lecture slides before exams. Don't expect and easy A - yes, a lot of people take the course but you do need to put in the effort. Do practice exams before exams.
I didn't like it
Read the textbook
Take economics because you should know economics, but don't expect ec 10 to be your favorite class.
That its a good course, but some of the questions they expect you to understand are a little out of left field. Also the tests often have questions (that are worth a large part of your grade) that we did not spend much time on in class.
You should take this if you enjoyed micro. Personally, I found this semester of the course more poorly taught and structured than the last one. By the end of the semester you just want it to be over. Go to office hours and get a head start on the p sets so that you can grasp the material for the exams.
This class is poorly structured and the assignments are not very helpful.  There is relatively little opportunity for practice of the material.  Skip to Ec1010 or 1011 if possible.
Find the good TFs! It isn't easy...
This course may be slightly frustrating at times, but is very important and interesting to learn regardless of concentration.
Your experience in this course is entirely dependent on whether or not you have a good section leader. Some guest lecturers are fascinating and others are dull or hard to follow. Exams and problem sets are difficult without help, so you should definitely go to office hours and do unit review.
Even if you aren't studying economics, it's generally useful to have this kind of knowledge.
Ec10b is a poorly taught massive lecture that symbolizes why many believe Harvard does not care about undergraduate students.
Don't take this class unless it's for a requirement, or if you plan on selling your soul to finance and have already given up on helping other people or having a happy life. I thought I would enjoy learning economics. I did not.
This course is pretty much your average introductory class at Harvard. Highlights includes guest lectures, though the downside is that most of the class is taught in section.
The textbook. The textbook is the Bible for this course.
This course is a great way to get introduced to major macroeconomic concepts. There are many interesting speakers that lecture throughout the semester about their own research, which is always fascinating. As for sections, they do a good job of preparing you for exams.
Its very hard
This course is good in the sense that it is important to be economically knowledgable, but it feels difficult to really get help with problem sets and such.
Only take this class if you liked Ec10A, and if you are really interested in Ec. If not, it is a waste of your time. This semester is definitely more interesting than the first, but the subject matter and tests are harder.
It's really difficult and time consuming
This course is heavily reliant on section. The head professor rarely lectures, and when he does, it is usually not on a very important topic. If you have a prepared TF, this class will be much easier to understand; if not, there will have to be a lot of self-learning.
it's a course you just have to take if you want to concentrate in econ
Don't pay full price for the textbook.
take it. it'll have its flaws, as any 900 person class might have, but it'll teach you some important stuff
If you don't know anything about macroeconomics, this course is good for getting a good foundation in it. I'd recommend it to anyone who's going to be involved in the social sciences, for example if you're going to study government, because I do think it's important to have a good understanding of basic economics for a lot of different subjects. That being said, it's not the best taught course, is often impersonal, and will probably not be the more engaging. However, this can be different depending on your TF - there's a lot of variance within different sections based on things like TF teaching style. It's difficult to say what to expect because of that.
Everyone should take this course. Good to know the fundamentals of economics as an educated university student.
There are a few reasons not to take this class. Don't take it if you've taken AP Econ and did well enough to skip out of it, because you'll just throw the curve for everyone else in the class that actually has to learn this stuff. Don't take it if you're looking for an easy A. The thing about Ec10 is, the material is really easy, in fact it's essentially trivial. So in the early days everyone got an A because Harvard students are generally good at memorizing and regurgitating easy material. At some point the course heads decided they wanted Ec10 to be hard enough that only the top 20% or so of the Harvard students that took it got As, but of course the material is so simple this is essentially impossible. So rather than alter the material, they made all the tests really hard and packed them with inscrutable multiple choice questions. Now your grade in Ec10 reflects how good you are at taking tests, and not how much Ec you learned or how much time you spent learning it.
Go to lecture
It will not be a very enjoyable class but may be a valuable experience and help kids decide if they choose to take more econ classes.
It takes a lot of work and you need to dedicate yourself to learning the material.
There are a wide-range of opinions on this class, but if you truly enjoy economics, then this class will really be a fun one for you
I think I learned a lot about economics (I had started from no knowledge), and now I feel like I can be more active in the world today.  It is very tedious, and if you do not LOVE economics, I do not recommend taking both Ec10a AND Ec10b.
Even if you don't plan to study economics, it's helpful for well rounded knowledge. Understand what they're talking about on TV when they mention fiscal and monetary policy. Learn how the tax system works. Have opinions on basic economic debates, like the minimum wage laws, or the government budget deficit.
This is a good class to get a fundamental understanding of economics. However, it is recommended that you take high school economics in preparation for this class because they people you are competing with on the curve have already done so.
Very interesting material. Is you're doing it as an elective, do it pass-fail. Everything depends on your section TF so make sure you like them.
It simply provides a good overview of economics. It won't be very intense or go very in depth, but you will come out with a general understanding of how the economy works.
Don't take this class for a gen-ed unless you're sure you want to do economics. It is terribly dry material and requires a lot of memorization. You should also study on your own before taking the class, because most people have taken Ec in high school and will be ahead of you. I much preferred ec10a.
Make sure you like your TF within the first week of the course- if not try to switch sections because TF is a huge component.
Take the class. It's important to learn the materials covered in class. To be honest, I didn't really enjoy the class, but it's just something you'll have to deal with. It's impossible to do great on the exams because the tests are either too long or include some miscellaneous questions that don't really pertain to materials learned in class. If you go to the lectures, take notes.
Don't have high expectations
This class teaches you a lot if you put effort into it. They provide more than enough material for you to master macroeconomics and do very well on the exams - make use of it.
If you're doing this course for Gen Ed, don't do it. Ec 10 requires you to take both 10a and 10b to get one Gen Ed, which is a rip-off. Only take it if you're seriously considering continuing in economics, or if you're a senior and you have the time.
Less work than EC10B as long as you have general understanding. Details are much more in depth.
Its a fine course.
The exams are unfair; they just pick one topic and if you don't know it as well, your grade will suffer. In general, interesting class though.
Ec10 is a must take at Harvard. It's very important if you care about politics.
Ec concentrators obviously have to take this class, but it could be viewed as a class containing useful information for all students.
Ec 10b focuses on macroeconomic principles, and it takes time to appreciate the beauty and intricacies of macroeconomics. Learn all the basic concepts, and in the end, the class will bring them all together, making for a fantastic experience.
