Prof. Goldin is amazing.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard, and it's truly a privilege to be taught on the subject of women, work, and family (which is so relevant to all of us because, chances are, we grew up experiencing at least one of these) by the leading scholar in the field. Take it, especially if you're male.
It's interesting and rigorous. Professor Goldin works hard to maintain interest and convey topics in an engaging manner.
This class requires a lot of work, but Professor Goldin is very engaging and provides excellent feedback.
It's a great experience, especially for people who are interested in writing a thesis - as part of the class there's a required long paper with primary sources, so you get the experience of writing a real economics paper.  Plus the topics we go over are really interesting!
Takes an analytical approach to a set of topics that is discussed and written about all the time in the popular press with little factual backing.
This is one of the most well-taught and socially relevant economics class taught by an incredibly friendly, sharp, and engaging professor. It embodies almost all the things you want a class to have--rigorous discussion, good readings, helpful TFs and professor, but without it being ridiculously demanding.
Great subject, a lot of freedom to pursue your own specific interests within it. Take this class especially if you're considering a thesis.
If you're interested in the subject material, there's no better course to take.
Fantastic course if you are interested in education, and particularly if you plan to write a senior thesis on the topic!
Professor Katz, Professor Goldin, and Rebecca make this class amazing. The lectures are really engaging and the material is extremely interesting. Take this class!
Unparalleled opportunity to engage deeply in an area of economics
Great and relevant class; the final paper topic is broad enough to explore all areas of interest.
I would recommend this if the student is interested in this specific topic and willing to read and write a lot about this topic. Additionally, I would recommend it if the student is ready to work hard on a major paper that will require a large amount of time, outside research, and self-motivation in order to do well.
A lot of writing for an economics junior seminar
Start on the final paper early on
take junior seminars!  i loved being in a small ec class with a great professor and classmates who have similar interests and are excited to be there.
The Professor was wonderful, very accessible, and a great lecturer.
My favorite economics class at Harvard. Professor Katz and Professor Goldin are incredible people and are so knowledgeable on this topic. Not only are they intelligent, but they are also accessible and truly invest in their students.
Excellent course! Make sure to talk to the professors and Emily throughout the semester.  They have great insights, and it makes writing the research paper much more manageable.
This class is phenomenal. The professors are genuinely interesting, superstars in their field, and somehow still manage to have time to care about how you're doing in the class. First class econ choice.
It was a lot of work, but it was rewarding. You should definitely take it if you're interested in the economics of education and are interested in writing a thesis. At the very least, it will get you more accustomed to doing empirical work and it will pay off. The class had a chill vibe to it, which was nice, but it was definitely demanding, particularly concerning the term paper. Help will not come to you unless you seek it out, but if you do, you'll find that Profs. Katz and Goldin are incredibly resourceful and will help you polish your idea into something doable for the scope of the course. Also, Emily, our TF, was one of the best TFs I've ever had and was extremely helpful with the paper. I would say take advantage of these ways to get help, and get started on collecting and cleaning data early.
This class is the most rewarding class I have taken at Harvard. I had never written an intensive research paper before, and it was a long, difficult process. The hardest part was finding a topic; I would definitely recommend starting the paper early on in the semester. The professors were incredibly enthusiastic, approachable and helpful--it's amazing they are so distinguished in their field, yet so down-to-earth. The feedback I received was extremely thorough. Hopefully, Emily will still be the TF in this course next time it is taught. She is extremely patient and brilliant. I couldn't say enough positive remarks about this class; it is the epitome of what Harvard academics is about.
An unforgettable class. Katz and Goldin make themselves surprisingly available and provide excellent feedback on drafts. Emily did a great job helping with whatever we needed. Although I can't say I know that much more about how to reform the education system, I do know much more about what it would be like to be an economist. A great introduction into academic writing and research
You will learn a lot of present day education as well as its transformation over the last centuries. If you are willing to take the time to write a great research paper, you will enjoy this class.
Professors are awesome and give fantastic feedback. A highly interesting class, but you should be comfortable with basic econometrics as this is a major presumption of the course.
The professors and TF for this class are incredible. Having them available is what makes this the class people probably dream of having at other places. I feel lucky to be at a college that has classes like this one available.
This class is geared toward the individual who wants to write a senior thesis or is seriously considering writing one. I would not recommend this course to anyone who is not interested in doing a lot of work outside the classroom. This class requires that you spend a lot of time on your own doing research. There are certainly high returns to this, but probably not for someone who is not seriously interested in writing a senior thesis.
This is the best econ course I have taken yet at Harvard. Professors Goldin and Katz are truly amazing, as is Rebecca. The paper is such a rewarding experience. Take this class.
This was one of the best courses that I have taken at Harvard. The professors and TF are amazing, and they are all very helpful as you work through the final research paper. If you want to write a thesis, this course is a great place to start.
it exposes you to a lot of common themes and interesting topics of education, which almost everyone can relate to! also, the feedback from writing the junior paper is constructive and really helpful. (also laid out in a nice timeline, so you don't have too much work at the end!)
It's in a seminar format but hardly any discussion. There are some loose assignments, but grading is basically a question mark and not emphasized. Think about a research project early on, and definitely reach out to the instructors/tf if you need help (they are fantastic at giving feedback and suggestions!).
I thoroughly enjoyed the class! The professors were great and extremely helpful! But, if you're not at all interested in education, don't take it!
Take this class if you're interested in learning about the main findings related to education and if you want to produce your own original research on a topic in education.  It is very rewarding to have a completed piece of work at the end of the semester.  Professor Goldin and Professor Katz are also fantastic!  This is a great opportunity to get to know them better.
This is a rare opportunity to take a small class with not just one but TWO fantastic professors in the economics department. Professors Goldin and Katz are truly the authorities in this field. Highly recommended!
Week-to-week, the course has a relaxed feel to it and the discussions are usually quite interesting. The paper is time consuming but rewarding.
This class is a phenomenal junior seminar. Professor Goldin and Katz are wonderful, accessible, and extremely knowledgeable. If you're at all interested in education, take it!
Good class, discussions were pretty laid back. Don't wait until the last minute to work on your research paper, and you'll get a lot out of it.
This class is amazing! Professor Goldin and Professor Katz are both so engaging as lectures and in facilitating discussion, and they are seriously so knowledgable about the material. The papers read each week are thoughtfully chosen and relevant, and the mini assignments are actually really interesting, since you're looking at real data and drawing conclusions in a basic, but still important, way. The professors are both so supportive and take a genuine interest in all of the students, and you rarely have the chance to get to know such highly-regarded professors and economists so personally (and they're both wonderful). I highly recommend this course!
This class is amazing! Katz and Goldin are great resources and know so much.
Take this class if you're lotteried into it, as it's a great opportunity to do research and work with top professors. BUT you've gotta be passionate about education. I realized pretty quickly that I am not, which made it tough to get myself to read several long journal articles per week (so I didn't, which probably lessened my enjoyment of the class). It was still a good class, just not as good as it could've been. As for the research paper--start early, and again have a topic you're passionate about, as it makes it so much better. You'll be annoyed that you have a draft due in early April, but relieved when you're also juggling 2984372 other things at the end of the semester.
This is an incredible class! Professor Katz and Professor Goldin are both incredible and they give super detailed feedback. Take this class if you're willing to put in the time and willing to take their feedback!
Great opportunity to gain confidence in the research process. Professor Goldin and Professor Katz are a wonderful teaching team, and they are very accessible. The research paper is challenging and rewarding.
This course is awesome. The professors are amazing. The opportunity to get to interact with them as you work on a paper is invaluable.
Only enroll in the course if you really are interested in education economics and you really want to spend a significant chunk of your semester on a research paper.
Great class if you enjoy the topic. Professors Goldin and Katz are so entertaining in class and, along with Jessica the TF, provide great feedback. Jessica was very accessible and helped me a ton with using Stata so if you don't think that your State skills are amazing, don't let that stop you from taking this course. Don't start thinking about your topic too late, and do not wait until the last minute to write it. The class is enjoyable if you don't procrastinate too much.
Take this course if you're the least bit interested in education and labor economics. The simple fact that you get to work with Professors Katz and Goldin should be more than enough to attract you to this course. They are extremely knowledgable about the material and have a great passion for teaching it, and are quite capable at it. The course does require a daunting paper, however, that is harder to come up with as a topic than it is to write. The writing is enjoyable. The readings are not that long and are not really necessary, but are very interesting nonetheless.
Great class! START THE PROJECT EARLY, particularly thinking about your data.
you will get out of this class what you put into it! Professor Goldin and Professor Katz are amazing leaders in their field. I just wish that I had invested more in this course- it is easy to procrastinate and let your project be very last minute and very stressful- but  if you start early and consult with the professors and TF, you can really produce some great work.
Challenging class that engages the intersection of how education affects the economy. The research paper is difficult, but extremely rewarding at the end of the class.
Very interesting class with two great professors and TF.
If you are at all interested in education and writing a thesis definitely take this course. Professors Katz and Goldin are incredibly knowledgeable, helpful, and generally engaged in a way that I haven't seen before. These are top notch faculty that care, take the opportunity where you can.
Top 3 classes I've taken at Harvard. Do it if you can get in!
This class is great if and only if you care deeply about education
Professor Goldin and Professor Katz are the best in their fields. Take this class and you will learn a ton. They will push you hard and will help you throughout the way in your research.
This class was amazing. I learned so much about the history and economics of education, and got to write a research paper about a topic I was passionate about. The professors and TF are always so nice to help students in office hours and guide them on the paper. I wish I could take another class with them in the future!
This is an incredible class and gives you a sense on whether your want to write a thesis or not. Prof. Goldin and Prof. Katz bring decades of research experience and insights to class and were very helpful during the research process. The weekly readings consist of 3-4 papers on topics that ranged from student debt to higher education. The class culminates in a final research paper on a topic you're interested in. I learned how to write a Economics paper and analyze large datasets in Stata.
It's a great class on education in the economy. The best part is writing a research paper with specific, helpful feedback from Professors Goldin and Katz, who are very dedicated to their undergraduate students.
If you are even remotely interested in Education you should take this course!
Great feedback and great and essential course material delivered by two experts in Katz and Goldin. It really is a win-win-win.
Katz and Goldin are both incredible people and awesome professors.  I would take the class just to get to know them better.
This is an AMAZING class to take, especially if you're interested in writing a thesis. Professor Goldin and Professor Katz are incredibly knowledgeable, passionate about the topic, and very funny. The lectures are very relevant to stuff we hear about in the news (especially with the election), and the readings are reasonable and guided by discussion questions. A big chunk of the work you put in the class will be your final research paper. I don't think I've ever put in so much effort on a paper, but it was totally worth the time put in. I feel much more confident about doing research now, and I've gotten much closer with the Econ department as well because of how much time I spent there. My STATA skills have gotten better though!
Getting to know Professor Goldin and Katz was a great experience. I enjoyed how the class was capped, lending to better discussion among students. A lot of guidance is provided for the research project, and you should make sure to seek out help and attend office hours as much as possible.
