The variety of sub-topics kept the discussion new and interesting each week-- the syllabus accurately reflects what the class was like. I enjoyed the research paper process, and Nathan was always willing to make time to meet outside of class!
This seminar is worth taking if you are interested in economic policymaking and government interventionwhat you read / study closely matches the course description, and the readings are quite manageable, with response papers and in-depth discussions that ensure that you retain / understand a lot of what you cover. Nathan makes this course worth taking even if you aren't interested in the subjecthe is so sharp, great at facilitating kind and productive class discussions, and incredibly responsive with feedback on assignments / other queriesprobably the most responsive professor I've had at Harvard!
If you are just interested a bit in public finance and are thinking about writing a thesis, TAKE THIS CLASS!!! Nathan is so wonderfully happy and enthusiastic all the time !! It is very refreshing and fantastic to have a happy professor for once !
Very interesting class with a light workload and a very intelligent and personable professor.
This class is a lot of reading and he is hard on grading.
I can't say enough good things about this course. The professor is amazing. The TF was amazing. The level of the class was very high and challenging. The readings were a lot of fun. The discussions were facilitated extremely well by the professor. The topics were relevant. The final paper was the most interesting part.The semester is backloaded, meaning most of the work will take place towards the end, as a result of the final paper. However, they get you thinking and started on the paper very early which keeps you from cramming at the end. The response papers each week may seem like a lot but they make the class discussions so much more interesting and force you to read deeply into the readings.
This was one of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard. Professor Hendren is amazing; you should definitely lottery for it.
Nathan is an absolutely phenomenal professor. If you're ready to really dive into questions of policy and pull back out your econometrics toolkit, then this class is for you. Be prepared to do the weekly readings and have opinions about the methodology used within. Beyond that, the research component is amazing and gives a ton of flexibility for whatever topic you want to choose.
This is a great course with a great professor and TF. You can basically write about anything in your final paper, and Nathan and Lisa will help you every step along the way.
Fantastic junior seminar! Diverse set of topics and interesting readings/discussions each week. Final paper is long and requires effort, but good learning experience if you're willing to put in the time.
Work on the research paper throughout the semester and make weekly office hour appointments to keep yourself on track. Do the readings carefully so you can follow the 2-hour discussions, which are primarily focused on criticizing the papers' methodology/theory.
This is one of the best classes at Harvard! Nathan Hendren is an excellent professor who leads wonderful discussions and gives thoughtful feedback on assignments (and grading is very fair). One of the coolest professors at Harvard! Furthermore, all of the discussions and readings for this class are very interesting/engaging. One thing to note is that this course is a lot of work (but this is true for most/all junior econ seminars). If possible, you should definitely take this class.
Nathan and Lisa are wonderful and really take time to give feedback on your assignments to help you succeed. Nathan has such a great grasp on a variety of topics, and this will allow you to apply ec1123 to analyze many current events.
This course was an incredible opportunity to learn more about policy and the cutting edge of economic research. I took Ec1420 this fall, and this course was a perfect continuation of that experience. The readings for each week always felt thoughtfully selected and provided the basis for a good class discussion. Nathan is absolutely brilliant and was great at facilitating discussion. The work on the final project seemed to come naturally, through a gradual and reasonable process. I could not recommend this class enthusiastically enough. If you think you might be interested in writing a thesis, you should take an Ec 980. And if you think that thesis might be related to the American economy with any sort of focus on government intervention, you should take this 980.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Professor Hendren is an AMAZING teacher and unbelievably kind! Class discussions were always incredibly thought-provoking. The research paper seems daunting but it is unbelievable how much support Professor Hendren and Lisa go out of their way to give us!
