A great course at a great facility.  The guest lecturers are among the best you'll see at Harvard; the size is fairly large, so make sure to come prepared with questions and be prepared also never to get the chance to ask them.
It is one of the only courses in the nation designed to get students thinking of national security from an economic perspective.  The academic diversity in the room also contributes much to the learning.
This class was my quintessential Harvard experience and the class that I am most likely to vividly remember 20 years from now.
This is a fantastic opportunity to understand national security issues if you are really interested in the topic. The free dinner at the faculty club is great, but three hours can be a long time to sit and listen if you're only slightly interested in the topic of the week.
like no other course at Harvard. unbelievable opportunity
You will learn a lot.
The course is a great experience. You get to interact with world-renowned speakers (world leaders, great thinkers, practitioners) over a delicious meal at the Harvard Faculty Club every week, in addition to meeting economics students at the College and graduate programs and members of the national security community.
There are few courses at HKS that provide access to the decision makers of our time like Economics and National security
Apply for this unique opportunity to hear powerful narratives on global security.  It leverages the convening power of Harvard (and Prof. Feldstein) to bring in true global leaders in each of the subjects.  Plan extra time after each session to get to know the amazing cohort that forms to take this course.
Great course.
Come to each seminar ready to participate in the discussion and ask questions. Do some of the readings to prepare for the topic of discussion. Use the other students in the class as resources and stay connected after leaving the course.
This is a fantastic class that will highlight how economics plays a role in the world.
This is an incredible class in terms of the speakers and discussion topics - something that your average college student doesn't get to experience regularly.
This is an excellent course that, if you put the time in with the readings and engage with the speakers during the questions portion, is extremely valuable to anyone interested in the intersection of economics and national security.
Fascinating discussions bringing many different views together.
This is a class that you will remember for the rest of your life. You get to meet some of the world's largest decision-makers and thinkers, and speak to them directly and extensively about their fields. Prof. Feldstein's humor and wisdom makes the dinners so smooth and informative. He is definitely someone you should meet and speak to before you graduate.
access to incredible speakers
The best course I have taken at Harvard that married academics with real-world practitioners.
