Very qualitative course on macroeconomics. Good as a fairly general and broad survey of the state of the world economy, and generally fairly stress-free other than the two days every two weeks for the writing assignments.
Professor Jorgenson is an impressive personality and dedicated to help every single student to get ahead.
If you want to understand the state of the world economy, take this class. It really teaches you about the direction the world is headed over the next ten years.
This class was very enjoyable in certain ways but also somewhat frustrating.
Be wary of this class. The material is a bit repetitive and Prof Jorgenson espouses one specific view of many issues that you then have to repeat in the essay prompts. That said, it does cover a wide range of topics and leaves you understanding the world economy a bit better, but you could probably get the same from reading a book.
Excellent class if you want to gain a good overview of the world economy, with just enough depth. This is the class you want to take if you want to be able to "talk economics". The 48-hour papers will test your mettle, especially if your other assignments fall within the same time-frame. Use the material from the slides to answer the questions, whenever in doubt. Professor Jorgenson is knowledgeable and approachable -- so make sure you make full use of your time with him!
Gives a great overview over the current state of the world economy and about interesting fields like sustainability, demographics and trade. The course is more on the production side, and does't talk too much e.g. about financial markets. If you are used to more theoretical courses, this one might be a bit superficial.
Prof. Jorgenson is great. He is very kind and genuinely interested in his students. However sometimes his lectures are difficult to follow. It is also helpful to have an understanding of international institutions going into the course.
The best class I have taken so far!
Difficult class, especially the papers. Very hard to gage how they are graded - they seem to evaluate how much attention you paid to specific notes the Professor made in class, rather than a general understanding of the topics. The average is 7.5 out of 10 for the papers. Lectures were hardly exciting, but the Professor makes a big effort to get to know his students and seems like a good person. For the papers, you will most likely pull all nighters for most of them, so really think about whether this is worth it for you.
Discussions on very practical matters on the current world economy, but with more academic materials than otherwise available, and a great, knowledgable professor, who is always open to listening to the students' questions in between subjects covered. Professor Jorgenson also goes out of his way to meet all his students - sitting with him during his office horus was very enriching. The class, in general, is a great way of understanding what is happening, why it is happening, and what the future entails. The curve is not easy though!
Do not take this course unless you're willing to literally practically little or you prefer to do little work on a weekly basis. Also, stay away if Elaine Chung is the TF, and keep in mind that Jorgenson spends almost the first half of every class talking about completely unrelated material, and fails to cover most of the lesson plan, but then expects you to know that for the writing assignments. The writing assignments were not too bad, but were graded in the weirdest way possible without the tiniest bit of thought put into them or into the feedback and the grades you receive.
This course provides a great overview of the world economy, teaches the students a lot about current events. Professor Jorgensen is also very interested in his students and is therefore very helpful in all situations. The writing assignments can be stressful, but as long as you keep up with readings and lectures the writing assignments are not too difficult and time consuming. They are also very educational but sometimes difficult. The course overall is really interesting. I could really recommend this class!
Be sure to do all of the readings and attend section!  The 48-hour papers can be quite a time crunch, but if you learn how to write one early on in the semester you should be fine.
The course is an interesting survey in world economic affairs. A lot of students will enjoy it if they aren't exposed to a lot of the pressing events that are covered in papers. There are a few things to note, however. 1)The essay questions were incredibly broad. Sometimes it felts like 5 pages wasn't enough to address the topic. The last essay gave us five pages to explain five topics! That was absurd. There was ultimately very little argumentation allowed--it felt like we were summarizing readings a lot. 2) The grading of essays was quite arbitrary. 3) Jorgensen is a great professor, and his care for his students is what makes this class special.
- good for learning, but not critical thinking
While lectures are dry and occasionally entail Professor Jorgenson just walking you through data, the class does cover interesting topics in a digestible manner.
It is a class with few assignments but the 48 hour writing assignments can be stressful so start on those early. Grading seems very subjective and sometimes, I didn't understand what was needed to get full credit. Prompts are also very vague at times and you can't get any help from the TF. Overall, a great class for understanding the large world economy.
Take this course! I left with a broader vision of the economies of the world. A better and more multifaceted understanding of what happened in 2008. Do all the readings (they were hand-picked by Jorgensen and well worth your time). And go to section (and include the section-note ideas in your papers!).
A fantastic course. It is a privilege to learn from Professor Jorgenson. This is a great class if you want to be able to "talk about the economy," and even politics, with others. The 5-paper format has pros and cons. You should set aside those days to do your assignments. However, the course is somewhat low stress besides those days. Also, be sure to attend section - it is VERY helpful!
Take this if you are very interested in the topic, as lecture can get pretty dry at times. Professor Jorgenson is very welcoming and eager to get to know his students so don't be shy, get into his office hours. Attend the review sections! They make writing the essay much better and you will definitely get better marks.
Take this if you're looking for a doable, qualitative economics course. Be prepared for "on weeks" and "off weeks" - when you have a unit paper (of which there are 5), be ready to spend 5-10 hours on it across 2 days, but you may not have any out-of-class work the following week. Always go to section.
This is a fun and interesting class, a true application of economic concepts seen throughout the concentration. Looking for a class to teach you about today's economy and remind you why you chose economics as a concentration? Look no further, Jorgenson is a world-class economist and teacher, you won't regret taking this!
Again, very very dry.  Even if you are interested in the material.
This was the BEST course I have EVER taken. If you actually do all of the reading, you will likely get an A. And you will learn a TON.
This course's assignment structure was very difficult - be aware that you will need to devote a significant chunk of time on Tuesdays and Wednesdays to completing the writing assignments. That being said, I felt like the intensity was well worth it. Professor Jorgenson is an expert in his field, communicates some really interesting and important material on the modern world economy, and is interested in learning about you.
This is a sneaky hard class, but it's very rewarding in the end!  The lectures can be dry, but pay attention and take notes because it's difficult to catch up in the 48 hours you have to write the papers.  Definitely take the time to get to know Professor Jorgenson, his wife Linda, and his assistant Trina--go to their Halloween party!  And take the time to talk to Nihar (or whoever the TF is) about your papers and how to improve on them.  The course can be discouraging at times because the papers are tough, but in the end you'll have learned a lot about some very relevant economic issues from a professor who actually meets with world leaders to solve the issues.  Take it!
This class revolves around 5 short essays that you will prepare throughout the semester. It is in your best interest to learn how to write one of these papers as soon as possible when you start the course. These are quantitatively driven papers that require facts that should be picked up on in lectures or from the readings.
Be prepared to work a lot during the writing assignments. Whilst 5 two day assignments may not seem like a lot, you almost always spend at least 1 night into the early morning hours working on it.
Be prepared to give up 10 days in the semester just writing papers for this class - those 48-hour windows are short but intense.
Good way to fulfill the writing requirement! Take this class to get to know Professor Jorgenson!!
This course teaches a broad yet informative overview of how the different economies in the world are performing and the reasons behind them. Every econ major who want to have an intelligent conversation about economics should take this course.
The papers are tough but Jorgenson does a great job of giving a broad overview of the subject matter. You learn a lot about the different world economies. Just be prepared to clear your schedule the weeks when the papers are due.
I thought this class was interesting enough, but not worth the work. We essentially had 5 take home exams. It was extremely stressful and effectively meant every other week I was pulling an all nighter.
get ready to spend a lot of time once every two weeks on an essay!!
This class is fair, interesting, and well run. The lectures will not hold your interest easily, but if you become engaged with the relevant and accurate materials of the course, you will definitely find it to be rewarding.
Only take the course if you're actually interested in the material. And while doing the 5 page paper in 2 days doesn't sound too tough on paper, keep in mind that this is happening along with all your other commitments. Grading is also kind of arbitrary - not really sure what the TF is looking for, and still don't really know.
I liked the topics of this class; it really provided an in-depth analysis about the status of the world economy post-financial crisis as well as predictions of future growth.  The writing assignments (given Tuesday and given til Thursday to write them) were a bit annoying; you literally have to block off those days to write.  Definitely do not take with a heavy courseload or if most of your classes occur TTh.
Good course with broad survey view of world economic growth. Don't expect to gain an in-depth understanding of any particular topic though. Jorgenson is a great professor.Overall, good course. Take it.
Not worth it.  Getting into the class can be kind of an ego trip because the professor picks people partially based on the prestige of their summer internships on their resumes.  Looking back now, that process is a little unsettling.  Certain content was repeated many times in lectures (red-yellow-blue component chart of growth), and the professor often gets combative when asked questions by students.  The writing assignments require no significant original thought, and you'll get counted off for mis-phrasing of words, not the merit of your argument.  There are positives: the wine and cheese was nice, and the professor tries to get to know you as a person.  However, I left feeling unsatisfied.  The past Q scores are a bad indication of this course experience.
Fantastic class and fantastic professor. Professor Jorgenson is a true gem at Harvard and is very interested in his students. Even for an extra-curricular activity I'm involved in about monetary policy, Professor Jorgenson was very willing to meet outside of class and assist. Take this course if you can.
This is a must--it is a rare opportunity to discuss world economic growth with an expert such as Professor Jorgenson.
capstone ec class - worth it and essays make you learn
Great content. Probably the best (and only?) survey of international macroeconomics offered by the Ec department. Lectures might put you to sleep, but they're helpful summaries of the readings. I liked the 5 short paper format; painless way to fulfill writing requirement. Yeah, having them assigned on Tuesday and due on the same Thursday sucked, but you got used to it. Sometimes got paper grades docked for not knowing random things that the TF knew about the topics and that weren't focused on by the readings or lectures, but not a huge problem. Jorgenson, despite not being the best lecturer, is a great person and takes an interest in all of his students.
I LOVED this class.  I learned a ton. The 48-hour window for papers was actually great because it made it easier to be concise rather than agonize over the paper for days/weeks.  The prompts for those essays were written in a way that I felt would help me remember the highlights of the course whenever I look back at them. Suggested reading was never dry, and was from sources that I will continue to follow up on even after the class now that I know how to read them.  Jorgenson is great! He is probably the professor with the most interest in undergraduates that I've had in the economics department at Harvard so far (and I'm a senior). Also, he was a wine/cheese/sushi/beer party that he hosts, and you should go. I don't often keep in touch with professors after classes, but I will keep in touch with him for sure. If I could take this class again I 100% would.
First off, professor Jorgenson really cares about his students - if you get into this class, make sure to connect with him during office hours and at any other opportunity. He is very welcoming and generous with his time. This course is an excellent fit if the topics are of interest to you, it is extremely wide ranging and will give a broad overview of some recent work done in these areas. The assessments though short in length take more time than you'd imagine and you should budget in the biweekly intensive.
Good course overall to learn about the world economies but really make sure you are interested in the syllabus before taking the course. The five page essays were always a struggle to write in the 3 days, considering that they were always broad topics that seemed to touch upon everything mentioned in lecture. TF was good at explaining the concepts in the review session but gave no help in understanding what went into a good essay. Form a study group because it will be really helpful when writing the essays. The Halloween party is fun and Jorgenson is a very nice professor.
You will learn a lot in this class and gain broad knowledge over many topics. Just beware of the papers -- even though they're 5 pages they take quite a while to write and are a bit too broad -- try to budget around 15 hours to write them if you want to do a good job. Professor Jorgenson is an incredible professor and makes an effort to get to know everyone in the class, which is not something I have experienced in any other econ classes at Harvard. Would recommend for anyone needing a writing requirement class.
Lectures do not provide much value-add. Read the materials, although there is a great amount.
Prof. Jorgensen is a great professor to take a course with as he is accessible (sometimes hard to find in Ec) and very knowledgeable on most of the subjects we cover, meaning he has actually advanced the field we are covering. I really liked the course material, but I noticed a fair amount of people start skipping lecture toward the end of the semester. Also, the writing assignments are definitely a challenge with the 48 hour window, but I enjoyed doing several of them.
Prof. Jorgenson is an amazing professor who truly cares about his students. The material is highly interesting and well presented. Prof. Jorgenson is an expert in the field and is able to teach the most important facts and trends of the world economy in the last three decades including a forecast  within one semester. Section was also very helpful in preparing for the papers. And also, the wine and cheese party is amazing.  Great class to take if you can get in. The 5 papers do take a while but in the end they're worth taking this wonderful class.
Professor Jorgenson really cares about getting to know his students. More than any professor I have ever had.
Professor Jorgenson is an incredible lecturer and mentor. Take the opportunity to enroll in one of his courses, and look at his seminars in the event the class is highly lotteried. Very impressive with the breadth & depth of his knowledge, and his focus on connecting with undergraduates is unmatched.
Each of the five papers are demanding but also very rewarding. They force you to get a lot out of the class by requiring your thoughtful critical analysis of each prompt. I would recommend for anyone who is genuinely interested in the subject matter of the course.
If you are interested in macro economics and the financial crisis, you have to take this course.
Great class and I learned a ton, but don't let the 5 short papers fool you. It ends up being a lot of work when those papers are due, especially with less than 48 hours to finish each one.
take it because of the professor. Unparalleled in the ec department
This is an excellent class that covers some very interesting and relevant topics! The 5 essays are not fun, but the course is worth it!
This is a great empirical look at contemporary events in US and international economics. Prof. Jorgenson is great.
This is an awesome course and everyone, who is interested in the current crisis and problems in the world should take this course. Sometimes it is tough with the writing assignments because you get the questions only 2 days in advance but it is definitely doable. And every student will be invited to a wine-and-cheese party by professor Jorgenson!
You really learn a lot in this course, and Professor Jorgenson is awesome.
Interesting material and great Professor. Wine and cheese party is great!
This class is incredibly interesting.  My only regret is that I couldn't put as much time into it as I would've liked to.
This is really a wonderful class, which will help you better understand recent economic events such as the financial crisis and sovereign debt crisis and broader economic trends such as the rise of Asia.  Professor Jorgenson is a very engaging lecturer and really cares about his students.
This is a great class to fulfill your Econ writing requirement and if you're really interested in the material, but otherwise you would probably find this class pretty dry. However, Professor Jorgenson really wants to meet with every student in the class, and he was a great and personable professor.
Great overview and analysis of the current world macro events. You don't have to go to class because the tf provides you with the concise summary needed to write your papers at the end of each unit. But GO anyways! Professor Jorgenson is an amazing professor and it is worth getting to know him in person!
This class is great! Professor Jorgenson makes this an outstanding and lively class. The limitation to 30 students made sure that the students in this class were very interesting and multi-faceted.
This is a great course, and a chance to take a class with a professor in the ec department who actually makes an effort to get to know his students (very rare, and a great opportunity). The material is interesting, and definitely stuff that any student graduating with an economics degree should know. The one thing to be aware of is that there is only one TF, who is not helpful-- she does not provide feedback on papers and often cannot answer questions during reviews.
Professor Jorgenson is one of the most enthusiastic and dedicated professors at Harvard.  By taking this course, you will learn a lot about how the more theoretical concepts covered in Ec10, Ec1010/11 series are relevant to current problems in the real world.
This class is all about the current economic state of the world and where the future lies. If nothing else, this is really interesting material, but Professor Jorgenson has also been the best economics professor I've taken a class with and the smaller size of the class really makes it an intimate experience where everyone knows each other to some extent. Professor Jorgenson also makes an effort to get to know each student in the class, which really makes this class the one class I've taken in three years where a professor put as much effort into getting to know me as I did him.
Probably the best Economics writing requirement class you could take.
The lectures can be a little dry, but the professor is absolutely phenomenal, genuinely takes an interest in you, and discusses very interesting and current material. Definitely take this class if you get the chance.
If you get in- take it.  Professor Jorgenson is highly impressive, a great communicator, and actually takes time to get to know students.  He is unparalleled in the Harvard Economics Department and deserves the highest possible recommendation.
Professor Jorgenson is great, he might even invite you all over to his home if you are a lucky class.  Also, know your current events/cultural background because Jorgenson will call you out.
Subject material was extremely interesting (to me), the assignments were not that difficult and lecture was good.  If you can get in (limited to 30) this is definitely worth it.
The class can be a little slow at times but the professor is very personable and the subject matter is very relevant to current event economics
Professor Jorgenson was great.  He's very enthusiastic about the material and makes sure to get to know you well.  The material was taught in a clear, easy-to-understand way, and I've learned so much about the world economy that I feel everyone should know.  The five essays were very manageable and took about 8 hours each.  They're very good preparation for the working world as well as academic one.  If you get in the class, congratulations because it probably means your extremely smart, and take it.
This is, by far, the most enjoyable economics course that I have taken at Harvard. While there is a lot of reading to get through, all of the assigned readings are worth your attention. If you want to gain a deeper understanding of the Global Financial Crisis and if you want to see the international implications of this most recent crisis, I would highly recommend this course. Plus, Professor Jorgenson genuinely cares about his students, and he'll make it a point to get to know you better than almost any other professor at Harvard even try.
An educational and painless way to accomplish your writing requirement. Jorgensen is a biased, but effective presenter.
This course won't be life-changing but it will ground you in important knowledge about the current macroeconomic landscape.
Take this class. Prof. Jorgenson made this class. He really makes an effort to get to know the students, which is slightly surprising for such a distinguished economist. Go to his office hours, attend his wine and cheese party, invite him to faculty dinner. Just get to know him. He's a wonderful person.With regards to the material, I learned much more about international macroeconomics than I did in ec 10 and ec 1010 combined. It really gave an up-to-date picture of where the different world economies are today, and the problems facing conducting economic research. Writing assignments are easy, manageable, and very reasonable graded.
This is a great almost seminar-style class where you get exposed to many interesting topics that you can pursue for further study/in a junior paper or thesis.
It's a small class in the economics department with a really nice professor!  There aren't enough classes like this
The class is well-taught but make sure the material interests you, because it's a bit dry. The class focuses a lot on how to measure Growth and Crisis.
go to all lectures, they're great!
I am a graduting senior and this has been one of hte best classes I have taken so far.
It is extremely well taught, and it offers one of the rare opportunities to interact closely with a great professor.  The material is really relevant, and the quizzes offer you a chance to express your own opinions.  Be prepared to write a long paper, though.
The class is very interesting and the professor is great, but be prepared for a substantial amount of reading and writing.
Great class if you are really interested in the subject.  Some lectures can be a bit dry but overall I learned a ton.
