Such an interesting way to look at environmental problems - will change your perspective on regulation and policy.
The information taught in this class is fascinating and very pertinent to world issues today.
"Too bad you didn't take the course when Ms. Jack and Ms. Rostapshova were course assistants!"
Very interesting material that everyone should know! Not too much work. Funny professor.
fun, interesting, and not confusing even for non-economics concentrators
This course is a great way to apply basic economics to environmental policy.
only take it if you have to.
If you're at all interested in economics and / or the environment, or even if you have no prior interest, I highly recommend this class.  Lectures are fun to go to, and the subject material is really interesting and highly relevant in today's world.
Grading is relative to everyone else in the class, so you should be on your A game!
Prof. Stavins says that one goal of the course is to convince students that it is not a contradiction to be both an environmentalist and an economist, and he succeeds.  But the teaching staff needs to do a better job of supporting that.
If you want to think intelligently about environmental issues - which will become increasingly important - you should take this class.
An interesting class that is pretty low-stress.
In today's world where environmental problems have multidimensional consequences and implications, this course serves as an excellent introduction to the economics of the environment that helps us think critically about what is happening around the world.
Wonderful course, I highly enjoyed it.
should have an interest in environmental issues and a background in economics
Prof. Stavins makes these topics very interesting.
not necessarily an easy class, but worth it - learn important concepts about environmental economics, professor is very good
It's boring, but it's fairly easy. The material and applications are quite cool though.
There is no guidance in terms of how to improve on problem sets or exams.  They are way to harsh in their grading. They never use the textbook so you can't supplement the lectures with outside information.
Good way to see how powerful economics can be. Super important if you are interested in actually being a politician. not too hard. good senior class. repetitive but as a result very thorough and deep. funny professor.
It has interesting subject matter and has a relatively light workload.
If you are interested in policy applications of economics, this is a great class.
Very good class that is extremely useful and not too difficult.
well organised, great instructor, interesting material
Relevant and important perspective for understanding current events and politics, including but not limited to environmental issues
Difficult. Must take good hand written notes. Computers not allowed
Take this course if you REALLY enjoy economics, no matter how mundane the particular subject.
an interesting foray into material that provides a kinder look at the uses of economic analysis in guiding environmental policy
The class covers a daunting amount of material and getting it all down on exams is nearly impossible.
This is an interesting survey of how economic tools can be applied to environmental problems... I'm not sure I'll ever really trust economics, though.
Take it!
It's fun and interesting. TAKE IT.
The class is great! The lectures are entertaining and interesting and you will learn a lot. If you feel like you've been learning the same stuff over and over in Ec 10 and Ec 1010 and other economics courses, this class will be a breath of fresh air. Yes - concepts from Ec 10 keep appearing, but you will learn a lot more than that.
Stavins is a fantastic lecturer, seems a little dry at first but wait until he starts cracking jokes--you'll laugh at least 5 minutes a day. The no-laptop policy really helps you stay focused in class and it actually flies by because he adds one or two of his own stories (usually pretty funny) each class.
great foundational class for learning about climate change and the economics behind it. a very straightforward class with most of the material you need coming from lecture
This class is like Economics 10 and ESPP 78 smashed together into one class. It's a hard class if you aren't an Econ concentrator, so keep on your toes with the concepts since the course seems deceptively easy at first.  If you're taking this class because you're interested in economics and the environment (i.e. you aren't taking this class because you have to), it's a good class, but be prepared to put in work for it. The material is interesting, although all of the economic concepts can get pretty dry at times.  Oh, and beware of the midterm, it's hard and worth a large percentage of your grade as is the final... If you don't like structured harvard courses (i.e. not having to attend section and not worrying too much about the grades you get on your problem sets), this class is for you.
It's exactly what it advertises: fundamentals in environmental economics and policy. It's interesting, practical stuff, and Stavins is a good lecturer.
More policy than number oriented - does a great job of telling you what you need to know.
A perfect course for someone who is interested in a broad overview of environmental policy and economics, particularly on air quality and climate change.
come prepared
Not too difficult conceptuallyHour and a half Lectures are somewhat long
Interesting material and a good way to get exposure to environmental economics
If you would like to understand what is going on in the real world in regards to environmental policy and climate change policy on a deeper level take this course!
Great survey course of everything going on in environmental ec and policy
Even though the lectures are sometimes dry, this class has a very light work load and still presents very interesting arguments about various environmental regulations from different standpoints and culminates with climate change policy which is very relevant and up-to-date to what is going on today in both the economic and political spheres.  This course requires no science background.
This class is extremely organized - there are no surprises. Material is presented at a reasonable pace and Stavins does a good job keeping to the syllabus. Stavins is a solid lecturer who can intersperse dry humor into the lecture to keep things interesting. The workload is very manageable.
Ec 1661 is a truly great class. It teaches you about a really interesting subject, and professor Stavins is incredible.
It's a great class and Stavins is a wonderful professor.  He is both funny and engaging, and is also very clear when explaining concepts.
If you are going to work for either government or non profit organization where you design or evaluate environmetal policy, this is a must course.
This is a must-take class if you are interested in Environmental issues and really want to make a difference.
Lecture was interesting and engaging and lots of guidance was provided on the problem sets.
This class is challenging because it is not curved and you are competing against at least half grad students and the midterm/final are nearly all that factor into your final grade.
This class was very straight forward and not too much work. I hardly went to the optional section but the TFs were all very helpful and I enjoyed Stavins's lectures. The reading material was great as well and it wasn't overwhelming! Take the class if you're at all interested in environmental/econ policy.
At first, I hated Stavins because I thought he was just another economist. But as the weeks progressed, his humor and realistic/straightforward/non-partisan attitude was very refreshing and engaging. The psets were not hard; they were always taken from the lectures, so it was easy to do well on them. Same for exams, but the class is graded on a curve, so watch out. He goes quickly through the material, but as long you pay attention and attend class, you'll be fine. As for the readings, they are useful for some questions on the psets, but they were also nice supplements to the lectures. Overall, this class was amazing, would highly recommend!
This course will be hard and easy all at the same time.
The material is pretty dry, but Stavins is a funny guy and an expert in the field.  Pretty low workload, but psets and exams will be tough if you don't put in any effort.
This class is quite easy, but not boring. I highly recommend as an elective if you want interesting lectures and not too much work.
Fun, engaging and relatively easy way to learn about the environment. Very heavily weighted to the midterm and final though so be ready for that.
This course helps put environmental issues into an economic framework, a necessary context in which to understand environmental policy.  It helped me to rethink how I approach my own passions and allowed me to analyze environmental issues from an economic perspective.  The lectures are engaging and the workload isn't too heavy, but do the readings because they are worthwhile.
Definitely attend office hours and talk with TF's about what they feel is important throughout
Professor Stavins is hilarious and a really entertaining lecturer.  I'm sure people will comment here that he is really pompous but if you just accept it it can make the class a lot more fun.  Also, don't expect a rigorous course from a technical perspective.  It is more focused on teaching you the basics.  You should expect to be able to follow all of the important news about environmental policy after taking this course.
Definitely make sure you have a decent background in microeconomics before you take this class. I was going to take this course last year without having taken EC 10, and I realize now it would've been a lot of catching up if I had. Anyway, Stavins is a fantastic man in his field, and is a great professor.
Good class, be sure to attend the lectures.
This class is unbelievably dry and useless.  I took this course because of the writing requirement and I am now regretting it.  This class is not only boring, but useless because of how dry the professor is, how many Kennedy School lecture heroes attend this course, and essentially the material is forgettable.
Really, really easy and gets quite interesting towards the end. Stavins clearly knows a ton about the topic.
This class was very well taught, very interesting, and very easy. Stavins is engaging and the material will be interesting for anyone with basic economic background and the slightest interest in the environment.
The course material is difficult but it is extremely interesting, especially if you are interested in the subject matter. It is pretty laid back (structure-wise), almost to the point of being too lax.
This class illustrates well how decision-making is made in the US. Prof. Stavins is the archetype of the Harvard professor, "frequently called by journalists and the White House" to make comments on about anything. It is strongly biased and discussion is not really encouraged unfortunately.
Reading the 'markets and the environment' book is a good addition to the lectures. That said, just focus on doing well on the midterm and finals (85% of your grade). For psets, working would others would be best--though the homework isn't too bad.
The amount of content will catch you off-guard towards the end.  Also, keeping each class's material in context by looking at the slides beforehand will keep it engaging.
If you are at all interested in either environmental policy or economics as it pertains to the environment, take this class! The workload is do-able, and the methods you learn are easily applicable in other economics courses.
readings aren't necessary, just pay attention in lecture. any lingering concerns should definitely be addressed to the TFs, because they know a lot and cover the required material in the review sections. Stavins comes out with unbelievably harsh comments, but as long as you're not caught off guard (ie stay focused and understand the class topics), you'll have a lot to learn from him - the guy has a lot of practical experience
Not a bad way to fulfill and ec requirement without much work. Interesting topic
Boring and Professor is arrogant. straightforward though.
Only take this class if you've already taken an intro-level economics class (like Ec. 10)
The lecture material is interesting and Prof Stavins is kind of funny. Beware that you'll have Kennedy School kids in the class who ask tons of dumb questions and who really hold up the class. The exams are pretty straight forward and are very reasonable if you've been going to class.
The content was interesting, but I didn't enjoy the powerpoint based lecture format.
Great lectures, interesting content, and modest workload.
It's a standard economics policy based course. It's interesting, but I think to get an A in it you really need a genuine interest environmental policy.
Fun class, very moderate workload, midterm/final are weighted a lot so watch out; Professor Stavins is fantastic and lectures are interesting, informative, and well-structured.
great econ elective
Very annoying class.
It was an easy, but very interesting class. The support structure was in place for those that needed more help, but going to sections and office hours were not necessary to doing well in the course. Stavins was a very funny, knowledgeable, and engaging lecturer. The class felt more like a policy, and less like an economics course though.
This course is pretty straightforward, Stavins is a good lecturer and a very clear presenter.  Shouldn't require that much effort to do well on, but Stavins makes a point that the curve in this class is slightly more rigorous than normal.
An excellent introduction to the topic, capably delivered.
I was excited about this course but it wasn't what I expected it would be. I often felt out of place or not prepared with other students that study this topic as their main focus. It was more difficult than I thought it would be and less interesting.
Great class! Makes me wish that I had concentrated in Economics sometimes and not environmental science and public policy. I really enjoy Stavins's anecdotes, the TF's are great, the assignments are good, and the mid-term exam wasn't too hard.
Professor Stavins does a great job presenting the material.
This is a great class! You should take it--Stavins tells great stories and at the end you'll feel like you have a better grasp of the concepts behind environmental policy and form a more informed opinion of what legislation is necessary to address global climate change.
I think this class is very interesting!  The topic is really cool and gives an interesting lens for looking at environmental issues and policies.
This class is basically a government class, not an economics class. It is not very quantitative, and will be a disappointment to people expecting to learn substantial economic analysis (you learn nothing above Ec 10 level analysis). Better suited to gov/ESPP people than Econ or Applied Math.
This course is accessable from all backgrounds, but definitely will require active engagement in lecture because things move fast. The assignments can be a little tricky but if you print out the section notes they are definitely doable. OVerall the workload for the course is pretty light, and while the midterm caught a lot of people by surprise the final was surprisingly general and easy. Stavins is a funny guy is his own dry way, and I ended up enjoying this course a great deal. Just don't get your hope up for a lot of discussion time or student input.
It's a great course and gives you a solid understanding of the main topics in environmental economics. However, it is very much a hands-off, impersonal, big lecture course. If you are looking for a more intimate learning setting, this is not it. The material is mostly fully absorbed when studying for the exams.
The class moves to slow and is not mathematical enough to be a good ec class.
Great economic intuition in this area, taught by a professor who has been at the table and knows the realities that exist.
Not the easiest class, but I definitely enjoyed it. It is taught in a straightforward manner, even if the material is sometimes difficult, and it is on you to put the time in to understand it.
Yes, very interesting material and great resources. Really improved my interest in economics and learned a lot about presidents' history with the environmental movement, which was really beneficial. Stavins is kinda rude, but he knows it, and it's entertaining,
This course is not as easy as it seems and requires you to keep up with readings.
Good to learn this material, but the course was not very well polished, and the structure was confusing.  Too much jargon, too little integration of concepts into a broader scheme.
The professor's charisma made a huge difference to this class. The TFs were amazing people too. THe final involves a lot of memorization.
I had high expectations for this class, but the first half of the class is pretty boring. It just does very heavy micro stuff and is rather dry and technical at times. The class picks up in the second half when we started talking more about policy and climate change.
The class is not a lot of work, but the midterms and final were deceptively difficult, in that the grading was harsh though the questions were easy. The lectures are also very dry, unfortunately, given that the topics covered warrant much more enthusiasm and discussion. I would only take it if you are required to.
Not much new knowledge about economics if you've taken Ec10, the material is not well-organized, lectures are too long for the amount of information that you are getting, and the exams and homework are not really fair (demand a lot of memorization, office hours can get overcrowded, etc.).
This is a really interesting course and Professor Stavins is a great lecturer. The amount of course material can seem overwhelming at times. I also object to courses that determine your grade based almost exclusively on 2 exams (the problem sets are worth very little).
This class has really good subject matter and I'm going into the environmental sector and am really happy I have had this.  Lectures are pretty dry but the Powerpoint slides are helpful.  I'd recommend taking it the year after you take Ec10.  I took it two years later and it was hard to remember the stuff, although there were review sessions at the beginning of the semester to help with that.
Interesting look at how to solve real world economic problems; one of the most applicable classes I've taken. I didn't love it. Stavins is the quintessential Harvard douchebag professor
Most ESPP majors have to take this class, but I loved it- I actually learned a lot from Professor Stavins and he can be pretty sassy in class, which is always entertaining. The lectures are long but not too bad and I thought the subject matter was really interesting!
Go to lecture...its easy to get lost. Pretty tough.
This class is confusing and can be pretty boring. It provides a basic overview of environmental economics but ultimately I do not feel like I learned a great deal of information.
Please don't take this class. You would be better off just reading the Markets and the Environment textbook by Keohane that is assigned for this class. Prof. Stavins in his lectures essentially repeats the same material but in less clear language. In addition, he is rude and disdainful of the students and actively discourages you from asking questions and would give very short and unhelpful answers to any questions you do get to ask. Finally, the grading in this class is very harsh and they take points off arbitrarily on the midterm, psets, and final. Even though I ended doing well in this class, I definitely regret taking it, and should have just spent the time I devoted to lecture just to reading the Keohane textbook.
this course gives you a good understanding of how economists evaluate environmental problems and provides a strong background on climate change policy. the course lacks in interesting questions and discussion.
Great overview on important issues and methods used in Environmental Economics.
Concepts you learn are very useful and applicable in life, the teaching style is great because it is focused on fundamental methods and intuitions derived from those methods.
It's a great class if you're interested in solving environmental issues through policy. Although it can be frustrating at times, you come out of it with a well-informed perspective on the economics behind current environmental issues.
Professor seems interesting at the beginning but the class is very fast paced, some things are not explained as thoroughly as they should for midterms. Overall, its not an easy course, be careful when choosing it.
the professor is engaging and you'll want to go to every lecture.
This class is an excellent introduction to environmental economics, and familiarizes students with some of the most interesting research areas in the field.
Kennedy school students are frustrating to have in class. Teaching staff is very lazy, but people find Stavins entertaining.
This course has a very reasonable workload and has good material, but the lectures can get monotonous.
This class can be a bit dry at times. However, I think it is worth taking if environmental economics is something you would like to gain a background in. It is also largely about climate change policy.
It's an easy class with interesting material but easy to fall behind and have no clue as to what's going on as the lectures are deathly boring, detailed slides are posted online, and attendance is far from mandatory. The material feels very relevant to today's political environment surrounding climate change, and Stavins is a key person in the field.
Do your reading.
Got me interested in environmental economics. Rob Stavins is a great lecturer but a little less approachable after class. The sections were helpful and outlined topics well. I learned a lot of basics about environmental economics but also about the policy of climate change.
This is the best class I have ever taken. I loved every class. Professor Stavins is great; the TFs are great.  Everything is reasonable and really interesting!
Exams and PSETs are straightforward, which will make it tough to stand out in this class.
This course introduces some new ways of thinking about economics and the environment.  The actual economics component is not particularly challenging if you have taken basic microeconomics before, but the application to global climate policy was really cool, and it's not a really difficult course so you can enjoy it without worrying too much about the tests.
This course is rather blase, but you will learn a fair amount about climate change policy, which is becoming more and more important.
This is a fantastic introduction to environmental economics. Though not quite as math based as I would have liked, it still covers all the basics quite thoroughly. As a graduate level course, ec 1661 is not easy, but if you are interested in the subject and put the time in you will get a lot out of this course. The course materials are really fantastic, in fact I ended up buying the books at the end of the semester. Professor Stavins is pretty funny, but I found lecture to be a bit too long and tedious, and would often lose focus despite my love of the subject. As long as you make sure to do the readings and study a lot for the exams you can do really well in this course even if you don't go to lecture.
I would recommend this course for anyone who is interested in climate change policy. The course gives you a good look into the economist that fuel climate change policy. At its heart, it isn't really an economics course, it is a economic policy course. That being said, it is still a great course.
It's an interesting economics class and a fairly painless way to fulfill an ec elective, but lectures were not always effective and the class seemed to drag on longer than it needed to.
Professor Stavins in one of those professors who is important outside of academia and he will let you know it. He knows the material and is comfortable presenting on it. He is a busy man so getting to know of outside of class if challenging.
If you are remotely interested in actually learning something - do now waste a class at Harvard on this class. If you are an ec concentrator this class will seem even more embarrassing to you. This was definitely one of the worst classes I've taken at Harvard. You can literally just spend the whole year reading lecturer notes and never go to lecture or attend section and know all there is to know. If that's appealing to you - great, but if you're looking for an academic experience below the level of middle school - stay away from this class
Some easy content, but not an easy class
While the exams aren't extremely difficult, the curve made the class feel too competitive.
The course offered a good introduction to environmental economics and policy. If you attend the lectures, and internalize all of the powerpoint lectures, you'll do well in the course.
If you are at all interested in pollution or climate change policy, this course is incredibly useful.  You start by understanding the economic basis for policy design and then apply it to relevant environmental concerns.  Professor Stavins is engaging and entertaining.
Keep up on the readings and study for the midterm and final well in advance
Awesome class. An essential course for anyone who wants to work in Energy/Climate policy.
Not only does this course present material that will applicable to my future endeavors, but it is also very interesting course content that covers a broad range of material.
Overall a very informative, interesting course. Professor Stavins is a giant in the field of enviro ec and it is cool to have taken a course taught by him. You can tell that he is excited by the material and it was great to be learning about techniques and environmental problems that are vitally important for analyzing and assessing our future. The TFs were also very friendly and accessible - happy to answer questions and go over concepts.The final and midterm were very fair exams that did not throw huge curve balls at us (not super common in my experience at Harvard). The course was low workload, but you still learn a lot - definitely recommend.
Good class to get an overview of the economics of the environment- take if you are interested in that.
This class is great! Stavins is a really good lecturer and everything you learn in this class is very tangible. Highly recommend!
This was a fantastic course. I learned so much about environmental ec, and further, I learned knowledge that is practical and will help me with a career in the environmental field. Prof. Stavin's is a good lecturer (with an enjoyable, if dry, sense of humor) and is a fountain of knowledge. Readings are good, problem sets are quite manageable, teaching staff is great.Also, don't be afraid if you don't have ec background. Just pay attention for the first couple weeks especially, and you'll be fine. I took this class with no prereqs (not even a high school ec course) and actually enjoyed it all the more because of it. If you don't know ec, you'll gain not only a knowledge of environmental ec, but also a general knowledge of economics, a better understanding of economic vocabulary, and a deeper appreciation for the discipline as a whole.
Class material is interesting but the professor reads off the slides and is not always very engaging. Still a relatively good and fair class in the economics department.
A great class with Prof. Stavins sharing amazing personal experiences and interesting anecdotes!
Good class, easy work, gives you a nice, conceptual framework of how environmental economics work. Environmentalism in a smart way, I suppose; you'll learn about climate/energy policies from an economic standpoint, which I think is nice. I took this class personally as I was already taking CS171, but if you're thinking about environmental economics and really want something going in-depth, you should take advanced. This is, to be quite honest, no work at all and really basic. People who have already taken 1010a or 1011a should just go ahead and do the advanced version of this and give themselves a bit more of intellectual stimulation. (Stavins is a funny guy, though! Lectures can get a little dry sometimes but Stavins tries.)
Lecture is bizarrely informative but extremely dry. Like California drought dry, Like I fell asleep in 75% of all lectures dry. Prepare yourself. Stavins is also awful in office hours, he will not be personable, helpful, or even pretend to care about you or getting to know you. Unfortunately, the strict content is silly important and interesting, so you should want to take this class anyway.
It is a low commitment, but go to class
This course is solid! Not hard at all, very straightforward elective. What you put in is what you get out.
This course is heavily lecture based and weighted strongly on exams
Environmental economics is a fascinating subject! This course does not do it justice. If you're interested in the topic, you can learn much more just in reading things on your own time.
This class is not very challenging, which makes it easy to disengage from the course material and come away not having learned very much. The professor's presentation is also a bit biased and doesn't really discuss the limitations of economic models as a way to understand environmental issues. Overall, however, it's a good survey of the field.
If you have a strong interest in either economics or environmental issues - particularly climate change - this is an absolutely essential course to take if you are looking to become active in the field. While you may not agree with the rigid cost-benefit framework and approach of neoliberal economics, the class will challenge you to justify your preconceptions, and provide you with the tools to think through policies that are much more complex than they might initially seem.
Excellent overview of the field of environmental economics. Also a number of other applicable things like valuation and benefit analysis. There is not much hand-holding, however, so be prepared to do a lot of the work on your own. If you don't study/keep up consistently, the final will be very very hard.
Class is really interesting though the psets get a bit repetitive and the exams can be difficult
The class was too easy; very little rigor besides memorizing the slides. Stavins offers some funny anecdotes and a wealth of expertise on the topic, but his course is designed to be too easy for this to be worth most people's time.
Lectures are very dry and boring. Especially the professor can be quite condescending. However the materials are not that challenging. The course could have been better prepared.
Professor Stavins is incredibly knowledgeable and a leader in his field, and it shows. His lectures where he talks about his own work are particularly interesting. The course is wide-ranging and covers a ton of topics. The timing of the course was odd - it switched days as to when lecture was held. This is difficult for undergraduates trying to balance other classes. Also, Professor Stavins' lecturing can tend towards being dry - he pretty much just reads out of the textbook. Also, problem sets don't prepare you well for the final and midterm, which involve just memorizing random terms and concepts.
This class is one of the most unsubstantive classes I've taken at Harvard. I think the little that I learned from the course is actually helpful, but it's not worth spending an entire semester on this course. Additionally, while this is a class being taught at HKS, it's very much a lecture-style course, and not a typical discussion-based graduate course.
Take this course if you are looking for a lightweight way of applying some simple microeconomic terms and concepts to a relevant and applicable issue. It is interesting whether you like talking about the environment or not. The course is not all that rigorous, and it is not the most rigorous or engaging course, so think wisely about your choice.
The lectures are kind of dry but overall, you'll learn a lot about how environmental policy is made and how policies have succeeded or failed in the past.
Environmental economics is an interesting field, and I think this class contains a lot of useful information. However the class itself is often a bit boring, and I felt the final exam did not fairly test my comprehension of the material, as there was a weird gap in the course between quantitative economics concepts and qualitative historical information.
This is an excellent, interesting class. Definitely take it if you are interested in how climate change relates to market-based instruments.
The material in this class is very interesting and important to know especially for anyone interested in the environment or economics. However, the structure and transparency of the class can be somewhat frusturating. The work is very manageable but the TFs only had one hour of office hours and each TF was very different in their teaching style. Don't feel that you have to buy the reading materials, they should be used if you don't understand a concept, but all of the material can be learned just by attending lectures and sections.
kind of really only applies for people interested in environmental policy, or economics.
This class has a lot of lecture time- but if you print out the slides and follow along it makes it a lot more interesting and digestible. Section is not necessary but definitely helps. The class is a good introduction and Professor Stavins is an enthusiastic and qualified person to be lecturing on the subject- ask him questions!
The textbook is super helpful
This was a good class. Lectures could be a little dry sometimes. That being said, it is not a hard course and the material is interesting.
I think the material being taught is very valuable, though it is not necessarily the best forum for discussing or developing your personal opinions on climate change policy.
