It very well might be worth taking 2060 instead as the material isn't significantly tougher and the course may be structured better. Also, because this class does not have a midterm, there is really no way of knowing how you are doing until the final... which is potentially problematic.
go to the professor's office hours - he is a very interesting guy.  the class is not too difficult.  the problem sets are graded on a check/check plus scale, and the problem sets are definitely manageable.  the material is pretty interesting as well.
It is certainly not an easy course, but it will be a great opportunity for an undergraduate who is interested in learning the various theoretical aspects behind contracts and business structures. Although I am not very interested in the "strictly quantitative" aspects of Economics, I felt like this course was a great chance for me to get exposure to relevant background knowledge I may need in understanding the business world in the future :)
I loved this course!--it was my favorite one of the semester. It starts off like any other sedate lecture class, but then Prof. Hart will drop an anecdote or two, or make a funny remark, and his dry humor is so entertaining. The subject matter is also really interesting, at least to me. I personally preferred the contract theory part of the course more than the later section focusing on corporate finance structure, but regardless, the questions on "how do you motivate someone to do their work? or increase firm value? or--" brought up good aspects that I had fun thinking about. That said, the prof does occasionally meander off-topic, or get confused about the graphs...Basically, this is not a class which may wow you with the first lecture as other classes' professors try to do to reel you in, but I'm glad I took it.
Great introduction to contract theory.  The material is simplified from that taught at the graduate level, but it is still challenging and substantial.
Good, solid class.
Take this course if you are interested in studying the "inside" of the firm rather than merely looking at the firm as a "black box" of profit maximizing machine. You learn about different theories of the firm, agency problem, corporate finance and also apply those concepts in topical issues like executive compensation.
Great course! You learn about many interesting models and Professor Hart helps you a lot to understand them. Combines a formal intro to contract theory and finance with discussions regarding the real world.
It's not the most well-organized of courses, but the material is fascinating. You will learn a lot if you don't know much already about contract theory. It is good to have a strong background in math, though in retrospect not much is required. It is very interesting learning about the empirical implications of everything as well.
This is a great class, no real surprises. Professor Hart is excellent. He knows the field as well as anyone, explains the material clearly, and is refreshingly funny. The course material is a really interesting look at traditional principal-agent problems and some of the solutions in place.
Professor and material are very interesting. the material is so so difficult though! And often times the tf and professor get lost and the students are lost and everyone is lost.
Hmm... just do whatever you can to survive... lol
This is a fantastic course with great materials. It's changed the way I understand a lot of economic phenomena.
While some of the material might be interesting, I do NOT recommend this course.  The class is very dry and the instruction is minimal.  The problem sets come out of nowhere and require tons of time. and with no lecture notes/slides it is impossible to learn material on your own.
This course is rather difficult, but it is one of the courses where in fact you learn something applicable to the world. It's not a coaster course; that being said, the readings are at best optional, although if you choose to exercise the option, you will certainly benefit from them (readings are not superfluous). The issue with the course is its lack of structure - no lecture notes (ya, you have to take them by hand), and no powerpoints, just a very smart man deriving interesting models on a chalkboard.
its a little unclear what we are supposed to know for the final exam, and problem set grading can be a bit tough. problem sets really vary in the time needed. there are no lecture notes online or in print
Disorganized but interesting. Final exam is the main component of your grade, so you'll have to be fine with not knowing what grade you'll get.
If you are willing to put in the time, this is a great course. If you are a senior writing a thesis, do not take.
This course is almost 100% theoretical. Each course covers basic mathematical models from well-known papers in the field. The course is structured about well-known pieces of literature so that students in a good idea of not only the concepts but also the literature.
I would tell students that this is a very solid intro to contract theory.
Never regret. You can learn the principal-agency theory and corporate finance from the excellent professor.
Very cool class on agency issues and misaligned incentives, giving theoretical basis for real-world problems, thereby strengthening real-world insights. Professor Hart is also pretty awesome; aside from being such an authority on the subject matter, he often injects lectures with shots of humor.Highly recommended.
Professor Hart is an expert in contracts theories, and he really makes the course interesting and helpful. Those who are interested in this topic should definitely choose this course.
Great course, covers a lot of very interesting material.  Professor Hart is phenomenal, and so is Cathy.
Outstanding course.  As formative as Stat 110, Ec 1011a, Stat 123.  Ec 1011a focused more on the models themselves, while this class focused more on how to use the models to understand the world.
This is an excellent class that I would highly recommend. Professor Hart makes a great effort to get to know his students. The material is interesting and is taught very clearly.
Prof Hart is indeed an expert in this area and he is able to present materials very clearly in lectures. This class is therefore very illuminating and covers materials that you will not find in other economic classes (even corporate finance, from what I heard). The workload is reasonable, and the questions+models are very interesting. Nancy is an excellent TF and cares alot about the class. On the whole, there's alot of help provided (detailed lecture notes too!)
Contract theory is an intellectually entertaining, undeniably useful area to apply economic theory to. The class contained both people with strong math backgrounds and people with not-as-strong math backgrounds, but as the semester progressed, the latter group clearly mastered the mathematical models and game theoretic approach. Prof Hart and Nancy were both excellent teachers in this respect, as they included everyone in the discussions and answered questions in ways that everyone could understand.If you have taken Math 21a and Econ 1010a, you can definitely handle the class if you're willing to spend a bit of extra time on it in the beginning. If you've taken Econ 1011a/1052, this class teaches an interesting field to apply your models to!
The readings aren't super necessary if you go to class, but the Psets require  alot of time (4+ hours)
