Great course on interesting material taught by a foremost expert in the field.
Very little course work outside of 1 class meeting per week (no problem sets/homework, no exams, no section). However, do not just take this because you want an easy course because you will take away from the experience of others who actually want to take this course because they are interested in the material. If you are interested, definitely take it. Freeman is great and its definitely a doable 5th class. Also, look into take Econ 2888 at the same time too!
The course is interesting and very light if you're looking for an easy 4th course.
If you are interested in economics or thinking about a career in science, the Economics of Science is an ideal course. Professor Freeman is an outstanding Professor, lecturer, and the leading scholar in this field. His lectures, delivered in a laid back style, are comprehensive, wide ranging, and interesting. Most of the material and many of the ideas you are exposed to are new compared to the usual economics sequence. All is presented in a way that is intriguing and rigorous intellectually, but certainly digestible and fun to think about. Professor Freeman conducts this class in the graduate seminar style, so it is up to you to decide how much you want to put in and get out of the course. Since the seminar is small, there is ample time for questions and discussion. One of the best ways to apply what you learn from the reading and lectures is the required research project of your choosing due at the terms end.  Topics include going deeply into a very specific idea or doing something that covers a topic or question more broadly. I wound up analyzing a specialized segment of the science industry which turned out to be a lot of work (my own doing), it was a most rewarding academic experience. Professor Freeman is generous with his time throughout the research project starting with the planning phase. I also found his guidance and suggestions to be extremely helpful particularly at some critical spots along the way. In short, this is another one of those hidden gem courses at Harvard that is very special (as is Professor Freeman), and you just wish somehow you could take it all over again.
Take this class if you are genuinely interested in the intersection of science and economics. We studied a lot of incentive and funding structures for scientific research. Attend the friday SBBI seminars. Workload is moderate, but be sure to start your research paper early.
The course is very casual and the best part about it is doing the readings and getting to hear Prof. Freeman's summaries and critiques of the literature. The class discussions were great.
incredible professor, incredible awesome materials covered, incredibly interesting and riveting classes. if you are interested in the economics of science or the intersection of business and science, or how academic science works, take this. this is the most interesting class ive taken in my life probably. I LOVED THIS CLASS TAKE IT
This is a pretty easy course. You'll learn some interesting things. Get started on your essays early. Professor Freeman is really committed to making them interesting.
Econ 2880 is a great opportunity to learn about a subject that isn't covered in any undergraduate curriculum. Pr. Freeman does a great job of introducing debates in research, such as how to determine the impacts of R&D on the economy, and how to parse and evaluate these debates. Work is light, just shop it & maybe go through add/drop to make sure you can handle the format (just him talking straight for 2-2.5 hours)
Prof. Freeman is awesome. His lectures are great, and it always feels like he's telling a story, even though you learn a lot. Easy workload and low stress class. Just be aware of the research paper at the end of the semester, as its roughly 20-30 pages, and will take some considerable thought and time. It's manageable though and a great opportunity to investigate a topic in economics and science that interests you.
This is a great class with a lot of freedom to write on a subject you're interested in! The best part of the class for me was the research paper. Very flexible! I got to write on a topic of my own interest.
Start your paper early.  Go in and talk to the professor early about it and throughout it.
Professor Freeman is wonderful. He is approachable, kind, and gives great input on paper ideas. His lectures are laid-back, easy to follow, and enjoyable. The workload is light. How invested you are in the final paper is up to you. I've had a great time finding data, playing with it, analyzing my initial results, and (for my paper, specifically) just thinking about scientometrics!
This is a great course for seniors in science. I think for seniors who want to understand their field from a different angle, and see it situated within the larger context of the world, this course does that, and Prof. Freeman is such a rare professor---funny, brilliant, kind---it's really not to be missed.
I would tell them that while the course is unstructured, you learn a ton and Professor Freeman is wonderful to interact with and learn from.  It is new stuff, based on big data sets, and you get fun vignettes throughout the semester.  I would definitely recommend it for anyone who is willing to take on a big final project at the end.
Low-stress class. Freeman is an interesting professor. Really enjoyed writing the final paper.
Great course! Professor Freeman was really engaging the material was interesting and accessible to those even without an ec background.
Lectures can be dry, mostly. One big research paper at the end is the entirety of the grade. A lot of freedom, which can be good or bad.
This class can be a real gem if you take time to learn about the different issues presented and develop a topic of interest soon in the course. Almost all of the work in the class will boil down to the final paper. This is extensive and should provide a way to engage in research along something you really thought was interesting. Going the extra mile will help!
This is a very manageable class that gives wonderful perspective on the scientific community and industry. These are all ideas and concerns that any scientist will face in their career, and I think it is vitally important to learn about the environment that our technical training aims to join. The lectures can be a bit long sometimes, but the workload is manageable, the final paper is rewarding, the professor knowledgeable and generally effective, and the topics engaging. I think anyone and everyone should take this class, but it is even more necessary for people aiming to pursue science in the future.
It is a very manageable course that contains interesting lectures. However, they can be a bit long sometimes
