This class may seem a little dry and boring at times. But the subject is so useful, and once you understand the concepts, things become a lot more interesting.
Problem sets can help you understand lecture materials better and help you become more familiar with Stata, but it will not help you much on exam questions (solve past years' exam questions well to prepare for exams)
Take it if you're an econ concentrator. What can I say, no one takes this for fun.
very useful
Take it if Keisuke and these Tf's are still there!
I would recommend it if Kei taught it again
Econometrics is something that everyone ought to learn. Even though I felt I learned a lot this semester anyway, the course would probably be better with a different professor.
you'll learn very powerful tools and understand that empirical research is super interesting
No one should choose to take this course if it didn't cont towards their concentration
Take it... if you put effort in, you'll learn a ton!
Understand very well what a regression is before you enter the class.
Not the best class, but not completely horrible if you reach out for help
This is an easy an informative class that will definitely help you down the line.
- unless you're concentrating in economics, pure statistics seems like it would be more useful
This course is a great way to become introduced to econometric methods and use of STATA.
Sections were the most helpful part. Lectures were not very useful
take this in the fall when less smart people take it.
boring requirement
Take this course if you want to learn about statistical methods for application to real world economics situations.
boring
This course presents some useful tools and the professor is kind-hearted, but it drags at times and was taught during the siesta hour. It is like a Federico Fellini film--it is worthwhile and thought-provoking on the whole, but it is too long and there are definitely some points where you find yourself nodding off in the middle.
uninspiring, but required class
Great course to present the basics of econometrics.
Only take it if you are an economics concentrator.
Go to class.
take it in the fall - more dhas then
Kind of boring but very helpful if you plan on writing a thesis in Economics.
Lectures are dull and rarely cover what is outside the texts.
Fun class, not too hard but definitely useful.
This is a course you have to take; it is not interesting.
The course provides an excellent overview of modern econometric analysis.  The material covered can be readily applied to real world problems in varioius fields of interest.
Very useful material, but prepare to be bored during lecture.
Very valuable only if you're an economics concentrator. Otherwise, only take it if you want an easy class because it is quite boring.
If you are looking for a good grade the easier way, you should probably take the other econometrics class at this level. Problem sets and exams are harder and longer. If you already have had some experience with graduate level econometrics, then please take this class. If not, good luck.
Prof. Yurukoglu is a great professor and did a great job teaching the material, but unless they readjust the level of difficulty for this class, I would not recommend this class to students who are just expecting to get an introductory understanding of econometrics.
The professor is pretty bad and the topics aren't much better, so unless you really really like econometrics, I wouldn't recommend it -- take the other one.
The material is interesting, but make sure you shop around and find an interesting professorif you don't have an interesting professor, you're in for a tough semester.
Econometrics is a very useful course and you should consider yourself lucky to get a professor who can explain it clearly (because not all can). That being said, most people find it to be dry material and professors don't have a lot of interest in teaching it. Take it and you'll learn something useful, but you may not find it quite as electrifying as other topics.
Don't take this class unless you have to. If you do have to take this class for econ do yourself a favor and take the other section.
Take the regular Ec1123a1, not a2. a2 is significantly harder and the a1 exams in comparison are quiet frankly much easier.
Stock is very clear and engaging. Lots of people don't like this class b/c they're just not interested in econometrics and never will be. if you are, the staff does a good job teaching it.
This was an awesome course! Stock takes what could be boring material and makes it relevant with real-world examples and studies. His lectures can be convoluted, but he's approachable and willing to answer any questions. If you're looking for a practical and interesting class, take this one!
Do the problem sets. Don't copy from others. GO TO LECTURE.
This class is brutal, but it is required.
This class may not be the best class to take as an elective. If all you want is some more exposure to statistics and to different types of regression, but don't necessarily need the class credit, reading Stock's textbook will give you an adequate level of exposure.
One of the most useful classes I have taken. Stock is a great lecturer and provides relevant real world applications of econometric analysis. I feel better prepared to research and analyze academic papers. P-sets can be difficult, but this class is worth it!
Very hard and boring
It's an AWESOME class...probably my favourite one in the ec department. That comes from attending lectures, and learning all the different statistical ways to think through causality. Also do practice exams! You will learn a lot from them and the style stays fairly consistent from year to year.
you learn a fair amount, but lectures are really boring
Boring class, only take if you're an ec major and have no choice.
Go to section. It makes everything so much clearer, and problem sets go by much quicker.
If you are doing any type of data analysis, this course will help you immensely. A little mathy at times, getting very difficult after the midterm. Stock makes lectures as interesting as possible and is very enthusiastic about the material. Problem sets are alright, time consuming; midterm is easy; final is the more difficult after-midterm concepts.
Useful toolbox for future econ courses
Certain TFs are not very devoted to this course, so go to the section of the TF you like the most.
I'm not sure what the spring term is like but Professor Stock is incredible. He makes the class really interesting with the examples he provides and he never assumes you know a lot about it. He accepts that the concepts can be a bit hard to grasp in the beginning and if you go to office hours or ask in class, he'll be happy to explain it as much as you need. To do well in the class, definitely go to section. This is a class where the section notes are golden.
lectures are very difficult to follow because there is a lot of emphasis on deriving everything, rather than focusing on what you actually need to take away for problem sets.  Problem sets are much different than the midterm and final because a lot of my time was spent trying to get my stata to work.
Hard, but cool and worth it
If it's in Sever 113, just sit at home and watch the lecture videos :)
it's a useful course, but difficult to get through. Unless you need it for a concentration requirement, but I would not take this class otherwise.
The course allows one to develop an intuitive understanding of econometrics
Econometrics teaches you a bunch of really neat applications for statistics. If you enjoyed your previous statistics class(es) and you want to continue without having to deal with too much of the math side, then 1123 is a great class. Professor Stock does a good job of covering the material, but you'll also want to go to section and office hours for tips on your problem sets, which like the exams are pretty straightforward.
Many students only take this course because it is an requirement. Take it. Whether it is a requirement or not. It will help you understand economic papers and enable you to do quantitative research on your own. Professor Stock is a great Professor who teaches this material with enthusiasm.
The problem sets are some of the shorter ones in classes like this. Go to lecture of watch the lecture videos, because that way you never need to open the textbook.
1123 was heavy on theory, so I probably wouldn't recommend it to anyone with less than a serious interest in Econometrics.
An annoying amount of time spent in this class was messing with sytax problems with STATA. Otherwise, I learned a lot.
Not the most fun course... but useful
The problem sets are hard, make sure that you spend the time really understanding the material. This will help you immensely for the midterm and the final!
Prof. Stock takes this class seriously, so it's much deeper than you would expect from a lowest level Ec requirement. He once called it "the most in-depth undergrad econometrics course in the country," and to do well in this class you will have to actually become a solid econometrician. On the upside, the material is absolutely indispensable for anyone intending to do a thesis or become an academic economist, and the applications for the material are abundant and obvious.
The problem sets will confuse you no end: half the time it's just getting data to behave that is the problem. But it sorts itself out in the end.
If you're an econ concentrator, than you need to take it, but otherwise, it's pretty pointless.
good helpful course
This course was phenomenal. It is the best course Ive taken here. Professor Stock is incredibly organized and teaches a clear, easy to understand methodology. (Unlike most Harvard profs, Stock is both highly knowledgeable in his field AND knows how to teach.) We used an excellent book (which he co-authored) that distills the information and explains it in understandable, specific language. The HW is all applications, consisting of analyzing data sets in Stata using the techniques and theory described in that chapter/lecture. All the code you need for Stata is explained step-by-step in section using a similar data analysis example as that weeks HW (at least thats what we did in my section, which used an excellent handout jointly prepared by three of the TFs). As if the lecture and book werent straightforward and all-encompassing enough, I also had an awesome TF (Tom) who further summarized, clarified, and applied everything learned in lecture. This course teaches you A LOT and leaves you feeling confident that you can do econometric analysis work after graduating. There was none of the frustration and bad teaching common in the many other courses Ive taken here. Also, I must say I learned more in this class than in more advanced courses Ive taken in the area of statistics and data analysis. It really made my time at Harvard and I highly recommend it :-)
Stock is awesome. You cover a lot of useful stats methods and it's not too bogged down in proofs or algebra. Obviously, don't expect the lectures to be blockbusters, but Stock explains clearly and is pretty funny sometimes
excellent course -- comprehensive learning that is also cohesive. lecture videos are great if you tend to fall asleep in class. read the textbook, and do all the practice midterms and exams -- they really prepare you well.
I'd recommend waiting until junior year to take this.
There's not much of a choice - every ec concentrator has to take this class. Having said that, Stock is a good professor and the textbook is great. Overall, the material you'll learn will be very valuable, especially for thesis writers.
I found the problem sets to do quite time-consuming if you don't understand the material. But in the end of the course, when you study for the final, everything comes together and you will suddenly see how things work in ways that you couldn't earlier in the semester. The big picture would be more apparent. As for ways to do well in this class, don't redo your psets to prepare for the exam. The final does not test you on any Stata codes. Go over section notes in depth. Review your lecture notes. Make your cheat sheet based on the review session PowerPoint slides. You will do fine with these preparation.
Stay on top of the concepts / material. Unlike 1010a / 1010b where you can not know the material and then learn it all just before the examination (midterm or final), the concepts are more nuanced, complex, and abundant in 1123, so this method is less likely to succeed.
only take this class if it's required
Lectures are pretty boring but Stock is really knowledgeable and the actual analysis that you do in psets and using the material you learn in the course is pretty interesting. Definitely necessary if you want to pursue any research in economics.
If you are economics, you have to take it. But its really a pretty interesting class/ useful if nothing else. Stock is good, very knowledgable.
Try an remain motivated with this course.
Work hard and you'll learn a lot.  Your grade may be disappointing, but take the course anyway.
It won't be your favorite course, but it's a necessity for economics concentrators.  It will provide you with the tools needed for basic regression analysis.
A necessary evil.
This is a very difficult course that I would most likely take only if required unless you are particularly interested in the subject matter.
Go to lecture. But really. You don't need to read the book or anything, but Professor Stock is the best at explaining the concepts. If you attend class, even though the material can get tricky as time goes on, you'll understand it. He tells you exactly what you need to know to do well on the problem sets and the tests. Also, you might want to know a lot of Stata before you get into this class. They expect you to know how to do Stata without ever really getting into how to do it...
This class is kind of painful, but unfortunately if you are an economics concentrator you have to take it. Make sure you keep up with the work otherwise you are going to be very confused when exams come around. The one upside is the class has a pretty good curve.
The content of the class is helpful to understand research in the field of medicine, economics, etc. The boring examples and tedious stata-codes make the class frustrating at times. The textbook is definitely a good source to really understand the material. The class is graded generously.
KEEP UP!
Read the book before the course starts and brush up on stat 104.
The textbook is difficult to read but it was helpful to some extent. When doing the problem sets, focus a lot on the analysis of the regressions because that composes the entire exam. Familiarize yourself with terms, especially Omitted Variable Bias.
you have to take it...
It's a bit boring at times, but you do analyze some interesting, relevant problems
This course is tough
This is a really great class.  I've heard bad things about it when taught by other professors, so if you're not sure when to take this class find out when Professor Stock is teaching it and wait until then if you can.  His lectures are really interesting and he is very available outside of class.  Make sure to go to section as they are really helpful for knowing how to do the psets.  Also, don't bother buying the book.  All the information you need is in lecture and section.  You might need it to look up one table during a problem set but you can just get it from the library then.
Professor Stock is an awesome teacher and person.  I wish I would have gotten to know him better.  The problem sets and exams are really interesting and applicable to the real world of economics outside Harvard.
This class is pretty tough, but especially towards the end of the course, you'll realize how useful the things you're learning are.
This class is required for economics concentrators, but it is one of the most useful courses you can take.  Make sure you stick with a good TF as they make the difference between doing well and doing poorly.  Maria and Fanyin and Eunice were the best.  Switch out from day one if you have any inkling that your TF is bad.
I mean...you have to take it...so yeah...he tries to make it as interesting as possible but its still pretty dry...
It is extremely helpful for understanding applied econometrics and it is very easy to take what is learned in the class and apply it to research.
Take only if you have to.
It's an econ requirement. Enough said.
Boring and difficult (although not too terrible). I would only tell people to take it if they have to for a concentration or secondary requirement. Although it is practical and would help interpret real life studies so it would be interesting to anyone going into a field where that kind of interpretation is necessary.
Don't worry during the first few weeks if you don't understand anything. You might never understand anything, but regardless you'll learn how to answer their questions, and you might even learn something without knowing it (at this point I'm still not sure, I have to process). Having read the Q-guide I wondered for the first half of the term, why the evaluations said "Jim Stock is the man," but now I'd have agree. I like his teaching style.
Lecture is incredibly boring and psets are very STATA heavy even though that doesn't help on exams. Pretty bad class, but you have to take it.
Very, very useful class for anyone who will be using econometrics for their own research, in particular if they will be using stata.
Statistics and economics were my two favorite academic disciplines prior to this course.  Now I literally can't imagine taking another course in either field.  I know it's a requirement for the econ concentration, but that may be reason enough to switch concentrations.  It was easily the worst academic experience of my life.  It epitomizes everything that's wrong with the econ department: dreadfully boring lectures, non-English speaking TFs, typo-ridden assignments, unfair and arbitrary grading, unbelievably disorganized review sessions, etc. etc. etc.  DON'T TAKE IT.  PLEASE!
It's an incredibly useful class. Professor Stock is great, and it's interesting material too. Section is frustrating though.
If you don't know STATA well, you're going to struggle on the psets. Hard. But the tests and concepts are relatively straightforward
This course sucks. Don't take it unless you have to. And find a good group to work on psets with. And screen shot midterm/final answers and put them onto your cheat sheet (very helpful).
Take this class because it is required. However, if you are set on economics, you must have this class. It is absolutely necessary for advancing your knowledge of economics.
find a good group to work with early on in the course
Very good class - this should be a required class (and I'm a social studies major!) for all.  It's challenging, but the psets are fun to do and you learn a lot.
This class is dreadful.
Not as bad as people say it is, if you take it with Professor Stock. Econometrics is a very useful way of looking at the world, regardless of your particular area of interest.
If you've had Stat 104, this course is extremely easy.  Everything is straight forward and as long as you back up claims with evidence answers on psets and exams will be graded as correct.  Best advice is attend lectures and pay attention and study for exams based off of format of practice exmas since exams are quite different from psets.  Don't read book!
This is one of the best economics courses I've taken at Harvard (after 1010a, I had such low expectations for any required courses.) It doesn't get better than Professor Stock. He wrote the textbook and he WILL make sure you understand the concepts, starting with very intuitive examples in class. Algebra is very accessible too. Makes Econometrics exciting (it could be really dry). I came into this course with such low expectations (has really low Q scores historically) and was so surprised by the quality of the teaching. Don't miss out but WARNING: TAKE IT WITH STOCK. You will regret and miss out by taking it with the other Professors. Just wait until the Fall. The problem sets are kinda fun too.
do not take unless you are an ec concentrator. also hold out until there is a new professor teaching it.
Interesting subject but just wish there was more assistance with stata or with the psets
Although throughout the semester I wasn't completely enticed by the class, by the end of the semester I saw how it all tied in, and the material is actually fairly interesting and useful. Doing well on the psets often depends on being resourceful and figuring out the stata commands, so I recommend going to office hours. Also, the book turned out to be very helpful to read for the theory, and it is good to look at it before the exam.
This class isn't as hard as everyone says. Go to lecture (or at least watch all of them), and make sure you know how to use Stata well for the problem sets. Concepts aren't that hard, it is just the technical stuff that becomes a pain. Refer to previous years' problem sets, friends, and TFs for help with Stata coding and things get much easier.
The material can be dry at times, but if you keep up with the work you'll be fine.
The class time is long and is boring. Lectures are video taped but cover mostly notation and the math behind metrics. The pests don't use the notation/math so much but take time because state/regression choice. Midterm and final are pretty much all interpretation of data and pretty easy.
The lectures ended up being a lot more interesting than the first shopping class which really scared me. If this is a concentration requirement, don't stress. It is pretty painless and Stock is a nice guy. If you're from another department, you could find this interesting if you want to learn about regression analysis and such.
I would only take this course if you are concentrating in economics
This class is a necessary evil of being an economics concentrator. It is extremely dry, boring, and difficult.
This is a difficult but mandatory course if you are an economics concentrator. My least favorite ec course to date.
Now how to use stata
Take this class with Prof. Stock. He explains every idea very well and immediately presents the class with three or four examples of how a specific tool or theory is used to go beyond a standard regression. The problem sets are fun - you're using real-world data. It will change the way you think about statistics, and more importantly, economics - you'll see where the econometric intuition was responsible for or helps explain the theory that you've learned in 10/1010. It's not a difficult course if you stay on top of the material and seek help if you need it. STATA proficiency is definitely a big factor, so if you aren't comfortable with STATA then don't be afraid to ask for help.
Painful.
It is a well taught class, with very important information too learn. Prof. Stock teaches it as well as anybody could. It is dry material but very applicable.
This is useful, if you need to know the material for more advanced coursework. However, not a fun class, painful at times, so only take it if you need to.
Being as this class in a requirement for Economic majors, it clearly must be taken. This aside, it is a difficult class, but if you appreciate statistics, you'll take a lot away from this class.
Lectures and section can be boring sometime and the problem sets can be frustrating but you learn so many useful tools for eliminating bias in observational data.
This class -- although sometimes dry -- teaches material that is useful just about everywhere. Knowing basic regression analysis and how forecasts and causal effects are developed in studies is invaluable, whether you want to use it in your own business or simply understand published studies and figures.
Extremely useful class for econ - will teach you all the basics of econometric analysis to do your own research and understand all the papers you'll see in advanced econ classes. Take as early as you can.
This course is not as difficult as people say it is - it is extremely practical, and useful for anyone who is interested in doing research in the social sciences.
This class sucks
This is an ec requirement, but its very applicable and Stock can teach it well. Go to office hours for problem sets: the TFs are helpful. I for one found the class immensely valuable for thinking about economics and for applications outside of school. I wonder if they know that less than 40 percent of the class actually does the problem sets...
Very useful for real world purposes, but the class itself can be frustrating because of Stata. If you know Stata or can get help from someone who does it will be very useful.
Only take this course if you absolutely love statistics more than anything else or if you have to for your concentration otherwise avoid at all costs
This is not an easy class and it can be quite time-consuming (problem sets). However, the professor really knows the stuff he is teaching and is a great lecturer. Also, the course material is crucial for anyone interested in doing economic research.
This class is boring, but useless. Make sure you get a good TF. I had Elena, and she rocked, but others (ie: Eunice having a meltdown in office hours) needed improvement. The problem sets need to be modeled more after section and lecture material.
Stay on top of the material - go to section and office hours, because that's the only way you'll be able to do the problem sets. Lecture can be interesting, but it doesn't really teach you how to apply anything.
If you have to take this class for your concentration, then you have my deepest condolences. The problem sets are insane, not because they are conceptually hard, but because getting the stata code will take forever and is a mess because they don't provide any guidance. You will end up going to office hours for long periods of time, where you have to literally beg the TFs to tell you how to solve the questions, and some TFs help whereas others will enjoy watching you struggle. The exams are also very difficult and when the professor offered to improve midterm grades with an additional problem set, students who did well decided that they wanted others to do badly in addition to getting good grades themselves. Unfortunately, the professor listened to these students. The final is long and difficult, and the grading is ludicrous because the TFs grade like every point you get is causing them mortal agony. However, it has to be said that some of the things you learn will be useful. The price you pay for this knowledge is a miserable semester.
Stay on top of it
This class answers very relevant questions through interpretation of regressions. I really enjoyed distilling causal, real-life interpretations from vast swaths of data. Jim Stock is the man.
Many people come into this course with a negative attitude, which I think really minimizes the potential level of interest many students would actually have for the material if they gave it a fair shot. I think what you learn is really immediately applicable to many applications outside the course and it's a really interesting content. The teaching quality is not the absolute best, but it is not as bad as many people make it out to be.Also, go to office hours. I don't know how I would be able to complete the psets without them.
To be honest, this class isn't as bad as people make it out to be. Nonetheless, I would not recommend this class unless you have to take it or you just find statistics fascinating. The problems sets were pretty tough
Be sure to attend every section and do not fall behind.
You will learn a lot in this class, the problem sets can be a pain at times but in general, this class is very manageable.
Take it with Stock - you'll actually get to go through the entire textbook. A very rich subject area, definitely worth knowing
Take this class if you wanna major in stata. Other than that its probably the worst class at harvard.
The topic is very dry, and Professor Stock is hard to follow. The slides also don't convey much useful information other than ways to work out problems, so it is hard to go back and revise lectures. The textbook is much better.
Prof. Stock is excellent.  I would definitely recommend taking it with him.  Beware of the length of the exams.  The problem sets require a good amount of time.
An unfortunate necessity.
It's a decent class, especially for a required one.
Don't take unless you are required.
Professor Stock makes the class really engaging!
This course is very practical and rewarding. Even though lecture is often less than engaging, the problem sets and the course overall will teach you skills that are widely applicable to a range of careers.
It's a fun course if you love Stata (which I did). The economics examples used in class are kind of silly and not exactly relevant to large world problems. But I like that. It's a much better class than people make it out to be -- just make sure to go to office hours !! You will be extremely grateful for any Stata help.Take it!!
Lectures are pretty brutal, but the material is interesting to learn once you tie it all together.
This is an awesome course, especially if Stock is teaching it. He actually makes econometrics really interesting and gives you some cool data sets to work with.
This course will help you start to do research.
Very interesting, even for non-econ students
do not take this unless you are Ec and need to
Difficult class to get through. Long psets, lectures are difficult to understand, and things will seem confusing at times. However, with all of that negative stuff being said, GREAT INFORMATION. Definitely applicable to a range of fields.
Prof Stock is a nice guy. Be warned though, much of what he teaches in lecture (proving theorems) will not be on the p-sets/exams and might go over you head unless you're really quantitative. This class will empower students in the social sciences to understand papers better and do their own research
This needs to be your life if you want to ace the course.
Absolutely nothing good to say about this class.  Brace yourself, econ concentrators.
Though I had to take this class as a requirement, I didn't much enjoy the experience. I felt the content was too superficial and glossed over much of the underlying theory (then again, 1126 is way too theoretical, so that and 1123 make up opposite ends of the spectrum with no option that blends application and theory well). The psets are not hard, but annoyingly tedious--the issues you deal with are not so much knowledge-lacking as they are Stata-code-familiarity-lacking. Lectures were a bit rambly. You might as well read the textbook.
work harder towards the second period of the course; don't slack off
I mean if you have to take this class, take it with Stocks!
Go to section!! Lectures can be hard to follow, but section is what helped to clear up concepts.
This is the worst class I have taken so far. The entire class is dependent on STATA, and you will not be able to figure out the STATA on your own.
Take it only if you have to. The problem sets are confusing and take hours, lectures are boring (at least half of people don't show up), and section is optional.
Take it with Jim Stock. He the main man in econometrics, makes it fun, and gives you relevant data to work with. The stata is tough so convince your programming-savvy friend to take the class with you. Immensely practical course for Econ or any social science, and for life.
Too much of it depends on your ability to operate Stata.
The course is very difficult if you do not know how to use stata.  I also recommend reading the book each week or you will likely be unable to follow.
yes, but depends on who teaches it
This class is really not as bad as it may seem at first. The problem sets get hard after the midterm.It is really important to go to section and go to office hours for help. Also, try to take this class with people you know so you can help each other. The midterm was not as bad as the psets, but make a good cheat sheets.
first lectures were repetition of mathematical background and therefore horribly boring and terrifying at the same time. Thought of not taking the course back then but I am extremely glad that I did, becomes much more interesting, even funny at times and one learns a lot, not just in terms of advanced econometric models but also in terms of common sense, found myself using (verbally) basic econometric principles in many different applications such as papers for other courses
This class is not particularly well taught, but I do appreciate econometrics. A data-based perspective is highly important.
Read the textbook.
Good introduction to data analysis of any kind.
Take it if you have to.
Learn how to write-do files in Stata.Also, section/office hours are a very helpful component of the course.
Lectures are very boring.  Be prepared to learn most of the material on your own and then be frustrated when everyone copies each others' problem sets.  At least it's easy.
Try and take it when Stock teaches it, he's really enthusiastic, which makes it a lot more enjoyable than it otherwise might be.
It is a good class if you like collaborating on psets and going to office hours to seek help especially with the stata commands. The psets towards the end become a little harder and require you to put in a little more effort.
Excellent course, especially to take with Prof Stock.
It's econometrics - no one takes it because they really want to. But if you have to take this class, try to take it with Professor Stock. He is a great teacher and very funny, which makes the long lectures a little easier to get through.
Brutal class
A miserable experience.
Keep up with the class and resist the urge to just watch lecture videos. If you do the reading and go to class, most of the concepts should make sense.
The material learned in class is crucial especially for those who plan to pursue a career in Economics. Take it, it's not as boring as it sounds.
I recommend going to office hours to work on the problem sets.
This is a great class! I know some people didn't really enjoy it, but once you get over the fact that you hate Stata (which I loved), you'll really have fun in this class. Professor Stock is great: he is very approachable, really into econometrics and he tries to make the material relevant to the students and use concrete examples that can be applied to the real world, so you'll really come out of the class feeling like you learned something worthwhile. The TF's also do a great job of explaining the material. Highly recommended! Also, make sure to go to Professor Stock's office hours or to have a meal with him at least once!
concentration requirement
Professor Stock has a lot of enthusiasm for the material, but his attempts at making the problem sets "interesting" turn out badly; the psets were impossible to do without going to office hours, and took forever to do even with office hours. They were tedious and did not really relate to exam material at all. If the class were taught better, the material is actually pretty useful, and you know how to do some pretty cool stuff by the end. No one knows what's going on for most of the class, though. It kind of comes together at the end when you step back and look at the big picture, but it's a painful class to take.
Application based so don't need to understand the theory presented in lecture at all.
Go with Stock!
Get ready to have fun. Econometrics is a BLAST!
Although not recommended for non-econ concentrators, it is highly applicable for economics majors
You learn about challenging economic concepts.  The class is not fun.
you must learn these techniques, ways of thinking, and this software STATA. MUST. for any job, for real life. It teaches you how to evaluate causal effects and associations.
Well you have to take it if you are an ec concentrator. Though the material is a bit dry, it is very useful and relevant. If you are not an ec concentrator, there isn't much reason to take this class.
Chaney is a really nice professor and he wants to make sure you learn from the class rather than being stressed out from the difficulty of the subject matter. He's improved the course a lot. Office hours, he's very willing to help explain concepts and makes sure you understand the concepts. I thought the teaching staff of this course was awesome.
I had heard lots of horror stories about econometrics but didn't find any of them to be true. Professor Chaney was excited about the material and both he and the TFs were always available to answer any questions. If you make an effort, it's not that difficult!
A very good class. I took in conjuction with sophomore ec tutoial, and it was very useful in helping me learn how to analyze data and read Stata output.
The subject matter predetermines that this will not be an interesting class. However, prof. Chaney is very nice and makes a lot of effort to communicate with the students.You should definitely go to his office hours. One thing though, is that we learn a lot of math intuition in class, but we only need interpretation on the exam. It makes it harder to prepare for exams.
This is a great course! Very practical. Teaches you all of the tools needed for economic analysis of data. After this course, I can understand almost all of the statistical information presented in economic journals and papers. Professor Chaney is also super approachable and makes himself accessible to students either after class or during office hours. Go to office hours if you have questions. He's great at explaining things that might have been confusing in lecture to you in a different way. The TFs are great too.
This course, when taught in the spring at least, is extremely aggravating. The students try to learn, but aren't given the opportunity because the professer can't seem to convey the subject matter. This course is unfortunately required for econ concentrators, and those concentrators are the ONLY ones who should take this class.
You have to take it, and it's better than taking the hardcore version from what I hear. Work together on the psets, and study the practice tests to prepare for the exams that have nothing in common with the psets.
Econometrics is incredibly useful--I used what I learned in other classes that I was taking simultaneously. However, learning it isn't always fun. The class is hard and not that exciting, but I am glad that I took it.
Worst lectures ever, you feel like you don't learn anything.
This semester's version of econometrics definitely did not live up to its reputation as being a difficult or uninteresting course.
This class is not as bad as students make it out to be! The material you learn is very interesting and important to know for students hoping to pursue economics further.
be prepared to learn a lot on your own
Know STATA!!
Econometrics is a very practical skill that every economics major should master. This class, however, does not do a very good job of helping you master it. Reading the textbook over the summer would be a much more efficient way of learning the material. That being said, it's an ec requirement; so, you have to take it. I would seriously consider 1126 if you have the math background.
I usually try to be as nice as possible on these responses but I think it would be unfair to not be honest: this is the worst class I can ever imagine taking. The teaching was completely substandard and the material boring. It's a requirement for economics concentrators, but if you have to take it, at least take it with a different professor.
It's gotten a lot better from in the past. Prof. Chaney is actually a very effective lecturer, and makes the material intuitive and understandable! The staff is all really accessible, and the materials prepare you for the exams. You leave this class feeling like you actually learned something very useful and applicable.
You can learn a lot, but be prepared to work hard. Pay attention to the lectures closely and do the problem sets carefully every week.  If you fall behind, it will be very hard to catch up again. That said, this class gives you the tools to do a lot of amazing things.
Worst class at Harvard by far. Do not take this class.
Lecture might sometimes seem boring and inconsistent, but it's important to commit to paying attention. It's not a difficult class , esp. if you have some stats background, but the material picks up after the midterm. Professor Chaney and the TF's are all super responsive and easy to approach.
Its not fun but you need to take it.
It is extremely unfortunate that this course is a required course and it is taught so poorly. It is extremely hard to understand the professor and it takes a lot of extra effort to even begin to follow what is written in the lecture slides. Going into the tests, you will have no idea what you are going to be tested on. Find another source online or another text to attempt to learn this subject because the TFs also do not help much in making the course easier to understand.
A requirement for economics concentrators and there would be no reason for anyone else to take it. However, it does make reading economic papers much easier and I did learn a lot.
If you find you do not get anything out of lecture, don't bother going and focus on homeworks and section.
If this is not a requirement, know that while this class is not exactly a pleasure, it gets the job done.
Working through and understanding the problem sets is very helpful!
rough.
this is a very bad class but i hear worse things about 1126
Going to lecture actually helps.
Lectures are boring sometimes, but its very useful material.
For someone who is interested in learning more about how to deal with datasets. Also helpful for understand how empirical research articles are written.
Wait until someone other than Guido Imbens teaches it!
If you have the math chops for 1126, take it.  This class was not challenging and spends most of its time on basic statistics.
No one takes this class because they want to. They take this class because they have to.
For a topic most find boring, this is a good way to learn econometrics, with lots of flexibility and helpful lectures.
It was a really good class. As long as you read the lecture slides, attending lecture itself is fairly unnecessary.
You may have to rely on a lot of self-teaching.
This is a course you have to push through in order to obtain your economics diploma.
Recommend if the same professor (Imbens) teaches again and you can get a good TF. If the TF is not good/helpful, rethink taking the course if it is a requirement (perhaps take in another year).
Only take this class if Guido Imbens isn't teaching it.
I would have given this course a negative Q score if I could. The professor's lectures and lecture slides are utterly incomprehensible and leave you more confused than when you started. He teaches the material that he has studied, which is completely irrelevant to what we need to know, and does not teach us the material that would be useful for us.
DONT GET INTO RAJ'S SECTION! he gets jealous of students who are smarter than him which is 80% of the class. his answer key was wrong and would've only scored 70%
Take this if Prof Imbens is teaching it!
You will never want to go to lecture, but other than that, the course is enjoyable and useful.  You will definately utilize the section component of the class.
With Prof. Imbens, the lectures are pretty boring. However, the homework assignments are short, the readings are few and not really required, and the practice tests are strikingly similar to the real ones.
This class is challenging but manageable.
The best part of this course is that it teaches you how to use Stata.  If you've taken stats already, this course should be fairly easy.Raj was the worst TF I've ever had.
The exams were too easy (the professor not-so-subtly disguised practice exams as the actual exams themselves). While this might seem like a good thing at first, it actually leads to disastrous results when it comes to curving the class.
Don't take the class unless you have to. Only if you get a good lecturer. There is not much resource except for the lecture slides, which are unhelpful.
Unfortunately you have to take it because it's a requirement
This class is TERRIBLE.
It's fairly easy consider the little amount of content, but its unfortunately not captivating.
go to lectures, it will help in understanding concepts. use office hours if you have questions. start the problem sets at least 48 hours ahead so you can get questions answered.
ONLY take it if it's a requirement. quite possibly the worst class you'll ever have to take ANYWHERE
Though the class itself is difficult and sometimes dry, the material is important and worthwhile to learn.
This class is horrible but you have to take it. Hopefully you can get a different professor than Miron. Not really sure how it compared to Stock.
You need econometrics in order to study economics.
This is just one of those classes that you have to get through as an Ec major. Professor Miron did a good job of making it as interesting as it can be, but at the end of the day it's just econometrics--dry.
This class is very difficult and requires a lot of work that you might not expect.  Don't take it if you don't have to.
Read the textbook and prepare for boring lectures
Read the textbook before the lecture.
Only take it if you need it for Ec.
Hopefully, this class will have section in the future. The material after the midterm is a lot more difficult than what was taught at the beginning of the semester. Exams are tough, problem sets can be tricky if you have no experience with Stata. TFs are bright and accessible, although they are better at giving theoretical explanations of the material than practical advice for the weekly problem sets. It may be useful to find a Stata tutor outside of class for help on the problem sets.
Take if it's a requirement; if it's not a requirement, don't put yourself through it
The course is very useful.  Lectures were worthless, however.  I'd focus on prior lecture notes and study the textbook.
You have to take it, but you might not like it. Study groups are VITAL!
Leave some time to think through the concepts. The problem sets are pretty interesting.
Econometrics is probably one of the most useful classes you can take here as an undergrad, and the readings for this class is actually very interesting. However, this class is so badly taught and organized that it has a lot of room for improvement. Miron's lectures are extremely dry and boring, and it doesn't help that he cancelled all sections and replace them with office hours. In my opinion sections and office hours are of vastly different nature and are definitely not substitutes. Other than that, the midterm and exam are very badly written. They do not test on important ideas that we should have learnt in class, but instead they focus on a few random sections in the book. All in all, the Ec department should really get a good professor for this class because it has the potential to be so much better.
It is a shame the most interesting economics courses at Harvard are taught so poorly. Reading the book is far more useful than actually going to class. in fact, going to class with professor Miron is almost guaranteed to confuse you more than it will help you.
It is interesting, but Professor Miron is not the most interesting.
For the scary-sounding name and the "bad rap" that econometrics sometimes gets, Ec 1123 was actually a fantastic, extremely educational, and ultimately rewarding experience! I am so glad I took it. It taught me (a) STATA skills, (b) important tools we use to isolate and quantify causal effects, (3) real-world case studies where econometric analysis is used, and most importantly (4) the need to be skeptical when it comes to economic studies involving causal inference. The problem sets are actually fun because they deal with real-world data / cases! And the book is incredibly helpful in explaining hard concepts. Professor Miron does a good job at explaining these too and answering questions; although the theoretical concepts can be a bit dry, he illuminates the second part of lecture with real-world cases and discussion! Honestly, this class is one of the most important courses which arm you with the knowledge to be a good economist equipped with quantitative skills. Take Ec 1123!
This is by far the worst-taught course I've taken here at Harvard. Professor Miron is incredibly pedantic and often gives unnecessary and irrelevant equations in class. The problem sets equip students with skills that are unnecessary and irrelevant for exams. Anything that I learned from (for?) the course was done in the span of 3 days before the final from overhead slides procured online, because the overhead slides used in lecture are comprised of Stata commands and output that again is irrelevant for the exam(s).
If you are an econ concentrator, then you obviously have to take this class. If you are getting a secondary, do not take this class (unless you really like stata I guess).
Be prepared to do a lot of research on your own to figure out the problem sets. Lecture wasn't 100% helpful, but there's not a lot of other resources available, so you should attend class and try to pay attention. Do the practice tests, that's your best bet.
it's a requirement, and rightfully so, because you learn a lot about how to approach economic problems and interpret data. at the same time, it was pretty tough for me, so I would try to take the class in a semester with a relatively average/low workload.
Very practical. Use book for everything because course follows book meticulously.
Because this is a required course for concentrators, I can't tell you to not take it. I hope that it is better run, with sections and slightly more helpful lecture slides, so that you learn as much as you can and should from a basic methods class.
Econometrics is the key to unlocking the world of economics research, and until you've taken this course, you aren't truly an economics concentrator. You will learn how economists develop the models used in papers, and will grow immensely in your understanding of the field. You should be comfortable with Stata and the concepts taught in Stat 104, as it is assumed that students have a strong foundation in statistics and using Stata. Jeff Miron's lectures were interesting, using many real-world examples and economics papers, though it can be easy to lose focus. If you want to do well in this class, you should read the relevant chapter before coming to class, listen to the whole lecture (if you read the book, you won't need to take notes) and do the problem set in its entirety, making sure you understand the concepts being tested. This particular offering of the class had no sections at all, which, while nice for your schedule, places the responsibility on you to attend office hours for help. Problem sets are fair, graded leniently, and indicative of the material on the exam.  Exams are challenging, though you can bring a cheat sheet to aid you. Overall, a solid class that, if taken seriously, will transform you from the naive Ec 10 student to a student capable of reading, understanding and writing economics papers.
The book is much more effective then the lectures. However, you should go to lecture in order to learn the stata commands.
If you're concentrating in economics, you don't really have a choice. Just pray that the economy improves enough that Professor Stock can leave the White House and come back and teach this course before you need to take it.
Read the textbook.
This course covers some very useful material for conducting quantitative economics or political science research.
Don't take econometrics if it's taught by Miron. He honestly does not seem to care at all about helping students with this course. He held office hours once the entire semester and he got rid of all sections. The lectures by Miron are incredibly boring. That being said, I think econometrics itself is interesting and very useful for any economics concentrator. I would try to take it during a semester that it is taught by someone other than Miron though.
This class is poorly  taught and quite frankly always has been. I was really looking to Professor Miron to be a more effective lecturer with his slides and would have appreciated a copy of his lecture notes since the slides  were just stata outputs most of the time.
Dear God, I hope they have a section component next time they offer this class. It was almost a joke how impossible it was to do the psets without it. Also, this was a stunning example of lectures that actually hurt my understanding of the material rather than helped.
Worst class I've ever taken.  Poorly taught and extremely disorganized.  Don't take this class unless you absolutely have to.
Really useful information but talk in a confusing way
It's more difficult when you don't read the book. Go to office hours frequently, lectures are quite not helpful
This class teaches you indispensable econometrics skills. Unfortunately, to learn them, you must contort your brain to be able to stomach 1.5 hours at a time of soul-crushing, mind-numbingly boring lecture, punctuated only by awkward questions directed at the few students attending, none of whom want to answer because the questions are vague or difficult.
The class is not a lot of work but the topic is boring.
This class certainly gives you a better understanding for statistical methods (esp. econometric) used in higher-level research. In that way, it is very helpful, and I would recommend it strongly. However, the material can at times be challenging. The problem sets vary in difficulty, but not having sections for this course made for some difficulties in completing the psets.
This is a good course. It teaches you how to use an important tool for economics and beyond. Focus on the application and learn the models and you should be fine.
Miron is a poor teacher.
You probably need to take this. If you don't, I wouldn't necessarily recommend it. But then again, I feel like I learned a ton. I took this in conjunction with my sophomore tutorial and another Econ class (1393), which was suuuuper helpful. I wouldn't recommend taking the soph tutorial without taking metrics concurrently, and I wouldn't really recommend taking metrics without taking another econ class in which you'll see the stuff you're learning applied.
It is a requirement. Content is useful when it comes to writing a thesis.
You have to be comfortable with the math and aware of the fact that Miron is a new teacher. If you need to be taught material and are not comfortable understanding complex derivations on your own, then don't take it.
but you have to take it...
It's interesting, but don't fall too far behind OR be too intimidated
Depends who is teaching it. Comparing this year's exams to past exams by Stock, which were posted as examples, the previous exams seem far more relevant and address the content of the psets. Rather, Miron often seems more concerned about theory, but doesn't always do a good job of explaining the importance of the theory.
Worst requirement ever.
Unless you need this for a concentration or secondary requirement, there must be better ways to learn about econometrics.
Econometrics is a necessary requirement for an econ degree.  The material is useful to know, but could have been presented in a much clearer way.  Miron was disorganized, and often didn't cover material tested on probem sets.
This class, while necessary for economics, is poorly taught.  In Spring 2013, the tests were nothing like past years and had almost no direct relation to the problem sets.  Neither the tests nor the problem sets were anything like what was taught in lecture.
The course this year at least was just a self-study course. Didn't think the professor nor the TFs made an effort to teach us the course. Most of the learning that went on was me raking through the textbook and figuring out what was happening in the problem sets. The material itself was interesting but the course made it so difficult to stay engaged.
This Economics requirement should be a straightforward class except that it was poorly taught this semester. If there is still no section component be sure to go to office hours a lot and get a good study group.
I would recommend reading before class because that might help in understanding lecture
This is a very challenging course so one should prepare for that stepping into it. Think about the support you'll need (sections, tutor, TF help, etc) right when you begin so that you can do your very best.
Bitter but necessary pill go swallow for ec concentrators! For those who are looking to get an ec secondary there are better courses out there!
The material is interesting and useful. Focus on the interesting material, not how it is taught and you will begin to like it
Only take if you need to
This class is not nearly as bad as everyone says. You will learn very useful applications for economic research.
Professor Chaney is an absolute delight.  He makes the material interesting, fun, and applicable, when it could easily be otherwise.  If you have an interest in understanding how data can help us understand the world without getting caught up in the math behind it, this is a great class to take.
Take it with Professor Chaney, he's great!
If you need to take it for Economics, then take it. Professor Chaney is a great instructor, but the class is very difficult.
Professor Chaney is awesome! The problem sets are extremely helpful for understanding and reviewing the material from lecture, and the lectures themselves are entertaining.
Chaney is a phenomenal teacher. He presents the material in an effective manner and also considers the heterogeneity in his audience - i.e. the class is easy but he also goes into math digressions. The assignments are the perfect level of difficulty and very rewarding to the student.I think this is a great class and surely doesn't deserve the reputation it has.
Go to class, but pay more attention in section. Ask questions in lecture/section.
A bit dry/boring, but very applicable - take it
The tools you learn in this class are super useful. Anyone interested in social science research and not getting bamboozled by the (acade)media should take it.
Not sure why people have complained about this course from previous years. Yes, the material can be dry and teaching it is tough (and often fairly boring) but the professor is great to talk to in office hours, the book is excellent, and if you took Stat 104, you'll have no problem anyway. I really thought the class was pretty painless.
This class is an interesting and useful class. Professor Chaney often provides very pertinent and interesting examples to teach the material, and is always available for questions. Problems sets and exams are fair and challenging enough but not too overly difficult.
econometrics is gonna be boring no matter what, but Professor Chaney does the best he can. it could be a lot worse, for sure. and it's not very hard, at least.
This is a really useful course, and the course structure s quite straightforward.
If this is required then you have to take it. It's not too painful, but not the most interesting either.
Unless this semester was completely different from the past, if you're at all interest in economics and beginning to develop a crucial set of tools to use in research and/or understanding papers, do not listen to what everyone will say about this class.  People told it'd be brutal, boring, difficult, that it's something you just have to get through.  I thought the class was fantastic, the studies/data we used to motivate topics were very interesting, exams are fair, and problem sets are few and the right amount of challenge. Prof. Chaney is also the nicest person I've met in the ec. department. He's a renaissance man.
Good class if you want to learn Stata and a basic intuition for multivariable regressions, time series, and panel data.  I am a science concentrator but took this class over Stats 104 in order to learn more content.  Felt comfortable without having taken a statistics class before.  Glad I took it, though the curve is far less generous than Stats 104.
This class was quite hard to follow since lectures would flip back and forth between "intuition of econometrics" and brute math.  Professor Chaney did acknowledge this to the class which I really appreciate but at the same time, I just wish the material was focused more on what was necessary for students to learn.
You have to take this course for economics. While the problem sets are pretty straightforward the exams are difficult.
Take it in the spring with Chaney!!!
This course is best taken from home, taking the time to review the lecture notes in your own time, because this makes the material much clearer than Cheney's somewhat dull repetitions.
A useful skill, but a dry subject
Do not take it.  it is boring, and the only useful part is learning a little bit about stata.
Do not take it unless you have to or plan on doing something in economics in the future. Basic statistics is as far as you need to go if you have an interest.
It's required for econ concentrators so you don't have much of a choice
this was the single most important course an economics-major can take
Take it for a requirement, but not for any other reason.
You should absolutely go to section. Don't skip lectures, and try to do homeworks on your own before checking with others. If you do those things, the class is really easy. I also liked it because once you've taken econometrics, no one will ever be able to bullshit you with data analysis again.
Good knowledge to have, even if the class is a bit slow sometimes.
I recommend this class even for those who do not study econometrics because it teaches you important applications of statistics and it's applicable to so many different fields.
I thought the material was very useful for doctoral students looking for an applied review of econometrics techniques. It's a good, basic introduction and survey for the most popular econometric tools. My only hesitation with recommending this course is that with visiting professors, there is always variability. I found Rafialla to be terrific.
Take this course if you like applied material and hate pure theory.  I recommend this course even to those for whom it is not a requirement if they are interested in the material at all.
Good balance between learning and not having too much work.
Very applicable, but you need to like Stats or running regressions to explain social and economic problems.
Ready to work some numbers and learn how to do regressions!
If you want to learn how to model the effects of interactions between variables in nature quantitatively, take this course. It is not a walk in the park though.
Make sure to keep up with the material, as it can get to be a lot by the end!
It's not fun, but it's gotta be done.
You have to take this course as an Economics concentrator, so suck it up.
decide whether to take class based on who's teaching it...
The conceptual importance of the course overshadows the lack lustre teaching.
Weeds out those econ concentrators who are not really into the concentration.
If you're taking it as an elective, only take it if you're interested in the material
It's a very useful class in terms of its subject matter. But the course itself was poorly administered.
Unless you're seeking to fulfill your concentration requirements, this class seemed to be a waste of time. The heavy emphasis on STATA made any real life application seem impractical and impossible.
It's required for economics concentrators, otherwise don't go there. It's an incredibly dry and un-interesting subject.
Only take it if you have to!
Useful class to take. Don't bother showing up for lecture.
It's an excellent course if you're interested in getting an introduction to applied econometrics.
Only take it if you have to.
I took the class after my summer internship in city planning. The ability to analyze data and judge the reliability/bias was critical in my internship and I realized that this class would be helpful and it was.
Interaction terms are apparently pretty damn important.
Only take it if you have to or dream of using economic models.  Otherwise youll probably find it boring.
Study hard because this is possibly the most important economics class you will take.
Don't take it unless you have to.
Keep up with the reading, because the concepts that you learn are so useful and interesting!  By the time you are studying for the final, and often learning some things for the first time, you will regret not learning it in class and being able to ask the professor really great questions!
It teaches really powerful analytical tools
It's not really tomattend lecture just make sure to read the lecture notes every week and go to section to learn how to do the problem sets with stata
very easy A
prior coursework in statistics will help
Don't take it if the Professor is Raefaella. She will make the final purposefully hard after doing little to nothing to prepare you for it. TFs were pretty helpful on the whole though.
if you plan on doing economic research or taking upper level economics classes, this class is a must. otherwise, the class isn't very relevant.
this course teaches very important basic skills for economists. pay attention!
The class is not too difficult, and not too easy, and you learn very useful things about statistical models and how to apply them to economics. Professor Giacommini was a good lecturer.
Metrics gives you the tools you'll need for your thesis.
good for learning the very basics of running and interpreting regressions, but moves pretty slow and is kind of tedious
Be proactive about asking questions.  The information taught is only the bare minimum.
Make sure you know stat and only take it if your an econ major.
You cannot study any kind of empirical economics without this class. Take the time to learn the material well as it will pay dividends later in your academic career.
Just keep up to date with the class and you'll be fine.
Bring a pillow to class.
Useful course. Doesn't teach economic theory, but rather teaches how to do economics research (aka how to run regressions) which is very useful.
Well taught, enjoyable, and very applicable material.
The worst class at Harvard I have taken so far.
Prepares you for thesis
Make sure you go to lecture, but things might be different with a different professor.  If you don't attend lecture, read the book and go to section.
It is extremely boring.
It might be boring.
Professor Giacomini was a plus; course may be boring depending on how it is taught.
This class is required of Ec concentrators.  I wouldn't recommend it to anyone else.
Class is well structured and concepts learned have multiple practical applications
Only take this course if it is a pre-requisite for a course you'd like to take.
It's not great, and could be better, but like many such Ec department offerings, you don't have a choice.
If you're in Economics, it's essentially mandatory.
Take it only for concentration credit.
I would say that the content of the class is great, but the subjectivity  of the grading of exams is unfair.
Painless way to fulfill econometrics requirement
If its a requirement, you'd better take it.
It is not too hard and pretty useful
If you're an Economics concentrator, you don't have a choice. If you're not an Econ concentrator, I wouldn't take it unless you really like statistics.
Its lectures are boring but the material is interesting
This class is certainly worth taking even if you are not concentrating or doing a secondary in Economics. This class lets you to be creative in your analysis and also hones your analytic skills.
I wouldn't recommend it since it's torture but it's a requirement for ec.
The information learned is very important, but it is not taught particularly well.
This is a class that is taken out of necessity, not for fun. That being said, it's not all that bad and you learn enough to prepare you for future economic analysis that you may have to do for yourself.
It is a good class. You actually learn a lot!
It's important to learn this material well, even though the material itself is dry.
It's more practical than Ec10 and 1010.
Also keep your option open for 1126, if they change the professor for that class
This class should not be taken unless you have to.
midterm exam is very tricky
Helpful for analyzing data in an economic/statistical methods that extend beyond statistics.
It was the professor who I would NOT recommend, not the course itself.
It is very useful course material.
Only if it's a requirement
Be ready to do a lot of reading out of class because you will have difficulty understanding the lectures
This class used to be easy and painless. Now, it's terrible. Don't take it unless they change the professor. He is mean and doesn't know how to teach.
Section is everything, don't miss it.
Previous 1123 classes have been run better, I've heard
The material is not that difficult, but whether it is easy to understand totally depends on who is teaching the course.
Excruciatingly boring, unnecessarily complicated and terribly examined. It takes real effort as a professor to make students suffer lectures and exams to this extent, especially when the material deals with essentially simple concepts.
Don't take as an elective.
Never, ever take this class unless you have to take it for requirement.
Only take this class if required. Otherwise, you'll just bore yourself to death and realize that you will never attend lecture. You do end up learning some important tools, but it's probably not worth a whole semester of time and a slot in your schedule.
It's very useful.  Could be run better, but then again, it's a hard subject to teach.
Take this only if you have too!
The professor matters a lot.
take if you want to learn statistics or want to graduate with an ec degree.
If you go to lecture and section and pay attention, it can be a really rewarding course.
I would not recommend this class unless you have a strong background in math and you are comfortable with an abundance of math notation.
Don't take it if you're not planning on being an economics concentrator.
This class is very interesting if you are interested in research.
Interesting. Gives you a nice basic understang of the main concepts in econometrics.
You have to take it if you are an Ec concentrator. It's not that bad or hard, but it is really really really really boring. But on the other hand the info is useful for writing papers for your other classes.
The class is a bit disorganized but it's a requirement and it's a fairly interesting class to take.
This class will teach you things you need to know to learn economics, but it is not intrinsically very interesting.
I would only recommend taking this course if it is required for your concentration or if econometrics is a skill essential for your future field of study. It is not a class that I'd recommend taking as an elective.
Very difficult.
Helps to have taken sophomore tutorial
Not bad as required courses go, but definitely not enjoyable at points.
it is hard
Poorly taught. Good luck.
Attend all sections, don't bother with lectures
I would not recommend this course if it isn't a concentration requirement or if you need to work with data for your thesis.
The class is a requirement for economics concentrators.  However, if you are not an economics concentrator definitely do not take this class.
Teaches you a good way to think.
The lectures are boring, but reading the lecture slides gives you a good understanding of the material.  The exams are fair.  Overall a good class to fulfill a requirement, but definitely not one to take as an elective.
It's so hard to stay focused and learn in this class.
Econometrics is the most useful economics course I have takes.  The course takes seriously the issue of causality in social phenomena and whether we can accurately measure the effect of various interventions, providing students with the foundational tools to evaluate causal claims from data and draw conclusions of their own.  Analysis is done in STATA, and your will become proficient in STATA use even if you've never touched it before.
The exams are total curveballs compared to what you do on weekly psets. since all the psets are in stata, and don't really ask you how to manually do anything.
i greatly disliked the way this course was taught. take it a year when you have a great professor and a great tf.
Take this course if you need it to fulfill a concentration requirement or if you need to learn econometric methods, but don't expect to learn material in lecture and plan to study independently. If you're having trouble understanding any of the concepts covered, go to section or office hours because the TFs are extremely helpful and generally very enthusiastic to help you.
Always be caught up on lectures, even if you don't go to class.  There's a lot of conceptual background that is important to understand.
understand stat
Boring class, but very useful knowledge.
Try and wait until Eric Chaney is not the professor to take this course.
boring. If it's eric again, I'd be prepared to skip class and not learn anything. woot for required classes. That said in order to do well, you'll learn a lot about the material.
I'm not sure that attending lecture is actually necessary for this class. The material covered in lecture is exactly the same as the book; the book just explains it better. The topics aren't very difficult if you take the time to actually learn them. Problem sets are graded fairly easily, though they are very different from the exams.
Take this course only if you are interested in learning econometrics regardless of the very poor quality of the class.
I attempted to go to class, and then had to leave after a few minutes each time due to mental pain.
The alternative (1126) is worse.
Professor Chaney gives random questions on the midterm and final, be careful.
if you're not an ec concentrator, take only if you think it will be helpful for your thesis, or coursework, or give you important quantitative skills.
Econometrics isn't going to be fun, so just get through it.
Don't take this class. The exams have nothing to do with what you learned during the semester.
It's necessary so you have to do it.
Take if you are interested in the material itself.
Could be a useful course but I didn't realize that until the final when things started to make sense.
keep up with lectures/readings
Dependent on who's teaching the course.
Only take if required.
It's a very straightforward course. If you put in a little effort, you will be fine.
This class is probably one of the most useful classes I've ever taken at Harvard.
Not the most exciting class but useful
Only do if you are an Ec concentrator.
Only take if you absolutely have to
If Eric Chaney is teaching a class you are interested in never take it no matter what.  Seriously- you would rather be sent to North Korea than take a class with him.
It's not that bad.
keep up with the material and read the book as you learn the material because it clarifies it
The professor's slides and lectures are unorganized and confusing.
Really useful material. Course itself is "eh". This is a foundational course that you must endure. Sometimes, it can be fun and interesting. Sometimes, it can be a pain in the butt.
Contrary to what most people say, the material is interesting and useful. The problem are well chosen and great to work through.
I don't recommend you take this course unless of course if you need it to fulfill the Ec concentration requirements.
Take it because it is very useful, but don't expect it to be super-absorbing.
If you have to take this class, it's not that terrible. If you don't have to take it... don't.
It is occasionally a bit tough, so make sure you choose your section leader well
take it if you really like theory of statistics, if you do decide to take it, you should go all the way and go to lecture or else the class becomes quickly meaningless
definitely go to sections -- they are very helpful for the problem sets and give a good overview of the models.
Eric Chaney is the worst professor I have ever had. DO NOT take this class with him.
The course is very useful in teaching students how to address empirical/economic research questions using data.  If you are at all interested in working with data, econometrics is a great class.
The material isn't bad, and it's important to know for the future. The professor, however, is terrible. You could get by without ever going to lecture or opening the book. Just find a great TF, stick with his or her sections, and you'd be fine.
It is an important course for any Economics concentrator and will help in a Sophomore Tutorial course.
This class is not fun, but a requirement for Economics concentrators.
The reasoning you'll use is important and applicable elsewhere in life, but the class as a whole is frustrating. The tests, lectures, and psets have very little in common with each other.
I felt that the material in the course was really useful, especially as an ec concentrator. I wish I had taken it at a different time though -- I think that I would have had a more enjoyable metrics experience if I had taken it with a different professor.
The absolute worst class I have ever taken at Harvard. Lectures are entirely unclear (so it is not surprising that attendance rate is <20%). Lecture slides are unhelpful and unnecessarily complicated. Too much emphasis on theory and proofs that are never touched upon in problem sets or exams. Not enough emphasis on an intuitive understanding of econometric concepts and applications. Problem sets are worth only 10% of the final grade, even though they take a lot of work. Exams are very difficult and long. I took this as an elective because I thought econometrics would be helpful. Instead, I found myself skipping every lecture and section and just going on Khan Academy.
When taught by Professor Zabel, this class is very challenging! If you have a strong math background, it's rewarding. If you enjoy the more qualitative aspects of Economics (instead of the quantitative), this might be a difficult course for you.
This course provides a great background in econometrics. If you are willing to put in the time, you will finish this course with a deeper understanding of statistical analysis and its relationship to economics as well as a working knowledge of Stata. Lecture will often seem dull, section unhelpful, and psets (especially the later ones) frustrating, but in the end everything comes together to give you a sense of accomplishment at the end of the course. Though I honestly didn't expect to, I honestly enjoyed this course and learned a lot.
Lecture: not engaging, not a particularly good use of time given he reads the lecture notes and doesn't really clarify thingsProblem Sets: kind of never-ending, but also not helpful towards understanding the procedures and techniques he expects you to be super fast at during the examsSection: most useful part of the class, so try not to blow it off, this is where you'll learn what you actually need to know from the brutal lecture notesExams: they're not too bad except for the fact that you had about half the time you would need to do them, even if you knew all the concepts, which I was not used to for exams
This was the single worst class I've taken at Harvard. The Professor is a jerk and the TF I was assigned sucked. I hated every minute of the class. No one goes to lecture because they are useless, you learn everything on the HW's
The course content is technical and not among the most attractive; how the lecturer delivers is the primary consideration when choose this course.
It's a useful class although not the best taught.
Not too much material covered, but falling behind at any point hurts you deeply if you do not have a good understanding of linear regressions.
Econometrics is a tough subject that is boring to follow.
Take this course at MIT if professor Zabel teaches it again. I know it seems inconvenient. But I promise you, you will be doing yourself a favor. If you have to take it with Professor Zabel, do not go to the lectures but go to as many office hours as you can a week.
Econometrics is inevitably somewhat dry and boring, though as a department requirement all Ec concentrators have to take it. I've heard Ec 1126 is a bit better, but then again it's also harder and I had several other time-consuming courses this semester, which led me to 1123.
This course was very poorly taught and frustrating at times -- much of the learning relied on office hours and studying on one's own time.
I am not sure if Professor Zabel will be teaching it again, but if you are someone that likes to teach themselves anyway, Zabel is a fine professor bc his lectures notes are awesome. In the end, you are probably an Ec concentrator, so you have to take this class anyway. It really isnt that bad.
This is a hard class. Not because the material is hard, but because the homework's are very tedious--all about state output and commands--and do not really prepare you for the types of questions you would see on an exam. In fact, the material is really useful and interesting. I loved the concepts I learned and their relevance to everyday life, but the class was not what made me excited.
It's nothing special at all.
Fell short of my already low expectations. Course materials, problem sets, and exams could all use significant improvement. Section was not particularly helpful and most of the teaching staff seemed uncaring. Putting aside the poor execution of the class, the subject matter is extremely important.
The teacher is awful. Do not take this course while Zabel is teaching it. The material is not too difficult. Learning the material in section is easy, but don't expect to get anything out of going to lecture.
Don't take this class unless you have to. Also it's really difficult.
If you are not taking this course as a requirement for an economics concentration, you probably should only take this course if you are very interested in economics or have time in your semester. This is a relatively hard course and the homeworks are very time-consuming.
This class is pretty useful in terms of teaching the basics of economic thought. It's not really fun though.
Take it if you have to take it. Use the notes online and probably don't go to lecture or section if you don't feel like you need to.
Surprisingly, this course was even worse than Ec1010a. Both the staff and students somehow managed to display the greatest level of apathy I've ever seen at Harvard. Yes, it's a concentration requirement, but that doesn't mean it can't be taught well. Just a few glaring problems: the course notes are burdensomely lengthy/technical and not organized by date (just 6 100-page PDFs), the exam review materials are deceptively easy compared to the exams, the homework requires rather extensive knowledge of Stata that's expected but never taught. The problem sets get increasingly tedious towards the end of the semester, with long modeling problems that are just vague enough in wording that you're never really sure if you're doing it correctly. Lectures aren't recorded, but nobody goes to them anyways - I once arrived 10 minutes into class (held in Harvard Hall) to see <5 people present, even though there was a problem set due that day. This class and Ec1010a are the reason I dropped Econ as a concentration. By the end of this course, it became clear that much of the Econ department in general cares very little for their undergrads, most of whom are aspiring bankers/consultants anyways.
This is the most boring, brutal class to get through, but you probably have to take it. Get a good study group together early.
I don't know if there is anyone who teaches this course well at Harvard. Take it if you have to.
Unless you have to take it, don't. If you can find another professor that teaches it, do it.
There's not a whole lot of ways you can make the material enjoyable. If you're an econ concentrator you just have to suck it up and take the class
You got to take it, just prepare for an unenjoyable class.
It was soooooo boring and difficult to read the lecture slides and it was difficult to sit through for an hour and a half every Monday and Wednesday.
This course is a good introduction to econometric techniques and basic statistical analysis. However the class was taught slowly and material was often covered more than once.
Get ready for some convoluted test questions.
If you are taking it with Professor Zabel, wait for another semester
This course was so bad.  It will probably be pretty different because Zabel was just a visiting researcher, but I don't think this course is ever really well taught.  The sections were pretty helpful.  I would say don't take this class, but you have to because you are an Ec concentrator.....
This is a hard class especially with a visiting professor. The ideas are not hard but you have to sort out them from the horrible lectures. Lecture is not even worth going to when you can just read the book.
You probably will have another teacher, so I don't know what to tell you...perhaps Harvard should find someone who teaches such a critical course in Economics every year.
Think twice about taking this with Zabel. His lectures were dry and he didn't seem to have a genuine interest in or concern for student learning. The course material isn't inherently difficult, but the poor teaching makes it more difficult than it needs to be. You'll spend a good chunk of time just trying to understand what the problems are even asking on psets and exams. Go to section and read the book. Start your cheat sheets early. You'll probably have to take this if you're an ec concentrator, but prepare to be frustrated.
This was the worst class I've taken at Harvard. Lectures were slow and I felt like I learned almost nothing the entire semester (no need for this class with stat 104 and a tutorial). The problem sets were incredibly disorganized and filled with busy work rather than anything of substance. It took an hour to figure out what was the question vs what was a comment or a chart to be used later. The tests were equally as disorganized, especially the two midterms. I have never felt so frustrated with a class. Subject matter was simple but the class was so poorly structured it was impossible to get through. This entire class should been taught as part of the sophomore tutorials in ec rather than stata. I wasted a class taking this.
This is a terrible course. Professor Zabel is the worst lecturer I've ever had and he made the class an abomination. I hope no one ever has to go through that again.
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE UNLESS YOU REALLY HAVE TO! Take this course only if you need it as a requirement. Otherwise, if you are interested in econometrics, I'd recommend taking it with a different professor.
Don't take this class unless you're required to
I would recommend taking an alternative to this course if you can, such as Stat 139 or Econ 1126. Even if your grade suffers a bit, you will probably get a lot more out of it. Also, the 1123 problem sets are so long that you might end up doing less work in these other classes, while learning much more.
I really hope future students don't have to suffer from having the same professor & TF that I had...
Don't take it with Zabel. He probably won't teach it again here, so any other thoughts I have are irrelevant.
This is a reasonably hard course, but it is easily doable if you put your time into it. If you are going to write a thesis, make sure that you are at the top of the class. If you do not fully understand the material here, then it is probably a good idea not to write a thesis. At least, do not use regressions as a part of your argument. This class teaches you how to read economic papers and use regression analysis.
You learn a lot.  Econometrics is hard to get really into since it's a pretty dry subject, but I think this class did a pretty good job of making things interesting and clear to follow.  Versus 1126, 1123 works a bit more with actual data and a bit less with some of the math and stats behind things.
necessary as concentration requirement. material is straightforward, but lectures with professor zabel were beyond boring.
you probably have to take this class, so make sure you solve all the available problems and then seek more in order to be able to apply the concepts you learned properly.
Econometrics is a good thing to know if you are interested in data analysis.  If you're a gov or some form of social sciences concentrator, you'll be much better off taking real econometrics than a stats-for-gov-people course.  And it would be hard to find a better taught econometrics course.
Useful if you are looking to get the tools necessary for doing some in-depth research and for reading economic papers that analyze data.
work in groups but do the work
it is a good course
You learn a lot of great life skills in this course.  How to work with data... how to interpret and critique quantitative studies... etc.  This, along with Stat 104, should be required for anyone who wants to proclaim themselves numerate.  You can actually engage with scientific and social scientific studies on equal footing with the preparation from this course.  Absolutely fantastic, and well worth the time.
Course is a great for students who find statistics useful and enjoy learning how to assess/solve economics-related real-life problems.
The modeliing techniques you learn in this class are incredibly helpful in understanding economic data. Although the coursework is complicated, the professor makes learning it a pleasurable, and even exciting experience.
This may be one of the most useful classes a person can take in their entire college career. Not only does it provide a great introduction to the toolset for empirical research, it also teaches you to think critically about research and about ways to analyze important issues. Plus, Stock is great.
It's a great class, especially when taught by Stock, that's incredibly helpful if you ever want to take a seminar or another other class that uses metrics analysis.  Just be sure to get a good TF, especially for the weeks when you don't go to lecture/forget how to read
It's a good skills class. Helps a lot for understanding economic papers in other classes.
great, interesting
While it is better to take this course with Stock than the other guy, if you have to take it, DO NOT TAKE THIS AS AN ELECTIVE.  It is boring and you can learn the amount of Stata taught in this course easily on your own time or during STATA office hours.  Since the course does not seriously approach theory, this aspect is irrelevant.
you will learn to use and love Stata
Take this only if it's a requirement.
it's mandatory
If you are considering a career that involves any sort of data processing or data analysis, this is a VERY important class to take.  Not only will you be able to use Stata effectively by the end and will know different methods of data analysis, but you will have a great background in being able to critique studies and find the flaws in them, which is useful for many professions.
only if a requirement
I think this course should be mandatory for anyone graduating from Harvard.  You don't need to be an economics concentrator to understand the concepts.  It is an important tool for any field of study that I can think of.
Very boring if you don't need to know the material, but very empowering to learn if you are an economics concentrator.
Generally a great intro to econometrics, without a tremendous time commitment. Would not recommend it for non-concentrators though
Had difficulty staying awake during lecture. Problem sets were frustrating.
Well, we have to take it as econ concentrators...
Future students should realize that the minutiae of the class can often be very frustrating, but so long as they focus on the larger picture and the interesting techniques and insights they're learning, they'll enjoy it.
I will not recommend this class to those who are not concentrating in economics.
It's not as bad as it seems.
The book is not necessary because lecture notes are exactly what was in the book.
The Professor makes boring dataset really interesting.
Professor Stock is clear and very practical, and it's a class that may be boring at times but the content is unbelievably useful.
material is useful, but kind of dry. using STATA software can be tedious and the course website is not very helpful for understanding the program (had to use a Princeton website quite often for help)
Do not take it if you do not have to.  If you do have to, don't ever go to lecture or section, it's pointless.
Take it if it is required of you.
-Extremely useful skills learned
If you don't take this, you aren't a complete scholar.
Although the course is large, the material is dead useful.
This course is an excellent guide to econometrics and could be of help to your future research
Class is good if it's taught by Prof. Stock. Otherwise it's likely to be torture
It's a requirement, but if it were not, I would recommend students to take it with Professor Stock, as he is a very good lecturer.
Professor Stock is a solid lecturer, the TFs are excellent at reviewing material and providing practice problems, and the exams, while at times tricky, are quite manageable given the textbook and psets.
helpful course to take
It isn't professor stock's fault that the material is boring.  he is a really good teacher and makes it as good as possible
It's a seriously useful skill, and Prof. Stock does a seriously good job of breaking it down. Ask him questions!
A very interesting class, that's essential to understanding much of the empirical research in the social sciences. Challenging, but worth it.
It is essential if you want to understand academic papers. However, the material is very technical and hard to get through although if you can absorb any of it you will certainly have an easier time in other classes.
Professor Stock is extremely enthusiastic about the subject matter, which definitely makes all the difference in a course that is required for ec concentrators. You will not be disappointed if you take this course.
It is definitely an interesting course for those interested in econ and stats and such but would not likely be appreciated by say... a literature concentrator
It's an econ dept requirement anyway... might as well take it.
read the textbook, copy the important stata commands from somebody who knows how the program works
