This class introduces you to topics that you are probably already interested in, but now you can think about them from an economic standpoint.
The material discussed in lecture was interesting and enjoyable, and Professor Goldin was amusing to listen to.  Sometimes the classes felt long, but it is better than having Friday classes.
The class was a lot of hard work but was also really entertaining. The TF was really helpful and there was a lot of feedback/support for our individual papers. Prof Goldin is also accessible during OH.
I LOVE this class. Claudia Goldin is an amazing professor and you can learn how to think about very applicable problems in an economic way which is awesome.
Really fun course that covers interesting, unique, and controversial topics. Professor is very engaging and approachable.
amazing professor, excellent lectures, and manageable course load. great class to take if you are interested in modeling family decisions using economic tools
The professor is tremendously unhelpful. The material is confusing. Please run in the other direction.
This is a really cool class. Prof. Claudia is great and even though the material gets boring sometimes, the class won't be as drab as most other classes. You'll develop a better perspective on the history of female labor and how it relates to the current situation. For the research paper, I would recommend coming up with an interesting question that you'll be passionate about.
A LOT of readings, but they are mostly not necessary to do well on the course since the exams focus on lectures and section, which I liked because the readings were often hard to understand. If you know the material, the exams are straightforward.
This class is really interesting! Professor Goldin, Dana, and Emily are all wonderful and clearly know what they are talking about. However, it is a challenging course and the research paper takes a lot of time. The exams are not extremely difficult, but because of this, the curve is not helpful at all. Take this class if you are up for a (reasonable) challenge and want to learn more about a very interesting topic in economics!
I'm an econ concentrator, and I hate econ. This class was fascinating and fun. It's very interdisciplinary--a great way to see how econ can mesh with history, literature, and demography. It's also a great class for meeting ladies.
This course offers alternative ways to think about historical cultural events in the U.S. as they relate to the family - such as the baby boom and the rise in divorce rates - from an economic perspective. It was enlightening to discover the crucial role that factors such as employment opportunities and divorce laws have on women's economic advancement, especially when society leads us to think that cultural factors play the predominant role.
Course is really interesting and definitely worth taking especially if you enjoy microeconomics and find the subject interesting. The paper takes a reallyy long time- it's a good learning experience but definitely start it early and be prepared to put in a lot of time for it
Claudia, Dana, and Emily are great! Not a quantitative class, but great staff and interesting material.
This has been one of my favorite classes in my 3.5 years at Harvard. The professor is amazing, the material is really interesting, the readings are carefully chosen. I recommend this class to anyone with even the slightest interest in labor economics
The class gives a good introduction to the field. The research paper is a great way to get experience writing an economics paper. The second half of the course sometimes felt a little repetitive. Definitely worth taking if you're interested in economics.
Goldin is great to listen to, TF's are incredible, and material is interesting as a whole. You won't get many assignments though, and it's really easy to fall behind.
I really enjoyed this class as I thought it was an interesting topic through the lens of a more historical approach to Economics. Emily is an incredible TF and Professor Goldin is a wonderful lecturer and economist in this field. I think this is an excellent Ec elective that is great for those who do not desire a very quantitative class.
Lectures can be very boring but the basic concepts are interesting. The class is still fairly easy so it is a good economics elective.
This class can be easy if you pay attention in lecture and go to every section. The TFs (especially Emily Sands) were readily available to help with the paper.
