If this class is offered again, you must take it. Professor Fryer is an incredible and inspiring lecturer. I came in with no knowledge of education reform, and left extremely passionate about the subject. You will learn more about not only education, but also about critical thinking about data and economic analyses than any other economics class at Harvard. You will work for that knowledge, though. Because 50% of your grade is unannounced pop quizzes on the readings that are not easy, be prepared to do all of the reading. It is worth it.
It's Professor Fryer's University and we're all just attending it. He's the best lecturer I've ever seen. He's the most amazing, driven researcher I've ever seen. Take this class.
Phenomenal lectures explain somewhat difficult readings. Pay attention to the grading structure. The pop quizzes on the reading ask trivial questions that are hard to prepare for, and the course staff often seems unhappy to be burdened by the task of helping students outside of class. Also very graduate-student heavy.
This class, although graded in a very unusual manner, is very interesting. Half of your grade comes from pop quizzes so you really need to do all the readings if you want to do well. Professor Fryer is an amazing lecturer (although a little bit unorthodox), and he brings in a number of amazing guest speakers as well. The final lecture he gave was one of my favorite lectures so far during my four years here at Harvard.
Professor Fryer is thought-provoking, engaging, and hilarious. Each class seemed to pass so quickly. I probably learned more econometrics in 3 weeks from this class than from Econ 1123 (you won't be tested on it, though).
Know basic statistics and econometrics. Also be ready for a lot of reading and, if they keep the pop quizzes, read each paper carefully and for pretty minor details like how much each component of the study discussed cost.
The pop quizzes are idiotic but the material is fascinating.
Fryer is undoubtedly the smartest and best lecturer I've encountered at Harvard. The quizzes are kind of bs, and the final paper is stressful but the content and delivery of the lectures definitely make it worth it.
I would highly recommend this class. Professor Fryer is one of those professors that you dream of being taught by when you come to Harvard. His lectures are fascinating and extremely engaging - he uses a lot of his personal experience to supplement the readings and findings that are discussed. I have come away from the class with not only a strengthened understanding of the econometrics used in education research, but also a comprehensive understanding of the gains and limitations of the field so far.  Just one word of warning-you do have to be prepared to work hard on a weekly basis to prepare for the pop quizzes!
Professor Fryer has funny anecdotes and cares deeply about this topic. However, the class is not structured and he often just goes over the readings without adding much. Assignment was completely arbitrary and instructions were not clear at all.
Fryer is not only one of the great minds on education reform in the world, but he is an incredibly gifted lecturer. The lecture component alone is worth the frustration of the assignments. If there ever was a class to audit this is it (though still do the readings).
really interesting class. roland fryer is an incredible lecturer, i've never been so entertained and fascinated by 90-minute lectures. it'd be nice if the class had sections, though.
During the year the course does not require too much time. The quizzes are pretty arbitrary and you're likely to get the same grade whether you read or not. Final paper had very little guidelines and high expectations. By Fryer is honestly one of the best lecturers at Harvard.
This course is  a disaster, which is unfortunate since it's an opportunity to learn about an important and interesting issue from a huge name in the field. The assignments and assessments for this class are what ruin it - pop quizzes that are basically stochastic, and a final paper with no prompt, no page limit or suggested length, and little guidance. You will feel disgruntled.
This class is extremely interesting, but be prepared to not really have any idea how to complete assignments. The grade is based on pop quizzes (50%) and a final term paper (50%). Absolutely no guidelines are given for the paper, meaning that it can be any length, any format, etc. The only requirement is that it has an economics component and relates to education in the US. Roland Fryer is an AMAZING lecturer, but he is very inaccessible to students, which can also be frustrating. However, if you are interested in education issues, this is a very interesting class.
You should take this class as a civic duty - it is incredibly informative in a way that reading the news cannot provide. Fryer is a fascinating professor and lectures are informative and entertaining. The class is not particularly difficult but you will learn a lot. If you're worried about econ or math prereqs, don't be - Fryer makes the econometrics incredibly accessible and prefers "plain English" to the normal jargon you get in econ classes.
This class can be a challenge, but you will learn a lot. There were people in this course who have been working in education for years who were still learning about the effectiveness of different interventions and the way that education policy works. It was a really wonderful experience and I highly recommend it to anyone with an interest in public policy or education.
This is a great lecture series, terrible class. Prof. Fryer can give a great lecture, but the quizzes and final paper were brutal. I tok the class pass/fail, and I actually was worried about failing. But the experience is great if you can weather that stuff.
This course is motivation alone to contribute in the discussion and mission that is improving this country's education system. Prof. Fryer is at the avant guarde of this research, and delivers potent lectures and inspiration in every class he leads.
The materials were interesting and the pop-quizzes were manageable with groups but the final paper was unreasonable in my opinion due to the lack of available time from the 1 TF we had for the course and the high demands placed on it . If you decide to take it make sure to start early and push for guidelines much earlier in the course.
Professor Fryer is amazing, and it's worth taking the class just to hear him lecture. The weekly quizes are a constant source of stress, though, and you will have to read each paper closely, taking good notes and even remembering specific numbers from the papers. The final paper is terrifying since it is the only other grade in the class besides the 5 pt quiz each week. But the guest speakers are amazing, and Professor Fryer has real experience running econ experiments in the education field. It's a great class, but probably one you want to take pass/fail to truly enjoy it.
This course is really incredible if you are interested in learning about what has been shown to work empirically in education reform.  Professor Fryer is both a very funny lecturer and a truly thoughtful and innovative player in the ed reform sphere.  Lectures are very enjoyable and will most likely dramatically change your understanding of what has positive impact in education.  The guest speakers, from Joel Klein to Geoffrey Canada, are really the prominent movers and shakers in the field, so hearing their perspectives is one of the most rewarding parts of the course.  The only negative part of the course is the grading, which heavily relies on pop quizzes about the readings.  Although the quizzes are very short, the questions are often very nit-picky, so doing the reading is no guarantee of doing well on the quizzes.  Overall though, Ec1820 is an incredibly rewarding and enjoyable course!
Taking this class is very stressful.
If you do the readings and have a general interest in education reform this will be a very interesting class
Audit the class - the lectures were fantastic but the course was a disaster
Some of the most engaging lectures at Harvard, but the pop quizzes test minutia rather than understanding of the article and are worth 50% of the final grade.
This class is unorganized but the lectures are incredible. If you're interested in Ed reform it's a must take.
it's annoying that your grade is dependent on quizzes that are typically nitpicky and difficult. most people didn't go to lecture or didn't pay any attention in lecture.
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard. Every lecture will leave you impressed and laughing. Professor Fryer's ability to explain the topics, generate enthusiasm and discussion while keeping a light-hearted tone is second to none at Harvard. You don't want to miss out on taking this class.
If you've done 1123, take this class.  Start the paper as early as possible, but take the class.  I don't care if you don't care about education (I didn't, really, coming in): take the class.If you *don't* have 1123, or any ec background at all...show up for the lectures.  Roland is funny, irreverent, authentic, and committed.  He's also a goddamn genius.  My only regret about the course was that it wasn't filmed, so I couldn't show my mom (a teacher) the videos.  If all of that sounds sycophantic...whatever. It's just the best fucking course.
Roland Fryer's class is really something special. I was inspired to further investigate and learn about a topic I had never seen before by one of the best. He's interesting, charismatic and the materials tie in perfectly. Would take again.
This was more like a lecture series than a Harvard class. That said, the lectures were incredible. Fryer might not have much time for the class outside of his 3 weekly hours of lecture, but he makes them count. Engaging, informative, and inspiring--he made me a better thinker. It's as much work as you want it to be.
This class taught me never to take a class that hadn't been offered before. Very disorganized, very little structure. However Fryer is a great lecturer.
The lectures are interesting but the quizzes are very detailed. There wasn't much guidance for the essay (which was a huge portion of the grade) so it's really hard to know how well you're doing in the class.
Be prepared to be frustrated with both the nature of the assessments in the course and the outcome of most of the research, but continually finding yourself excited to come to lecture.
Great class--take pass/fail because quizzes are hard even if you do the reading.  Amazing lectures and guest lecturers, especially school principles from Houston.
Do not take this class.
very interesting and relevant material, but the course was poorly organized and it was very hard to get a good grade that reflected how much work you put into it
Start you final paper early.
The final paper will not be easy to write and the pop quizzes are tedious, but the lecture itself and the professor's passion of the subject matter make it worth taking.
Professor Fryer is super passionate about education, and it shows through.  You will learn a lot of valuable things (whether you plan to go into business, medicine, education reform, or research). That being said, the pop quizzes can be stressful. Make sure you know the readings REALLY well before each class.
Don't take this class unless you are super enthusiastic about education reform. Pop quizzes and grading in general are brutal. Final paper guidelines were minimal which made producing a strong paper challenging.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Fryer is one of the best lecturers on this campus. His humor and passion for the subject is refreshing and makes the lectures 10x more engaging. If you are at all interested in education reform this is definitely the class to take!
Really amazing chance to be able to engage with Roland Fryer about education reform. The one thing you should definitely know going in is that the pop quizzes on the readings are hard, but it also forced you to go to class prepared to discuss and stay on track with the material. I really enjoyed the course and if you are interested in being a better consumer of research, especially when it comes to all of the politics that seep into education, it's a great course to take.
This class was phenomenal, and I learned so much about Education Reform in America, no doubt about that. However, the reading quizzes are the most stressful thing I've experienced in college courses. It took a lot out of my enjoyment of the course.
This is an extremely interesting class and Fryer is a great professor.  The quizzes are tough and unnecessarily specific.
Roland Fryer is a great lecturer, and this is a really interesting topic. Hopefully they will have changed the quiz component of the class, which is really is not constructive. Otherwise the exams are very fair. Not an easy class but also not insanely difficult.
It is a pleasure to sit in on lectures in this class. Professor Fryer is an engaging lecturer, insanely funny, and deeply knowledgable about education reform. That said, the course has an issue with assessments. The pop quizzes based on readings are arbitrary and difficult, the teaching staff is committed to be very unhelpful when it comes to talking about examinations, and there is very little support to help you should you choose to write the final paper. Take this course if you don't care about your grade. Better yet, take it pass/fail. You'll learn just as much.
Be prepared to do a lot of very thorough reading... and to be unsure about how to prepare for tests.
If you care about education, TAKE. THIS. COURSE. You will think fundamentally differently about research and policymaking in the field--you will have better analytical tools at hand and a sharper eye for BS. I am scared of people who make decisions in this field without training in causal inference now--it's essential! Also Fryer is absolutely hilarious. Every lecture was awesome. That being said, if you don't have the quant background (I didn't), it's perfectly fine, but be prepared to catch up. Go to the review sessions and you'll be good. Quizzes were difficult. Hopefully they'll rethink the quizzes, but if they don't, just read thoroughly, take notes, and you'll do ok. Still worth it.
Come to class prepared! Do the readings
Fairly interesting material, not necessarily a complete survey of education reform in America. Professor Freyer's an interesting lecturer. The course format is nerve-racking (beyond usefully so, I think), the quizzes are difficult.
Should take this class if you have basic background in statistics and are even remotely interested in education or the problems the US education system faces. You will learn a lot!
Fryer is awesome. His lectures are incredibly interesting and entertaining. However, this course is not easy. The weekly reading quizzes are oddly specific and at times arbitrary. Even if you do the reading you still may not score well. That said I would definitely recommend taking this class if you are passionate about education. This is the perfect P/F class.
This course requires hard work and is very challenging, however, it is 100% worth it. The things that you learn in this course are incredibly valuable for both personal and societal success. In addition to understanding the blatant achievement gap and strategies to close it, you learn how to be a critical consumer of information - something that is far too uncommon in our world.
- Midterm was easy- Quizzes are hard. Do the readings thoroughly. Look at them ahead of time to see how dense they are.- Fryer is a thoroughly entertaining lecturer. This class is probably his 10th priority, so you won't have much time with him in office hours. But he's very friendly and his research is very impactful. - Sarah is brilliant and very helpful in paper writing. Don't be afraid to ask her lots of questions.
Professor Fryer is passionate about affecting change in the U.S. and is an engaging lecturer. Hands down the best ec professor I have ever had. If you are interested in this topic, seriously consider taking this course!You have to do the readings in this course or you will get screwed on the pop quizzes and final!
This is an amazing applied econometrics class that is well-suited for ec concentrators and non-concentrators alike. All the material in the course is self-contained, but it will be easier for those with some background. The pop quizzes are often grueling to prepare for but it certainly incentivizes students to read. It would be better if the quizzes were slightly less arbitrary (they are currently 5 multiple choice questions) in order to better reflect having read and comprehended the material. Professor Fryer is an extremely engaging and funny lecturer who makes everyone feel involved in the topic of education reform. He makes the class what it is.
Take this class only if you've had a great deal of experience in economics classes. It is advisable to take econometrics before taking this course. Professor Fryer is great; he's hilarious. But sometimes his stories means that you get sidetracked from the material, and there were certainly at least a few days when I was stunned by how little I felt like I learned that day. If you're taking the course pass-fail, be advised that you're still going to have to do all of the work and readings as you will fail the reading quizzes and exams without a deep understanding of the material.
Great course, one of my favorites at Harvard. I would recommend for those that are into education but also want some econ theory to go along with it. Fryer is AMAZING and he is the leader in the field, so lectures are always engaging and interesting.However, please beware of the pop quizes. You do not know how many there are in the semester, nor when they will be. Thus, you must prepare for every class given that there may be a quiz (quizes are a huge part of the final grade). It is frustrating that most of the quizes were very specific (too specific on irrelevant details to take any knowledge out of it)
This is the sort of class that you get a lot out of if you're willing to put in the work and be an active participant. Fryer is amazing and you will learn a lot about both quantitative methods and education reform.
