Keep up with the eading and lectures and you will enjoy the class.
The subject material is very interesting but it takes some effort to understand what is being taught
If you have trouble understanding data this class might not be right for you.  Otherwise Dr. Freeman is great and the course is not too hard.
Minimal workload, but your grade is unpredictable
light workload; not always certain what direction the class was going in
Relatively painless way to fulfill the writing requirement for Economics concentrators.
The course doesn't require much from you, but to really get something out of it you should go to lectures and talk to the professor. If you have an interest in new and different methods for answering economic questions, this is the course to take.
The course was fairly painless other than the final paper. The course covers material not found in traditional economics.
It is a fun and interesting class, and prof. Freeman is such an enthusiastic teacher.
You really do not need to show up to class, you just need to read the lecture notes prior to both exams. Meet with Professor Freeman about the final paper, not the TF.
take it if interested in the topics and willing to pursue one or two that interest you
It's a nice overview, but don't expect to learn topics in depth.
Very interesting material and easy way to fulfill writing requirement.
not the most interesting, but not hard
Really interesting, different material. Great professor.
great class to fulfill the econ writing requirement, lots of interesting material and a great professor
Start working on the final paper early.
It is a great class to take for the economics writing requirement.
Very easy, very little work. Teacher is great.
its going to be hard to pay attention in Lecture.
Interesting material, opened my eyes to a wide range of models and research that economists, etc are currently doing.  Easy exams and lots of flexibility with the final project in terms of your topic.  The professor is very nice and flexible with deadlines.  The TF isn't too helpful.  Especially good for people who are into cs, modeling, data mining, or game theory.
The class covers very interesting material and Professor Freeman is great. Just make sure that you take time to really learn the material because its stuff that you really should know and should want to know.
need to go to class and sections otherwise the midterm will ruin you. there's also ambiguous grading.
Very interesting real-world and practical applications
This is a weird class. Almost no one was ever at lecture, Freeman sorta just rambles about for an hour and the tests are open-laptop.....it's not hard it just makes no sense. So it doesn't take any time, but you don't really learn anything....also the paper at the end is a pain.
It isn't that hard usually but the midterm was challenging. Weeks you have stuff do can be a lot of time, otherwise not. Can be all of the place. Pretty interesting.
This is a very interesting and easy course, which is a combination you do not often find at Harvard. Professor Freeman's lectures ramble at times, but the subject matter is extremely interesting and is not found in other ec courses at Harvard. I wish we had delved more deeply into a few topics instead of broadly covering a lot of topics.
The class requires little in terms of workload, but much in terms of knowledge load and ability to digest information. Each lecture is different and almost not related to material presented before. Lectures can be dry and the professor will throw everything he knows at you, and you might get lost in the woods. The material is not the most interesting stuff in the world, but useful in some ways. You will find yourself mindblogglingly frustrated at times but relaxed generally because there's no expectation of you memorizing or remembering exactly how to do things. The paper requires a lot more guidance though, so make sure to elicit feedback on ideas and seek help.
I loved this class -- I definitely recommend it!
Zero workload but the material can be difficult at times.
Good course that doesn't involve weekly problem sets that allows you to explore topics you like.
If you like sitting through 2 hours of rambling nonsense each week, this is the course for you.
What a great class!! This is like the black sheep of the economics department. It talks about all the maverick ideas and techniques that you won't hear about in the other econ classes -- so it's particularly refreshing if you're an upperclassmen. The material is super fascinating. A lot of it is the stuff you'd find in popular science magazines: genetic algorithms, data mining techniques etc. Professor Freeman is wonderful. Funny, enthusiastic. Passionate about the material. He is a wealth of knowledge about the topics he covers with first hand experience in many of the techniques. The requirements of the course are also really easy to manage. All really reasonable. Workload is light. It's really tempting to just not do much for this class b/c of the set up, but you should really give it a chance. The course basically covers new methodologies for thinking about and solving problems. It's refreshing to think about economics in a non-standard way. There is an alternative out there to building models and running regressions on trying to explain the world, and the course covers just that. I'd recommend this to anyone who might have gotten disillusioned by econometrics or is tired of theoretical modeling in economics. I also recommend this to anyone with the light background needed to take this class. It's extremely reasonable in terms of time commitment.
there are some interesting ideas buried in the contents of the lectures but overall the class doesn't seem very relevant to most other ec classes
painless, interesting economics class
Get ready to have fun in a good class. Don't wait too long to write the final paper.
You'll probably learn lots of new, strange concepts that seem unrelated. You will also not be able to explain the theme of this class to your friends.
Its a great course and a fun professor!
This is a nice, low-pressure economics course.
The course is fairly interesting and rather low on requirements, though you still need to learn everything by the midterm and final even if not through problem sets.
Interesting overview of simulations and modeling.
This class is very easy and interesting. The topics are random and are based on what the prof is interested in. Very little work, although expect the majority of it at the very end of the semester, which is annoying. Start your paper early!
It's a good way to complete the writing requirement, but the topics are not very useful or interesting.
The two biggest reasons to consider this class is for its low workload and for its interesting collection of topics that you will probably not see in any other class, but will also probably never see again unless you specifically want to study one farther. The lack of assignments was nice, but ultimately hurt understanding of the material. Final project was also incredibly flexible, but there isn't much support for writing it, so don't take this class if you haven't yet taken the econ sophomore tutorial. Professor was enthusiastic and knowledgeable, but ultimately this class has too many people who are taking it just because it doesn't require much work.
It's a great class to hear about some interesting topics for a couple of hours each week. It is not a course to take for the sake of intellectual rigor, curiosity, or discovery. But it's very little work, and Richard Freeman is an interesting guy.
The topics are very engaging, but the class is overall very laid back.  The few assignments that do come up tend to cause a lot of stress but once they pass, it's back to the same laid back flow.
Great class with very interesting reading and material and great lecture notes.
Good senior pass/fail elective
Take this course if you want to fulfill your ec writing requirement.  The material is interesting and the Prof is hilarious!
really cool course, you learn a lot and it's low work load, except for the essay, but that was pretty cool too. A survey of a lot of topics, and professor freeman was super cool.
Great senior spring course. Easy economics elective. Only 3 assignments ever: take-home final, in-class 1-hour final, and a final project. I highly recommend this for anyone who needs an easy course to balance out their schedules, especially if you need another Econ elective. The course material is not as interesting as I would like, but honestly no one goes to lecture or section and they all still do fine. Take it!
You may love this class for the really interesting lectures. However, you may also hate the class because you never delve too much into one topic.
freeman is great, interesting material, go to section!
This class is nice for senior spring because there are only two exams and a final paper. But paying attention in lecture was a constant battle (one I often lost), section was entirely useless, and I still have no idea what the title of the course even means.
The class is interesting and the workload is light. To help prepare for exams, it is helpful to attend lectures and sections.
Lecture is interesting but Section is where you really learn the material.  Easy writing requirement for Econ.  Papers pretty short and the class briefly covers so much stuff it's easy to write a paper on a topic that is interesting to you.
Low work load, but the lack of organization can be a headache and a half. You absolutely have no idea how you're doing in the class the entire time.
Pay extra attention during class and go to section. Professor Freeman is not always very clear when he explain each concept or theory.
Amazing course!  The material is very interesting, and Professor Freeman is a stunningly good lecturer.
Super, super easy class. Just be ready to deal with a class with little to no organization.
They try to cover too much and you end up not learning much. However, basically no work required, so it's an okay class
You cover a range of topics not in typical economics courses. Not very demanding. Good elective to take if you have workload concerns or just want something different.
It is a very easy class.
take this class. best for econ writing requirement
No psets, and not alot of work till midterm/final gets here. Final paper determines your grade. "Easy" but really boring at times. First lectures are really interesting
Fun class, you get out what you put in. Really learn through final project, so don't take this if you're just getting an Ec requirement out of the way; take it if the material sounds interesting and you want to get in-depth about one of the topics covered.
Very interesting and filled with real-world applications.
It is a great class with interesting material. Not too much work, so makes for a nice elective.
There are no weekly assignments, and lecture attendance is really poor. I would have preferred a work-heavy class if I could get more out of that.
lectures are pretty interesting you should go to them
The topic of this class is super interesting, but I think the professor is too smart to be teaching this class at an introductory level. If you have an ec background and need an easier workload class, then maybe this is for you. But if you don't have too much background in ec, you won't get too much out of the class.
Literally no work between (take home) midterm and final so you don't learn anything at all. The concept is weird too, which is to teach you a bunch of models with no math backing. That being said, it's really easy if you need an Ec class.
If you don't mind confusing lectures and sections, this course is for you. I'm not sure I got all that much out of it on the whole though.
Interesting class that covers a lot of topics one wouldn't cover in other econ classes. Well-suited for people who like to think outside the box.
In terms of workload, the course may seem like a joke. Note, however, that much of the material is actually fairly complex, and if you don't understand at least some of it well you're going to be in dire straits for your financial paper (i.e. half you grade). And you're going to have to put in time to understand the material well, as there's just not enough time in lecture to cover anything in depth. Don't let the dearth of assignments make you think that this is a throwaway class.
Course doesn't involve a lot of work at all, but it isn't easy. Grading is actually pretty difficult.
It's kind of a strange class in terms of the subject matter, and is probably better for those interested in logical analysis/stats (ie ultimatum games). However, the exams are open note and straightforward as long as you go to section and seek out help
The professor clearly loves what he is teaching about. It really seems like if he didn't have to assign work then he wouldn't.
Professor Freeman is very knowledgeable about the material but is sometimes hard to follow in lecture. Open-note exams with good lecture notes made them not as stressful though it still took some time (midterm was take-home). The final paper seems like a fairly easy way to fill the writing requirement for Ec but still requried a decent amount of work. Overall a somewhat interesting course, very manageable with little work throughout, and generally easy to do well.
The material is totally fascinating. You can get away with doing no work and do well, but why would you do that with such interesting information.
Pretty much no work the entire semester except around the two exams and the final paper at the end, but the class can be hard to follow and not entirely sure what I got out of it. It's interesting material but lectures just ramble on.
It is an easy course
This class required almost no work. There was a take home final which took a bit of time, an in class final (open notes) and a final project/paper which is very open ended. Professor Freeman is very helpful, extremely flexible and entertaining. Easy, great class. Also, fills the writing requirement for ECON.
This class is very different from your average Harvard economics class.  Professor Freeman essentially reads off his lecture notes each class about complicated game theory and other models of "discontinuous change."  There are relatively few assignments, and section helped to clarify what we should know, but it was very hard to gauge what material we were responsible for.  The final project counts for the majority of your course grade but there was very little guidance .
Do not take this class. Yes, this class takes minimal time per week, but taking this class is one of the biggest mistakes in my college career. You learn ABSOLUTELY NOTHING, and the class is structured and organized in the worst imaginable way. The assignments are unfair, and the professor and TFs do not care about the class. Your grade is probably picked out of a hat.
It is easy to not keep up with the material, but this will only hurt you in the end. Start your term paper early especially since there is little other work in the class.
Confusing material but easy course if you go to class and don't fall behind.
I see a lot of students taking this class thinking that it will be really easy. In fact, it is. This course was really helpful for me especially in exploring more options in research methods and statistical/machine learning approaches at general level, in connection with economics.
I took this class because it was rated "easy", felt completely miserable and even violated as a student the entire time, and then myself rated it "easy".
Very laidback course and a great choice for an Ec requirement. However, this course is very unorganized. The course-load is very light, but the material is actually quite confusing. The lecture slides are jumbled with no sense of organization.
This class was pretty disorganized, and I'm not sure how much I took away from the course. The topics weren't covered in much detail.
A fine class with some interesting topics along the way. The super open-ended paper at the end can be a blast if you want to put in the effort since it can be on pretty much whatever you want it to be.
Great class. Not a lot of work and very interesting and applicable to problems in today's society. Prof. Freeman is the man
This is absolutely one of the courses I've ever taken at Harvard. Please steer clear of it at all costs. Don't let the low workload and difficulty fool you. Unless you're ready for quite possibly the worst, vague assignments, gibberish lecture notes, uninterpretable lectures, and the worst section leaders in the world, then don't take this course. Do yourself a favor and choose another economics class.
there is no flow to the course and it can be difficult to keep interest up through the semester
This class is a joke. The amount of work and critical thought required is comical. You shouldn't take it if you hope to learn anything substantive beyond a couple of interesting facts. A perfect class for the jaded second-semester senior. The entire course could be boiled down to an interesting 90 minute lecture. I am completely serious. The fact that it counts as an ENTIRE course is an embarassment. This class does not meet the standards of Harvard and, more importantly, it shouldn't meet your own.
Fantastic class but you must go to lecture! Lecture is fantastic!!
This is the worst class I've taken at Harvard. It is horribly taught and I still don't know what discontinuous change is. The take-home midterm and the finals were incredibly hard and you don't learn anything in lecture.
The take home midterm took FOREVER and was pretty tough to complete. Though the TFs may say "sit down for 4 hours and that'll be plenty of time" -- multiply that by 5 at least.Even though Prof Freeman has really detailed lecture notes you can find online, go to class or youll slip behind on the course material really quickly
No structure, didn't understand what anything had to do with anything else
great class. easy, interesting professor, fun lectures, take home midterm and in class final are both open book. final writing project can be on any topic of interest to you
You learn everything from the lecture notes and section.
If you make yourself go to class and pay attention, this class is a breeze. Otherwise, be prepared to flounder on exams.
Be prepared to learn about interested topics without any sort of structure.  Freeman is wonderful though- thoughtful and kind.
Organization of the class needs work and therefore requires you to connect a lot of dots.
Not a ton of work and decently interesting if you can handle a class with little structure
Be prepared for material that you will need to spend time mastering yourself, outside of the professor's lectures, since they are pretty hard to understand
This class demands that you teach a lot of the material to yourself.
The professor is passionate and brilliant but needs help with organization! There was no flow to the course and the notes for lectures were impossible to decipher. The final paper was definitely the most interesting part of the class but would not recommend if you're looking to get a lot out of a class. Take a junior tutorial instead!
Take it pass/fail. The organization for the class is not one where you know your grade at all times.
Super easy class. Make sure you take the assignments and the paper seriously though.
A fairly interesting class with low time requirements that is a good economics class to take for secondary credit.
Only do it if you want a decent grade without reservations. And I say that with emphasis on "decent" and "reservations". You won't have any idea how it happened, or how it was structured. But that's 1818. A truly baffling class.
Need to stay on top of readings to understand,
Know what you're getting into with unique material!
Very jumbled in presentation without any clear themes
Have to teach yourself all of the material because it is very hard to understand the course material during lectures.
it's definitey low workload compared to other Ec electives. However, the material and topics aren't the most straightforward. I took it pass/fail, but I believe taking it for a grade could be somewhat stressful due to the ambiguous nature of the class.
This class actually is interesting and has interesting topics. But it's not well taught and is not well organized.
Professor Freeman is one of the nicest and happiest professors you'll ever meet, but I simply found it hard to learn anything in the course. Not much workload, but I would recommend taking something else.
Really really boring but easy
Great professor, but his lectures can be somewhat boring at times.  However, that is usually displaced by his humor and enthusiasm. Love this class, and the professor makes it great.
This class does not have that much work but be warned it is very unorganized. It is also difficult to know what will be covered on the midterm and final exam.
It's an extremely disorganized class, you don't know how you're doing in the class because there are so few graded components and I never understood what was expected of me on the final paper. However, some of the material itself is pretty interesting.
If you like the material and don't mind a slow lecture, this is the course for you.
This class is the most disorganized and confusing I have ever taken at Harvard. People are right in that you are very ill-prepared going into exams and for the final paper. With that said, it's not that much work, and that was honestly really nice. The take-home midterm wasn't the worst thing in the world, but I don't know if it's worth taking this course overall. Like even if you tried to keep up with the material, it's nearly impossible because it's so confusing. It's really frustrating going through a course when you can't learn anything even if you tried. I remember there was a comment in another year that said something along the lines of "I read that this class was easy, went through the course and was confused throughout the whole thing, even felt violated as a student, and found myself rating it easy." I think that's more or less true. This class has a weird dynamic where you will feel lost and frustrated, but I think if you put in a lot of effort, you might end up doing well? The unfortunate thing is there aren't many good econ electives that fulfill the writing requirement, so if that's the case for your semester, then this might be the lesser of the two evils...
I will preface my response with the following: I quite like professor Freeman, and I think he enjoys the material.  I also think he puts in effort - his typed lecture notes are very helpful (particularly for the take-home midterm.)  The TFs, however, are abominable.  I was placed into a section time that conflicted with a mandatory class I was taking.  When I asked TFs to be moved they basically said "sorry, oh well."  So I never attended a section.  If you're smart, this class is a complete joke and you could very well get an A without doing anything except for spending two hours on the take-home and two hours on the paper - no class, no section.  Class material is actually sort of interesting and occasionally thought-provoking.  Unless they fire and replace the TFs, don't take this if you're not looking for a joke/non-serious class.  It's actually hilarious how poorly this was run. to be honest im surprised it hasn't been canceled yet
This course is very low time commitment, but confusing.
its unorthodox lol
The class is interesting at times and the professor is brilliant. But the lectures are far from engaging, difficult to follow, and the assignments are vague and left students very confused.
This is a cool course and fulfills the requirements, but only take it if you are actually willing to stay up with the material.
No organization at all. Literally have no idea what's going on. Can't say how hard it was overall because I have no idea what my grade was on anything. Section was literally "lecture was easy so we don't need to go over anything...just consider this office hours". Worst class I've ever taken.
The organization of this class is a bit chaotic, but that in part reflects Professor Freeman's willingness to adapt to students' wishes. The course material is very exciting, and you have the opportunity to explore the model that most interests you by way of the final research paper.
Do not take it. It looks easy, but there's no organization or transparency. Grades are completely random and the TF is awful. It's low workload, so easy if you take it pass/ fail. Never take it for a grade
Be careful with this one. Little to no work. Grading is kind of tough.
The course is a really confusing one, but I suppose such is the nature of the content since we are discussion discontinuous change. If you attend lectures and just keep up with Professor Freeman, you'll most likely do fine. But sometimes, the course was just plain confusing - there didn't seem to be a rhyme or a reason as to why we discussed certain things. It was frustrating, but it was a generally easy workload.
Great course
The tests seem pretty hard as you're going through it but you'll end up getting good grades. Don't even need to go to class
It's a waste of one of your 32 classes at Harvard. Zero work sans the two exams and paper, but you're so ill-prepared for them that it's not worth it. Take a better class.
The class requires very little work, but you have to hold yourself accountable for the materials taught in lecture or else it's very easy to fall behind. Start your project early!
The subject matter is very interesting.  You will get a great survey of the field of research
