If you're serious learning about economics, but are not prepared for the intense mathematical proofs you'll see in Econ 2010 series, go ahead and take this one.
this is a great introduction to game theory and social choice at the graduate level. You will not find a better course at harvard that is as solid an introduction as this one.
Difficult class, but worth the work because it really helps you feel more comfortable with economic models that can be applied to work in political economy. Great even if you have had exposure to game theory before.
It is a lot of work and is very theory-driven.  However, the subject matter is challenging and interesting, and the course is very well-taught.
I just recommended it to a fellow graduate student yesterday. The lectures are engaging and accessible, and the professors strike a good balance between theory and practice. Both Chris Avery and Nolan Miller are not only extremely smart people and accomplished researchers, but also great teachers - a rare combination.
If you're at all interested in game theory, information, incentives, voting, you should definitely take this class. The teaching is excellent and you learn a lot of material over the year. Assignments are not stressful but are very challenging, and it is well worth working on them in groups and "teaching" each other. Overall an excellent class! I really enjoyed it.
Get ready for an amazing ride in one of the most fascinating and insightful Economic subjects. Put in the due diligence for this class and you'll come out with a new way of looking at the world and understanding.
The second half is especially difficult, and I would urge students to check who is teaching the second half and use the Nolan Miller notes throughout.
It's a lot of work, but you'll definitely learn the material well.
If you are looking for a rigorous grounding in microeconomic theory then this course does not try to provide this. It is also not a sufficiently powerful course to make taking further Economics courses easy. That may be useful for understanding economics or enhancing modelling skills in other disciplines. Nevertheless, the course is good at explaining and illustrating the key concepts used in micro.
Great for brushing up on undergrad econ.  Not sufficiently advanced to prepare you for economic modeling as a career choice.
this course is very math-intensive and you should have some econ background before enrolling in this course or else you will be lost
I'd recommend it as it is well taught, but warn anyone taking it to make sure to have taken some other Econ first. Don't make this your first Econ class.
Take an introductory microeconomics class before embarking in this course.
Find a study group and do all the review problems and you will be fine.  I don't think this class actually taught me enough economics to do any econ theory in a dissertation paper, but it did give me enough knowledge to creditably talk to economists and possibly even understand economic papers.
It's a very helpful class, and the instructors and TAs are clearly very concerned with the students.
Be good with math.  Do the problem sets and at least some of the practice problems along the way.
Don't fall behind and don't miss lecture.  I missed two (out of 20+) lectures, and it took immense effort to catch back up
A good introduction to game theory and information economics, but the lectures leave something to be desired.
I would emphasize that it is analytically rigorous but highly applicable to real world scenarios.
A good graduate-level microeconomics course.  Do the problem sets, read the lecture notes when you can, and go to section.  Do lots of practice problems until you understand how to approach the problem.
If you have some economics background, it is a great class to train your way of viewing the world.
I would recommend this course with one qualification - it is an excellent introduction to game theory and information economics, but it may not be particularly challenging for someone with background in the area.
Need to develop intuition on your own, to some extent.
Take lots of math, and come prepared with some game theory under your belt.
Very rewarding course which puts you up to speed in micro theory. This in turn underpins a lot of the discussions in all walks of academia
The best way to learn how to read microecon papers and have a chance of understanding what's going on.
It is hard to say I would not recommend this course because most take it as a requirement, so you must take it. However, if there was an alternative I would strongly suggest looking into it.
Poorly taught course (Jemison + Kohlberg), but a requirement. Strong disconnect between lectures (not engaging), problem sets, and exams. Does not help with economic/game theoretical intuition. You may need to study game theory on your own independently during/after the semester.
Go to section and ask questions in section about things you don't understand.
The topics were interesting, but I think that the teaching could have been much clearer.
Maybe not as critical as 2020a, but does provide a good review of the game theory aspect of some of the micro models used in health and health insurance lit.
If Chris Avery and Elon Kholberg are teaching, go for it. If Sandeep is involved, be weary.
This is a very useful course, especially the second half when you start to see how the different strategies for finding equilibria might apply to contracts and insurance markets et al. The big issue - the first half can be taught a lot better/clearer - even though admittedly finding the balance for an applied economics class is not easy. Whatever you do, go for weekly sections - sometimes they are as good or even better than the lectures.
The material is really interesting
Difficult and spent more time remembering things for an exam than gaining long-term knowledge and intuition.
This course is very similar to Gov 2005. I might recommend that people take that instead, since it's usually a smaller class and a little more rigorous.
A good follow-up to Econ 2020a (although only tangentially related to that material). Prof. Kohlberg emphasizes the intuition underlying the mathematics in a helpful manner. Students interested in 2020b may also consider Gov 2005, which is a game theory course held in the fall, where students also get experience applying game theoretic ideas in a paper application.
Good beginner's course.
An intro to game theory may be very helpful for econ research. Chris is an excellent teacher and wonderful resource. His notes are very clear. Elon is well-known in the field, from what I hear, and probably an expert with a long-term perspective on the field, but his teaching can be slow, disorganized, and confusing at times. Then again, I may have understood lectures better if I had done readings ahead of time, because it is difficult to quickly process the set-up for problems and work through them in class.
This is a hard course but you'll learn a lot! Do all the problem sets even though they may not count for your grade.
This is really what an introductory graduate level course on microeconomic theory should be. Yes, there is math, and if you want rigor you can make it as rigorous as you'd like. However, the focus is on the intuition of game theory and information economics, of everything from the basics of Nash equilibria to screening equilibria in asymmetric information. Highly recommended for non-Econ PhD students who require greater-than-undergraduate knowledge in micro for their research. (Econs will need their 2010 sequence, but that's just the unfortunate culture they live in.)
Good for intuition or introduction to game theory, bad for deeper understanding or modelling
Game theory is a very useful toolkit for economics research and any PhD candidate in economics should know at least to know the key concepts and be capable to read papers published in non-game theory economics journals that use some game theoretic concepts. The course in its current form is not well organized and does not meet that goal. While the professors and TFs are nice and answer questions during and after class, there is a major conceptual gap between the first and second halves of the course (pre/post midterm), the section component of the course is not taught to the level that it would actually be useful for homework, and the quality of lecture materials varies a lot. Feedback on homework was generally late and minimal. Course felt a bit of an experiment this year. The course also feels rushed and almost as if it only taught a few examples of game theory problems and a few concepts but not sufficiently to do research. There was little connection between this course and Micro I (the Fall term course) so not clear why the two are in a sequence or how this course builds a solid base together with Micro I.
You can get a lot out of the notes if you read carefully and do the problem sets by yourself. Ask Elon and Chris for help; they are very willing and capable!
This course is a good introduction to game theory and information economics, with the latter half taught better than the former. I'm leaving the course seeing many aspects of my life as games, which is both a good and a bad thing (c.f. "The Dark Knight" and "A Beautiful Mind," in that order). You will begin with the basics of game theory, including a number of solution concepts: Nash, Subgame Perfect, BayesNash, and Perfect Bayesian equilibrium. You will then proceed to adverse selection, signaling, moral hazard, and a bit of social choice theory. Chris's lecture notes are very good. The homework was of appropriate length and difficulty, albeit sometimes a bit repetitive. The exams were very fair. I would have liked a bit more theory in the course, but I guess that's not the point of 2020. I also would have liked a bit more connective tissue between the first and second halves, as I'm still not sure exactly how certain topics in information economics relate to games.
Good course. It is worthwhile to do the homeworks.
This course moves very slowly for students who have a strong interest in microeconomic theory. Still, the material presented is very important and the lectures were very insightful. You'll learn something, but I think the course can push students much harder.
If you can take a different class that aligns more with your interests, you should. In retrospect, diving into a harder micro class would've been as good as taking this class and then taking a harder micro class. I'm not sure this class prepared me to tackle more difficult material. The class was very slow and didn't cover a lot of topics.
Great class if the material is interesting. Note that it is not easy! This course really challenged me (which I thoroughly enjoyed). Undergrads in their 3rd of 4th year looking to explore their interest in graduate level economics should take this course as an introduction to see if they're into the "next level" of education. I did this, and the course was super informative. If you're on edge, I would recommend taking it. Also take the time to speak with Professor Avery. He genuinely cares about his students -- he took the time to speak with me for extended periods of time throughout the semester. This was a unique and very memorable experience for me at college.
Does a great job of motivating the material and connecting the models to real-world applications.
This course forces you to think. Rote memorization will not cut it. To do well you must engage deeply with the economic theories presented and push yourself to hone your economic intuition. A great course to take at the graduate school level with lecturers that are highly respected and acclaimed in their respective fields. Worth the time and effort.
Take down every detail possible in class and not just what the professor writes on his blank sheets because some of this information might not be available explicitly else where.
Good contents and level of difficulty, but the lectures may not be as helpful as other materials that you could easily find elsewhere.
Read Prof. Avery's notes carefully and take time to go over the problem sets. You will be rewarded with great learning.
Good course for an overview, but a lot of it will not be directly applicable to future field courses.
This course provides a good overview of game theory and related concepts. For students looking for a thorough but not overly technical introduction, I would highly recommend this course.
It's worth making good notes as you go through the semester so that you can use them on the exam
It's an entire semester of game theory - know what you are getting into
The tests require a higher level of intuition than you might expect, so reading Chris' notes and investing in a thorough understanding is important
Read the Avery Notes or find other course materials online to cover PBE and some of the other more advanced game theory.  If it doesn't already make intuitive sense to you, it's a bit hard to develop the intuition from just the class notes/lectures.
Be ready for a lot of game theory. As difficult as it may be during the semester to find the time, push yourself on the problem sets as much as you can.
do more practice than you think you need. it gets easier with practice.
Chris Avery is one of the best instructors I have had! Fascinating course material which often sparked conversations out of class
Very challenging.
