It's a terrific class, but only take it if you are interested in international macroeconomics and finance.
One of the best economics classes I took. It's a great introduction to international economics and should be taken as a junior to take full advantage of more classes like this.
You should have an interest in international finance and be willing to deal with a small class that is slightly unstructured
This is a great class if you're interested in macroeconomics or monetary economics. It's not too difficult, but still challenging. No research paper!
If you ever wonder about exchange rates and trade balances, this is a great class for you. Not very math heavy and well-paced.
Only take it if you're willing to self-motivate and work hard.
Professor Cooper is a very good lecturer.
Do take it if you really want to learn about International Economics. However, be advised that the class is not going to be awfully exciting, and will require you to put in a quite an effort into it if you really want to take away something from it.
While the information you learn from the book is very useful, I don't know how effective the lectures are/
Don't take the course if you want a professor who cares about the students.
Very unstructured lectures and course overall.  Essentially you are just learning from the textbook since the lectures and sections to not often pertain directly to the midterm or problem sets.  Very unfortunate, as the material itself is fairly interesting.
Don't take it unless they make structural changes to the course
It could be challenging if you get behind on work
Don't take this class.
The worst economics class I've taken at Harvard to date. There is little convergence between class lectures and class assignments. The TF was completely not helpful, and generally the class provided little additional understanding to the study of economics.
Unless they have a different TF or the requirements change, this class is not worth it.
High workload, so be careful with your choice.
Course material is very interesting for those interested in subject matter; lectures do not support problem sets
Second half is very boring (simply memorizing the monetary history of the world). But it's helpful if you want to understand the WSJ and other financial publications.
If you can stand listening to Prof. Cooper, it is tolerable.
Good if you are very interested in the subject matter, not recommended otherwise.
must really enjoy the material
Don't take this class. It is badly taught, assignments are boring. You will definitely learn much more by taking EC1545 which is very similar in terms of content, but is more fun and interesting.
Do not take this class for any reasons.
the lectures are very unstructured. read the book!
The topics covered are interesting, but the class is so disorganized and unstructured that it is not worth taking. Sections are completely unhelpful in preparing for the exams and you receive so little feedback (problem sets and proposals never returned) that you never know where you stand in the class or if you are prepared for the assessments.
It is an interesting course. The material is quite interesting and you learn a lot. You do have to make an extra effort from your part though! It is not as bad as the past Q-guide ratings.
trust the Q guide! if it tells you not to take this class, then don't!
This course would be excellent for Auditing. But the TF Y.T David Tang is horrible and has too much control over assignments, tests and course material, so I would not recommend anyone to actually take the course.
Do not take this class with this teacher no matter how attractive the short writing requirement sounds.
Only take the course if you're interested in the material
Its a good course.  I recommend it highly.
If need to fulfill writing requirement; if very interested in exchange rates and such
read the textbook before deciding to take the course
While the material ultimately made taking the class worth it, the process was so painful and uninteresting that I would strongly hesitate to recommend this class.  If you do take it, drink lots of coffee and GO TO ALL OF THE LECTURES.  The way Prof. Cooper delivers his lectures (monotone, no organization) is not conducive to paying attention, but it's worth it.  They're chock full of interesting and useful information.
Take this class only if you are willing to study independently without expecting much help from lectures. I would not recommend this class to anyone who seeks to improve his understanding in the field of international monetary economics. Find a different class, but not this one.
Provides the necessary information and analytical skills to be conversant about phenomena in international economics. Trade, development, exchange rates, effects of various government policies are all things one can discuss with fluency after completing this course.
It is not a difficult class as long as you go to lectures and read the textbook.
This is an excellent class! The first half is economic theory, and the second half is applying that theory to economic history over the 20th century. One of the best Econ classes that I have taken at Harvard!
Lots of interesting material especially given the current international financial crises and developments. Lectures are a bit dry, but the textbook serves as a helpful guide.
The first half is pretty good. The second half is kind of disorganized. You have to read the book.
Cooper is a boring lecturer, but the material is very interesting and relevant in today's globalized economy.
This class is a great class. Professor Cooper really understands the materials and is very good at incorporating current events into lecture. It is not to hard especially if you understood ec1010b. I think that if you are interested in international monetary policy, you should def take it. However, he does not use lecture notes.
This is certainly one of those economic classes that has immediate application value to current events.  The material is interesting and the professor is extremely knowledgeable.  I would recommend this as a senior class because it doesn't have very intensive work load while the material is very engaging.
pretty generic econ class. nothing too challenging, if you pay attention you will probabyl do well.
One of my favorite courses at Harvard so far. Very interesting and relevant material taught by a professor that is an expert in the field.
Great class, not too difficult, but knowing this material is very rewarding. Professor Cooper is so knowledgeable, and the best thing is that he has had first-hand experience in the history that he talks about. The only thing is that it's a pretty disorganized class, so you'll want to be a real fan of international macro if you take this class, otherwise there is no course support, no handouts, no slides, not even a written explanation of what the final paper assignment is. Very old school!
Section is extremely important for this class
prof cooper has good insights, but this isn't the most rewarding or rigorous introduction to the topic. you definitely get a good tip of the iceberg feel for the int monetary system...but doesn't very dive deep and isn't very rigorous...try to meet prof cooper outside of class and read a lot on your own about the int monetary affairs ...very chill. class...too chill to be particularly rewarding
It's easy and you learn a lot.
Tests are annoying sort of like ec10 but require you to read the book. Lectures are hard to follow.
