I recommend this for the discussion and the subject matter.
it's not a rigorous academic focus on a particular topic, it's more of a series of casual conversations about things that happen to interest the professors, but it's pleasant, stress-free, etc.
The instructors have very different and thoughtful points of view on the foundations of economics on politics and religion.
Really interesting course about the origins of economics in the US taught by two super guys and only meets once a week
Professors Friedman and Tuck really know the material well and bring in excellent speakers.
Tuck and Friedman are first-rate scholars and teachers and the course is worth taking just to engage them.
Invest time in doing all the readings each week even if it seems heavy, very worthwhile to get the best out of each meeting.
Take it if you're interested in the material.
This course is a great introduction the the history and political roots of economics. And it brings an economist (Professor Friedman) and a political theorist (Professor Tuck) into the same room, which leads to really interesting discussions/lectures.
Not for unqualified students; otherwise, an excellent discussion.
This is a great class with two amazing professors. Just listening to them talk about anything and everything is an enlightening experience. The readings are a bit random sometimes, but I enjoyed doing them. This is a really fun class!
I wouldn't recommend this for economics students. The topics are mostly questions of history, pure speculation where empirical evidence isn't an option, and arcane philosophical topics (e.g. if someone's beliefs about causality alter his preferences, do the beliefs need to be right in order for him or her to be rational) so you're probably not going to find questions that economists (you?) consider important and tractable.
Great way to satisfy normative requirement
Take this class if it dovetails with an ongoing research interest.  Use the paper requirement to write your own work because they are very accommodating about what you can write about.
The professors are really cool
