Great material that is necessary for an understanding of the corporate landscape, but know that it's hard to pay attention in lectures because the material is deceivingly simply. The professor does a good job of trying to juggle the following: teach important and interesting material, make the class not too difficult, give the right incentives to properly motivate students to learn and get good grades.
You can get somewhat of an intro to corporate finance here, but the course is dull and the lectures are not worth going to.
Useful, but slightly boring. Do the reading.
if you actually think youre interested in corporate finance, this is a good course. if you're just taking it so you can put it on your resume and tell ibanking recruiters that you did it, then it might be less pleasant (although hey, you learn valuation, so whatevs).
The only reason I would recommend this course would be for people who need to know valuation theory for corporate finance/investment banking interviews.
you have to meet effi!
Lectures can be a little dry, but it is a good introduction to finance if you are interested in this field after graduation.
I would tell students that if they are very interested in the material, then they should take it. But they could probably learn as much from an investment banking training program within the first two days.
If you need to take the course to learn about corporate finance, it is good, but don't take it for fun. There must be a more interesting course to get a broad view of these topics.
No matter the complaints you hear, this class is valuable unlike any other at Harvard. It is the closest I've gotten to learning functions that I will directly apply in the workplace.
It's interesting for the material, but the teaching itself is fairly lacking, and the class is replete with future i-bankers.
take this course only if have interest in finance
It's useful material and while it's not amazingly interesting, it is decently interesting and covered well enough.
It's a useful class to take for anyone interested in finance, but it is not organized very well.
The course is very informative however I would not recommend  with enthusiasm. Students can learn most of the stuff taught in the class by participating in some of the clubs at Harvard.
watch out for the cases
Hopefully, Harvard can do no worse.
material is useful
This course is time-consuming and difficult, but covers interesting material.  it also looks good on a resume.
The class is very poorly taught, useless assignments.
if you're big on finance, you probably won't learn much in this class
I would tell them that the only reason to take the class is as a gut, but that even that isnt worth it.
If interested in finance, a nice introduction.
Only for those who are interested and/or are working in finance.
take it only if you are ready to be in a class with finance nerds and about half the people already knowing everything from the course through summer internships, etc.  must not be easily discouraged
It's not easy.
Some very good topics in this course but course is not that well organized although professor sticks to the schedule.
It is tough. Structure of midterm and final were very different and they were also different than the problem sets.
Among all the economics classes I took so far, this was the most engaging one. I felt I learned a lot of applicable economics.
IT is hard because of the exams. Knowing economics is useful for the course.
This is a great class if you are unsure about going into finance. It teaches you a lot and in depth. If you are not interested in finance, do not take this class. It is hard, but go to the tfs for help.
This class is a little redundant and spends too much time on the minutiae of corporate finance. No one really gets very excited about it.
This is a very useful class. It is very disorganized, however, and very much dependent on memorization skills. There is a lot of ambiguity regarding which methods/formulas you should use in which situations. Overall, it would have been better if the TF's and the professor had been more consistent in their approach to the material.
The most boring class I've ever taken. Also, the professor is a big douche.
It's a good class to have, though sometimes lectures were difficult to understand.
If you're interested in financial markets, this class will significantly help you understand the Wall Street Journal.
If you have not had any exposure to finance before, then this class will be really interesting and definitely worth your while.
It is a decent course and great to tell recruiters, but it doesn't teach a lot of info that you can't teach yourself. It can all be learned in a financial internship or student group like HFAC. It is almost all straight forward common sense type stuff.
No need to go to lecture as the notes provide a comprehensive review of class discussion.
Be sure to set aside plenty of time to read the book and make sure you know the material better than it is covered in lecture
I would recommend this course if the same professor was teaching it. Otherwise, I think it would be very dry. The way the lecture is conducted is of utmost importance.
It's practical, but you're better off just reading a book.  The professor is very arrogant.  The homeworks don't help and there is no push for you to do problems.  Groups that turn in 1 hw?  That's ridiculous.  And we never do problems in section.  We just listen to the TF"s talk about examples, which dones't help.  It's a horribly structured class, the worst I've experienced at Harvard.  Worst ever.  And I am usually a very easygoing person
Take this class if you are interested in finance, or need it for an internship. It is very focused on practical applications.
It's hard. Don't mess around with it.
I would take this as a way to fulfil a requirement, but many of the things are learnable on your own.
Great exposure to corporate finance. Difficult tests and problem sets, worth it in the long run
I strongly advise you to have a small and efficient team before signing up for this course (because of Problem Sets and Group Project). Be prepared to do a lot of studying on your own, reading the book and going to lecture will not necessarily be enough. You will have to develop a deeper understanding of Corporate Finance (by reading the news or googling stuff). Exams are unnecessarily tough. As the professor said "You either got it at the end of the term, or you didn't."
This is a difficult course (or at least it was this year), and a bit disorganized. But the material is interesting and useful if you go into finance.
Take it with Elias!  He is AMAZING and explains things in a very practical and engaging way.  Cold calls in class can be intimidating but is a great way to memorize important ideas and really internalize the concepts.
this class is A LOT of work if you want to do well.
take this course if you want to work in finance!
This course is a refreshing dose of practicality compared to the purely theoretical economic classes you have taken before
Plenty of interesting topics covered in this course.  It starts off very slowly, but picks up pace about halfway through.  The assignments and exams are not super difficult but you definitely have to be careful not to make silly errors.
This class isn't super well taught, but it's the closest you can get to Finance at Harvard other than Capital Markets.
Good way to learn about Corporate Finance, although it's difficult to motivate oneself to attend lecture when the lecture notes are comprehensive.
not finance-y enough in the quant sense, but introduces students to a lot of interesting areas of economic research on corporate finance & governance
The way the course was taught this year was geared towards future practitioners in the finance industry. If you want to go into finance, this is like Investment Banking 101, and you will learn a lot and enjoy the course. However, you won't learn much about the corporate governance or crisis applications of corporate finance. It was a visiting professor, though, so it's hard to extrapolate for future years.
The current professor lectures in a very confusing manner. Just make sure you know the material well.
Only take this course if you are interested in corporate finance. perhaps pretty useful for interview prep too, but if you are taking this course for "prepping for the summer/FT work", doesn't really help work-wise.
Very good for ib interview prep
It is ridiculous. The final doesn't reflect the midterm or practice tests. It focuses on minor details. Also, it is ridiculous that they don't allow graphing calculators for the test. I was shocked when I had to buy a $10 calculator.
Great material to learn.
be prepared to learn a lot of the material on your own.
If you are interested in economics and business you need to take it.
Interesting material. But not as quantitative as Capital Markets (Ec 1723), especially the second half of the course. So if you want to do more quantitative finance. Then I recommend 1723 to this one. If you want to do banking though, this is a more important one.
You could learn all the material in this course in about a day. The lectures were also not very relevant to the material.
Don't go to lectures.
take it only if you are really interested in finance and can't learn it on your own. if you just want to have some basic background in finance, it's not worth it
study a lot on your own
The material is really usefull while the course is average.
This class was very useful and the professor is excited about the material and transfers this excitement to the students! Effi genuinely cares about us learning the material and it makes all the difference.
an interest in finance is a must. also, everyone who takes the class is probably going into ibanking or consulting.
Be prepared to do a lot of work.
The class is by far one of the worst classes I've taken at Harvard. The teaching is dismal. You have next to no support from TFs in the class. And the exams do not cover what is actually taught.
It is very useful in learning the basics of finance, especially if you have no previous background.
Good class. Interesting and useful content, and not that hard.
professor's not good.
be prepared to work hard, but it is a good class
ALWAYS USE THE NPV RULE
The curriculum is applicable, but not very interesting.
Great!
This course prepares you very well for a summer in banking, either having that experience already or having taken capital markets would be extremely helpful.  The answers to the exams are all based off of old exams, so put those on your cheat sheet.
This class is extremely boring and no matter how hard you work if you don't have finance experience you won't do well. Don't take this class.
This class is mostly interesting to people who want to explore finance. For everyone else, I would suggest taking another course to fulfill requirements.
You learn some essential skills in this class, whether you intend to go into finance or not. And it's not difficult.
Great introduction to corporate finance. Can often be very theoretical.
You probably would fall asleep in lecture.
Attending lecture, especially at the beginning, is necessary to pass this class. Know the problem sets inside and out for the midterm and final.
This is a worthwhile class. You will learn a good deal about capital structure, agency, firm behavior, investment models, bankruptcy, public policy, and finance more generally. That said, take it only if you have an interest in these subjects. I certainly did, and I found the material interesting. Effi will not be teaching it next year. He was a mediocre lecturer and seemed obsessed with incentives that rewarded not genuine interest, but actions just to gain bounty.
good introduction for those interested in finance
pretty easy but can be competitive because so many people take it. lecture is very boring and it's hard to stay awake or pay attention because Professor Benmelech has no stage presence and makes it hard to identify what is important. you don't need to go to lecture really - just read them and do the problem sets to learn how to do everything for the exams
you should work hard. it's not as easy as you think. in fact, it's quite challenging, esp. you need to motivate yourself to go to class.
take this class only if you are interested in pursuing finance as a job
I would tell students to take this course if they absolutely have to.  Otherwise, capital markets is a much better course.  If students are interested in learning more about valuation (which capital markets does not teach), it is easier just to pick up a book to read about it.
Professor Benmelech is great.
I would recommend the class, but I thought it was very easy and didn't teach a lot of substantial material. I knew a lot of what was taught already from having prepared for finance interviews. There's a lot of overlap with basic finance and economic ideas.
Great class for learning the basic theories of corporate finance, essential knowledge for pursuing a finance or related field.  However, plan on teaching yourself most of the time.
Every student should be required to take this class.  You learn more about economics and business than any other class I've taken these past 4 years.
Definitely take this class! It's one of the most useful classes I've taken here. You don't need any previous finance background to successfully navigate the material. Effi's a great professor - definitely try to get to know him outside of class.
Don't come into this course with high expectations. You'll learn some theories of capital structure and that's it.
This course was amazing.
a fast but fun exploration into the essential topics of corporate finance
Effi is fun, but mumbles and has a thick accent - read the textbook for your information.Final exams are recycled from years previous intentionally to ensure that you study previous exams - the best study strategy is to copy the solutions to those exams onto your one page of allowed notes.  Then, go get a beer.
Lots of work, but definitely worth the time! If you want to understand corporate finance (the intuition behind the formulas) then definitely take this course!
the prof is really poor.
You're pretty much on your own--there's little support from the TF's or professor (though professor Lamont's two review sheets were admittedly very helpful for the final)
The math is very difficult!
This is a pretty interesting class for those who want to go into finance.
Very easy if you have professional experience in the subject.
It's an easy class. Take it if you want an easy A. Don't take it if you expect to learn anything substantial about finance.
If you want to learn finance, this is a must.
Decent class as an overview of Corporate Finance, but don't expect it to be challenging or teach you anything all that fascinating.
BE CAREFUL ABOUT THE CURVE!! Simple statistics: for the midterm (which accounts for 30-40% of your grade), the mean is 51 out of 80, the standard deviation is 13, and the threshold for A minus is 63, a full std above average. If you are below 45, you get a C or lower (which is like 30% of the class...) I would expect something similar for the final.But if you want to go into banking, it's kind of a tradition to take this course. There is only one or two courses at Harvard that has the word "finance" in their description anyways.
The final was easier than expected, but I did think the midterm was somewhat difficult. Read the book, do the problems, and keep up and you'll be fine.
1745 really gave me the foundations to a good understanding of how to evaluate firms
This course moves fairly quickly, and can be a bit tough especially as you learn the terms and way of thinking. By the midterm, I hadn't gotten there, but by the end, I felt I had a great grasp and that the course gave it to me.  (Unfortunately, there are few assessments, and the midterm's weighted heavily.) Above all, though, Prof. Lamont was a great lecturer, both funny and informative. His lectures were the best part of this course.
Don't be fooled by the fact that psets are graded so easily - exams, which make up 90% of your grade, will be graded harshly! Be prepared to be on your own as there isn't much participation of section leaders in this course. I learned a lot and the material is interesting, but the class can be organized and taught much better.
Take it if you want something on your resume to show employers.
If you really want to learn about corporate finance, then consider taking this course. However, be forewarned that you will probably be learning the material primarily by reading the textbook and scanning the lecture notes provided online rather than by gleaning much from the actual lectures themselves.
Very good class for those interested in finance.
solid useful class.
Definitely a must-take for anyone interested in investment banking. Material is very relevant to the financial services sector. Professor Lamont is great. This class has DEFINITELY been a significant improvement from previous years. Not too difficult. Exams are enjoyable. Problem sets are tedious at times.
This class is like Defense Against the Dark Arts. New professor every year, and this year was not a Professor Lupin year. The course was poorly organized, and Lamont goes off on weird tangents/making side comments that don't necessarily  make sense all the time. Problem sets were not that helpful for the exams, and I felt like I was just doing random things since they're not graded. So in short, lecture was not useful, the midterm was not reflective of lecture material/homework, but the final was ok. Overall, I wouldn't recommend this class; even though you might think you need to take it to be a banker/consultant, I know of plenty of successful people who didn't take it. I found it unnecessarily confusing.
Professor Lamont is great, he gives engaging lectures and occasionally makes jokes. He seemed intimidating at first but later in the semester he seemed like a funny & friendly person.Great course to take in preparation for a summer internship on Wall Street.
This course can get very rough, especially the homework. Be prepared.
Its easy. Take it.
The college switched up the professor in hopes of improving the course. While better, it has only improved marginally. The professor is a great lecturer, but that's where the benefits of the course stops. The TF quality needs to improve, the curve is very harsh, homework assignments are not properly graded, and the material advances much too fast. Come in with prior finance background or you'll find yourself underprepared.
This is a fairly taught but difficult class, I would consider taking it pass/fair if you have no experience with finance. Professor Lamont is an engaging and effective lecturer, but one certainly needs to stay on top of the material before it's two nights before the midterm and you're scrambling.
The class is extremely dependent on midterm/final grades.
Good class. Pretty fair. Brutal Midterm, Way easy final. Study the concepts, lectures are funny, Lamont is pretty good.
Don't be intimidated by the pace of the lecture and all the pre-finance people in there who throw around random finance terms. The practice problems at the end of lecture slides actually help with the homework. If you can do the homework, the tests are relatively straightforward.
If you are interested in finance, this is a must-take course.
If you are even remotely interested in finance, this course is a must. Lamont is a great lecturer. Idk if he is teaching it next year though.
Professor Lamont is hilarious. Take this class. You learn so much about corporate finance, and it is in the most painless way possible. I feel like I learned so much in such a short time, but didn't have to stress and struggle to do so.
This class is interesting at times, but not as well-taught as I expected. We seem to just read and zoom through lectures, without spending enough time on them. Also, a lot of the problems could be interpreted in different ways, so one must clearly state assumptions.
This is a great course for economics concentrators, because it gives valuable insight about financial decisions that firms face. It gives a great impression of what an MBA course on corporate finance might look like. Homework assignments are appropriate in length and never too hard. The only downside to this course has been the harsh grading of the midterm, which is curved around a B-. Taking the course pass/fail or investing a lot of time in the easy practice problems can help avoid getting anything below a B+ in this course.
This course is rewarding but difficult. Professor Lamont is great, and extremely knowledgeable, and very accessible outside of class. However, definitely more time consuming than a typical economics course.
A very well taught class where you will enjoy going to class a lot.
Lamont is clearly intelligent, but not always comprehensive or coherent in his teaching--more interested in chugging through the material than teaching it in a way that makes sense.
go to lecture, read lecture notes
take it with lamont.
Good class to take if you're going into finance/have experience playing around with stocks and are interested in the sector or follow many companies. Not interesting at all unless you're invested in the material in some way because it's a boring subject until the professor starts talking about case studies of real companies but by then it is hard to separate what happens in reality from what is/how to record things on paper financially.
The grading distribution could be better (90% of your grade is based on a midterm and final) but this class isn't too difficult content-wise. Professor Lamont provides you with all of the material you need to do well on the test, so it's up to you to study as much (or as little) as you want.
Great class, difficult, but you learn a ton.
Definitely more relevant to investment banking than capital markets, though both are great classes to take if you're interested in finance. Prof. Lamont is super funny, a great lecturer and very approachable. You will not learn how to model, but you will actually learn to think about the things you may learn in a Vault banking interview guide rather than becoming a robot. Final was pretty hard, but this was a really good course. Take it. Also, the math pre-req shouldn't be there, don't let that stop you if you're interested.
Lots of great personal anecdotes, pretty painless, you learn a lot and its not terribly hard.
I'm glad I know these concepts and some of the theory behind. On the other hand, I don't expect to ever need to calculate an IRR by hand, nor to have to be able to derive anything related to Macauley duration.
You must be very self-driven in order to get anything significant out of the course. There is a lot of good material to learn if you are interested in going into finance; however, the course is not very organized and therefore you must teach yourself a lot of the stuff.
Effi clearly doesn't want to teach this class. Point is moot since he's not teaching it next year anyway. Also, be prepared to learn this material entirely on your own. That being said, everyone going into finance should know this material cold in either case.
Not an easy class, you should have some finance background to take this class. The problem sets are the most important component of this course.
The math requirement is bs. Make sure to put all the questions you do not know how to solve on the cheat sheet!
Terrible course, terrible lecturer, and terrible material. If you have any respect for economics, don't take this course. It's designed for pre-professional financiers and should not be listed among the department's courses.
Definitely useful, but not particularly well taught.
worst lecture ever.  highly unorganized.  terdious and will not inspire you to do anything in finance.
Do not take it when Effi is teaching it.  Effi is extremely arrogant, who has no basis to do so.  He is more arrogant than some of the all-star professors of economics, which does not include him.  He is barely understandable with his accent and his lectures and lecture notes are not very helpful.
Section with Anna was great - she explains everything clearly!
lol... just lol.
mainly for students to go through during recruiting - super helpful for the process
This class was definitely very useful for anyone interested in finance. It gives you a great fundamental understanding of how finance works within firms. I definitely learned a lot from this course. It's not exactly easy because a lot of your grade depends on the midterm and final, but overall a very useful course. Effie also really knows his stuff.
It was very tough and poorly organized, but the stuff you learn here will help you for the rest of your life.
Quite a few different lecturers have given the course over the years. Your experience will probably be different with different lecturers. Make sure you take that into account when you look at q scores and such.
Do not take this course - Professor Benmelech is perhaps the most incomprehensible and condescending instructor I have encountered at Harvard.
Obviously, if you want to go into business or finance this is a helpful class to take, and you probably should take it.  That being said, it's not the most well organized course and it can be pretty difficult-not the psets, but definitely when the midterm and exam come around.  Section isn't well integrated into the course so it's not that helpful.  However, Effi is really fun once you get used to him and he has a lot of interesting things to say, especially toward the end of the course when you get past the basics.
I would definitely not recommend this course unless there are some major changes. The course tries to squeeze in too much material in one semester. At the same time, the course is very inefficiently run and the professor/TFs seem like they put in very little to absolutely no effort in the class. The professor simply reads from his slides for an hour and a half at each lecture, which makes sitting through lecture difficult. The TFs don't do ANYTHING. It would've been helpful if they used section times to go over course material instead of going over solutions to problem sets (solutions to which are posted online promptly after the due dates...). The TFs are also not very helpful outside of class, and they were also late to the final exam... Overall, I had a pretty negative experience.
Very interesting content. One of the few courses available at Harvard that are considerably relevant to a career in the financial services industry.Closely aligned with a thorough, comprehensive, easy-to-understand textbookPowerpoint slides are concrete, focused, and easy to followProfessor and TFs (Vladimir specifically) do a good job of generating enthusiasm towards material
If the same professor teaches it, no need to go to lecture. Lectures are for the most part verbatim to the textbook, and they are hard to understand anyways. Be prepared to spend some outside class time to learn this stuff on your own, but if you are considering a career in finance, this is must-know basic knowledge
I'll start with the most useful advice - Effi reuses problems.  I had 5 of 18 final exam questions on my 1 page crib sheet.  Do the same.      As a junior going into an investment banking internship, I figured the course would be useful, relevant, and interesting.  I was right - the course, while not an investment banking training camp, taught me a lot of things that I should definitely know.  Here's why I chose "Definitely not recommend": This course (run by Effi Benmelech) is hideously disorganized.   The lectures are brutal, no one goes, the homeworks aren't even glanced at, the grades seem arbitrary at times, and the teaching staff couldn't care less about this course.  The laziness is brutal.  The typos on the solutions to practice exams will set you back about 30 hours studying, as every problem will take time to decipher, leaving you wondering what the answer really is.
Only take this course if you have a reason to take a finance course! It's extremely helpful and you learn a lot, but it's painful.
There are so many better electives you could take. The course is poorly organized and poorly taught.
This is a great introduction to the theory of "finance." The word "finance" is tossed around a lot here, so it behooves you to study up on the fundamentals. This course is tricky and the exams aren't easy, but you'll come away from it with a valuable toolbox - and the ability to do simple valuations. If you aren't too savvy in finance, this is a must-take.
I had zero experience with finance/banking before taking this class, and I sometimes felt like I was a step behind. I mean the people in this class are a self-selecting crowd, and I think in order to take this class, you need a reason (other than saying that this class needs to fulfill a concentration requirements, for example). I took it because I wanted to be challenged, and because I wanted to be exposed to something that I think is interesting and something that I've never been exposed to before. And because of that, I'm glad I took the class, but I can definitely see how some people would hate this class.
interesting course if you want to wet your feet in corporate finance, but poorly taught. sections aren't very useful, many typos on practice exam solutions (and even this year's midterm), etc. concepts are taught well in class, but the problems on the exams are very convoluted so you have to teach yourself with very little instructor support
This is one of the most applicable classes at Harvard. Can be a little difficult at times and a little stressful (the final can be worth 70% of your grade), but I would definitely recommend it!
Only take it if you find it really useful. prof is not good. Lectures are boring. Solution guides have incorrect answers. Seems like teaching staff couldn't care less. Typos in the solutions are mistakes when they are consequential to the answer --> Apparently he doesn't think this is the case. Waste of time.
Useful class and interesting material, but lectures can get pretty boring
A completely OK class, although it does not have a distinct profile. Mixes introductory themes with some unnecessary detailed research.
If you take this course, be prepared to have to do a lot of work on your own outside of class, ie. finding old problem sets to do or getting a different book as the material presented in class can be very complicated.
Please do not take the course with the same professor - he was lazy and irresponsible, not to mention the worst lecturer in the history of lecturers! Seriously, only about a quarter of the class show up for lectures and of those who do show up half fall asleep and another fifth are simply bored to death that they leave in the middle!
Take only if interested in learning about corporate finance.
Don't worry about the background requirements- you can do fine without Math20.
If you are taking 1723 and want an easy fourth or fifth class, or find 1723 too difficult or competitive, take 1745.
The professor does not prepare you for the final at all.
For anyone with an interest in finance and corporate structure, this class is really a must. The workload really isn't that bad, and the material is interesting.
There is a significant overlap with Ec1723, so the first half of this class may feel slow. The second half is more different and does teach useful material about corporate finance
This class has really interesting material but it moves so slowly that lecture is incredibly boring.
I found lectures boring and the grading unfair depending on a student's background.
It might be harder in future years.
Take it only if you are very interested in the subject, otherwise you will be a bit bored.
Its a good class and I feel like I learned the concepts well.
It's a pretty enjoyable class but is on the more difficult side.
if you are interested in finance, this is a good introductory class and the only one of its kind at harvard
The course has all the finance any aspiring investment banker would love to learn, but its really dry and not very well taught. The concepts don't emerge crystal clear. If you're like me and didn't know anything about finance before taking this class, you will be disappointed at how confused you are by the end.
good for learning the basics of corporate finance and accounting
This course is cut and dry, with the emphasis on dry.  You won't be wowed, but you probably also won't hate it.
Class is relatively straightforward and teaches important concepts in corporate finance, which are important for both industry work and research even tangentially related to finance.
It is a good class but I would check out whether you like the instructor or not.
You won't really learn too much, but it's an easy way to fulfill a requirement.
The material is useful but the course was not as interesting as I had hoped. It is easy material but you have to learn most of it on your own.
Take only if really interested in going into finance
Go to lecturers, and reading a book is not required.
this class is not that difficult if you keep up with the work, but it's extremely boring material
If you are interested in corporate finance, take it.  But if you have interned or studied finance previously, not much of this course will be new to you.
Corporate finance is not my primary interest in economics, but it is pretty cool how much of the course material in this class corresponds both to other areas of economics and to so much practical knowledge in the "real world".
Material is dry no matter how you cut it, lectures too long. But lecture notes, problem sets, exams, and textbook were solid.
this course is very well done and allows you to acquire the basic background in corporate finance
One must pay attention to detail in this course as the little details often make the most difference in this course.
Don't bother - nothing worthwhile to learn. People will inevitably take it to get some investment banking job where it will never be useful.
Great course to take if you are interested in the material.  However, this may only be the case because of Professor Larrain.  Future professor may not be as good.
Based on math and nothing else.  Class attendance not required.  Hard to do well because most students have already had finance internships.
Eh.
Only take this if you are interested in the material as it is not presented in the most interesting way.
I wish I had not taken this course. I feel like I will learn necessary corporate finance topics when I train for my finance job next year. The class was very boring, very hard, and ultimately left me feeling frustrated because I could not figure out how to do well. I really felt defeated by the course because I studied extremely hard for the final, but still did not do well.
There are more interesting, useful, and easier classes in the Economics dept. Unfortunately, there weren't any during the Fall of 2008. Hopefully the Spring will be better.
It's useful for people like me, who know absolutely nothing about finance. If you already have some background, it might seem slow at times.
Very boring, but a good way to fulfill a requirement.
Useful material, but you do not really learn much.
It is definitely a class where you learn material that is applicable, but the teaching staff cannot speak English very well. For our final, we had many mistakes on the written exam that greatly affected the way you would answer questions.
It really depends on who is teaching the course next year.
This class was taught by a visiting professor, so I'm not sure how this class will be next year. This year, the material was relatively easy, but lectures were just reading off of slides and things that you didn't understand were not going to be explained beyond that. Solutions to problem sets and exams often just said the answer and didn't explain the steps, so those weren't very helpful either. Course materials were kind of disorganized.
There is nothing good that I could possibly say about this class. It is a disgrace to this institution and felt nothing like a Harvard class. Literally none of the teaching staff spoke English as their native language, which severely impaired the learning of the students. The material was watered down, oversimplified, and easy, yet the inexplicably idiotic grading of the midterm screwed over 75% of the students. For some reason unknown to anyone, the teaching staff thought it would be a good idea to outsource the grading of the first midterm to two grad students with no affiliation to the class. Consequently, no partial credit of any kind was awarded for any problems, which meant a student who made a simple arithmetic error or copied down the given information wrong on part a) of question 1 of a 4-question exam, each with parts a) through e), automatically got no higher than a 75% on the exam, even if literally all the other calculations were correct. 25% of students got 100% on the midterm, but the mean was still a 73% with a standard deviation of 23%, which should have alerted the teaching staff to the fact that they were doing something horribly wrong. Lecture was reading through powerpoints, which were mostly copied from the textbook, as were many of the problem set questions. The guest lecturer professor deferred almost all questions from students to his TF's and flew back to Italy before reading period even started. It was painfully obvious that none of the teaching staff cared the slightest bit about the students. It's sad that such an interesting topic could spawn such an abomination of a class.
It is useful and completely doable.
It is a very easy course if you are slightly familiar with the area and have some (rudimentary) math/ stat background. Take it if you want a relaxed class.
Quality of class highly depends on professor teaching the class.
Very helpful class if you want an intro to finance.
I learned a ton in Corp Fin. This class is about how much you put into it. There s a lot of material covered, and if you spend a lot of time doing the readings, attending lectures, studying the week's material, you will learn an incredible amount! For those of you who are taking this course because you are interested in a career in finance, this class is investment banking 101 and more (teaches you wayyy more than what is required for interviews). Overall, a great course for those interested in both the academic and practical sides of finance.
Well taught, but a little repetitive with the material in capital markets.
Very easy and very applicable.
A very practical and useful course.
No reason to attend lecture when it covers a reading you can do in 20 mins
If you're gonna take it, take it as a 5th class.
The lectures are good as they follow the material quite closely. The problem sets are fair and help you prepare for the exam. The professor really cared about his students understanding the material, which is somewhat uncommon. The material itself is not too complicated, but gives you a basic foundation in corporate finance.
You must take this course as an economics concentrator!!
Great class to learn about the basics of corporate finance and useful background to have for investment banking / consulting. The class depends entirely on the professor; prof. Panunzi was really good, but if it's a different professor, it could become a lot harder (we weren't really able to solve any of the questions from last year's exams for example). In this case, the professor really defines whether the class will be enjoyable or an even more difficult version of capital markets.
Exams are hard but lectures are very good. Not much work and you learn a lot of very applicable information.
If you're good at math this course is a breeze, and if you like finance then the material covered is essential to much of IBD & PE.
This class was a disaster. The professor is not an effective lecturer and just drags the class on. The materials are confusing and the lecture notes do not really seem to help with anything.Would not recommend, at least not with this professor.
practical, easy to understand lectures
This class has fascinating material, but I recommend taking it when Prof. Lamont teaches it. This year's professor was good, but he basically taught from the textbook and doesn't seem to have the real world experience that Lamont can offer. Also, exams were graded harshly - they would drag through arithmetic errors to the entire problem, which is ridiculous.
This class is full of difficult material and one of the few that introduces finance concepts to the Harvard student body. It can move very quickly at times and the exams are worth the vast majority of the grade.
great class to take, very useful for real world
If you're interested in finance at all, or are going to be having finance interviews next year, this is a useful course, in the sense that it makes you more aware of and gives you a good grounding in a lot of terms and mechanisms that you often hear swirling around on investing sites online, in the Financial Times, and so on. To be fair, the stuff relevant to finance interviews that you learn from this course you could probably learn in a few days of intensive self-study over the summer, but nevertheless if you're into finance/ going to be preparing for interviews in the near future, it's a nice bonus to have a solid understanding of how corporate finance works going into your junior year. The difficulty of the course seems to sway a lot each year so be warned.
It was difficult to understand the professor most of the time. He tried hard during lecture, and I could tell he was presenting his ideas clearly, but it just didn't get through to me. He also refused to help on problem set questions (or with any type of question relating to those on the problem set) during his office hours. That said, I took it pass/fail, I think I nailed the final on only a day or two of studying, and I may or may not be mildly inebriated rightnowwoohooseniorspranggggggg
Great material. If you're interested in finance take it.
You'll probably see that most had an easy time this year.  This is heavily dependent upon the professor.  Don't only look at the evaluations this year.
It's not the best class - pretty dry and not engaging but if you really want to learn the basics of finance, take the class
It's not an easy class, but keep up with the material, go to lecture, and it's not so bad.
If you took Economics 1723 (Capital Markets), this class is going to be about 75% review and 25% new information. The lectures are alright, and the textbook is pretty good. The problem sets and exams are very straightforward and easier than problems from 1723.
This is a great course if you want to gain some basic knowledge of corporate finance.
Do not take this class!!!! I took it thinking it would be useful to learn some finance before I graduated and it was a huge mistake. This is quite possibly the worse course I've taken at Harvard. At the beginning of the class we were told we would have 6 psets and 2 projects. By the end of the course we had been assigned 4 projects and 9 psets, which was entirely unfair. The exams were extremely hard, and were not on much of a curve, meaning your 60% score which is a B in any other econ class goes down as a D or C. Opp's cold call questions at the beginning of each class were horrible, and essentially punished you for showing up to lecture.
This is a good course if you are interested in finance because many of the material is actually relevant to banking jobs.
You can get the same material covered from a more math heavy perspective in other classes if you want. But if you're more qualitative, but are still interested in this content, it's not bad.
The final was so much harder than the practice exam. Felt duped.
Opp isn't a good lecturer.
Will give you skills that will be very applicable in a financial job
You have to hold yourself accountable to stay up to speed with the material throughout the semester and if you do you will learn lots! A great introduction to finance concepts that is hard to find in the Economics department here.
You likely won't learn that much if you've already been exposed to finance in some way through your internships, clubs, etc, but for those who would like to learn what finance is all about, this is a very good introduction to the fundamental concepts. It would be better if it was a bit more theoretical, as it often felt like a plug and chug class.
In it's current format I would avoid the class if you have limited corporate finance experience.  If you already know most of the material then I would take the course due to it's low workload.  I tell people to avoid the course because it's geared for you to learn little.  Professor Opp discourages students that are less comfortable with the material from attending lecture by implementing cold call questions in the beginning of class. The tfs are also either friendly or socially awkward. Basically if you're not WASPy or if you're on financial aid you're going to feel uncomfortable with the weird bro-y culture of Ec 1745 with Professor Opp.
Great course (and easy grade) but also boring and won't prepare you for "corporate finance" as practically as you think it should.
The professor is great and cares deeply about the material. However, the homework difficulty and the exam difficulty don't match at all. Homework is extremely easy and straightforward, but the exams are unfair in that we don't get any practice with that kind of questions. Hopefully next year, the homework will be harder or at least similar to the questions asked in the exams so that students who go to classes and understand the material will be able to do well.
I am not sure if Prof Opp will still be teaching the class, so it could be totally different, but it was a good class which comprehensively covers a lot of basic finance topics. Workload was low-moderate with assignments due every two weeks or so.
Good course.
section was brutal, final was really hard. Opp is a good prof though
Choose a good teammate
This class is interesting, but is also kind of difficult.
If they have better TFs the course would be good because the sections are important
Material isn't too difficult, but try not to fall behind since it's comprehensive. Some of the material is probably pretty helpful for a finance interview, but it's also stuff that you can learn by yourself.
Covers a lot of the basics of corporate finance and material is very applicable. Too much time spent on easy concepts which limits the extent to which the difficulty progresses. Professor Opp is engaging and a good lecturer.
The TF's were terrible - section was totally useless and not helpful.  Also, the final exam wasn't at all representative of the course, which was INCREDIBLY frustrating.  Kids who didn't show up all semester got A's because they studied some stuff (and the final counted for up to 75% of your grade, minimum 50%) but kids who showed up the whole time did worse because they studied the (e.g. 2012 final and 2017 practice questions), which were way easier than the exam.   The exam made everyone feel terrible, and the final exam average was a C-.  You could still get an A- or B+ with that, provided you did well in the rest of the course (which is doable, but on you).  Overall though, the final made the course end on a very weak note.Additionally, the lecture slides were okay (the book was great).  But, the lecture slides were pretty much a comprehensive/good version of the book, where Professor Opp just used the same examples.Finally, asking questions in slides that were not answered in the slides did not help, and cold-calling was annoying, time-consuming, and did not help attendance.If I had the choice to take this course again, I would not, unless it was seriously revamped and the final actually represented the course.
Good class but only if you have the desire to learn finance. It a lot more focused and niche than some of the other ECON electives. You'll very likely learn something new but you're unlikely to review many of the fundamentals in the 10/1010/1011 series if that's what you're looking for.
On the whole I mainly enjoyed the class. Professor Opp is passionate about the material, knows it well, and is interested in students getting more real-world skills related to corporate finance/Excel, which is great. I do have reservations, however, regarding section and the final. Sections were not of much use at all, to the point that most people I knew in the course stopped attending them as the semester went on. Moreover, I felt that the final was not representative of the course itself. I did feel all other assignments were great and highly representative (i.e. problem sets, case study, and midterm). The final, however, was extremely challenging and much more difficult than any problems we'd done in class or homework. Course grades turned out fine due to a curve, but with the final so heavily weighted (at least 50% of your grade), it feels like it could be made more representative of the course itself and of prior difficulty of problem sets and other work.
Opp is a great Professor. Homework assignments very easy, take-home midterm quite long and difficult, and final exam shaping up to be very hard as well. Worthwhile to take if going into finance.
Easy with guest lecturer; heard it is normally harder.
This class made me know for sure that I don't want to go into finance. While Prof Opp was a nice guy and tried his best to make this a good class, the material was so boring. It was basically like 300 different ways of applying NPV. This will probably not be a super interesting class but may be helpful for those who want to go into finance.
The concepts in this course are very interesting and applicable to the finance industry. However, the course is structured such that you don't have to engage deeply with the topics to succeed. What I mean by that is, because the homework assignments were online and the midterm was take-home, the final exam was really the only time where you were forced to learn the material without being able to directly rely on the Internet or your notes for help.
It is a standard introductory course to corporate finance. Theres is no handling of financial statements, but other than that covers a wide range of topics. It is not very challenging and easily combined with other demanding courses.
Great class that will help you with finance interviews.  Really gives basic breakdown, understanding.  This is all specific to Opp's version of the course though.
The class is pretty easy, but you have no idea what is going on because the homework and the class don't really fit together.
This year it was taught by a visiting professor from Berkley. Marcus, as a person, is funny and tries hard to make the class engaging. However, mid-way through the course, he decided to do cold-call questions in lecture, which I think honestly deterred many students from attending lecture. He would spend 40% of class time having students answer questions from the previous class than going over new material. Also, he asks a lot of questions in lecture on new material when students have never heard of concepts, which kind of detracts from him teaching. Second portion of course was very challenging material, so you have to go to lecture. Overall, the material can be dry (aka finance). Be wary of the take-home midterm as it is pretty challenging and so is the final exam. Sometimes the lectures and homework did not prepare one for the difficulty of the exams. However, if you want to do well in this course, you have to attend lecture and be on-top of the material at all times.
Course seems easy because the online homework is fairly intuitive, but the projects, midterms, and final are all difficult
The visiting professor made it hard to gauge the difficulty of the final exam, which caught a lot of students by surprise. You can learn most of the material on your own as well.
This course really helps you understand corporate finance from first principles. You may think you understand WACC or a dcf, but the course will shore up your foundation about the assumptions underlying a lot of what is used in finance.
Great course!
Very useful course if you're going into finance, but fairly dull if you aren't. Fair assignments but tests are harder than you'd expect.
Important to do readings, and put a lot of effort on homework.
N/A.
If you don't have a strong background in finance, you will be overwhelmed.
Professor Opp is a serious yet humorous person. You will learn a lot in this course.
Necessary. And. Maggiori is a fair. Professor.
Super important concepts about corporate finance are learned!
It is a great class but it is very hard, especially in the beginning and grades are said to be rather bad.
This book is the basics of finance. Don't expect too much and be prepared for a fairly easy class. Also a lot of mathematical intuitions and modeling are left out.
Professor is very passionate and well versed in finance.  Grading can be tough but I believe it's curved fairly.
A nice class on finance. Prof. Maggiori is very bought into the learning of his students, and also enthusiastic about getting to know them. Classes are interesting, problem sets are relevant and highlight the course material in a nice manner. Good TFs.
I thought this was a great class. Matteo is an amazing lecturer and really cares about the class. Make sure you get to know him personally! The material, though sometimes dry in lecture, is very interesting. The psets are very doable, and the exams are very straightforward. Take this class if you want an interesting but slightly challenging course on corporate finance. Do not take this class only if you want to do better in a job interview, because this course is more theoretical.
multivariable calculus & linear algebra requirements are not to be taken seriously. first half asks you to invert matrices occasionally, but this process can be memorized in 2 minutes or done with a calculator.
This class is very lacking in content. The material taught in class was exceptionally simple. If you come from a more quant background, I suggest a more involved class. The assignments were also quite pointless; 5 person group psets and a book report that was very arbitrarily graded.
This course is time-consuming, yet not particularly rewarding as you do not learn much that is immediately useful. The problem sets are difficult and you will probably spend more time working on them than you would preparing for exams. The TF's are minimally helpful with the assignments because the professor wants you to figure things out on your own or with your group. Even with your hard work, problem sets are weighted just 15% of your final grade and the exams themselves do not entirely reflect the material covered in the problem sets. The class averages for the tests are around 80; exams count for 65% of your grade. The professor emphatically states that he does not believe in curving, so be sure to adjust expectations of grades if you take this class. Sections are boring and not entirely useful; you could just read the section notes instead. Even so, section/lecture attendance and participation is expected as they count for 5% of your grade. Lectures aren't bad but are certainly not riveting. Still, the professor does seem enthusiastic about the material that he teaches. Take this course only if you truly, truly believe that you will enjoy learning about the material listed in the syllabus. Do not deceive yourself otherwise you will probably regret taking this class. Find a different course if you simply need an Economics elective. Pursue some independent studying if you want to learn some basic finance. If the trend continues, the course will get smaller and the professor will have more leeway to make the course harder.
Take this course. Maggiori is a great instructor and you'll learn a lot of intuitions that are extremely useful.
Gives you a broad introduction to the fundamental aspects of finance, and how they relate specifically to Corporate finance. Very well structured and good sections. Maggiori is a legend.
Solid introduction to corporate finance, but the more mature students may be underwhelmed by the shirking away from more advanced models and mathematics.
The psets are hard but Matteo is amazing. Just devote some time to think over the concepts and you will do well.
This course spans a wide range of topics within corporate finance. The more difficult material is towards the beginning of the course. If you can make it through the first few weeks, you will be fine. The homework assignments are more difficult than the exams so don't stress if you struggle with some problems. They are meant to push you. Find a good group to work with and start the book review early, and you'll be fine.
Easy class, fair grading, semi-interesting material.  That being said, try not to forgo the normal micro/macro classes for this one.
The class is great for anyone interested in going into finance. Matteo traded at Morgan Stanley, so he really knows how everything works. The psets are tough, but you learn a lot through them. Compared to the psets, the exams are incredibly fair and straightforward.
Take this course. Hang in there for the first half of the course (and honestly, it's actually not that bad if you go to section and talk to the TFs + Matteo in office hours). Then, the fun begins: you will talk about how finance is applied to the real world and you'll feel really energized by Matteo. The economics courses should be much more like economics 1745: moderate work load for half of the course and a very enjoyable second half applying the theory learned in the first half.
Great class if you're interested in Finance. Lessons were very applicable, and the anecdotes that Prof. Maggiori provide in class are insightful and funny. Highly recommend. It's not an easy one though.
This class is amazing if you want a deep and extensive introduction to corporate finance! The workload is slightly heavy, but definitely manageable if you start working on your problem sets early.
This class is amazing, the best class I have taken here at Harvard. Will it help you get a job on wall street? Not directly, but if you are interested in wall street you must take this class. Matteo Maggiori is great and a fun guy to watch for 3 hours a week.
For quantitatively minded people, taking finance classes in the Stat department is a better option.For academic people who want to know some finance, Ec 1011b goes over the same asset pricing stuff.
This is a pretty tough course to start with. There's a lot of highly theoretical information at the beginning that you have to struggle through before things get more practical in the second half. That said, I do feel that this class was worth it in the end. I can now make a lot of pretentious yet personally amusing finance jokes and get away with saying "lever up" because I understand the concepts behind them.
Do not take this class if you are hardcore at math. You will most likely to be disappointed.
Ec 1745 is a fantastic course that covers a number of very interesting topics related to finance. you learn basic concepts of finance, like what an option is an how they are priced; you also cover a number of interesting models. If you've taken Ec 1011a (or even just Ec 1011b), the course will not seem very rigorous -- but nonetheless very interesting.
An interesting course with a great lecturer. Will learn basic concepts of finance in addition to deeper understanding of how and why finance works/does not work
One of the only classes at harvard that talks about finance, great intro to the field
Matteo is one of the best professors I've had in 4 years at Harvard. You can tell he genuinely cares about the class. His passion for the subject and an excellent learning experience manifests itself in the quality of the course.
Possibly one of the worst courses that I have taken at Harvard. This course is completely unhelpful in preparing you for finance. The first half of the course is extremely theoretical concepts like Arrow securities and Lucas economies (no one in finance knows what these are). The second part of the course was even more irrelevant - asymmetric information, game theory? Maggiori's lectures are really dry and he doesn't even know anyone's name. That being said this class is pretty chill in terms of work load - there's only like 4 psets and the exams are a joke.
More theoretical than in previous years. Be prepared for long problem sets
The class material is super interesting. Problem sets were very hard.
It's a fun and easy class!  Not too much work but you learn a decent amount.  Not the most organized class though.
Only take it if you want to go into the industry.
Worst class I've taken at Harvard. Not worth it at all. I definitely don't recommend taking this course.
Difficult, but a good class
A good, holistic introduction to most of the concepts of corp. finance, which also goes into many details. Surely a good start if you consider working in this industry
Great class. Maggiori was well-prepared for lectures and provides excellent course materials.
Professor Maggiori is an excellent professor. He is very eloquent, great at lecturing and keeping your attention, and engaging the crowd. You can tell he is 100% immersed in the subject matter and has a passion for it. In terms of testing, the problem sets and slides are directly reflected on the midterm and final, which is fair.
The material you learn in this class is not worth your time. The exams are relatively straightforward but the lectures, sections, and other assignments are not interesting and do not provide helpful insight into corporate finance. It is also not the "easy" class it might have been publicized to be in the past.
Extremely interesting, fair and well run.
A great class if you want to learn the material. Vary comprehensive.
material is difficult but quantitative background helps. however exams are much easier than the material and everyone does generally well.
Put in the time for this class
This course was so boring and it was very hard to pay attention in lecture. The homeworks were taken strictly from examples given in section, but the sections were sloppy and every tf or professor had a thick accent.
A good course if you want to do something finance related, topics can be somewhat theoretical compared to the practical skills that you may actually use in the industry
great way to learn about finance, very interesting
Great overview of corporate finance. Very useful class.
Some of the earlier problem sets are very disjointed from the lectures and sections; the class is a bit disorganized, but this may be because this is Professor Maggiori's first year teaching.
By far the best course offered at Harvard. To start, do not take this to help you with finance interviews, nothing in this class will ever be asked in an interview. You spend the first half of the course learning about derivatives and build up your background ability to understand the math behind finance. The second half of the course you learn to apply what you have learned. This is were the course becomes insanely rewarding. You can read books and articles about the financial crises and actually be able to reason out their validity. No other course I have taken has given me the ability to have the knowledge to be able to feel like an expert in the field and be able to contribute to both debated as well as counter other's arguments. Also this is a course you must attend lecture or else you wont benefit at all from it.
This is a very demanding course - probably as hard as capital markets is. The only thing is that exams are not as hard as the course material itself. In particular, once you do problem sets yourself, you are ready to do well on both midterm and final. However, understanding the material may be challenging unless you are broadly familiar with few concepts in advance. Also, I thought that the second part of the course was relatively easier (maybe because of guest lectures and less quantitive topics).
Really great course on finance. Probably best one at Harvard, even if it is just theory.
This was a good class. It seemed more difficult than it actually was at times, and the assignments and exams are very fair. Definitely take if you plan to go into finance.
Be very careful taking this course, particularly if it's taught by the same professor/TF. a) the problem set grading is from 0-3, and you need to turn in an absolutely perfect problem set (including doing the extra credit) to score a 3. Missing one part of one question will give you a 2. On the other hand, turning in one problem vs turning in half of the problem set will get you a 1, which skews incentives.b) course material has no real application in the real world (e.g. matrices, AD securities, no discussion of the role of expectations in stock prices)c) problem sets are totally different from exams, which means you aren't actually practicing/learning what you will be tested on.In short, if you're interested in taking a poorly run course with skewed grading incentives and little real world application, you're in for a real treat!
I would really recommend against taking this class. It would be better to take Capital Markets.
This is a really great class in terms of giving you an overview of corporate finance (especially the theory). If you expect to be super prepped on the nitty-gritty calculations for a career in finance, this is probably not the course for you, though, although it is excellent background material! Matteo is a wonderful lecturer and clearly cares about you and the class a lot. (Definitely take advantage of office hours with him--he's great at explaining concepts!)
Very challenging but useful
I really enjoyed this course.  The professor taught the course well and was engaging.  The homework and exams were not too difficult, and the grading was fair.  The course materials were good and covered many interesting topics.  My only complaint is that section was useless as I never learned anything from going to it.
This course is time-consuming but in my opinion it is definitely worth to study hard because the taught material is very useful for any future job. Additionally, it was very motivating for me that the professor did such a great effort. Therefore, I would definitely take this course again.
You can get away without the requirements, but it means you won't understand a lot of the material, but that material is not often explicitly tested.  Cool class, but the TFs are pretty bad.
I was hesitant to take this class because I  not going to walk street and this is not necessarily my main subject of interest. I did think it might be useful knowledge - which came true and much more. This was one of the most interesting and useful class I took in the ex department. It was rigorous but totally fair and you will get out of or whatever you put into it. The professor is great and so approachable. Take it!
If you're expecting something practical, this probably isn't a good course to take. Lectures are pretty interesting but very, very dense with material. I didn't really know anything about corporate finance before this course, and while I know things now, I don't really know much that would be immediately useful.
The problem sets are extremely hard, but the tests are fair.
One of the more interesting econ classes out there. As an engineer, I didn't find most of the mathy/quantitative material that hard, but a lot of the econ majors I spoke with found the psets covering these more theoretical concepts difficult. But after the 3rd pset (only 4 total for the class), the material become more qualitative but also very interesting. Overall, pretty low workload and straightforward assignments/exams, couldn't ask for much more from a finance class!
Matteo is great, sections are brutal (this is the ec department's largest issue), but you'll learn a lot. Oh, and for a second time, Matteo is great.
Corporate finance with Professor Maggiori is an amazing class, take it!!! So much fun, really cool material, great lectures, fun group assignments, easy exams. By far the best course I've taken in the economics department.
I'm an econ secondary and as someone just looking for some exposure to the finance side of economics, this class definitely has deterred me from it. The professor, although enthusiastic, seems unapproachable in terms of help. The TFs are pretty awful--one of them wouldn't answer a single question about the problem set because he "didn't want to give me the answer" (although all I wanted to know what the question was asking of me in the first place). The exams are worth a whole lot on your grade and super stressful because they're hardly any questions so there's a lot of room for error.
Great if you want to go into finance/banking.  Exams are consistent with problem sets and lecture material, and they're very fair, no curveballs at all.  If you took Econ 1723 Capital Markets, you'll find this class much easier than the students who didn't (you'll still have to put the work in, but it will come more naturally). It's more concrete than 1723.  The supplemental readings are interesting, but you can certainly get by without them.  Take it!
1. Start Up2. Cash In3. Sell Out4. Bro Down
Be careful. It is a lot of work but is useful information.
Great class, though make sure you follow through lectures and ask Matteo questions because he is very helpful!
It's a pretty relaxed class, but provides some useful information for the real world.
The Professor for this course changes every year, but there might be a good chance that it will once again be Mateo next year. I personally did not like how the professor assumed that everyone in the course was going to try to get a job at Wall St. Yes, it might be the case that some in the couse might very well do that, but others might just not be interested. In order to do well in the course: Just be careful and pay attention during class--and review your notes. The problem sets are a bit hard. The final exams were fair.
