It's amazing. Don't think twice about it!
Amazing class and a great chance to hear a famous professor with expertise in this field talk about his thoughts. There is a lot of support for the final project, and otherwise the class is fairly relaxed throughout the semester.
The best course I've taken at Harvard. You need to work hard, but it's definitely worth it. Prof. Shleifer is extremely personable and accessible outside of class. Go to office hours as often as you can, as his comments/insights are very helpful.
This is definitely one of the best classes I've taken in the economics department. It was a lot of fun, and we dealt with substantive issues.
One of my favorite classes this semester. Prof Shleifer is entertaining, the material is interesting and Morten is really helpful.
This is your chance to get in a small class with one of the greatest minds in economics!  Jump on it!
Probably the best economics class out there. Shleifer is a really great lecturer and it shows that he loves the material he teaches. Workload is really light as long as you're on top of your game. The final paper felt a it like a thesis, but it was worth having it as a final piece of work to be proud of.
Do not miss the opportunity to attend a seminar-based class taught by one of the world's greatest economists!
Professor Shleifer does a great job of leading this seminar, and will expose you a huge variety of ideas in political economics. He is also very invested in the course and in the students' work, and the class is extremely rewarding if you put the necessary work into it. Working on the final paper can be challenging, but is really worth it.
If you want to write a thesis, take this class!
the weekly workout load low which is quite nice.  The final paper was tough, but I am proud of my work.  This is a great class in general, and I would highly suggest it if you need to complete your writing requirement for ec
This class is a rare opportunity to write a research paper under the guidance of one of the best economic minds in the world. Professor Shleifer is extremely helpful and it is worth your time to seek him out actively. If you are a junior ec concentrator thinking about writing a thesis, take this class.
Small class with an amazing professor allows for an overall great learning experience.
This class is a great opportunity to figure out if writing a senior thesis is something you are interested in. This class requires that you spend a lot of time outside the classroom doing research and meeting with professors, so do not take this class if you do not think you will be willing to put forth such individual effort. However, if you do think you can be individually motivated there are very high returns to putting forth a lot of effort in this class!
Take this class; it is exactly the kind of class you hope for when thinking about the quality students and professors that are at Harvard. Professor Shleifer is amazing and does a great job of explaining many of the interesting topics in political economics while creating a great balance between class discussion and working through what has been done/is known. In addition to the interesting readings and the very enjoyable class component, the paper is also a highlight. Professor Shleifer and Francisco offer great guidance throughout the process and it is a fantastic opportunity to explore whatever interests you. This class greatly rewards the effort you put into it. I'm really glad I had the chance to take it.
Take this course even if you have a remote interest in economics. This was easily the best course I have taken at Harvard. We cover material from a variety of economics topics and each lecture is interesting. Professor Shleifer is an incredible resource and very approachable, despite his stature. Our TF, Francisco Queiro was another great resource. All said, this course is the closest thing to a perfect course.
This class is really chilled out. Aside from the research paper at the end, class is basically listening to Professor Shleifer talk about his experiences and various economic topics. The paper at the end is both fun and interesting, though it definitely requires a lot of time. A great course for any Ec concentrators.
This is a great course - if you do the readings, you leave with a good grasp of political economics, and you get to have contact with one of the world's foremost economists in the process.
If you are sure you don't want to write a data-centered, twenty-page research paper, this course is not for you. Otherwise, avail yourself of one of the best professors at harvard for two hours each week, with the opportunity to discuss all topics related to political economics. This is a great class.
This class is very interesting, but the empirical paper requires a lot of diligence. Be prepared to work hard, but you will find it rewarding.
The small class setting allows for discussion and interesting topic choices. The final paper is a large undertaking, but there is guidance throughout the process and it was interesting to hear what everyone had accomplished at the end of the class.
If you can get in - TAKE THIS COURSE! It is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard and it really will help you hone your writing in Economics. Great for potential thesis writers.
If you want to talk about the most interesting ideas in economics (what makes a government successful, what drives growth, and how do the little pieces of governance come together in relation with economics of politics) with the most cited economist in the world, and work on a research project that you are interested in. It really is an amazing class, and an unforgettable experience.
This class was fantastic. It deals with important topics such as corruption and regulation in the Econ world, and Prof. Shleifer makes the discussions interesting. I was able to pursue a fascinating topic for my research paper and appreciated all the guidance from Prof. Shleifer and Marek. Definitely take it if you can!
Very intellectual and thought-provoking course which offers you the opportunity to hold a discussion with prof Shleifer on various topics interesting for you. But do not forget that the final paper weights 70 % of the grade, and so it may be useful to have some prior ideas where you can get data and basic knowledge in econometrics. Required books really improve your understanding of the world; though sometimes, writing memos can be a very tedious task.
Take it. Professor Shleifer is the foremost thinker of our times, and you will gain a lot by engaging with him. DO YOUR READINGS, though, because the course is what you make of it. Marek is wonderful.
Really a great class. A very unique opportunity to hear one of the sharpest economic minds talk about one of his expertise.
This is an excellent course taught by a top-notch professor. Getting the chance to know Andrei Shleifer is awesome. That said, make sure that you start thinking about the paper topic earlier in the semester. You get a chance to receive a feedback from the world's most cited economist, so you likely want to produce an outstanding work, if possible.
this course is great if you are interesting in the intersection of political structures and economics, definitely recommend because the seminars are interesting and you get a lot out of it by writing the paper
Start your paper early, so you'll able to get feedback early.And it will be very helpful to review econometrics in the early half of the course, and remember that an R^2 value that is too high is not necessarily a good thing.The readings are very interesting, and the fact that the class is small is very enjoyable.
This is a great economics class, one of my favorites. The readings are very educational and Prof. Shleifer is great!!
The course is made up of a hand-picked all star group of students who go head to head in some of the most important issues of political economy. Discussion are lively although not always well-structured, which can be both a pro and a con (at times). Do the readings! Doing so pays huge dividends.
You will write one paper using a unique dataset. Find your data early and you will be fine. Prof. Shleifer is fantastic and very helpful on the paper, as is Marek (the TF)
The material is great and getting a chance to know Professor Shleifer is awesome. Classes can be a bit dry though
This is a great class, and both Professor Shleifer and Marek were great teachers, but the paper definitely requires a lot of work of you. Get started VERY early, and make sure that you see both on a weekly basis if you're having trouble.
This class is great especially if you want to get a sense of what is it like to write a quantitative research paper. That's why i took it and I found it to be a very valuable experience.
great research-based course. topics are really important and fundamental. Shleifer is great; a really cool and humble dude who will inspire and give you attention with your work. It's a great privilege to be able to write a paper with and get feedback from a world-famous economist and likely future nobel laureate. Take it. It's pretty chill too and low stress
Awesome class and professor
This is a really excellent class. If you are interested in political economy, you are likely to find the reading material is quite interesting. The heart of the class revolves around writing the paper. If you are put in the time and effort, you will get a lot of of it. If not, I can imagine that the class would be quite painful.
Best course ever taken. It gives you perfect insight into the political economy and Prof. Shleifer makes that experience unforgettable.
This is a good course for those with some prior experience in econometrics and macro who want a better grounding in political economy. I would recommend having some research ideas going into the class.
You get out of this class what you put into it. You are in a small group with handpicked students and if you do the readings and engage you can get a ton out of it. If you don't, it's decently easy to slip by, but you will be missing out on a tremendous opportunity.
Needless to say, amazing class!
This was probably the best course I have taken at Harvard. Andrei is at the top of the field and it is very hard to find someone as passionate and caring about his students as he is. I have learned so much from this class and it has convinced me to take more economics classes in the future.
This is the best course I've ever taken at Harvard! The readings were interesting (make sure to do them) and the discussions in class with stimulating and flexible. The work load isn't too intense and all of the work done is value (reading economic journal articles, writing memos to think critically about the readings, and complete a research project from beginning to end). Shleifer is an incredible professor. He cares immensely about the field and his students. Also, start the research project early!
This course is basically all about fulfilling the writing requirement. You write a 20 page paper, which Prof. Shleifer is extremely helpful in advising on. Indeed, the best thing about the course is that you are essentially required to discuss your paper with Prof. Shleifer 4-6 times throughout the semester. It is therefore essential that you understand econometrics well enough to write an empirical paper (having taken Ec 970 is a good idea). Apart from this, the class itself is very relaxed, and you discuss many interesting topics related to economic growth, corruption, etc.
This was an amazing course that surveyed a number of extremely relevant topic of political economics. It certainly opened my eyes to a lot of different intersections of economics and other areas.
This class is wonderful, Andrei is awesome and hilarious and so genuinely cares about the students. He puts so much time into helping you with the final project, and is so patient and really guides you through it to make sure you come out with something successful. Although the final paper definitely takes a lot of time, effort, and dedication to a topic you care about, but totally worth it. All-star group of people, low workload in some ways but also pushed you in others.
This is a fantastic class that pushes you to think about so many different things. Prof Shleifer can be intimidating, but is wonderful when you start getting to know him. Class discussion depends on the classmates. The paper is challenging but worth it!
