While I understand the impetus behind experimenting with a less standardized/canned version of this course, I'm not sure I absorbed as much as I would have in a more structured course.
It isn't hard, and it is thought-provoking.  But it won't survey they whole literature in development economics, as a course at another school might.
I had high hopes for this class, and was honestly disappointed.  I do not feel that I left the class with a much better understanding of the main problems of underdevelopment, recent research in the field or motivation to pursue a particular research agenda.  The class was focused on 'how to write publishable economics papers' which is probably not a skill best imparted in a classroom setting.The two silver linings were the research proposal requirements which forced one to think through a workable research idea, and Sendhil's lectures on the psychology of poverty, which were well delivered, exciting and substantively very interesting.  You probably wouldn't hear that material in any other development economics class in the world.
class was very poorly organized at certain points, which I found very frustrating.  I also would have appreciated more detailed slides on things like empirical methods
This is not a Development Economomics field class, but rather an overview of how to go about doing research.
It doesn't aim to give comprehensive overview of development... and not really have certain fields it systematically covers.
First part requires a lot of Microeconomics. Sections are not conducted so dont have any hope of resolving doubts there. There is hardly any structure to the course despite a nice syllabus
Do all the reading for hornbeck section in depth and take full advantage of that section, it is very interesting.
It might be worth auditing the MIT development sequence in addition to see what models other future development economists are learning.  Both Sendhil and Rick have very interesting lecture content; however, there is a bit of redundancy after 2-3 lectures of each.
The course was not what I expected it to be like. It was very difficult for me at the beginning to understand Sendhil's questions and I felt often lost, especially during the theory lectures. But once we went over the theoretical models, using the readings as examples, I started to better understand the underlying theory. Especially helpful to me was how Sendhil explained how to think about hypotheses and evidence for hypotheses when you start doing research.
This is a great course for someone thinking about working in economic development. I learned so much about how theory applies to development phenomena that I was vaguely aware of or didn't even know existed.
Do the readings before class!
gets you thinking about development questions in a much more rigorous way, though seemed to cover less material than it had the potential to.
great class.  learned a lot from sendhil.
You will learn a lot but you will also be forced to struggle through a set of difficult concepts with very little structure and you may skip basic ideas to talk about more complex issues.
Take this course if you're interested in current issues in development microeconomics but know that much of the learning will be done between you and a textbook to get the most out of the course.
I would recommend going to Sendhil's lectures, but not to Rick's.
The course is somewhat disorganized and the assignments are not very clear in what they require students to do.
The first half and the second half are essentially different courses.
It is very well taught and the assignments were well constructed. The exam was challenging but reasonable. If you are interested in development economics, take this course.
It's pretty easy, but interesting.
The class is interesting and a good introduction to some of the themes in development economics. However, it's a little disorganized and at the end of the class it's a little difficult for me to figure out what I got out of it.
Good class for its very broad coverage of empirical papers on household-level development interventions, and some methodological discussions about missing markets, contracting problems, behavioral development, field experiments and estimation (in particular externalities and peer effects).
Form study groups to discuss the papers. Keep the underlying theory in mind when reading them. Try to keep questions on track in class - it is tempting to ask about details, and the profs answers are always very interesting, but if you go into too much detail on the earlier topics you won't get to the later ones.
It gives you a good overview of the big topics in Microeconomic Issues in Development.
It is a good course, but if you are doing it purely out of interest (that is, if it is not required for your orals), there seem to be better elective courses in the department.
