I'd recommend it if it went to an hour per class instead of an hour and a half. I think Nathan will gain more confidence as he goes and become a better and better professor.
Professor Nunn is awesome. He teaches you interesting and important material. The class is well organized and enjoyable.
boring lectures, assignments took a long time and yet did not count for much,  professor is nice
Interesting class, but kind of boring
That it will COMPLETELY change your perspective on how the US fits into the world, and how the vast majority of people live, and why.  I NEVER appreciated just how dire and widespread poverty is in the world, and how difficult and important it is to solve the problem.  It makes you question every policy or aid program for developing countries that exists, and makes you understand how economics and policy do NOT always work together.  The workload is well-paced, the professor is very knowledgable and the class is very enjoyable IF you have an interesting in developing countries or a passion for helping people.
I liked the class a lot, learned a lot, and found the reading interesting, though the classes themselves were often boring.
If you re really interested in the material, take it! It covers really up to date topics.
It's a great class - the professor is very approachable and makes the class super interesting, you learn to really think as a development researcher and about a range of topics that are great to have a basic understanding of for whatever you may do in life!
Only if you want an easy class with a nice professor.  Material might interest you.  Lectures are super boring.
it was an interesting class but requires a lot of background knowledge to really understand the material; better for economics concentrators than secondary field (unless taken pass/fail)
Great class, great professor, you'll learn a lot
Good review of the literature in economic development, not very analytical
If you're interested in a new and innovative approach to poverty in developing countries then definitely take this course. You shan't be disappointed.
Professor Nunn is fantastic! He's a bit quriky, but really responsive to your questions in class, and enjoys getting a discussion going. Do the reading, and you'll do just fine - and make sure to fully understand the math behind different models of economic growth before the midterm.
participation is a big part of the grade, the material is great
survey class of the best developmental economic literature out there.  won't be your favorite class, but it is straight forward and well structure. nathan is really laid back and understanding.  readings are helpful.
Very interesting material.
Sometimes it's really worthwhile to take a course simply because of the professor and this is definitely one of those courses
If you are interested in international development or developmental economics, this is a great course for you, as it will go over important literature in the past decade and tie many factors of development together.
Great course if you are interested in the subject of development economics.
It is an easy Ec class to fill the requirement, but it isn't rigorous or challenging--it basically reinforces William Easterly's book and maybe adds an idea or two, and that's that. It is not a great class to take if you're interested in international development.
this is an easy and enjoyable way to fulfill a econ class requirement for concentrators, and a basic class that would not be difficult for non-concentrators who think they might be interested in development issues.
Only take if you're interested in development
Professor Nunn's enthusiasm for and knowledge about the field of economic development are unparalleled. I would highly recommend that you take this course if you are considering a senior thesis on development, but have no clear direction as to which topic you'd like to write about. This survey course will expose you to some of the most widely-read articles and papers in the development literature and will also introduce you to some of the most creative ways to use data in the development setting.
Very interesting material and good class discussion.
I loved this class. It probably isn't a rigorous economics elective, but it was very enjoyable, I feel like I learned a lot and professor Nunn is fantastic. Hopefully he doesn't get wooed away to Stanford anytime soon.
Small class size, lots of opportunity for participation. Final paper is a good exercise in actual econ work - collecting data, cleaning up data, statistical analyzing. More guidance on statistical tools and analysis when writing the paper would've been nice.
This class covers the most important and recent research papers in development economics. The lecture goes very much into detail about the empirical methods but also links each paper to the overarching questions in the field.
I would only recommend this course if you have a very strong interest in development economics or you will get bored. Additionally, a large part of the grade is class attendance, so I would only take the class if you are comfortable speaking often in a class of ~30 students.
If you're interested in development economics, this class exposes you to the latest research in the field and I imagine it would be quite interesting. If you're not going to write a thesis on development economics, it's a drag.
This class is a really good overview of a lot of different topics in development. If you're a junior thinking of writing a thesis in something related to development, this class is a great one to take.
While the course doesn't assign very much work, the material is certainly not trivial, and completing most of the readings would be a substantial investment. This is bad if you're just trying to coast, but good if you're actually interested in development economics. I thought the course was well-taught, surprisingly rigorous (considering the topic), and quite interesting.
What a fabulous class. I wish I took it a year earlier--I'd have a viable thesis topic! Prof. Nunn shows you the forefront of development economics and gives incredible feedback on everything from a follow-up in lecture to a final paper strategy. If you're not at all familiar with development ec, take it. It's a painless and rewarding way to explore another field within Econ and get your writing requirement done.
Take it. Professor Nunn is super nice and approachable, and a good lecturer. The material is fascinating and a lot of it is the newest research in development. By far the best ec class I've ever taken.
If you're interested in International Development, take it.
Probably one of my favorite econ courses here. Prof. Nunn is a boss, the literature is super interesting and the workload is pretty manageable. Although the class wasn't small, there was a lot of interaction. Make sure to start on your final research paper pretty soon, though, around the time of the first midterm, and keep data sources in mind as you think of ideas. Great class for the writing requirement, and it's a must take if you're at all interested in economic development.
The great bulk of this course is focused on covering academic papers and the research contained therein. The best way of understanding these papers is to read the crucial part of their findings. As the semester goes on, I would try to focus on the methodology used in papers in order to better plan my own paper. The midterms are pretty straightforward; I found that it was most helpful to understand the main point of each paper and use them in my answers when they were relevant.I felt like I started my final paper a little too late; as this is often the first term paper for a lot of people, it is pretty important to get feedback on results.
Nunn is great. Very interesting material.
Put in work in your final paper early
This course was really interesting and was not demanding on a day-to-day basis. There were two midterms (one on the last day of classes) and a paper. Try to make sure that you familiarize yourself with all the listed papers as you go so that you are prepared to provide examples on the exams.
Professor Nunn is such a stud. The material is all so interesting, and Nunn is such a boss that he gives us a lot of the most cutting edge research to read. He's super approachable and willing to help too. The course also covers a wide range of development topics also. All very cool if you're interested in development.
This is a great class. The subject matter is very interesting, professor Nunn is a great teacher and very enthusiastic, and the workload is very relaxed. I learned a ton about a very important subject in a  low stress way and would highly recommend this class.
i really enjoyed this class. Prof. Nunn is an engaging lecturer and encourages discussion during class. The subject matter was also really interesting.
Interesting topic, and an easy class.  However, the lectures get really dry by the end of the class, and you may get sick of seeing regression tables that are "Topic X against GDP per capita" with little other material to break it up.  Sickeningly easy tests that are a regurgitation of the literature reviewed in class.  Overall, I'd say this class is still in its "developing stages".
This class is good, but not great. You must be interested in development economics in order to stay awake in lecture, and up to date on readings. There is a lot of classroom discussion, which is great. Readings are, of course, optional, but very interesting cutting edge research in development economics. Overall very light workload.Finally, start the final project early. It will take longer than you think.
Ec 1393 is very interesting and covers an important topic (economic growth), by looking at many different case studies. In doing this, it keeps the class fresh and new throughout the semester. It's also clear that Nunn cares deeply about helping people through his study of growth theories, which is nice.This
Great class to give you a sense of what has been done in development economics and which issues are important at the moment.
If you're interested in development and always asked yourself, why development does not really work, take this class. No matter whether you want to become a policymaker or go into academia, this course gives you a perfect introduction to the topic and especially makes you think about problems more deeply!
A great class in the department - definitely worth taking if you're at all interested in the subject. You'll learn a ton!
I would recommend that you take this course. Lectures were engaging, the readings and lecture slides were relevant and well-organized, and the topics really gave a good overview of various areas related to poverty and development. Professor Nunn was always very accessible, and so was the TF. He's also a great lecturer.
Fairly low time commitment class with only a paper, midterm and final. The professor is great - make sure you attend class to get the most out of the class and the participation grade
I learned a lot about the most cutting edge research related to development.  However, The course was boring at times.  While the papers we read and talked about in class are important, it felt like there was no variation at all between classes.  It gets very boring talking about econometric analysis all the time.
This course really exposes you to the cutting edge of research in development economics, where the problems and answers are not so easy - you spend most of the course covering papers with evidence for/against something (geography, corruption, etc) that matters for development. The final research project is a valuable opportunity, and the semester really sets you up for it. Professor Nunn is very caring and easy to approach. Take it!
This class is very interesting and the professor is wonderful.  Class is not hard.  Main graded components are exams and paper.  The exams are not too terrible and you can do well just from knowing lecture slides really well.  The term paper is 15 pages which is not too terribly long.  Get started on your paper early and be prepared to talk in class!
Great lectures, engaging class, but would have preferred if the professor had been more engaged in/helpful with research projects and undergraduate interest in research more generally
It's a great course, especially if you are interested in development economics, and if you want to write a thesis!
This class if fascinating, especially for economics concentrators interested in exploring an incredibly practical yet often under-appreciated subfield in the discipline.  The workload is also very light, and it becomes obvious fairly quickly that Professor Nunn is an all-star in the field of historical economics and development issues.
A great class on economic growth in the developing countries. Prepares you for writing papers in the future. Highly recommend it.
This course combines class discussion, assignments and instruction in a way that leaves you possessing a solid knowledge of the spectrum of possible avenues through which you can tackle the issue of poverty and underdevelopment. While giving just an overview of efforts in education, health or conflict resolution, to name a few, the course focuses on specific cases that highlight that fascinating ways in which people, organizations and countries are addressing the issue of poverty all around the world.
It's awesome.  Even if you don't like developmental economics, it really makes you think.
Material is rich and diverse, it would be at least intersting to learn so many new things; at the same time you learn how the good research is done from the best articles in the field. Some econometric background, and understanding of what your economic interests are (probably a topic for the term paper in mind already) may be useful.
The reading is daunting but don't do it all - pick one paper and read the chapters in the books make readings notes as you go so that you have pre-made review guides for the examsProf Nunn is lowkey awesome
A great class with an amazing professor.  Well structured and not too demanding. Would definitely recommend.
This class is a GEM!! Hands down the most engaging class I have probably ever taken at this school. I loved it! Professor Nunn....oh Prof. Nunn! He is super awesome, very intelligent, very chill, totally relates to the students and teaches such an array of interesting things :):):) This class was great! I will definitely be taking more like it.
A great introduction to the frontier economic research!
Nathan Nunn is an engaging lecturer who knows the topics inside and out and is a pretty big deal in the field. The midterm exams are pretty straightforward if you have been attending class and paying basic attention in lecture. The first third covering the Solow model and theory is pretty boring but the later topics get really interesting. The TF is the one who grades the final paper, so maybe start working with him or her earlier rather than later to make sure you are on the right track and are gearing your paper toward the correct audience. If you are interested in the field of economic development, take this earlier rather than later! It doesn't take that much background knowledge besides Ec10 and comfortability reading economic papers because all the theory is explained in the first third of the course. Obviously if you are more advanced in your knowledge, more of the course will make sense and you'll be able to participate more fully, but you'll learn a lot either way.
TAKE IT!! Best economics class I've ever taken. The Professor really cares about students.
This is a great class. You'll be very engaged with current thinking and research in development economics and will get to learn from one of the field's leading researchers. You'll also be able to start a small research project of your own! The other students in the class my year were very interested and engaged, which made for a good experience.
This is an awesome course in the field of development, and you should definitely try it out if you are interested in the field. I was interested in the first place but decided to change to other fields by the end of the semester. That said, the course still does a great job; it is just that I find myself not that into empirical work.
You are learning from a development economics pioneer who knows a lot about the field and likes to share his experiences overseas.
Take this class! Professor Nunn is great!
I would recommend starting your paper early to be able to deal with unexpected problems especially with data and stata
A deep interest in development is required as regression tables becomes tedious after awhile.
Poverty and Development was a great course, especially if you are interested in development from more of a historical perspective
Requires a lot of work but it's a huge payoff. Nunn is directly at the forefront of the developmental field
The exams can be hard. Do well to read all the papers intensively before exams.
TAKE IT! This is an awesome class. You will learn an incredible amount about development and Professor Nunn is fantastic.
Just brush up on your econometric skills.
This is a difficult course. Only take this course if you are willing to put in the work. Professor Nunn will challenge you. Also, I would not recommend the course if Nilesh is the TF. He was very difficult to get in touch with and did not offer much help on the paper or on the econometrics that seemed necessary for it.
Make an effort to participate in class (i.e. do the readings beforehand for sure) because you will get much more out of it. Professor Nunn is a cool guy and is very kind to all that participate (even if your comment isn't brilliant).
Week-to-week, there is very little work required for the class. However, the term paper takes some time, and you need to attend lectures to have any hope of doing well on the in-class tests. If you don't mind going to class, however, the course is actually very interesting and raises a lot of interesting questions.
Be sure to understand both sides to each debate, but also develop your opinion of the topics. Class participation is important. Start your term paper early.
This course is a good introduction to development economics. You should take it for the wide array seminal and cutting-edge papers that you'll get to know. It first covers very basic theory and then proceeds to various areas of application: health, education, technology, culture, geography, trade, etc.I really think that every student at Harvard, or at any university, should take a course in development econ. For one, it exposed me to human injustices (in education, health, e.g.) and gave me some tools (linear regressions, basically...who would've thought?) to further unveil them if I so desire. But it also connected to a striking number of ideas outside of economicsfrom geography, anthropology, political science, women's studies...the list goes on. So yes, the course will make you a more informed member of humanity, but it will also engage with unexpected disciplines along the way, making it a good option for an out-of-major elective. I feel kinda weird saying this, but I think there was almost too much student participation in the class. Sure, it was awesome when somebody from the country we were talking about spoke up, but there were a lot of times when I felt like people were trying to prove that they did the reading. It often didn't add much to lecture. This might stem from the fact that the syllabus places large emphasis on student participation. Lastly, Nathan is great. It's refreshing to listen to somebody who is both very smart and down to earth. I found it funny that he was a little shy about presenting his own research to the class, because I found his stuff to be some of the most interesting material we covered.
It is an excellent class not only if you are interested in development economics, but in the field in general. This is because the readings exposes one to important economics writing (how to read, interpret) and research skills as well.
Take this course! You won't regret it. it will open up a new world for you and will make you a much better global citizen. Everyone needs to know why some countries are poor and others are not, and yes, your preconceived notions are wrong. Don't you wanna know if the World Bank is effective at alleviating poverty? Should you donate money to alleviate poverty? And if so, to whom?
This is a great course and you should definitely take it if you are interested in development at all! The first classes are boring because we just talked about the solow model, but don't let those deter you from taking the class. The class is discussion based so don't take it if you don't want to participate or listen to the material. Nathan Nunn is so smart, so get to know him!
Professor Nunn is awesome and this topic is really interesting. If you want to do anything in development, this is a very important course to take. Professor Nunn is also really nice and approachable and does really interesting research. Try to get to know him! Nilesh is also a great TF and really helpful when it comes to writing the final paper.
Ok. So Professor Nunn is an AMAZING professor, really encourages class discussion and you can tell he truly cares about the material. No complaints there. Actually no real complaints on the material itself (although it was a bit much sometimes) because it was all essential to the course. However, if you come in without a strong econometrics background, you're going to struggle. The fact that this class doesn't have sections means that the TF will probably have other priorities besides the course, and although Nilesh was helpful if you were able to meet with him, he didn't have the most accessible office hours. This class could really benefit from having a more accessible TF and section component to really help make the class easier.
if you are interested in development and comfortable with quantitative papers and research, this is a great course. Professor Nunn is really nice, workload is not very high but exams can be challenging. Start research paper early!!
