One of the better econ classes at Harvard. small-ish seminar. Greg and Zhenyu are great.
This class is very hard. You will get a lot out of it, but be prepared to work really hard and be graded very hard. If you like econometrics and reading paper, take this class. If not, I would not take it. the TF is really great and really helps out a lot. But it is hard to get an A in this class.
Interesting class though a lot of work.
This is a very interesting class! However, be warned that it is hard and time-consuming, but worth it.
A very difficult but very rewarding class. 4 Problem Sets are long but you will learn a lot and will be applying what was learned in lecture. Midterm was difficult and requires preparation. Final project is time consuming but you will learn a ton. Overall, great lectures with assignments that are purposeful but require a lot of work. Lewis is incredibly knowledgable and has great insight into IO. Take it if you have an interest in the subject, will definitely be worth it.
It's a great class with interesting material, brilliant professor and if Zhenyu is still TFing, the best TF I have ever had. But expect to put a lot of work if you want to get something out of it. The more confident you feel in your econometrics/STATA knowledge, the better.
Difficult but really rewarding. The readings, which we discuss in class, are really fascinating and helpful case studies on the material, and the small class size makes 'lecture' really engaging. The final project is a wonderful chance to challenge yourself and apply the material in class, but requires a lot of self-motivation to really make the most of it, because there isn't any specific guidance on the assignment. Midterm is a pretty rough experience, thank God there's no final.
This course is really interesting and you're going to learn a lot but it is a difficult course and the problem sets take a lot of time and are hard. The course is very small and you have weekly discussions about papers about the topic, which is very interesting. Be prepared to study a lot for the midterm, because it is going to be really hard and it is not easy to get a good grade (A/A-) in the course. You need a good econometrics background for the course.
This is a wonderful course with a wonderful professor that really benefited from the small class size. The professor is a very engaging and clear teacher who really cares about his students learning the material.
Work hard. It's a lot of fun.
The paper discussions and project are cool and make this class stand out from other economics classes. You learn a lot of interesting material and useful skills, and it's probably impossible to find better instructors than Professor Lewis and Zhenyu. Be aware that the final project takes a tremendous amount of time--definitely try not to have anything else due around the same time.
Incredibly informative and well-taught. Course staff are excellent. Hard work but so fulfilling.
great course, the professor is interesting as a lecturer and the material is very relevant
Really good if you're interested in learning the basics of empirical industrial organization.
This course has very interesting materials. It requires good, working knowledge of econometrics which underlies almost every concept in the class.
It is a challenging class but graded fairly. Make sure to read the papers really well before class
This course is a great course for future economists!
Wonderful class!  Good balance between theory and empirics, and by the end of the year you're familiar with economics papers and know the basic approach to writing one.  Be prepared to work a lot though.
This is perhaps one of the best classes in the economics department--it provides a little bit of everything any class desires--class discussions (which are the best I have had at Harvard), theory, empirical work, "do-it-yourself" empirical work at home, work by yourself, group work, projects, etc. And it does it well too! The Professor is one of the best junior faculty and it is worth taking this class over the other IO courses--though be advised that it will require a good amount of work, but it is WELL worth it. Be sure to collude with teammates for the group projects coming into the course.
This class is great! The professor is very engaging and truly cares about the well-being of students. Seek him out in office hours because he has a lot of interesting things to say beyond classroom material. The project requires you to be very independent, though. I didn't receive much advice about what to do or how to approach the project. Other than that, the course material is manageable. The workload is manageable, and the readings are very interesting!
Econometrics and understanding of mathematical proofs would be very helpful
You need to have strong math skills to succeed in the course. If Professor Lewis includes some dopey regression equation on the syllabus and says "you just need to know what each coefficient means" to succeed in this course, don't believe him.  Also, underestimate how much you'll actually be able to accomplish on the final project.  You won't be able to do much.
A lot more work than you would expect.
This is a very difficult course but I think I learned more from it than I have from any other class I've taken at this school so far.  Prof/TF are both fantastic.  Take it if you are willing to commit to understanding the material or you will be unhappy.  Be comfortable with the math.  Work with other people!
This is an intense class but one of the few in economics where you can leave feeling like you learned something. The psets, midterm, and final project are definitely going to be challenging and time-intensive, but overall not too bad of a class work-wise. Decent knowledge of econometrics (at least at the level of 1123) is very helpful.
The professor and TA both care very much about the students. They put a great amount of effort in seeing that the materials are clear and that we understand it all. That being said, it is a pretty rigorous course, which requires a strong quantitative background. The textbooks can be good resources for clarifying confusing concepts.
Understand econometrics before. If you have a good grasp this is a GREAT class.
The class is taught really well and the TF (Michael) was super supportive and  available, but the material is really difficult. If you don't want to work very hard, take the easier version
