If you have to take this class for a requirement, do it. There isn't a whole lot to get out of this class otherwise. Without p-sets, the time requirement is minimal. While it's probably best if you don't just cram for tests and the weekly quizzes, you can definitely get by with a B or higher with less than 3 hours of study a week.
Professor Melitz is SUPER nice and really passionate about what he does. But that being said, this course is pretty dry unless you absolutely love econ. The option to take it without all the econ concentrators (if you're taking it as an elective/secondary) in a smaller setting than the fall is definitely a plus to taking the class with Professor Melitz, along with the fact that he is super devoted to his students enjoying and learning from the class. However, this is an econ theory class, so its bound to be a bit boring/tough.
You don't have a choice...
I only took this course so that I could take some upper level electives in economics. I would not recommend taking this course unless you have to for your concentration/secondary. I hear from my friends that 1011a is a lot more rewarding, albeit much more difficult.
It's a concentration requirement so you don't have much of an option. If you took Ec 10, this course will be mostly review with the addition of some calculus. All in all it is a very easy course with a minimal amount of work required to do well.
Take this class if you have to. It won't be inspiring, or life changing. It's a straightforward microeconomics class, plain and simple. Melitz obviously really cares about the students and about teaching, but there's only so much the poor guy can do with material like this. With Melitz, he doesn't assign weekly problem sets -- instead, there are weekly simple quizzes that are a breeze. Lectures are a bore, the material is a bore -- but if you gotta do it than do it.
If you have an intuitive understanding of calculus, this course is trivially easy. There are no problem sets, only weekly quizzes, which only require about 20 minutes of studying per week to ace. Exams only required 1-2 hours of studying. Only downside is that there are clicker questions, so you have to actually go to lecture, despite the material being so easy it would be otherwise unnecessary.
TAKE IT IN THE SPRING. Much smaller class, easier to learn, better curve, better professor. Its not awkward it you raise you hand and ask a question in lecture.
this class is pretty hard. i didn't go to class at all, and that was very unhelpful. you need to spend time doing the practice problems for the quizzes, and go to section.
I think this is an interesting course. It is rushed and if you haven't taken introductory microeconomics, it can be confusing at first and concepts are glossed over assuming you took an introductory course, but if you go for the sections and office hours, you will be fine. The textbook is great and there are supplementary slides that are a great complement from UCSB online for each chapter.
If you take the time to put in practice every single day, you will succeed in this course.  Every assessment, while difficult, is entirely fair.  Professor Melitz is an amazing instructor - clear, concise, and applications are relevant and interesting.  While TF staff was weak this year, this could change in the future.
Well, for one, you do not have Psets to submit every week though you have assigned problems that you should look at and a weekly quiz. I found this a great advantage because it me ants less pressure to submit a Pset and I could do the assigned problem at my own time and pace. I was never under pressure to do all problem and I could make mistakes and correct myself. You never get that chance with Psets which directly affect your grade. As such, this allowed me to a ctually learn the material not just submit good Psets.
Do not be like me and fall behind in the course! I fell behind before the first midterm and never completely caught up afterwards and it took a huge toll on my grade. Attend lecture with the lecture slides printed out so you can jot small notes and stuff. Get the problem sets done the week they are supposed to get done so you can ace the quizzes. Lastly, section is NOT optional. YOU MUST ATTEND SECTION!! It is immensely helpful. Block section time in your schedule as mandatory.
I really regret not going to OH as often for the prof, he seems like a really nice guy and cares about his students
A lot of overlap between 10a and 1010a. Take this class before 1010b.
