Pendakur is a nice, chill guy who brings a lot of knowledge and interesting perspectives on inequality in the US (especially since he's Canadian!). Three-hour lectures can be tough to sit through, but the material is super fascinating and relevant to today. Exams are very fair, in-class quizzes just ensure  you did the readings and are also nothing to be worried about.
This course is super relevant and very interesting. Professor Pendakur is a very engaging lecturer, and he is passionate about and knowledgeable of the topic. However, the three hour lecture a week was difficult. Even though I wanted to be fully engaged, by the third hour I was dragging every week. Also, the only work in this class outside of the midterm and final is reading every week, so stay on top of that early on. Overall good class--I'm glad I took it and I feel informed about the issue of inequality and potential policy options.
It's a great and painless way to learn about a very relevant topic in-depth from an expert. Krishna does a great job of really forcing you to think about the morality of the subject and not just believe what liberal professors and media would have you believe.
do the readings!
Definitely take this class if krishna pendakur is teaching! He's awesome
Pendakur is super chill! Very low work class. Readings all on the course website and you don't really need to do them. Only issue was the structure; 3 hour lectures are very hard to sit through, especially if the material is dry.Readings were dense and hard to get through some were very technical and we had to be able to cite all the readings by author/content for the midterm/final
Krishna is hilarious and the class material is incredibly interesting if you already have an interest in this area. I learned so much from reading the papers on the many sides to issues surrounding homelessness, fairness, political tools, etc. Lecture itself tends to go too slowly at the beginning, such that the end feels rushed. Not much background is needed, as I had very basic economics from AP Econ but have not officially taken any Ec class here. Would highly recommend if you're interested in it as an elective!
take it
I think it fulfills an ec requirement with little math and a relatively interesting topic. It's an easy class. That being said, it's not particularly interesting. Looking back on the semester, part of me wishes I had taken something more engaging and challenging. I think you can basically learn everything from this class by watching a few Robert Reich interviews.
This is a VERY general introduction to inequality. If you're looking for anything marginally vigorous, take a different course.
Super chill; would recommend as GPA booster. Just know, Pendakur is definitely one of those professors who cares way more about his research than the class he's teaching and makes it pretty obvious.
Professor Pendakur is amazing and the readings are a ton of fun! Unfortunately he is just a visiting professor. If this course is offered by someone other than him it would be completely different and I don't know what I could say about it.
This course provides a refreshing and interesting perspective different from others you'll get in the economics department here. Pendakur brings his skill set and amazing sense of humor together to make class very engaging.
- One of the best professors I ever had. Super interesting papers and a great overview of the topic from different angles.The workload is very "cooperative"
It was really interesting class for the most part!
This is a really fun and interesting course. The professor is funny, informative, and clearly has a passion for the material; the course readings are extremely interesting; and the tests are fair. It's not difficult, but I still feel like I learned a lot from it. I'd recommend this course highly!
If this course is offered in the future, then I would recommend it. You will get a more nuanced understanding of poverty and inequality; they are related but also very different!
This course is awesome!!!!! The professor is very invested in the material and is able to explain complex economic concepts in easy-to-understand ways. This was such a refreshing economics course; we spoke about POCs in economics and learned about more social-justice based type of economics. Would definitely recommend! You just need to get the gist of the readings and study the study questions and you will be fine!
