Take this course ONLY if you are highly interested in economics and finance.
Prof. Rampini is a great lecturer. He is able to take complex issues and explain them if very understandable terms. Prof. Rampini is also very receptive to questions, often leading to interesting class discussions linking the course material to recent events in the economy.
The material is a bit above the undergraduate level but Professor Rampini made it ver accessible.
Excellent class, although the syllabus will likely change dramatically in the event that there is a new professor. This year's curriculum was extraordinary, and it will hopefully remain in place of the older behavioral finance class.
Professor Rampini has designed a fantastic course. The topics covered are a great way of connecting theory with practice. The literature and peer reviewed articles are also fascinating. However, it is important to note that there is quite a bit of math required.
It's a great introduction into economic modeling and taking a systematic approach to learning about finance.
Great professor and very interesting material conceptually, but not super practical for real world finance purposes and has a very difficult math component.
This course gave me new insides about the financial system, as it could explain contraints and reasons why the financial instruments are designed the way they are.
This was a terrible course - at first it seemed extremely engaging (I had never seen contracting problems before) but the entire course was basically a variation of the same problem that is introduced in the first couple weeks. It becomes extremely boring and dry really fast because it feels like you're being taught the same thing over and over again. The material can get pretty confusing at times, and because it was the first year that it was being taught, the course was pretty disorganized and we didn't really know what to expect from the final exam.
If you like math, this class is useful in seeing how working through math proves economic theories and how it bears out in practice. If you didn't enjoy Math 21a though, don't take this class!
Ec 1760 is a fantastic course. Professor Rampini was extremely engaging, and learning about debt and contracts was surprisingly interesting.  The problem sets were interesting and extremely manageable. Overall, the amount of interesting material that I learned was extremely high relative to the amount of work that was required from the course.
Really good theoretical foundation! Unfortunately Professor Rampini, who was really a star professor, won't be teaching it next year, but the material is still interesting!
This course was useful, and not as intense as some other ec classes I've taken.
very interesting if you are interested in finance
You would be better off reading an intro book to behavioral finance than taking this course.
Great class that teaches you alot about the world of finance.
Very interesting firsthand stories about the financial crisis and the markets in general
This is a super class that covers a lot of interesting material in a pain-free fashion.
It's a good course to take. Professor Lamont is very knowledgeable about the subject matter and all the lectures are interesting.
this is an awesome class that will help you understand why markets can be irrational. professor Lamont is a great lecturer and lectures are very entertaining. take this class!
This course offers a different perspective from the traditional view of efficient markets. Prof. Owen Lamont also brings an infectious level of enthusiasm for the topic. This has been one of my favorite classes.
Great professor with fun lectures!
I would take it if you're interested in finance. Lamont is great. Not for the faint hearted though. You learn a lot if you're at all interested and become a much more well rounded thinker and investor.  One of top two economics classes I've taken here, and I'm an economics concentrator and senior.
Lamont is the man!  His lectures are always engaging and funny, so you'll have no problem paying attention.  The material only overlaps slightly with Capital Markets/Corporate Finance at the beginning of the class.  After that, you'll get new insights and criticisms of the financial theory you may have learned in other classes.  Take the class, you'll enjoy it.
Anyone who wants to do IB or similar should take it. Lamont teaches exactly what is needed to be a banker.
it's a great class for those interested in investing.
This class is bae. Owen is wonderful and funny, really generates enthusiasm. Pretty low workload class, but yet you also learn a lot about finance in a really friendly environment. Favorite class in the department so far!
Not the best structured course. Pretty interesting material though.
Lamont is great and the class is very interesting. I would say the lecture notes are too good as they discourage you from actually attending lecture.
The class material is fascinating, Owen Lamont is a fantastic lecturer, the workload is minimal and the exams are incredibly fair. Overall it is a great class, and anyone with an interest in finance should take it.
This is a very interesting and straightforward class. The assignments are very reasonable and the lectures are engaging and interesting. Be aware that the two exams make-up the vast majority of your grade, but if you prepare the exams are pretty easy to do well on.
Great course where you learn a lot but the workload is definitely manageable. Great preparation if you're going into finance and no actual economics background is required (you can get by without any knowledge of ec...just common sense suffices)
I liked it!
Excellent class - Lamont is great and the course is a natural followup to 1723. I wish we'd gone over more of the technical stuff in class though as it shows up on the exams.
Great class. Fairly laid back environment in class, and you learn a lot that you won't get in any other ec classes at Harvard. Professor Lamont's dry humor makes the material even more interesting.
One of the best classes I've taken. Interesting, manageable, useful. Owen Lamont is the best.
Almost no time commitment with pass/fail and relatively short problem sets and a great way to learn interesting stuff about finance that you won't learn in other classes. Highly recommend for people interested in finance. Don't think Ec1723 should really be a prerequisite, not required at all.
Great course for those who will go into finance and anyone else interested in human behavior in finance
Econ 1760 is a very useful course for someone interested in finance. It really connects the more theoretical courses (Capital Markets and Corporate Finance) and puts the concepts that I learned from these courses into a behavioral perspective. The exams and homework assignments were also very fair and I enjoyed Professor Lamont's lectures!
pretty interesting and paper-based
Legendary class. If you study hard for the exams you will do great. Also, an absolute gem if taken pass/fail, as the psets are optional and Lamont wont fail you if you just take both the midterm and final.
Materials were really interesting and informative especially if you are interested in finance and plan to work in investment related field after college. The core of Lamont's lecture was "Investors are all idiots" which I found super funny. Would definitely recommend it. Workload is minimum.
This class is awesome. One of the best classes I've taken in my four years at Harvard. Owen Lamont is the man - hearing him lecture twice a week is a real treat bc he is so knowledgeable and explains everything very well. The only thing I wish was different about the course is the section component. There aren't weekly sections but i would've found it very helpful if there were. Exams were straightforward as were homeworks. TAKE THIS CLASS!! It's so applicable to our lives and will make you a smarter person!!! Don't be afraid of the exams or homeworks!!!!
Great course! You will find it much easier if you have taken 1723. Lamont is great and the amount of homework is minimum and optional, which is great! My favorite class I've taken at Harvard!
Really great course, and one of the few that is actually applicable to the real world.
Definitely don't need the capital markets requirement. Only quantitative skills required are regressions.
Really interesting -- basically a collection of trading strategies that take advantage of market anomalies. Take it pass/fail if you can, so you don't have to worry about grades and can just focus on the material.
If you have not taken Econ 1723, make sure you review that material because it is skimmed in class.
Really interesting class!!
This is among my top 3 econ classes I took at Harvard for sure! The material is incredibly interesting and relevant, and Lamont is a very engaging and interesting lecturer. In addition, the work load is very very manageable. Sure, capital markets is a prereq, but I wouldn't say it is vital. You may just have to work a little harder originally to make sure you are on pace with everyone else. Highly recommend!
Lamont is secretly a great lecturer if you actually pay attention and have a solid background in economics/finance. His humor is very dry but this has been my most enjoyable course in the economics department so far among Ec 1011a/b, 1126, 1687, and 1723. It's definitely less math than all of these courses but sometimes it's nice to take a break and learn about concepts rather than mathematical relations. Although it shares topics from 1723, it's definitely complementary in that 1723 asks for much more math from its students whereas 1760 presents ideas and events in a more cohesive way.
Great senior year class. It is actually possible to get an A, but I would take it pass/fail to take the pressure off. You learn a ton (esp if you do the optional psets, which are brief, but useful for keeping up with the class).
This is an excellent course. I enjoyed it because the lessons learned are transferable to the real world more than any class I have ever taken here, and Lamont does a great job teaching it. Also I appreciated the great structure of this course how I felt like I knew everything they expected of me. The practice tests were great and the tests were fair. Also, while it would help, you certainly do not need to take EC 1723 (Capital Markets) before.
I highly recommend this course for anyone interested in capital markets. It will provide you with relevant theories and research on how to generate abnormal returns. Owen Lamont is excellent at presenting finance literature and theory.
Capital markets is required, but to be honest, you could go in without any knowledge of CAPM and still be fine. However, having taken 1723 makes your life especially in the first half of the course much more relaxed - maybe even boring.Also, Lamont is great. The answer to most questions revolves around "dumb investors such as your family doctors and dentists".
Best P/F class and great if you're going into sales & trading or investment management. It may not be super applicable to the real world, but it's interesting to get the academic perspective.
This was my favorite class at Harvard. The material is fascinating and Professor Lamont is both very knowledgeable and funny. Lectures are organized and to the point. The material is important both for those looking to work in financial services and those who just want to manage their own money in an effective way. I would guess that most students did not due the readings, but they generally are short and interesting. Problem sets are extremely manageable, and the exams were fair.
This may be the best class I've taken at Harvard. Owen Lamont is the kind of professor you came to Harvard for. He's incredibly smart, absolutely hilarious, and seems like a genuinely nice guy. I'm pretty sad class is over because listening to him lecture was honestly so much fun. I probably laughed out loud during every lecture. Lamont also tries really hard to make his course accessible to everyone, and is great about answering questions in class. I mean, the guy is a leading expert in the material and runs a hedge fund for fun. So yeah, you learn a lot. I came into the course knowing nothing about finance and, unlike pretty much everyone else in the class, I don't plan to go into finance. But the material is super interesting and fun to learn, so I'd really recommend this class to anyone who has any interest. Don't let the first few lectures dissuade you; the material gets easier and by the end of the semester you'll find you've learned so much. Also the exams are really fair. Lamont gives you more practice problems than you know what to do with. The exams are long, but the upside is that you have a lot of different problems to show what you know. Anyways TAKE THIS CLASS! You will not regret it, I promise!
Great course to take after Capital Markets and/or Corporate Finance. It was interesting to learn how and why financial theory doesn't always apply in the real world.
Amazing course to take pass/fail. super interesting with low week to week workload
Not a very difficult class. Covers a lot of interesting material, but the course is a little bit all over the place, and not very structured.
Very interesting and highly applicable topics, Lamont is a great lecturer, and workload is not too bad.
Great course. Teaches you, using case studies/papers, how the markets are "efficiently inneficient". Not as "behavioral" as you might think. Mostly just examples of how/why the markets aren't perfectly efficient.
Ec1760 gives a broad overview of "errors" in asset pricing and how they come about and persist. Although there is some theory, such as the CAPM model and put-call parity, most of the course is qualitative and involves discussion of the evidence and different explanations for the phenomena. Prof. Lamont knows the material very well and has first-hand experience, so lectures are fun and interesting. Take the course if you are interested at all in the topic, but know that this is not a particularly mathematical or rigorous treatment.
This class is good for a pass/fail. Not too much work if you are going that route; the concepts are still pretty difficult to grasp, though, so you will have to keep up with the material.
The course covers materials that are easy to understand and interesting. It covers a range of topics from CAPM, pro folio analysis to some very very interesting trading strategies. It is largely based on research papers and real life market examples. You will certainly find it interesting if you are interested in finance.
Solid class that isn't too difficult. If you're really interested in this stuff and have a lot of experience, take the grad level version. You can also get a lot out of this class if you dig deeply into stuff beyond problem sets.
Don't take it pass/fail. Not necessary.
