interesting subject, but workload is tricky and it is difficult to know where you stand in the class grade-wise
Not a lot of work, but don't expect to learn much
Would recommend only for those seriously interested in this material.
Better than Ec1126.
it's really easy (4 problem sets, one final), but lectures are boring
Do not take this class unless you have to
It's not a difficult course, with cutting edge material.
If you ever want to use regression or inference techniques properly, you have to take this course.
I would recommend this to students to fulfill an applied math requirement.
Super boring.  Lectures incredibly dry.  Material not interesting and confusing.  No structure.  Problem sets sparse.
don't take this class.  Even though Imbens is helpful and clear, Professor Rubin's contribution was too disorganized.
Only take if required for concentration, and a much better substitute for Ec1126.
Great alternative to 1126, got a lot of the course.
Course is very good for those who want a non-econometric approach to causal inference.
Consider taking another class.
You need a strong background of stat!
You can learn a lot by listening to what Rubin has to say about how to approach these types of problems, but you'll miss out on a lot of the more concrete details of causal inference problems unless you read a lot on your own.
I thought this was going to be a good course and I would learn something useful especially since Rubin has been so influential in this field. However, I learned absolutely nothing. Add that to arbitrary grading by Raj and I could not recommend this to anyone. Ec1126 is supposed to be bad but nowhere near as a bad as this was.
You will certainly learn about causal inference and you will learn to think critically when given examples of supposed causal inference.
you get a lot out of the class with little work. lectures can be really fun and interesting.
You should only take this course if you're willing to endure the headaches of a badly run course in order to study the interesting material.
Almost everything taught in the course was invented by Don, and it's awesome to hear it first hand.
You have to be willing to teach yourself statistics and work your way through statistical programming languages (ie. MATLAB).
Taking this course with Professor. Rubin was a great opportunity.
Take the class if and only if Don's found a new TF.
Do not take this class if you want to learn. Take it if you must fill a requirement but absolutely don't want to take 1126. It has very light work but you leave the class knowing what you knew before and nothing more.
The class forces students to think critically about experimental design, causality, and problems in conventional statistical methods. I found the course helped me better understand my prior statistical courses and to develop much more rigorous ways of thinking about my work.
I would tell future students that they'll totally become "causal fascists" in their own work. But I will also warn them that there is relatively little return to going to many lectures and that the TF knows less statistics than many of the students in the class.
This class is excellent. You will be learning the concepts first-hand from the person who developed them, and the section component really works as a complement for the lectures.
This is probably the MOST USEFUL stat course you will ever take at Harvard.  Most applied courses feel really cookbooky but here you really get an intuition for how these methods were originally thought up by Rubin (you get the this is what went on in his head).  The balance between applied and theoretical elements in this course was just perfect.  Casey really helps you with the necessary coding and understanding the material so homeworks aren't stressful at all.  If you only take one more stat course, this is the one to take!
Although some might be hesitant to take a stats course on causal inference because we may have been taught to assume correlations in studies only, this class makes you assess assumptions behind commonly used techniques such as linear regression. It also gives you a practical understanding of probability theory, moving beyond formulas and models.
The material is extremely interesting and introduces you to an area of statistics that other classes don't. The class is a lot of work on weeks that problem sets are due, but section and office hours are very helpful.
This is one of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard.
This is an incredibly useful course for anybody going into economics or anywhere with a lot of applied data work. It's also an important class for stat students, as Don Rubin is a very influential statistician and his work in this area is pioneering.
This class is an entirely unique opportunity to learn a field from the person who created it.  Don't pass it up!  You need to be an independent learner, willing to read the textbook carefully or at least attend section religiously in order to get the most of the material.  The problem sets are long and not always easy, but if you work hard and go to office hours, there is no reason you can't learn a lot and get a good grade.  Professor Rubin rambles in his lectures, so don't expect to learn the harder material from lecture, but the rambles usually go in interesting directions.
Great introduction to the potential outcome model; it changed the way I approach assessing causality.
It's like electricity explained by Tesla and Edison together.  Professor Rubin was one of the major creators of the causal inference field in Statistics so hearing the theory from him is invaluable!
Even at Harvard, you don't always get to take a class from the guy who came up with the course material. Also, Casey, who I think is teaching it next year, is hands down the best TF I have had at Harvard and will probably make a great lecturer too. Take it.
Necessary for any future work in causal inference.  Lectures provide a lot of intuition that is not presented clearly in any texts.
Don't miss the opportunity to take a class with Don Rubin -- I was floored when I realized that he had a hand in the development of virtually all of the techniques presented in this course.  The material is highly applicable, and Rubin will change the way you think about statistics.  However, I would make sure that there is a good TF (like Casey) before taking this class -- I can see how this class could be a disaster (as friends who took this class in previous years told me) without a TF who knows what he/she is doing.
Ask the professor to make the entire book available at the beginning of the course, develop a syllabus, and stick to it throughout the course.
If you don't know the statistical programming language, R, you should anticipate spending a lot of extra time on the homework. Also if you don't have a background in mathematical statistics, you will have to learn some and some things will go over your head.  On the other hand, Prof Rubin's work is extremely important to causal inference and it's great to get to take a class from him about his work.  Also, at least this year the TF (Casey Wolos) was fantastic and will help you through any rough spots.  The material you learn in this class, you will learn really well.
This course was so well taught and well designed. Casey is an amazing teacher, and she is incredibly smart. You will come away from this course with a strong grasp on what "rigor" is in terms of econometric analysis or analysis of causal framework in general. One of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard. If you're interested in doing any kind of quantitative research DEFINITELY take this class.
Assignments should be started early. May make you paranoid about causal inference!
This was a really fun class, and causal inference is important in almost all academic work, so I highly recommend it.
Take it.
This is an AMAZING class - particularly if you want to take a course in applied statistics. I learned so much and I know that I will use these skills in the future. Extremely useful if you hope to write a statistics thesis on causal effects, observations studies, or experimental design.
One of my favorite classes at Harvard! This class teaches you two skills that are very important today, i.e. programming and data analysis, and I definitely enjoyed the materials. Casey is an AMAZING teacher, and TFs are very competent and helpful as well. One of the TFs, Valeria, will be teaching this class next year, and students who have attended her section will attest that she's a great teacher, so definitely take it (it may be moved back to the Stat department). Also, this is not the typical econometrics (focuses mostly on regressions), but the topics on making causal inferences are incredibly fascinating and applicable in many research areas.
Excellent course. Not too difficult and gives great intuition.
You'll learn some pretty cool things, but the coding psets are a lot of work and can be incredibly frustrating for those with no previous coding experience. The material can also be very dry at times. However I definitely feel more prepared to perform a responsible statistical study in the real world.
- The most important prerequisite for this course, as it was taught by Casey, was stat 104. Unfortunately, I did not feel that my stat 104 foundation was that strong, so I felt a little lost on understanding how we used logistic regression to build models.  But other than stat 104, I would say this course doesn't require much prior knowledge. CS50 could be somewhat helpful for the first problem set, but if you attend the R training sessions, you should be fine. Plus, R uses something called "bracket notation" that is very different syntactically from normal code but accomplishes the same thing, so having CS50 as a prereq isn't so necessary.Overall, this course will make you very interested in the implications of statistical research and design. I decided to switch to Statistics as a sophomore during this course. Go to office hours. The tfs are excellent and responsive to emails.  Start the problem sets earlier and find someone reliable and who knows the material to work with so you can check over each other's work as you go. There's a pretty open collab policy as long as you put things in your own words and do not copy code.
Great course that had trouble adjusting the size of the class. I highly recommend it and it made me think critically of causality and the role of human judgement in real life statistical applications.
really interesting material, not too difficult once you figure it all out
I definitely recommend taking this course! It is very interesting material and is taught by amazing people in a way that highlights this fascinating topic
This course was amazing. I learned so much about statistics, science, and I now know how to code in R. I would strongly recommend everyone who is thinking about taking this course, do so.
It's good, but stay on top of assignments...
Per hour spent on the course, I felt I got more from this class than any other class I took this year.
So sad that Casey is leaving, and I'm so glad I got to take this class with her before she left! Ec1127 is one of my two favorite classes at Harvard so far and is definitely at the level of interesting, fun, and hard work as Stat 110. I took this class with Casey though and she is what made the class so great. Expect to work very hard on the problem sets, particularly the first two, PARTICULARLY if you have not coded in R/coded before ever. This means at least 20 hours per problem set; keep in mind that they're assigned every two to three weeks though (so start early. I will say it again: START EARLY). The lectures were engaging, well-paced, interesting but not just a ton of cool material that I didn't understand. Don't be intimidated if you don't understand something right away because there are many resources that can help. Also, I had never done R or CS50 before and found the first problem set very difficult (steep learning curve) but after that I was caught up and totally fine! Don't take this class if you have a lot of recruiting at the beginning of the semester because I know people found that extremely difficult to manage, esp. since none of the problem sets can be dropped.
Awesome class! Useful and interesting material, although note that it seems like Casey will not be teaching the class again next year.
Even if you've taken a lot of statistics and know R, it's still very time-consuming. If you have any interest in causal inference, though, it's completely worth it. It's my favorite class I've ever taken, even with all the work involved.
Be ready to put in a lot of work, but you get a lot out of the class.
If you did not take Stat 100/101/104, some of the conceptual parts will definitely be harder for you. The course gets harder both conceptually and coding-wise, so do not fall behind!!
This class is challenging, but the projects are due every other week so it is really only time intensive on weeks that there are projects. Make sure you go to class and you'll be fine! There are a lot of resources available to help with the R coding and it is EXTREMELY well taught.
This course is difficult only before assignments are due. The concepts are extremely well taught and clear, but the R coding can become a bit tricky, especially if you have no background. Planning your time out wisely will make your life much easier and please know that this course is one in statistics and inference, not economics.
I highly recommend this class for anyone who has the appropriate background. While Casey is no longer teaching the course, which may change things, I found this to be one of the most well-supported courses I have taken at Harvard. It's great because there are no exams, and you do most of your learning through the take-home assignments. These assignments take A LOT of time, but they really allow you to come away with a deep and useful understanding of causal inference, which is applicable to a wide variety of academic pursuits.
Class I learned the most from at Harvard -- mountains of work.
Very useful class, while being a fairly light workload. Knowing probability and/or knowing how to write code will reduce the amount of time you spend on assignments. (1) It is great to get experience working with actual data sets on the assignments. (2) It is good to learn more about causal inference outside of econometrics.
If you want to learn R, or if you would like a different perspective into econometric analysis, take this class!!!
Class does a great job teaching you how staticians think about causality and use it to study everything from drug trials to policy design.  It will do a great job teaching you R and introducing you to inferential statistics if you haven't done so already.  Only caution, it won't teach you how other fields answer these questions so you'll have to do some work on your own if you want it to be that applicable.
The material is great and Casey was one of the best teachers I've had. This class has changed my perspective of statistics and has made me realize how inaccurate the methods taught in lower-level classes actually are. Having said that, don't be fooled by the "easy" structure of the class (i.e. all problem sets and no exams). In fact, there is a quiz (which is long and you are given 20 minutes for) and the assignments are graded absurdly difficult and completely arbitrarily. I, as well as many others in the class, felt completely tricked by this class and I would not recommend taking it unless the grading structure is changed.
This was an amazing class, and one that is really places the tools you learn in econometrics in a causal framework so that you know when you should use them and how strong their assumptions are (though this is a stat class, not a metrics class). This ranks as one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard, and I am so happy that decided to take it before graduating.
Ec 1127 is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. For students interested in using statistics to solve real world problems, this course is essential. The material changed the way I view causality. The teaching staff is incredibly supportive, and the problem sets are manageable if you are willing to attend office hours and section.
It's the most comprehensive course on data analysis out there. Take this because Casey is FANTASTIC and teaches you so much in such a short time! Be prepared to be challenged, though, and only take this course if you have the necessary prerequisites. Definitely take stat 104 and stat 139 before taking this course.
Casual inference is applicable to everything so this class is a must-take. Casey does a great job of covering material in lecture, but I would have to say most of the learning comes from doing the assignments. The assignments are bi-weekly (for the most part) and can be long and difficult so start early if you can. They also involve a bit of R coding so they can be tough at first if you are unfamiliar with R. It also helps to have some previous higher level Stat exposure (i.e. Stat 110, for example) before coming into this class. I didn't have any Stat besides 104 so I found a lot of concepts to be abstract and confusing, especially when seeing them for the first time. You get out of this class what you put in.
This course offers a great way to learn R and a useful way to think about causal effect.
Take this class, but take it after some other stats courses; you'll get more out of it.
This was my favorite class this semester! The material is so interesting and so so applicable to real life, and Casey taught it in a very straightforward way. It's definitely a tough class-you will be up late the night before every pset is due-but it's a really great way to learn R, and figuring out how to code the problems is kind of fun in its own twisted sort of way. Casey's leaving next year, which is a bummer, but Valeria is supposed to teach it and she was a great TF-super super helpful-so I'll bet the course will still be great. Avi is also hilarious as a TF, his sections were the best (and there was Chinese food at all of them! winning!)
If you are interested in the best modern social science research this class is a very good way to learn how they work.
This class is extremely rewarding and one of the best experiences I've had in undergrad. Stick with it if you have the time and want a challenge.
This course is a gem in the econ/stats department and its content should be required of anyone hoping to pursue a field in the social sciences or market research. It's conceptually challenging but there should not be a high barrier to entry for someone with minimal statistics preparation.
If you have taken R and probability, you'll do fine in this course and it will be worth your time. If you are missing one of these, you may struggle. The problem sets are VERY R-heavy, although it's fascinating to see how econometrics done in a traditional way can completely fail at explaining a casual effect. This course well make you think a lot harder and better about causality.
The class was taught well and Valeria, who is teaching next year, is very good and helpful at answering questions. The material can be pretty dry though, and the course has NO economics in it at all, which can be deceiving from the name of the course.
Applicable, wide breadth of techniques taught effectively, helpful assignment structure, great TFs. Be warned though, majority of students are Statistics Grad students and the course is effectively part of the statistics department.
Casey is a dynamic and engaging teacher. Unlike other courses I've taken in the stats department, her goal is that everyone understand the material (e.g., she's not just teaching to the highest common denominator).
Proper thinking on causal inference is so important.Clinical trials, observational economic studies etc are all covered.If you need to know this stuff, this course is a gentle but deep intro.
This is a great course and you'll learn some very applicable material.
This class was awesome, but itll probably be taught by someone else next year. Sucks to be you!
If you're looking for a statistics course with widely applicable content for experiment design and analysis then take this course.  The problem sets are very long but there are no exams so it is definitely doable. Lectures can get dull but Casey is super smart and engaging (which says something considering the nature of stats lectures).  Definitely worth taking.
One of the best and most useful classed I've taken. The entire teaching staff is great.
The material is incredibly useful but dry.
Great course!!! Stats aren't too hard, just know R beforehand!!! (Really::you have been warned...)
This is a really good course to add on. It combines a light workload with interesting course material, which few courses here are able to do. You will learn a decent amount of information while not being pummeled with 10+ hours of psetting a week.
Would strongly recommend this course if you're doing quantitative social science work. Totally changed how I look at my own research and methods from other classes
This course will change your perspective on scientific research, and generally everyday logic. Definitely recommend.
This class will give you an entirely new framework for viewing questions of causality, and for that reason alone it is worth taking! I don't think you can get a class on this material at many other universities. Casey is a fantastically clear teacher, and puts so much care into her lectures and explanations.
Take this class!  Not sure since Imbens is teaching it, but the material is super useful nonetheless
Casey is awesome. This class is vital for asking/answering any causal question. It's not a problem if you have no experience with R. Note that though it satisfies the applied math/ec econometrics requirement, it is not econometrics at all. The final project is not too stressful and makes you feel like you accomplished something.
If you use statistics or think you will use them in your life after school, take this class.  It will help you understand much about how to use statistics in the real world
If you actually want to conduct an experiment and make causal claims from your analysis of that experiment you should take this course. If you are wondering why multiple regression with an observational data set is so unreliable, definitely take this course.
I actually hated this course until the end, when I realized how awesome it was. It's hard, like really hard. Be ready for that. But, Casey and the TFs are some of the most caring, helpful people I've met and literally saved me, you can email them about literally anything at any time and they will help you. It's amazing. And casey is a baller lecturer, take it, be prepared to get your ass kicked, but you'll love it in the end
It's really a great class.  It gives a great idea of how to think about causal effects.  Although it's definitely doable without, you will feel behind without knowledge of R.  Almost all of the grade is tied up in assignments that require coding in R.
HUGE homeworks but HUGE learning :)
Definitely worth taking this class as it helps you think about how to use statistics in real applications.  Be actively involved in discussions as it will help on the homework.
This is a fantastic course!  You'll learn so much and look at data analysis in a whole new way.  Casey's lectures are extremely well prepared and very clear.  She is also extremely helpful in office hours.  Take this class for sure if Casey is teaching it!
This class is unbelievably helpful and applicable to issues you will encounter in real world research in the social and life sciences. A truly amazing class for anyone who wishes to do data analysis in their research and/or career.
In scholarly work and day-to-day life, we make causal statements all the time without thinking deeply about what causality means and how to identify it. This course provides a great introduction to causal inference within statistics and can definitely change the way you study the world!
I learned to think about causality in a critical way.  (In fact, I realized that an idea I had been considering for my senior thesis did not even make sense -- it couldn't be framed as a causal question.  It's good I realized that sooner rather than later.)  Professor Pattanayak is a very clear, interactive, engaging teacher.  I was impressed.
I really enjoyed this class! The assignments were long and a lot of work so you have to be prepared for that (but at least there were no tests other than one quiz). There is a lot of R coding.  The material is really interesting! Lectures were interesting and well taught. The material was explained clearly in class and in section.  I learned a lot and I think that causal inference is applicable to so many areas, it is good for everyone to learn!
Casy is very intense and you may want to think twice before you select this course. It is a very helpful course but the homeworks can be a little tedious and time consuming. I spend at least 10 hrs working on each homework. Nevertheless, you'll learn a lot about study design that will be very useful if you're interested in research.
