Fascinating topics, and Peter and Ben are both fantastic lecturers. Highly recommend.
This class was truly amazing. The teachers (Ben and Peter) did a great job at introducing us to a wide range of very interesting topics in market design. They also taught us to design our own scraper, which my teammate and I ended up using for our final project. The final project, which is open-ended, really allows you to deep-dive into a topic that interests you. The workload is definitely manageable. Al Roth came and gave us a lecture the week when he was awarded the Nobel prize!!
Great course, timely material. If you have any interest in markets without prices, take the class!
Professors are amazing! Peter and Ben are very engaging lecturers and make the material relevant and interesting. Would recommend to undergrads who are looking to see what grad classes are like. Definitely enjoyed the class.
In this course, market design and electronic markets are combined in a very interesting way. The scrapers programmed might also be great help for other projects and the class atmosphere is great. Overall a course that is a lot of fun.
This class is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard!
Market design is a highly interesting field. It combines the intellectual excitement of theoretical research with the satisfaction that comes from application to real world issues. The goal of market design is to solve real problems as they manifest in an imperfect world. I highly recommend it.
This is a very well-taught course on interesting, applied material.  One of the best classes I have taken.
An excellent introduction to matching theory.
A great introduction to the theory that guides a lot of the work in market design and many research topics where that theory is proving useful.  This is an exciting field of economics and Al and Peter are right at the frontier of it.
Interesting course with lots of examples of application. Very flexible in terms of workload outside of class.
The course is the perfect complement to the core sequence of microeconomics: what happens when prices are not allowed to completely clear the market? When some key markets are not entirely missing, but are characterized by thickness and congestion?
If you are interested in the subject, take it.
Take this course if you are interested in Market Design or if you are mildly curious.  The coursework is not so time demanding that you need to be committed to market design to get something out of the course.
great class, covers some really interesting topics and has almost no workload.
Many topics covered and each of them incredibly interesting and modern. Roth's lectures and roles as chief architect of the designs being covered inspire you to design a market of your own.
Low stress class that introduces you to the idea of Economic Engineering - the design of systems of exchange and markets with economics incentives. In particularly, Matching Theory lies at the exciting intersection of Econ and CS. Al is one of the most engaging lecturers I've had, and he has pretty much taught every other Market Designer in existence. Also, he redesigned several school matching systems and the system that matches every US medical school student to their hospital for residency. Only assignment is one final term paper, where you can examine a market/system of your own. Take it!
Al and Peter are both great teacher. The course is extremely interesting and encourages students to think on their own. It also provides many ideas for future research. I highly recommend it to anyone slightly interested in Microeconomics, Game Theory, and applications of Economics to real life.
Good class, but the structure won't force you to get much out of it.  In order to get value out of the course, you'll have to be independently motivated to do reading, work hard on the project.
The mathematical proofs are going to be tough. Come with enough sleep or they will fly through your head.
what you get is what you put in
A well-taught and accessible discussion of an important new field in economics.  Even if you don't intend to go into market design (or even applied theory), the way of thinking introduced in this class is useful and exciting.
If you would like to gain more from this course, you should try to read most of papers introduced in the class.
