This is a great class for individuals who want a theoretical and mathematical understanding of environmental economics.  Professor Weitzman is very knowledgeable and passionate, but make sure you have an appropriate mathematical background (preferably econ1011a or some applied math) since the class gets fairly abstract at times.
This course provides a good basis in environmental economics, with a focus on capital theory and how it applies to the field. It takes a mathematical approach to modeling the problems and this can be a bit tricky at times.
If you're interested in a very scientific way of looking at natural resource economics, then this class is for you. This class is much less about actual environmental policy than it about developing the theoretical underpinnings of environmental economics.
This course is an amazing opportunity to be in a smaller class with one of the biggest names in the field. Martin Weitzman is an amazing lecturer and will take you through a face-paced, but rewarding tour of environmental economics, with anecdotes and philosophical opinions along the way. This course has really helped me think more analytically about questions of natural resources and conservation. If you're interested in economics (and not just environmental eocnomics), don't miss out on this opportunity. It's more work than other course options, but worth it for anyone interested in actually learning something about economics or capital theory.
a chance to learn about environmental economics in depth. IF you want a more comprehensive and applicable introduction to the field, take prof. Stavin's environmental economics course.
Ec 1687 is a small, engaging, intense class that exposes you to a leading economist in climate change economics. It will rigorously introduce key concepts of capital theory in environmental economics and provide anyone interested in economics with powerful tools to study dynamic systems.
Need to be able to get through the mathematic models
If you want to learn how economists approach some of the most pressing environmental issues, take this course. Professor Weitzman is engaging and extremely approachable. Do not take this course lightly as it covers quickly a large amount of material and models.
Study the qualitative lectures and also the assumptions made for each model and model derivation.
This class is very focused on economic models, so if you like that kind of thing take this class!
The material is really interesting if you're interested in environmental issues and policy, but you have to take the time to understand the underlying math and econ or you can get lost pretty quickly.
Be prepared to be stretched intellectually- very rewarding but takes a considerable amount of time to grasp the material.
This class is definitely difficult. The material is super dense and the professor knows a ton about the subject and often doesn't present it in a way that is easy to understand if you don't know a lot about economics. The topics are interesting though and very important for climate change/environmental issues.
Do not be afraid of the material! Professor Weitzman is the best economics professor I have ever had.
excellent course! The content is compact and lead you deep thinking!
Lectures are a bit dry, but the material covered is fascinating and highly relevant today (since you get to see the economic analysis covered in Ec 1010/1011 actually applied to real-world environmental challenges). Make sure you know the models covered in lecture well and understand the economic intuition behind them as well as how to derive their results. Definitely take this if you want to pursue environmental science or policy, if not than the class makes for a good, if not great, elective.
Ec 1687 is definitely worth taking just because it is so different from the rest of the economics offerings. It also has a very healthy dose of modeling/applied mathematics not really found in any other course and presents a side of economics (environmental economics) that sometimes seems for people of a certain political leaning but really is not. There is a very strong framework of optimal control theory emphasized above the environmental aspects. Most of the course is mathematical in nature and the second half is focused almost exclusively on optimal control theory. I'm really glad I took this course because I would never have been exposed to this type of applied mathematics---I would consider calculus of variations, along with a stochastic calculus, to be courses ordinarily not taken but worth taking for those who are mathematically inclined i.e. you liked Ec 1011a. However, because some examples/models share characteristics, the course is sometimes dry when these examples and how their models can be fit into an optimal control problem are repeated over and over again. That said, problem sets are not particularly difficult---they go through the mathematics of a particular example/model step-by-step but you should be sure to show all your steps on every problem set even when you think a result is self-evident.
Professor Weitzman is an influential figure in the field of environmental economics and this course is a great introduction to the different prototype problems.
If you are interested in environmental economics, this is definitely an excellent course
If you are not afraid of math, you should take it, because it gives really much new information.Even if you are uninterested in climate change.
Such a rewarding course! Weitzman is an incredible economist and an insightful, friendly person. One of the most enthusiastic professors I've had at Harvard, really cares about his students and appreciates participation and feedback. If you're intimidated by the 'advanced' word and the rigorous math, just take it - you won't regret it
This course is a wonderful way for economics concentrators to fulfill the "advanced course" requirement. Professor Weitzman is a wonderful teacher; his lecture style is a bit dry, but the amount you'll come to understand makes lectures more than worth it.
The course is a really good way to understand deeply on environmental economics and climate change economics. I learned a lot.
The course material is very interesting, but this class is very disorganized over all. You will be very frustrated to see old, hand-written handouts and unsearchable pdfs on the course website.
This class is very rewarding if you are interested in the economics of the environment or climate change, Weitzman is a great person and professor, and you'll learn a lot without taking a too stressful course, our group was rather small (20 people)
This is an amazing course. If you want to be challenged to think critically about economic models and really understand what they mean, how each variable and derivative tells a story, this course is for you. If you want to have a much deeper understanding of microeconomics even beyond your intermediate microeconomics theory course, this course is for you. It is not a policy-based course. It is a modeling course. I was initially very terrified because I thought my math skills would not be strong enough; you don't need to know a lot of math for this course. You need to understand derivatives and differential equations, but that is need; the psets are not too difficult and it walks you through the steps.
I highly recommend this class. Must have some math and calculus background because it could be easy to get bogged down in the symbols and tough algebra. Very manageable as Prof. Weitzman isn't a great teacher!
Hardest course I've ever taken at Harvard. Each class comes with multiple new equations with dozens of briefly explained variables and minimal intuitive explanation behind them.
No course quite like it. Heavily immersed in economic theory, it was fascinating to me.
