The lecture slides are great and you can learn everything from just reading them but you should go to the class because Jeff Miron is awesome
One of the best classes ever. Prof. Miron is a great, engaging lecturer. Even if you don't agree with libertarian viewpoint, you should totally take this class- it's great getting to know this particular point of view. Painless and fun but informative -- maybe not the greatest eye opener, but if you need a class that's kind of a break, you should definitely take it.
Great way to complete the economics writing requirement.  Easy economics elective.
The class is very easy, but the papers to require some work. There are only three so really that's only three weekends out of the semester that will be spent on a paper, and no assignments otherwise. Just going to class and listening to him talk. His ideas are pretty interesting too. He's probably right about a lot
You will learn a lot about Libertarianism in this class. You may not agree with this approach, but you will learn about a very interesting viewpoint nonetheless.
It is a fairly easy, straightforward class in terms of concepts though there is a lot of work.  Be prepared to have a few big assignments.
Papers can be a pain, but all in all a decently interesting class that is completely manageable.
Go to office hours with Miron! He's awesome.
This course gives you a very interesting perspective on many hot-topic issues.  This is a great economics elective.
Super interesting class
Fantastic class. The lectures are interesting, insightful, and actually useful. You will talk about Miron's lectures with your friends, family, etc. Definitely worth taking.
Professor Miron is a terrific lecturer and passionate instructor.  He knows the material well and engages in thoughtful and deliberate debate.  I wish he was keeping up his blog in the future!
Awesome!
This class is laid back and very engaging. The lectures all follow the same format so it is easy to follow and the lecture notes are very detailed, which makes reviewing for the final a little bit easier.
very low day-to-day commitment
It's a lot of fun, you get to learn about a lot of important current issues from a different perspective.
Hands down one of my top 3 favorite courses at harvard. Miron is the best
This course is great. The material is very insightful and relevent to ongoing debates. The papers are tad bit long; however, after the first paper, the following ones become easier to write.
This is a great class to get you thinking like an economist and consider policies in a different way
Even if it doesn't make you a libertarian, this class will change the way you see the world. Miron is a genius and is fun to listen to. The papers are actually fun to right and go by really quickly. You get a ton of guidance on them.
You don't have to class. The class would be more effective if the papers and section were based on the lectures (they have the same theme, but you can do the papers and section work without going to class).
This is the perfect capstone class in every sense of the term: comprehensive, clear, accessible, and not too taxing. You'll walk away feeling like you spent your time well.
GREAT CLASS! One of my favorite courses at Harvard. An ec elective gem!
amazing class. amazing professor. amazing subject. work may be a little bit intense when essays are due, but other than that, fantastic.
A thought-provoking, manageable, and interesting class. Terrrific in every sense of the word!
fun and easy
The course is definitely worth taking to gain an overview of current American social and economic policies as well as rethink many of these policies. You don't have to agree with libertarianism at all to rethink a lot of government intervention. Grading system was a little arbitrary with little weight placed on attending lecture and understanding libertarian perspective- most is placed on writing ability.
This class is interesting and gives a very different logical view about the government. While not everyone may agree with the conclusions drawn, the discussions during the lectures are very informative and lively.
Broadens your views on common topics. Makes you a smarter person, honestly.
Most college students these days are libertarians, they just don't know it yet.  If you're unfamiliar with the libertarianism, Ec1017 is a really good way to start thinking about some of the main issues.
Take it! It's easy and you learn so much actually useful information.
This is a great class.  It is really interesting to learn about the libertarian perspective on current events and the political issues that dominate current debates.
What I really like about this course is the way it teaches you to think. I'm a pretty leftist type of person (think like student activist level left haha), and while I'm not a libertarian in a lot of ways, I'd say this class made me "think" like a libertarian (so Miron was effective in achieving his goal!). You'll understand what that means after the first few classes.Also, workload is super reasonable, and the slides make studying for exams a breeze. Great senior year class.
Everyone should learn about libertarianism from a serious libertarian.
Professor Miron will question all assumptions and cost-benefit analyses that go into determining the best policy on nearly every issue imaginable. Be prepared to have your views challenged no matter your political affiliation, but also be prepared to learn to take a more logical approach to policy discussions in the future. For econ concentrators, this is also a relatively painless way to fulfill the writing requirement.
Totally awesome
Interesting, not stressful, great professor, take it!
Professor Miron is very knowledgable but lectures tend to be a little dry at times. That said, super interesting and low-stress course and I would highly recommend.
This class is a great way to knock off an ec elective without leading too heavily on math and problem sets.
Very easy class, maybe the easiest you'll find in the Econ department.
Make sure you talk to and engage with Prof. Miron, either during or after class. He has plenty of interesting opinions and ideas! Though you may not agree with many of them, it's interesting to hear his thinking.
Great way to fulfill econ requirements. Low workload, awesome professor, interesting topics.
This class is awesome. Take it. Miron doesn't stand in front of you and preach about how Libertarianism is the best ideology (like some other professors do with their political beliefs). Instead he provokes critical thinking about policy implications, Liberal and Conservative ideology, and our political system in general. This is the kind of class where studying is actually somewhat entertaining. I definitely suggest taking this class.
This is a great class to learn about an alternative perspective to public policy issues through a consequentialist economics lens. Prof. Miron is very enthusiastic about this course, and you really do learn a lot without having to do unnecessary busy work.
Unreal class.  Take it
Make sure you're interested in the subject matter.
This is a great class. Gets a lot of attention for being pretty easy. And it is. It's a great way to take a little stress out of your course load. But a lot of people neglect to mention that it's actually very interesting if you are curious about the topic. I'm Econ/Gov (like many) so this was the perfect class for me to explore the overlap between the two. In the end, it actually shed a lot of light on how I form my own political beliefs. 5:5 chill to pull. Take this class if you're at all interested.
This class is nice because it gives you further insight into political issues, and not just the libertarian perspective on them.  An easy class to fill your schedule with a minimum work requirement.
Libertarianism isn't as easy to understand as you'd think -- this class, taught by one of the world's most knowledgeable people on Libertarianism, will help you understand it more.
Biggest Gem at harvard. You have to take this. Very easy and really interesting--the perfect combination.
One of the best econ classes I've taken at Harvard, very straightforward, no required readings, only need to go to a few sections, overall a gem.
Not a hard class, and I loved it because Miron enjoys preaching about his libertarian views.  Miron is an incredibly interesting guy to be around and pick his brain; he is humble and funny.  This class challenged some of my beliefs about policy and really made me ponder the government's role in society.  Libertarian theoryis great for one to be exposed.
I took this course for fun, just to try out an economics course and get exposed to a lot of different topics from the economics perspective.  I found that the course was not difficult, though I had not taken ec 10a or 10b, and that most lectures were interesting.  Professor Miron obviously really cares about this topic, and that comes through in his enthusiasm in giving lectures.
Material is interesting and Professor Miron does a good job presenting and engaging with students' questions. Workload is minimal, so it's a good ec elective if you've got other more difficult classes that require more attention.
Perfect course
This was a great course! It does not demand a lot of work outside of class, and Professor Miron keeps you very engaged in lecture. However, your grade pretty much depends on the midterm and final, so you have to be willing to study hard for those two exams.
best course at harvard. miron is incredible!
Very interesting class. You learn a framework to think about a lot of real world problems and will be able to engage better with society and politics.
This class is an absolute gem! Miron is genuinely passionate about the material, which is why he cares much more about this class than he did about ec1010, and thus, he did a much better job of keeping the class interesting. The topic debates are engaging and the course has an extremely manageable workload and difficulty level.
This class is pretty easy and does not require much throughout the semester. It is also very interesting and will likely change the way you think about the role of government and policy
take!
Definitely take it!!! Don't be scared by how much the midterm / final are each weighted (45% each, equal) - they are very fair, and with no other assignments (other than the paper if you're taking it for the Econ writing requirement), it makes for an EXTREMELY interesting and rewarding course with a very minimal workload. Honestly one of the best classes - if not the best - I've taken here at Harvard.
This was a really great class. Low-stress, but I definitely came out of it with a much better ability to discuss and analyze many important real-world issues. I would highly recommend it!
This is the easiest class I've taken at Harvard, with the added benefit of being interesting! No problem sets, no readings (that are relevant), and Miron being an interesting dude means you should definitely take this class.
Take this class! Extremely interesting lecture topics that are relevant and engaging.  Jeff Miron is hilarious and his passion for and knowledge of the topic is truly apparent.  Exams and assignments are very straightforward.  You're bound to learn a lot from this course.
Great elective to take for Ec concentration. There are assigned readings but they aren't necessary. There are only 4 sections that you have to go to and they are actually pretty interesting. Lectures are an hour and a half and can get pretty boring but overall the material is very interesting. It can just get long at times. Best suggestion is to just go to lecture. If you do this then you won't have any real work in the class. Midterm and Final are both pretty easy if you know the lecture material.
Engaging and fun
This class is light on work but heavy on critical thinkingit really expanded my perspective on policy choices, and I appreciate the healthy dose of skepticism it asks you to adopt when analyzing an opinion. However, the hands-off nature means that, without serious personal motivation, it is easy to blow off the class and get nothing out of it.
It is a fascinating look into Libertarianism and I suggest taking it just to talk to Professor Miron. Though I completely disagree with the course's overall message, I think I have become a better and deeper thinker when it comes to economic issues.
If you actually want to be challenged and engage with a perspective different from your own (you know, what you supposedly came to college for) then take this class!  On the off chance that you are libertarian-leaning then take this class to find out why.
Ec 1017 is a gem: Miron is very passionate about the material and is able to make the class interesting no matter what your political leaning is. He posts very detailed lecture slides which are super helpful in studying for the exams. The course structure is straightforward and exams are fair and fairly easy. One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard- if you need an economics elective, take it!
Its a great class
It was an interesting class. Low time commitment and lectures are interesting. That being said, exams are graded extremely unfairly. Grader seemed to just pick a number out of thin air- was very subjective and arbitrary.
Interesting class and a very enthusiastic professor.  Makes you think about issues from a new angle.  Even if you don't agree with the libertarian perspective, it pushes you to think twice about seemingly "good" policies and creates good and important discussions about whether or not policy causes more harm than good.
This is a great course that does not require too much week-to-week work. Even if you disagree vehemently with Miron, he offers a good framework for understanding modern political issues.
This course is incredibly easy and not very much work. It is interesting enough and Miron is an interesting lecturer. However, be prepared to be bored because the class demands absolutely nothing from you and the lectures get repetitive after a while because Miron presents the same argument in each class.
I would tell them that it is a straightforward course that isn't too difficult. If you have not learned about Libertarianism, this is a great introduction into the topic.
Love this class, Miron loves the class which makes it very interesting
This class has an enormous benefit to cost ratio, mostly due to the nonexistent cost.
This class is thought-provoking. Consider it if looking for a low-workload econ requirement.
Truly Outstanding Class.  Whether you are politically-inclined or not, this course will teach you much about the world and implications of policy.  It is a must-take course.  Even if you are way to the right, left, or somewhere in between, this class will help you further define your positions along the political spectrum.  Its objective, rather than opinion-tinted, nature allows you to make responsible considerations about important issues.
Definitely take if your are concentrating in ec.
Best class at Harvard. Absolute gem, no work required, but lectures and sections are genuinely interesting and refreshing.
The topics covered are fairly interesting. Miron is an effective lecturer, even if he presents some disagreeable views. If you're intelligent enough, then you won't be indoctrinated.
This is not a very demanding course assuming you go to class and pay attention, but it punches well above its weight class in terms of value. First, it's a great survey course in American policy, in that every week lecture begins with an explanation of the status quo. I like the course because it really connects economic theory with policy, and gave us a framework to think about the two. However, most importantly to me, this class was an experience in viewpoint diversity. Sometimes I forget how orthodox the liberal politics of the student body is. This course welcomed perspectives that would be blasphemous in wider FAS, and gave all perspectives and disagreements a fair and respectful treatment, whereas other classes I've taken have lead to disdain on those who who would dare voice alternative opinions.
It's an awesome class that will give you a new perspective
Great Class. Miron is an awesome teacher and very relaxed while speaking about very relevant topics.
This class is so fun!!! Miron is so passionate and engaged with the subject it just can't help but rub off on you. Very manageable and you do learn quite a bit.
Really cool way to look at things under a different lens.
This class is an absolute gem. You learn the details and specifics of the Libertarian perspective and it feels applicable to real life, which is oftentimes not a feeling you find in economic courses.
Professor Miron is the man, and it is really fun hearing from a teacher that loves to teach what he is talking about. This was one of the most interesting classes I have taken at Harvard.
This class is super interesting and also incredibly easy. Requires little/no work. But do go to all of the lectures because miron is a great lecturer and the material is really engaging. midterms/final are very straightforward.
This class is great in that you can apply much of what we learn to current events and areas of debate.  Whether or not you're a Libertarian, Miron's approach to weighing costs and benefits is how we should analyze policy. In fact, his approach looks beyond ideology in a lot of ways.  You definitely should go to class, since Miron's shorthand in the lecture notes can sometime be confusing, but otherwise it's a fairly low-key class.
Really interesting and very easy. Workload is light. Sections are great, loved discussing and arguing the topics.
Go to lecture and argue with Professor Miron!
This course is a gem of a course. It's easy and very straight-forward but it is also incredibly interesting. I learned more from this class that I could apply to my life than I did from most other courses I have taken.
A fantastic way of not only understanding libertarianism, but also economic analysis in all gov't policy making.
Miron was FANTASTIC. very interesting to hear his point of view on issues, obviously likes teaching this class more than 1010a
This is a fairly easy course and could be taken by any one in college regardless of one's concentration. Overall, it could be an extremely nice fifth class.
One of the best, if not the best, classes I have taken at Harvard. Supremely thought-provoking and well argued, incredibly relevant course material. This is the sort of class you come to Harvard to experience.
This is a great class to learn about a different framework for thinking, as well as to become knowledgable about a vast array of political issues. The workload is non-intensive and the the assessments are very fair.
This is an interesting survey of libertarianism, and requires little to no work. Miron is very passionate about the topic, and it shows. However, you might not learn a ton if you already understand the gist of libertarianism--applying the principle to abortion, guns, etc. gets pretty repetitive/predictable.
it's very simple and straightforward, really enjoyed it
If you ever get the opportunity to take this course, do it in an instant. Very low time commitment to actual meaningful learning ratio. The liberal arts ideal.
Best class I've ever taken at Harvard. Had always aligned with these stances on issues, just didn't realize I was a Libertarian. Stress free with minimal work but amazing end results
Easy class.
This class had a very high return on investment - it doesn't require any time outside of class, though if you choose to do the optional readings they are often times interesting and contain data to back the claims in class. Overall, this definitely shaped my political views and how I think about controversial issues... it did not make me libertarian in any sense, but coming into the class as a liberal I've been able to understand some of the inconsistencies of liberal view points, understand a few conservative view points, and generally approach political topics and debates with more perspective, and understanding and analyze policy with a more critical eye. If you want a class with interesting, controversial lectures that can shape the way you think about politics (or at least provide another perspective), but have a heavy workload this semester don't want a class where you have to put in work outside of lecture, this is fantastic.
A very interesting class which develops a largely new way of thinking about the world, so I'm very glad that I took it. You do have to accept, however, that the grading is somewhat arbitrary and doesn't reward good classroom work ethics.
I found this class incredibly eye-opening, and it reshaped my perspective on many beliefs I had previously held. This is a great class if you are interested in, but don't know a ton about, different issues of political contention and the libertarian position. This class is very easy and is good if you need to balance out a tough semester. You literally don't have to do the readings (they do not appear on the exams) and your entire grade is based off of two in class exams that are not very difficult. Lecture can get a bit redundant by the second half, but it certainly does drive home the idea that the libertarian position seems to be consistent across issues.
This is a great class and it will give you a new perspective on American policies.
This course is very fun, relaxed, and you learn quite a deal about libertarianism. I probably took the most out of this course than I did my other 3 econ electives.
This course is one of the most unique at Harvard in the material it covers, perspective it takes, and the way it delivers that material.
An economics gem!! Miron is clearly passionate about this topic, and outlines many convincing economic arguments behind Libertarianism. Minimal economics background required-- I highly recommend this course to economics concentrators and non-concentrators alike.
Great class to learn about US policy through the lens of fundamental economics. Not a big workload but still come away with something at the end of the course.
Miron is quite literally the uncle at the christmas party who won't stop talking about how marijuana should be totally legal, but how he doesn't use it.
A great class that doesn't require much work but is extremely rewarding. It challenges your beliefs.
This is a great class. While it is easy, the materials is very interesting. All you have to do is make sure to study well for the exams since they make up a large portion of your grade.
It is an interesting course that offers a different perspective on economic issues but you have to make sure you don't let the course material pile up because it's easy to lose track, especially since there are no other assignments besides the exams.
Overall, great because of the low workload and the material is interesting and relevant. However, it can be a little daunting because the midterm and final are your only grades.
If you want an engaging yet relatively easy / low workload economics course, take this class.  Professor Miron is a great lecturer who will provide a comprehensive view of libertarianism.
This is an interesting course. You could probably read about the libertarian perspective online and get the main point but it is really interesting to study it in depth and find out how a libertarian supports his/her views. It is also even more rewarding going to office hours and section to discuss these views and look at plausible counterarguments.
It is a pretty easy, monotonous class.
This class introduces you to a really interesting way of thinking about a wide range of economic and political issues. Really interesting analysis of different problems in society even if and maybe especially if you're not libertarian-leaning.
Great material and really important to think about, but awfully taught.
This is such a great class. Basically just a midterm and final in addition to 4 sections with pizza and open discussions on politics. I have never had a section where you can just sit there with a professor and ask questions. And the material in the course as a whole was compelling and interesting, really changed my view on a lot of things and caused me to look at politics in a different and better way.
An interesting perspective on Libertarianism.  You do NOT need to be a libertarian to enjoy/learn from this course.  I am not, and benefitted greatly from Prof Miron's economic examination of Libertarianism.  Workload is light, but you'll get more out of the class if you do more of the readings.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.  Such a different type of course that really makes you think about and evaluate issues that are actually practical and impact your life and you as a person.
This is a great class to take for any concentration, but especially economics.  It is refreshing to hear political views that are not biased toward the left.  I believe it makes students of all political affiliations rethink their views with well-reasoned logic.
This is a gut class. It's quite easy and gives you an alternative perspective (much of which I didn't really believe in at first but now seriously consider it when evaluating domestic policy).  I would highly recommend.  I think if it were to be a harder course, however, more people would get more out of it.
Undemanding class.  But very interesting material.
This is a great way to learn about a political philosophy that is often bashed in media. If you are not a libertarian but see some value in what some of your libertarian friends are saying, this is a great opportunity to learn simply how to think in that mindset.
This class is a great way to learn about libertarianism without consuming your schedule.
It's a great class. You learn a lot.  Just going to lecture is sufficient to do well, very minimal work outside of the class. Do not take it Pass/Fail. It's an awesome class and easy to do well in if you put in the time.
attend lectures although not necessary, changes how you view politics, easy economic class
Fun and straightforward class where you can learn a ton from lectures and gain a new perspective on a range of policy issues. Well organized and taught, a terrific and thoroughly manageable course.
This course takes cost/benefit analysis to its theoretical maximum. If you might think you are living in a utile based world, take this course!
Awesome class. Miron is really friendly and interesting. Sections were phenomenal.
Great course
This course was extremely interesting and relevant! Also the exams are not meant to trick you -- they are very straightforward. This is also a great way to fulfill the writing requirement if you're an Ec concentrator because it gives you a chance to gain a better understanding of a particular topic that you find interesting. Professor Miron is very passionate about the material and keeps lectures very engaging. Highly recommend this course!!!
Very manageable course, but that means you are a victim to the curve since most do well on the tests. As someone who is not very liberal in the political sense, I very much enjoyed learning about statistics and facts that support some of my views, but it also taught me about issues I didn't know much about and helped me form an informed opinion. Miron and Ashvin (the TF) really enjoyed the subject material so that really helps during lectures and sections, of which there are only 4 - 2 with Miron and 2 with the TF.
Great course.  Not a lot of work.  Interesting subject matter. GEM.
Fantastic course. Miron is great and does an awesome job of walking you through the libertarian argument, while responding to people's questions and disagreements. Small amount of work- I paid attention in class because I enjoyed the topics. Also teaches you how best to think about any government policies.
This was the best class I have taken at Harvard. It does not entail much work but definitely teaches you how to think differently about government and how to simplify it.
Miron is great - very knowledgeable, understanding, and approachable
Interesting thought experiments but I didn't really learn anything profound
Would definitely recommend if you're looking for a relaxed class where you can learn about libertarianism and modern topics (healthcare, social security, taxes, etc.)
This is my favorite class Ive taken at harvard. I am a science concentrator and took this course becaue it sounded interesting. It was a true gem of a class where you get to learn a lot of interesting material, but you also dont have to work that hard. I feel like i was able to develop a whole new lens from which to view the world.
I highly recommend this class.  Unless you choose to write a paper to fulfill a writing requirement, this class is low time commitment because the grade is based solely on two exams.  I would still encourage going to lecture because Miron is a good lecturer, and readily answers all questions and concerns.
If you want to learn more about libertarian economic and social thought while taking an extremely easy class, Ec 1017 is the class for you!
This class was awesome because although it was a low workload and not challenging in a conceptual/exam sense, it was super interesting and made you really think about how you defending your political beliefs. Although I didn't always agree with what Miron was saying, he had well explained arguments and thoughts, and it really gave me a different perspective on a lot of important issues. Great way to fulfill an economics requirement, but anyone who wants to gain some perspective from a different political viewpoint definitely should take. Very little workload outside of class, lectures are super interesting and engaging and make you want to go, gained a lot of real world knowledge, what else could you ask for from a class.
this course might alter your future life/ political views significantly
Keep up with the lecture notes, and try to go to class. It's interesting.
No work required.
super easy and super interesting, jeffrey miron is GREAT
It's a very easy course, but it also requires you to argue things you might disagree with.
its a good class, take it
Don't bother attending lecture unless you have time to do so. The lecture notes are great and there are only 2 exams.
Take it only if you want to start thinking critically about economics and the economist's way of thinking.
The course is very interesting but does not require much effort.
It's very easy and requires minimal work and is actually interesting.
Ec1017 is a very interesting class if you want to be exposed to political/social thought that runs contrary to anything you may have encountered before. Miron is intelligent but not overbearing in his viewpoint.
This class is amazing and will change the way you look at the U.S. Government and economic policy in general.
it's a very interesting class and will make you think of concepts in a totally new light. i've learned to evaluate things more carefully.
Take it!
It is easy and interesting.
It was a fantastic course. It made me seriously consider reshaping my views on both economic and social issues and made me more thoughtful and informed when discussing political and social issues with others.
This course is a great way to put economic theory learned in previous courses to use in considering how an economist might run (or scale back) the government.
interesting subject, not alot of coursework
Take it basically for a senior class.
Best class I have taken
This is a very easy course. It strikes me more as a moral reasoning/core class for cost-benefit analysis than an Economics Department class.
This class has a light workload, but very important to keep up considering your whole grade comes from only a midterm and final.
You will learn to how think economically.  You will see the role of government very differently.
One of the most interesting economic classes I have taken at Harvard.
This class is a lot of fun, doesn't take much time, and will teach you the most important things.
This is a very, very good class.
Very easy-going professor. Both midterm and Final make up your entire grade, but both are relatively straightforward if you've been to lecture and done the work. Definitely a good class to take here at Harvard.
Awesome class.  Not terribly demanding and extremely important (in terms of policy issues, etc.)
you will not regret this decision
It is a fantastic elective if the libertarian perspective has ever interested you.
So easy. Best class. Interesting
Learn REAL economics. Take this class.
Easy, painless class!
Really interesting to learn about, not a lot of work.
Easy way to fulfill econ requirement.  Actually is thought-provoking as well.
Easy class, interesting.
It is sweet/worthwhile.
This class is very interesting and applicable to many of the important contemporary debates in economics and politics.
Interesting approach to policy, very easy
This course may seem easy because of the lack of assignments, but if you're really trying to learn, go to every lecture and actually attempt the readings.
Ask Prof. Miron questions in class...it makes it more interesting and he actually enjoys conversations and challenges. If you don't mind feeling a little like a slacker, this is a great course.
manageable workload, very, very interesting.
Painless class and interesting.
It is an incredible course that will change your way of thinking about politics and important Economics issues. I would recommend doing most of the readings as they are a great complement to the lectures.
It's a painless way to learn a lot about many very relevant issues today.
Interesting, not hard, a good way to apply economics in all aspect of the society, and a good opportunity to understand the libertarian views (wether you agree with them or not)
It's a fun senior spring class - a minimum amount of work and interesting material.
Take it! The workload is reasonable, the lectures are good, and the material will blow your mind.
It's great to hear the Libertarian perspective and be challenged by it.  It's usually correct, but it's great cause all the liberal kids who have never been challenged on their views get super uncomfortable
Yes
This is a good, low work, highly didactic course.
Painless way to fulfill requirement, and you learn interesting material along the way.
TAKE THIS CLASS! An AWESOME class!
Great class!
This class is exceptionally easy and also enjoyable - Miron is a great lecturer and you should actually take advantage of coming to class (which few people do).
I did not find the topic very interesting at the end.
This course is extremely interesting from the stand point of understanding the intersection between policy and economics. I think you have to be aware that Professor Miron is an obvious Libertarian, but he does a pretty good job separating his opinions from the other arguments. He uses basic economic terms and concepts, but most of it just learning how to critically think about policy and its positive and negative effects.
very interesting, low course requirements
It's easy to take, and the lectures are not boring.
It is a great way to gain exposure to the economic analysis of government policies.
GReat class. Interesting and easy. As good as it gets.
Best and most useful economics class at Harvard!
Easy course. Fun material.
Interesting and painless as they say.
This class was really enjoyable and painless.  Professor Miron's lectures were great, and it was nice that he talked practically about whether policies could actually be implemented.
Very interesting, compelling lectures and not too much work
There is pretty much zero workload in this class.
Painless way to fulfill Econ requirement.
Really great class, interesting, easy, only a little work. Take it pass/fail and write the paper if you need to fulfill a writing requirement.
The lack of sections and regularly scheduled work make this course pretty easy to take lightly.  If you're looking for an easy senior spring elective, this would be a good choice, particularly if you're at all interested in libertarianism and the intersection of economics and public policy.  On the other hand, this is definitely not the most fulfilling or challenging intellectual experience I have had here.
it gives you a whole new and refreshing perspective on public policy
Interesting and straightforward
This class is interesting with a light workload. It serves as a great introduction to Libertarian thought and is pertinent to modern political and economic debates.
This class prepared me, more than any other class I've taken at Harvard, to be a conscientious voter.
interesting and easy!
It's a fun course. You will learn a lot, but it is not well structured.
Just don't take it. Worst class I've ever been in; boring, frustrating, with an ass for a professor.
Professor Miron is very enthusiastic about the material, which is really refreshing.
Great way to see many issues in a different light. It is always good to challenge your notions and try and evaluate them on cost benefit grounds. I  will forever think differently about many issues. You win Miron.
You will learn a new perspective on life!
Its easy but Miron is not a good teacher.
This class will give you a great perspective on libertarianism and get you to think about many topics in a new light.
Interesting introduction to a useful topic.
I would absolutely recommend this course. One of the best courses I took at Harvard. Fun, easy, entertaining, and relevent to the real world!
This was a good course taught by someone well-versed in the subject matter and enthusiastic
Be careful, you'll end up a libertarian for the most part by the end of the course!
It's moderately easy with very little number of assignments.
no feedback
Easy econ elective. Period.
very educational, you learn a lot about economics and politics
Interesting topics, well-taught by enthusiastic professor, not difficult.
Great class, learn a lot, manageable courseload, very enjoyable
Not much work, but even if you memorize everything you may not do well (it's kind of a crapshoot)
Lectures are worth attending, Miron is enthusiastic and knowledgeable.
you just have to read the lecture slides in preparation for exams.
This is a painless, interesting, and thought-provoking class taught by a brilliant professor that will literally change how you think about policy.  However, beware what some call "easy," because grading on the exams can be a little rough.
Professor Miron is one of the best lecturers that I've had in my four years at Harvard, and you can tell that he's passionate about libertarianism and the policy issues that he discusses. His arguments have the effect of making you think about current issues in a totally different light.
Its fun to discuss topics you know from an entirely different perspective.
Miron is a phenomenal professor.  Don't let your Ec1010a impressions of him keep you from taking this class.
An easy but still very interesting class.  While it teaches you how to think from a libertarian perspective, it is perhaps even more useful for simply exposing you to all of the various economic/political/moral issues of our time.
its itneresting
Take this class!! You will not regret it. Very interesting and thought provoking.
