The problem sets are long, but they are pretty!
The course will be frustrating; only take the course if you are very interested in the material.
For those who have not seen Game Theory before and want a rigorous challenging and very revealing introduction, prepare to have a blast!
The material presented in this class is very fun and interesting but the way it is taught is not great and the lectures are very hard to follow. By the middle of the semester it seemed like only half of the people in the class came to lecture on a regular basis.
It is fun if you like applied math, but it is not easy. Take it pass-fail if you're just doing it for kicks, like I did.
Overall an interesting class.
Do your work early and often. Try to get a sense of the material in the course beforehand. There's not that much you can do with game theory below the surface, so think about it seriously before deciding to take the course versus your alternatives. Dynamic games of incomplete information are very cool, but come only at the end.
It's really hard.
The subject matter for this class is very interesting but requires strict attention to detailed definitions and complex notation. This course is very tough if you aren't willing to put in enough time to read the textbook and teach yourself. The TF isn't very helpful at all with homework so you must find others to work with and be willing to often turn in incomplete problem sets.
Excellent class for students with a strong interest in Game Theory and a solid mathematical background.
Read the books relevant sections before lecture. Things can be extremely difficult to follow otherwise.  Take advantage of section  walking through problems interactively with Gleb was a much better learning experience that watching lecture. Fudenberg knows his stuff really well, but can be intimidating - make an effort to ask questions anyways, getting over that helped me learn a lot faster.
This class was really hard and the lectures, while very interesting, didn't really help with anything.  The problem sets were really hard and the midterm/final were impossible.  Take this class with caution.
I had been looking forward to this course since arriving to college, so I'm disappointed in the fact that it was not as good as I had been hoping. I find game theory to be a cool but somewhat frustrating subject--it is a lot of fairly obvious axioms that you push in circles and in messy casework in order to try to determine anything, and usually your solutions are not particularly enlightening. The course is quite easy up until dynamic games of incomplete information in like the last couple weeks, at which point it just becomes so tedious that I no longer found the subject fun. I think Fudenberg is obviously very smart but not necessarily the most patient instructor, and the assignments are for the most part not terrible. I still don't think I have properly understood many concepts in game theory, which is disappointing, though I'm not sure if that is my own fault or a flaw in the course instruction.
Fantastic class if you're interested in game theory or logic. Otherwise, it'll be dull and difficult. A very self-selecting class. The problem sets are not as hard as everyone makes them out to be. Took on average 5-6 hours to figure them out, and another 1-2 to write up and make rigorous.
It's a really neat class -- just be warned that it's also quite difficult. It's not to bad before the first midterm, but it gets a lot harder after that.
Understanding the problem sets in this course is not sufficient for your understanding of all material taught in this course. Attending section is a waste of an hour and a half per week. I recommend that you buy the textbook for this course.
Take the class if you are interested in Nash, auction pricing, or decision making. It's quite hard and at times brutal as a lot of smart kids took it. Don't worry too much about grading though. As a senior, I enjoyed the class and if you do the readings you will get a lot out of it.
It's a great class with fascinating material if you actually have time to learn it. The material is pretty difficult, in that most problems are not similar to ones you've seen before (yet still have a clear connection to course material). I didn't have time for the class, so I really suffered. First half of the class is pretty easy, though.
It is a lot of work and very conceptually difficult.
Material is difficult, but workload is manageable. Very interesting if you like Econ and Math.
Highly mathematical and rigorous treatment of game theory, so make sure you know what you're getting into. It's an interesting topic, but there's not much support from Drew or Gleb, you have to go out of your very much out of your way to get help and feel prepared
This class is super interesting and you learn a lot of useful material. If you like math, econ, and statistics, you should definitely consider this class. You get much better at problem solving and your understanding of theoretical economics improves greatly. the material is also well done, psets are difficult but not too difficult, and you learn so much in just one semester
If you enjoyed 1011, definitely take this. It's not quite as time-consuming (Psets are comparable, but bi-weekly, and there are no projects). Most of the course is purely logical thinking and some math to back it up; if you really like problem solving and are interested in game theory, this is a fantastic class. Fudenberg is great.
This course is not completely about mathematical deduction although a certain level of mathematics knowledge is necessary. Understanding of the methedology is more important.
This class is EXTREMELY hard and VERY time-intensive. I would not recommend it. Although the material is interesting, the class is very frustrating because there are no tutors, the readings and lecture don't help with the psets, and the psets are long, with concepts required not taught in class. I went to class, section, and OH and still struggled with every pset and still don't fully understand the material.The professor is brilliant but I think the class moves too quickly and doesn't teach the material well. Only do if you have a strong stat and math background, not exactly an ec elective.
Tough class which gets much more difficult after the midterm but material is really interesting. Professor Fudenberg is a bit lumbering and slow at times but he gets the job done and creates a really positive class atmosphere. TF was TERRIBLE though - basically no feedback or assistance of any kind.
Excellent class, and Professor Fudenberg is great. Proofs/math background is not critical to your success in the course, though Stat110 is quite helpful at times. Among the best undergraduate classes in teaching you (1) to think rigorously and (2) bringing you closer to the research frontier.
this was an extremely enjoyable class, topic-wise, but requires a firm grip of stat and mathematical notation -- without a strong math or stat background, it is much more difficult to grasp concepts and a lack of practice problems doesn't help. The TF and Professor are so proficient in game theory, its sometimes hard to follow them as they assume you will be able to jump a couple steps to follow their logic
First half of the semester is a breeze and just basic logic. Second half is hell. The only class I've ever handed half completed problem sets in for as my study group just couldn't do it.
This class was excellent - the (rare) class at Harvard that actually makes you a more intelligent person. I'd shy away unless you've taken (or are concurrently taking, as I was) Stat 110. Any other formal math econ courses (like 1011a, for example) are also a huge help. I'm not an Ec concentrator and took this for my thesis/as an elective and it was one of my favorite classes in the Econ department. The only caveat (and a major one) is that Gleb was the worst TF I have ever had the misfortune to have at Harvard, with regards to feedback (or lack thereof), arbitrary grading (that couldn't be defended when we asked why points were taken off), helpfulness in office hours (he was incredibly frustrating and unhelpful, and seemed to think that any advice or information would be akin to giving us the answer), and overall personality (he viscerally upset me multiple times because he was so frustrating and such a jerk). I'm not the only student that felt this way, so hopefully he won't TF again, but just be aware.
this class was not taught very well. lectures were confused -- my notes proved useless to me once I looked back at them. problems sets were inconsistent in difficulty. there was little material to help study for the midterm and final. I would not take it unless there's a different professor.
This class is super interesting! Although it is really difficult, but it is a good thing that the materials are treated very rigorously and it is NOT impossible to understand the material. Just make sure you have some background in rigorous mathematical reasoning (eg. know how to check cases, be careful with boundaries etc)
It's not easy, and not the best taught. But the material is interesting.
This class is hard. Assigned book isn't always that helpful. Nonetheless, it's a good,  challenging class that forces you to really think for problem sets. I sometimes had to look for more detailed example problems or intuitive deconstructions of theory online though.
The course is an incredibly challenging one, as it is very mathematically intensive. Only take this if you have a strong grasp of working with and creating your own complex mathematical formulas.
This is an applied math course, not an economics course. Too abstract to mean anything and the problem sets are ridiculous.
Great class. Fudenberg made it accessible to those who were willing to put in the time, which was great since I had no economics background. Though I do have to say that the TF was amazing. He definitely made the course much more doable. Sections were very clear and office hours were helpful. If this guy TFs any class, take it.
This subject is really interesting, but at times it is unnecessarily difficult.  At a number of points, I felt like I knew all of the concepts and still couldn't figure out problems because of small difficulties.  It's much harder than it seems at the beginning.
Game theory is just not that interesting a topic. Read about it on wikipedia. Then you will not have to sit through these boring lectures, and struggle to complete psets by learning the material from online notes. There must be better economics classes you can take.
Lectures were often quite confusing with mistakes making them really hard to follow.  Problem sets started off reasonable but quickly became extremely difficult and hard to finish even when working with classmates.
Good class. Not a lot of guidance, but If you are willing to work on topics loosely covered in lecture; go for it. You would want to have taken Stat 110.
This class is harder than you expect. The range on the midterm was 20%-100%. The curve is nice though.
This was my favorite course of the semester, but if Professor Fudenberg is teaching it again, I recommend it only with a few precautions. You better have taken Stat 110 and be comfortable with mathematical proofs (Math 23/25/55/112). Also, the material before the midterm is much, much easier than the material after the midterm. I can't emphasize this enough. Before the midterm, psets took about 5 hours. After the midterm, they took about 20 and would have been impossible without a great TF like Yuhta. All that being said, Prof Fudenberg is brilliant and really open to chatting with students, and you learn soooooo much cool material. Very useful for those interested in economics research.
This is a legit game-theory course. You learn a lot, and you'll love it if you enjoy problem solving.
If Fudenberg is teaching, do not take it. It was incredibly difficult to follow his lectures and we had no lecture slides or notes, and the material was way too theoretical and complicated to be interesting. The grading was very nice though; a 13/40 on the midterm curved to a B-.
It was a good class overall. Problem sets could be tricky sometimes and not really that interesting. The material is definitely something that comes in handy in many fields so for that you should take the course.
Definitely an engaging and interesting course, but with very challenging material and not as much support as there should be for a class of that difficulty.  It's a class to survive, but if you're interested in game theory it's one worth doing so for the background it provides.
VERY HARD CLASS. Drew made this class tough. Yuhta is also a demanding TF. Problem sets routinely took most of the class upwards of 20 hours each. Lectures are a bit confusing. There is no single textbook that the material comes from. Exams are hard and likely to crush you. Despite all this, however, the course subject is actually interesting, and if you've always wanted to learn game theory, go for it.
Fudenberg is excellent, and game theory is really interesting! The class did get significantly harder after the midterm and started using probability more heavily.
Be prepared to do proofs and work very hard. Much more theoretical than I expected. Some of the biggest problems were structural though and might be improved in future years or with a different instructor.
Interesting class, the professor is pretty good, don't fall behind
It's definitely a math-heavy class, but the math involved is sort of the point, and is what makes this class worth taking- it goes much further than your intermediate micro course did, by using that math.
Really interesting class with challenging problem sets, but lots of work.
This class is fantastic.  Professor Mobius is a great instructor.  It was my favorite class this semester.  You spend a lot of time on problem sets when you have them, but it is fun, especially if you take the class with friends.
this is a challenging course that will test you, but it is very interesting and rewarding.
Interesting, fun, material. Engaging professor.
You would like this class if you learn by studying material on your own.
It's a great class with wonderful material. It will challenge you but it's ultimately very worthwhile.
Attend all classes. Try to ask wise questions.
This is a great course in game theory. Take it if you're interested in a formal approach to strategic thinking. Maskin is an amazing professor. You'll never get a chance to take a class with someone so distinguished yet so humble and will to explain concepts so thoroughly.
This was a great class and I learned a lot. The professor lectures in a clear and paced way and covers a lot of interesting and non-standard material(for a first course) like auction theory/mechanism design. Problem sets were also generally good.
very nice materials, but too mathy for non-math students. Prof. is very knowledgeable and nice, but the content of the lecture/homework/exams are somewhat inconsistent. Not enough practice problems.
Eric Maskin is a very involved and good professor.  You can tell he cares a lot about the course and his students.  He is also a leader in game theory, which makes the course a very special opportunity to interact with one of the giants of modern economics.  The course also gives a great and detailed analysis of the most important solution concepts and problems in game theory.  That said, the course sometimes moves slowly and can be frustrating at times.
Really interesting concepts and cool problems; but does require mathematical background.
The class has really good material but could be at times too much into the math but once you gain the intuition it's very powerful
Think twice, even three times before deciding to take this course. If you have only a tangential interest in game theory or if you want to explore different avenues of interest you may want to take up as an economics concentrator/secondary field-er, DO NOT take this course. This course is for someone who is well-versed in mathematical reasoning who wants to hone her skills to perfection with little direction. The lectures are very good, as Prof. Maskin, himself, is brillianthe is also accessible outside the classroombut little else is goodeven, passableabout this class. The lectures do not directly correspond to a body of reading materials (you have to pick from three textbooks, and not even the most comprehensive one is helpful in showing you some direction), and as the course does not provide you with drills to make your practical grip stronger on theorems, you need to be super smart to ace this course. Unfortunately, I wasn't. Nicolas, the TF, was not helpful at all when I gave him SOS messages, saying that my situation can't be that bad. This was my worst academic experience at Harvard, because even though I was willing to go the extra mile to excel in this course, I did not receive enough help no matter how hard I tried.
Only take it if you are very very interested in game theory and love math.
An excellent course for anyone who wants to learn more about game theory. Be warned that there is a lot of math -- it's much more of an applied math class than economics. It's theory-heavy, so not much real world stuff. It's fun when you get the hang of it but otherwise frustrating, especially when there is almost no helpful material outside of the textbooks and the answers to the homeworks posted online are incomprehensible some of the time. Highly recommended course nevertheless.
Really useful material and brilliant professor, but lengthy and harshly graded problem sets, not great TF/section assistance, and little practice material other than problem sets.
This is a great class for extending mathematical reasoning into economics; while I do not feel that it is very applicable to real life, it's a great exercise in logic and is certainly very interesting. Professor Maskin is a great lecturer and genuinely cares about students' understanding of the concepts. A really high level of mathematical sophistication is required on homework, though, so I would be cautious about enrolling in this class without having taken a proof-based math class.
This course is very interesting and also intellectually stimulating. I recommend working in a study group.
This is a great class, especially from a mathematical perspective. Having a class with Maskin is a real treat, and I very much enjoyed tackling the various game theory problems.
You will have to figure out most of it on your own if you are confused. The TF was useless and the Prof's OH were during a time I had class. Although you can schedule other OH with the Prof (which) is great), he is very busy and such scheduling will probably require a lot of uncomfortable work and planning.
Good material and teacher cares a lot about helping students understand not only the presented materials but also the deeper underlying intuition.
Lectures are great, Prof. Maskin is excellent, assignments are interesting and reasonable (only every other week!).  Material can be challenging because there doesn't seem to be a one-size-fits-all solution to multiple problems within a given topic; the course requires intuition and versatility in being able to apply the material to multiple different problems/situations.
Eric Maskin is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard and knows game theory backwards and forwards. For mathematically mature students: this class will seem too easy, but it will be extremely difficult to get an A in 2010a if you haven't taken this first. For less sophisticated students: this class will be challenging but worthwhile if you are serious about economics.
Professor Maskin has an extraordinary ability to present very complicated concepts in a very straightforward, intuitive manner. Often you would find notes online explaining the same concepts over pages of materials, whereas Professor Maskin would crystallize and condense the concepts to a couple lines equally as informative and much more accessible.
This is a good class if you want to be introduced to general concepts of game theory and mechanism design. However, if you want to learn about game theory and how this may be used in economic research and its applications, I would not recommend this course. You would spend too much time on very technical aspects of game theory, and you would not gain sufficient exposure to its applications and the challenges you will be likely to meet when using this theory.
Either have taken math-y economics classes or some higher math, or know someone who has if you are going to take this class who can help you figure out how to approach problems on the problem sets.
Amazing class. Take with Maskin if he's still around. Problem sets can be difficult though the midterm was really easy.
Good class in general.
Good material. Sometimes the problem sets were pretty tough.
Difficult but rewarding.
This course is an excellent introduction to Game Theory.
Very good course choice for those studying mathematics or economics.
Relatively painless class. Very interesting material.
The course is fun, exciting, and kind of like playing strategy games for a semester. The professor doesn't care too much about the students or his lectures, but the real strength of the class comes from the material.
