Good way to fulfill the Economics theory requirement. Take this class, you won't be sorry.
Professor Gopinath was an amazing lecturer.  The course material can be pretty challenging at times, but go to lectures, know the lecture slides, and you'll be okay for the weekly quizzes.  Very interesting and tough material presented in engaging lectures.  Take it if you're interested in global macroeconomic theories and issues.
Favorite class on Economics yet. If you want to understand more macroeconomics and economic policy choice implications, take this class. It is tough but the material is worth understanding.
Read the textbook and articles prescribed in reading list and it will help a lot in class.
Professor Gopinath is wonderful and the course gives you a solid basis of understanding international economic policy, but it's poorly run by the TF and is frustratingly difficult for that reason. Take it if the structure changes, but otherwise it is so hard to figure out what is on the weekly quizzes, how detailed the problem sets ought to be, or which information is necessary to actually do well in the course. Section was awful but lectures were great, which was really awful in trying to figure out what the testable material was or in trying to clarify what was going on in the quizzes or problem sets on a weekly basis.
This class was interesting, but highly disorganized. The problem sets were mind-numbingly stupid, and exams often seemed to have little accordance with what we actually learned in class.
A great class if you're interested in something practical and useful both for your own life and understanding other aspects of courses involving anything global or international. Gita is very knowledgeable and answers all questions thoroughly, with an intuitive description if you still don't understand.
While the material in this course is interesting and practically useful, and while Professor Gopinath does a good job of keeping us up to date on what's going on around the world, this course, like so many at Harvard, a patter than has not failed to amaze me, is poorly taught, oragnized, and you guessed it, TFed. The course could be ten times better if there were was more time put into its preparation and into finding more suitable and knowledgable TF's that can make a huge difference. The weekly quizzes are not only useless and sometimes quite hard, simply because we either have not covered the material yet, or because it was not explained very well, and the problem sets are in no way related to the actual exams.
Not properly administered. The TF had difficulty explaining many concepts. It seemed like the professor, although a brilliant lecture, was uninterested with connecting with undergrads, outside of those 3 hrs per week.
Most of the material could be learned by reading a textbook, and the class is effectively largely just the textbook being read aloud to you.
have to go to lecture.
Really amazing class on international finance--you'll learn a lot from Professor Gopinath, and find that the stuff you learn is immediately applicable to what you read in the news. Besides, Professor Gopinath is a really cool person, and you'll like watching her lectures. But how well the class goes in terms of logistics really depends on your tf--there's not a lot of material to work from (you'll get lecture slides and psets, that's it. no practice problems or practice exams). The quizzes seem to be written by the tf, and often the wording is different from how the professor presents it in class, so be aware of that. Elaine was the tf this year, and she wasn't so great.
Interesting and useful material. Sometimes the quiz questions are quite ambiguous (especially given it is true/false style and the statements can sometimes be somewhat true). If you take the class pass/fail, then you would benefit from the great material of the class without stressing over the grades.
Professor Gopinath is great!
Topics are interesting; lectures are very clear.
Take this class if the TF is good. Professor Gopinath is amazing! Maybe consider taking it P/F if the TF is bad.
The class is advanced and requires a lot of work in order to stay ahead but is definitely manageable for an Econ pre-req requirement
It's not hard if you begin the class on a good note. Take the quizzes seriously
This is an Econ class that you can directly apply to things you see in real life, which is cool. Also, Prof. Gopinath is an engaging lecturer and Elaine was a very helpful TF. I don't have a terribly strong Econ background, so I struggled on the exams, but I still felt like I learned a lot (the quizzes helped me review material every week) and this has certainly been my favourite Econ class I've taken here.
The class can be intense.  There is a quiz every week and the material is challenging.  That being said Professor Gopinath and the teaching staff really care for their students.  (For example, the exams are not cumulative and there is not a final during finals period, but rather an in class exam.)  You can definitely learn a ton in this class if you put in the effort.  The topics are relevant, interesting, and useful.
Gita is a smart professor.  Elaine Chung, the TF, is literally the least-prepared person in the class.  If you go to section (which is only held every other week for some inexplicable reason unless the explanation is that Elaine is lazy), you'll have the opportunity to hear Elaine explain half of the concepts incorrectly, then hear her lecture you on why your quiz or homework answers (which you answered according to her explanations) were wrong the next class.  Very frustrating.
Not that hard. Easy assignments and does not require much time.
If you want to understand how the global economy works at a practical level, this course is perfect. It stays out of the weeds of the more complex models and instead gives you practical, generally accepted information. You'll be able to grasp crises such as the one that wracked the Eurozone in 2011 much more clearly after having taken this course. Its a lot of day to day work (weekly quizzes, etc.) but that translates into less time studying for the exams (and the marginal value of your time is higher around exams, trust me, so this is a very efficient feature).
If the course material sounds at all interesting to you--then this is the class for you. It requires no paper, only two midterms, and the amount that you can learn is incredible. Plus Gita may be one of the best (and most attractive) professors at Harvard. My one piece of advice is to not take this class pass-fail if you are worried about your grade in this class. I was a little freaked out at how smart and knowledgeable everyone seemed to be at the beginning, but I ended up doing much better than I expected and probably should have taken the class for a grade to get even more out of it.
Great course to learn a lot about macro that is not very difficult or mathy.
Good class, well taught. Take it only if you are very interested in the material.
This class was definetly enjoyable because you did end up learning a lot about international macroeconomic policy and you could tell the professor actually cared whether the students learned the material or not. However, there were a few shortcomings. I felt like the quizzes varied too widely in difficulty. Sometimes they would be very straightforward and other times we would be asked questions on really specific details that we had literally spent 30 seconds on in lecture. This variability made it difficult to study/prepare for the quizzes because you never got a good sense of how to study for them. Furthermore, the problem sets were poorly constructed. A lot of the times it will end up being a random excel spreadsheet exercise rather than practice problems, so they really served no purpose when studying/preparing for exams. This made it really difficult to study for the exams because we had no previous practice problems to base our studying off of except the quizzes, which didn't even have many problems in the first place. Also I wish section had been weekly instead of every other week, because section was actually pretty helpful in understanding the material. Furthermore, the class seemed to move too quickly in the beginning then slowed down significantly at the end. The exams were manageable but seemed to test us really deeply on concepts we had glossed over in class. There were a few students in class who you could already tell had a strong financial background so discussions could sometimes become too specific and esoteric that most of the class is left wondering what is even going on. It would be helpful if discussions could be moderated more appropriately for future classes.
Take this if you like to see a strong, smart woman teach of concepts that are worldly relevant and you would only hear men talk of otherwise. This is a well structured course and very much oriented to discussion. She is phenomenal.
Professor Gopinath is clearly a leading-edge expert in the field and colors the interesting material with her research and experience. Great crash course on some basic economic concepts for those with no prior economics experience. Her lectures are clear and engaging, and the weekly quizzes are painless and extremely helpful in making sure you stay on top of the material.
Materials are horrendous, no practice exams, no answer keys to HWs and her slides aren't that useful but she's one of the most enagaging lecturers in the Econ department and the exams and HWs are very reasonable.
If you like theoretical classes full of models and frameworks, this is the class for you - it's one of the most substantive economics courses that I've taken at Harvard. Additionally, Professor Gopinath is one of the most engaging and effective lecturers that I've had, and it was quite refreshing to have an economics professor who's not a white male in his 50's-70's.
This is a great class and Professor Gopinath is funny!
If you'd love to get more detail into the workings of the international macroeconomy and have a background in macro + calculus, this is the class for you. The work is at a steady pace, and the lectures cover material very quickly, but if you're willing to put in effort you will get a lot from the class.
This class should really be required of all ec concentrators. It took concepts we learned in Ec 10b and Ec 1010b and explained them in their real world contexts. I found this course to be really gratifying and fun. I would strongly recommend you find a couple of friends to take the course with you. The topics are really interesting, but complicated. It was very helpful to have friends taking the class who I could discuss the topics with, often over lunch after each lecture.
I really enjoyed this course. Unlike some other Ec courses where you just go through PowerPoint slides, Professor Gopinath usually teaches on the board. (There are slides, but she goes more in-depth on the board.) The beginning of the course is a little tough, so make sure you get a good grasp on the topics at the very beginning because they'll be returning throughout the semester. The equations presented at the beginning seems intimidating, but all you'll really do in the course is add, subtract, divide, and multiply. Sections could've been better but were somewhat helpful if you didn't understand something taught that week. Even though I took this course pass/fail (the course is pretty manageable and fair to be honest, so I wouldn't recommend it unless you really have a large workload), it was probably my favorite Ec elective out of all the ones I've taken.
This was the best class I have taken at Harvard! Once you take this every Economist and FT article will make more sense and you will have a stronger lens for understanding the financial world. Professor Gopinath is inspiring and teaches very clearly!
This is one of those classes where you learn so much. Among my top 3 favorite classes at Harvard.
Professor Gopinath is super down to earth and interesting. She's one of the first econ professors I can actually pay attention to during lecture. Go to her office hours or try to do a classroom to table with her because she's extremely intelligent and has a lot to share.
Extremely difficult class, take corporate finance instead if are trying to gain real life skills. A lot of math was taught in this course but I feel like there was no real world way to apply it
This is a great course if you are interested in macro-economics on an international scale. The beginning part of the course really goes into more theoretical concepts, like exchange rate pass-throughs, and is fairly model intensive. The second part of the course is just more in-depth look into IS-LM models. The class is fairly laid-back, with P-Sets due every two weeks, and a non-cumulative exam on the last day of class. Gita is very smart and a great professor. Overall, if you want to fulfill the concentration requirement, take it!
it is worth it!
Professor Gopinath is great which makes lectures really interesting. Material is not too difficult if you come from an Economics background. Enjoyable class which enables you to understand the dynamics of international finance policymakers a lot more
Enjoyable class with very knowledgeable professor
It is a disorganized course in terms of exam materials and lacking pset answers but the material is interesting. Not too heavy workload but lectures can be a drag sometimes.
Think about the parts of 1010B that talked a lot about exchange rates, and then imagine a semester-long class that goes super in depth and talks about exchange rates every class the whole semester. It's a super thorough class on how international economies interact.
This class is neither easy nor hard -- it is fair. That's what you want in a course. You will get a very good grade in this course if you put in a reasonable amount of work and study hard. You will not get a good grade if you clown around the whole time. From the section psets to the midterm to the final, I felt I got the grade I deserved in this class, which I cannot say for most courses at Harvard. It was very refreshing to have a course where the grading was not arbitrary. Additionally, Professor Gopinath is one of the most intelligent professors at Harvard and is an absolute pleasure to learn from. She's doing research that is cutting edge and will work her research into the course. I can't say enough good things about this course -- it honestly should be a requirement for Economics concentrators. To think that you could get an Economics degree from Harvard and NOT take this course is a travesty. If you don't take this course (or 1545, the more math intense version), you cannot even pretend to be educated about how international trade and finance works.
Take this class pass/fail--you won't regret it.
This is a somewhat difficult but very fulfilling economics class. It is as great way to meet the 1010 requirement while also applying your knowledge to the world.
I am not a great test taker, and this class proved to be challenging in that area.  The tests are moderately challenging, but it is mostly the time that will hurt you. I enjoyed the class thoroughly, the pace was really fast, but that made it exciting and fun.  It re-sparked my interest in learning, so I definitely recommend this class.
If you think the content sounds interesting you will love this class! Professor Gopinath is brilliant, I feel lucky to have gotten to take her class.
Ask more questions. The professor is very smart and sometimes moves very fast from concept to concept. Ask it out whenever you can't follow up.
This is a phenomenal ec class. As a graduating senior who concentrated in ec, this was possibly my favorite ec class here (1420 is close). Gopinath is a phenomenal lecturer and the topics we covered were very fascinating. The course is well-run. There were check-in questions for lecture so you probably need to come to class which is a pro or con depending on how you view this. Take it. Maybe take it PF if you're tryna chill/not stress over exams/psets.
Prepare for the weekly quizzes, be on time otherwise you will miss them.
