This is a good, mostly discussion-based course that will have you reading and beginning to understand economic journals. A background in European and/or Middle Eastern history will help, and would definitely make the course more enriching. The final paper will require use of econometrics. Professor Chaney is a very helpful, engaging, and understanding professor who is genuinely interested in the material, which makes the delivery enjoyable.
This is a great class if you are interested in the economical development of the Middle East. Even as a native Arab, I learned a lot from this class. Also, Professor Chaney is great and very accessible. He is also one of the leading scholars on the material, so you will have the opportunity to learn from the best.
interesting topics, but do not expect to learn too much about politics - it focuses on history/economicsvery small class, i.e. very interactive and with lots of ways to develop your own opinionquite a lot of readings, but still not too much stress
This is a great course, especially if you're interested in economic history and what determines societal progress. Although the nominal focus is on the Middle East, the course really evolves around the theme of economic and political divergence and the relative role of institutions, culture and other factors. Readings and discussions are really interesting, Prof. Chaney is a great teacher, and the workload is really light. It's doable even without metrics or solid theory background, it seems. Highly recommended!
really interesting material and professor
The professor would rather have a topic ignored for the sake of another being fully understood, instead of two poorly understood topics. He cares about the students actually leaving with some knowledge. He is also accommodating to student preferences regarding what they want to learn. Yet, beware of surprise econometrics.
I would definitely take this class if you are at all interested in learning more about economic development in the middle east. Professor Chaney is very knowledgable and you get to read some very interesting pieces
Start earlier on your paper the better
Professor Chaney is very kind and willing to help, but you need to take the initiative to start early on your paper or else the end will feel pretty overwhelming.
