Behavioral Finance with Professor Stein is an absolute treat (IF you are interested in this kind of thing!) Professor Stein is on leave next year, but I hope he teaches it again when he returns. Professor Stein is extremely knowledgeable, and at the same time highly engaging, friendly, and humble. The course provides a great look into many different aspects of behavioral finance, and it's quite nice to have such a small class experience with such a great professor. The final paper is also way more "fun" than most papers since you're looking into your own idea (or replicating/extending previous paper's results you found interesting). The week to week workload is extremely manageable, essentially consisting of reading a few research papers and writing a short commentary on them designed to facilitate discussion in class. The time required does ramp up toward the end of the semester, however, when you investigate your idea and write your paper. This process can take a significant amount of effort during the last few weeks of the course. This is not meant to dissuade you, however, just to let you know ahead of time. The time was still manageable, I still loved the course, and I'd take it again in a heartbeat. 100% take it if you're interested in behavioral finance.
Professor Stein is an incredible lecturer - take this course if you lottery in! Lots of interesting topics are covered throughout the semester. I recommend you have some background or at least interest in finance research going in.
I was initially on the fence about taking this course, but I am so glad that I did.  The highlight of the course was learning from and working with Professor Stein.  At the beginning of the course, I knew about his sterling reputation in Economics and was intimidated by that.  However, Professor Stein is the nicest and most down-to-earth Professor that I know  which is truly incredible given his accomplishments.Professor Stein gave very effective presentations.  He has a knack for taking a complex paper (or, say, its mathematical model) and breaking the paper down into its key results.  Many times, he would point out one graph or one result that he would say was the key to the whole paper, which would really help with my understanding.  This could also be pretty funny.Additionally, Professor Stein was also very engaging, always asking us about our thoughts on the material at hand.  If anyone had a question, he would take some time to seriously engage with that person and in their thought process.  In fact, this sort of back-and-forth became so coveted that it was an honor among me and my friends if one of us had a response that was "selected" by Professor Stein.I said in my Q response that the coursework takes 3 hours a week on average.  That is true for most of the semester, but the work ramps up quite signicantly with the final paper at the end.  That took countless hours of Stata and Stata office hours even before I got to writing stage.  And then it was a ton of writing and editing.  Overall though, I was quite pleased with my paper and hope to turn its general topic into a thesis for next year (which is often partially why people take these seminars).Given the opportunity, you should absolutely take this course with Professor Stein.  He is a legend.  You will be glad you did.
This was a really awesome class, given interest in the topic area. The topics each week were focused and the weekly progression made sense, student participation and discussion were encouraged, and ideas were consistently synthesized thoughtfully between students and professor. Professor Stein has an invaluable perspective about these topics given his experience in policy as well as academia. I highly recommend for anyone who finds the stock market or financial economic policy intriguing (ESPECIALLY anyone who is interested in these things and considering graduate school--this class introduced me to what academic research in finance looks like, and this information will be imperative when considering grad school). The more you put in, the more you get out of it.
With a limited background in finance, I was a little nervous about this class. Professor Stein quickly made this an approachable and interesting topic, however. By focusing on the results instead of the mathematical methods, this class was a great way to explore one of the most exciting fields of economic research. I would recommend this class to those interested in learning how to speak intelligently about finance.
This course is fantastic. It is very rare to be able to have the opportunity to take a small class with someone as accomplished as Stein, so I would highly recommend taking this class even though the paper requires a ton of time.
Easily one of the best courses I have ever taken. Professor Stein is friendly, approachable, yet extremely shrewd and knowledgeable about the material covered and is often directly involved as an author of the academic papers mentioned. Anyone interested in finance, investing, or behavioral psychology would find the material fascinating. Fluency in econometrics is expected. The seminar culminates in a substantial self-directed research paper, which should be started very early.
It's great! Stein is the best. TAKE THIS CLASS.
You would be lucky to get in and take this class.  It's hard work writing your final paper, but its rewarding and if this is an area of interest do not pass this opportunity up.
This class was incredible. I loved it.
