One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Well-run, interesting material, and amazing professors.
It is a great class but be weary of the 9 AM start time. Only early risers should take this class.
Wake up for this 9 AM class, you'll be glad you did.
Outstanding- a very good choice, one of the best economics courses I have taken. Certainly, I regretted taking a 9 am course on numerous occasions, usually on Friday morning at 8:55. But this course was completely worth it.
The professors are fantastic lecturers and renown figures in their respective fields, and the TFs are some of the best section leaders in my undergraduate experience. If you have any interest whatsoever in public economics, take this course!
Class is focused on policy and implications of policy
This course is great for anyone who feels disillusioned with the dry, boring world of introductory Economics courses. I decided to take this course as a freshman because I had fallen out of love with Economics in a theory-heavy introductory course in my first term, and wanted to take a course with some real practical resonance. Economics 1410 helped me rediscover my interest in Economics - the teaching staff was phenomenal, the workload was manageable, and the topics were all relevant and sustained my interest. The course really helped me develop an educated opinion about issues I had always cared about - Social Security, health care, and public education. The only drawback to the class was its 9:00 am start! I would strongly recommend Economics 1410 to any student interested in the public sector, including non-concentrators.
Very interesting subject matter!
It is a lot of work, but you will learn a significant amount of really interesting information from a series of world-class authorities on the subject.
Great way to fulfill an Ec requirement - very low stress, but also very edifying
Prepare well for the final exam!
One of the best courses in the econ dept.
Great way to learn about the rationale for certain policy behavior made by local, state, and federal government.  Covers a number of relevant topics that help to understand current political dialogue.
Excellent class.  Enroll if you have interest in the material.
The professors who teach this course are leaders in the field of economics. It is definitely worth taking.
This is a wonderful, relaxed course to take and the debates presented are both interesting and relevant. However, because of the easy-going format, you really get out of it only what you put into it, so make sure to keep up your self-motivation for the readings.
Very relevant, only 2 problem sets which don't take long, but it's booooooorrrrrrrriiiiiinnnnnnnnngggggggg.
Great class. PLEASE don't be deterred by the first couple of lectures on deadweight losses because both Prof. Feldstein and Prof. Cutler go on to give amazing lectures later. Great for students looking for thesis topics.
Great class!
It's a good course if you are interested in learning about collecting revenue and then figuring out how the government should spend that revenue. I definitely learned quite a bit, and there is virtually no work. One simultaneous advantage and disadvantage is that your entire grade is based on two psets and two exams.
A good class with interest topics on the syllabus. The Psets aren't too bad, but the exams can be difficult. Section notes are very helpful for studying.
You will gain a breadth and depth of knowledge regarding American public policy. Any class taught by Professor Cutler is a great experience.
Very little work...lectures are fun to go to, and you get to hear giants in their fields talk about what they do best.
This course is pretty easy and is a good choice if you need to knock out a requirement. I almost never went to class, so it's honestly hard to rate the teaching but the material is all pretty straightforward. It is pretty dry, so don't expect it to change your life but if you need to fulfill a concentration requirement and don't want to spend any time, this could be a good choice.
Exams are hard. Cutler's a great lecturer.
if you find the interesting of government and economics interesting, this course is for you! not too difficult and incredible professors!
It is quite a manageable class. Feldstein, Cutler and Desai are all great teachers.
Great lecturers, particularly Mihir Desai and Martin Feldstein.
Highly recommended. Not much work outside of class, and lectures and both the professors are great.
This course is a bit more quantitative, deeper (and a bit more pressured) version of Ec 1410.
Great senior spring ec class for people who need an intermediate theory requirement. Marty's portion of the class is not to be missed, but if the weather gets nice when Raj is teaching, avoid class.
Don't take this course.  The teaching fellow showed up 45 minutes late to the final exam and was hungover; he clearly had no interest in the course material, nor did he care for making sure that we understood anything.
Marty Feldstein is my favorite professor.
It's pretty boring
Great class!  Painless way to learn about what's going on in public economics--it's pretty cool stuff!
Useful knowledge and low workload.
Especially for someone who wants to learn about recent research in public finance/government policy.
This class provides a solid understanding of why economists tend to be fiscally conservative, and how new research are challenging their old assumptions. Incredibly practical, take it to understand government programs! Marty and Raj are both great as well.
Its an interesting experience, although the course material can be a bit boring at times.
This class will acquaint you with many of the important fiscal policy issues facing the US. It not only goes over theory but details recent empirical work that questions classical assumptions. The material is fascinating.
Very interesting subject matter that focuses on relevant issues...great course
The material from this course is really interesting, especially Raj Chetty's lectures. If Chetty is teaching this course, I highly recommend it.
If you take this course, give it the time it deserves.  There aren't many assignments so it's hard to stay on track.  Be warned that sometimes it's hard to know what material you'll be tested on.
Raj Chetty is incredibly baller and is THE MAN!  His research is super interesting, and he is great about explaining the material.  Take this class just to experience his lectures.  Plus, workload is super chill-2 psets, 1 midterm, and 1 final!One caveat: lectures can seem kind of random when switching from one professor to the next so there is not as much unity.
Interesting, but can be difficult. If you are a senior, consider taking this class pass/fail.
The entire course is two p-sets (~3 hours each), a midterm, and a final.  Very easy class that covers some interesting materials.  No need to attend lecture or do any work outside of those 4 things.
The lectures are interesting and captivating, but the testable material truly comes from section.  Section notes are key, and problem sets are a true reflection of the tests.  This class covers a huge amount of material, but it is tested in a very fair way.  Great class overall.
Greg brunch is the man!  He is a great resource to take advantage of when taking this course.
If you want to get into politics and want to know how public economics work, make sure you take the course.
Really diverse look at a subject from the practical policy standpoint (Feldstein), a business leader's view (Desai), and an academic's eye (Chetty).  Ec can be overwhelming with all of its offerings, but this class helped me sort out which of these three viewpoints fit naturally to me.  Fantastic course for those who are looking for some career/job inspiration down the line.
This class has influenced my life more than any other previous classes. The opportunity to learn from the brilliant and very nice Professors Feldstein and Chetty is incredible. The material is very interesting and relevant, especially Professor Chetty's part, making the class a must-take for anyone at all interested in public economics. There's no stress as the class is not difficult and Greg (the TF) is very approachable as well. Absolutely phenomenal class.
The teaching staff really manage to bring life to what might otherwise be a fairly dry topicthey are dedicated, available, and incredibly smart, and it was a great learning experience. It's not hard at all but you will learn a lot and be glad you did.
Take this class for the empirical work that Raj Chetty presents.  Feldstein's lectures were painfully boring.
This class is a good senior spring class--not too much work except for the problem sets and the tests. The lectures can be a bit long, but I learned about a lot of things in this class that most other classes here don't offer. If you're thinking of taking a public economics course, this will definitely give you a good taste of the field.
It is a great course - you get to hear lectures from three leading public economists, and learn a lot about current research in the field. If you attend lecture and section, the tests and problem sets are easy and straight-forward - very little reading required outside of class.
This course starts out very slowly, with Marty Feldstein's lectures on DWL. However, it gets MUCH better, so stick it out! It ended up being a great, informative course, and you learn a lot about practical issues that affect your everyday life. I think I am a much more informed voter after taking this class, since I now know a lot more about fiscal policy.
Take it. First couple lectures are a tad dry, but it gets really really good thereafter.
The first half with Marty Feldstein was interesting and Feldstein is funny albeit somewhat boring at times. Raj Chetty is great in the second half of the course and the overview of recent research was fascinating. Overall, it was an incredible way to learn public finance from two of the most respected public finance economists who have shaped the field.
This class is really great. It is one of the classes where there is a low workload and high payoff in terms of what you learn. Week to week there isn't much work, and the main work is 2 psets during the whole semester. If you're comfortable with math, it's a breeze, and you learn some really interesting critiques of modern economic thought. Sometimes lecture can be boring, but you don't have to go to all of them and you really learn a lot. If Greg is the tf again, definitely take it!
The topics this course presents are critically important, and few other courses here engage them so directly.
The Feldstein lectures will be boring, but you just have to get through them. Chetty is amazing and so worth listening to Feldstein drone on about tax policy for weeks. If you like empirical applications of economics and care about what actually happens in the world rather than what standard economic theory predicts, this course is great.
A very interesting and useful survey of government policy and related economics. The halves of the class balanced each other nicely, and both were very well taught.
Took both Econ 1410 and 1420. 1410 is leaps and bounds better- smaller class + better instruction, more rigorous analysis quantitatively (but not hard). Great class to understand public policy issues through an economics lens (but not financial policy stuff). You take a way a lot of good qualitative knowledge about microeconomic policy and quantitative reasoning skills.
This was probably the best course I have taken in college, with the possible exception of Economics 1420.
Professor Feldstein is great, and the class is fair and mostly interesting.  If interested, a must take, not that hard.
Both Feldstein and Chetty are inspiring. The initial presentations by Feldstein may have a slow pace, but the foundation that he provides leads to some pretty awesome literature and models for studying.
This is great economics course. Light work load, interesting material, good survey of topics and applications of theory from Intermediate Micro. The lecturers are also some of the biggest rockstars of the economics department, and this class is a great way to get a chance to hear all of them speak. I HIGHLY recommend, especially for juniors and seniors that have a good grasp of intermediate economics. Great class for senior spring and for thesis writers.
If you like public economics then definitely take this course.  Professor Feldstein does a good job of presenting the classical view of public economics, but Professor Chetty is the reason you should take this course.  He is on the cutting edge of everything happening in public economics research (in fact he is the one leading most of the major research) and he presents all of what he has to say very well.
one of the most useful classes I have taken at Harvard.
Have class with both Professor Feldstein and Chetty is a privilege for few.
I know tax policy doesn't necessarily excite everyone, but this is actually a really great class (and one of my favorites that I've taken at Harvard)! The assignments are really fair and hold you accountable for learning a lot without throwing too many curveballs. I really got a better understanding of a lot of different economic policy issues. Prof. Feldstein is a really great teacher and the papers that Prof. Chetty presents in the second half of the class are super super interesting! Covers a lot of different topics so there's something for everyone.
This was one of the most interesting courses I have taken at Harvard. You are not bombarded with assignments either so you can really take the time to understand the material. Overall a great course and I would encourage anyone considering to take it.
This is an awesome class. Professor Feldstein and Professor Chetty are two of the preeminent public economists in the world, and they're both great teachers. Professor Feldstein taught the first half and developed foundational theory, while Chetty taught the second half and focused on empirical studies and his own (very cool) research. Greg, the head TF, was also very organized and kept the class running smoothly.
My favorite economics course so far at Harvard. Material is dense and difficult at times, but a more thorough understanding of the implications of tax policy is rewarding.
This class starts out pretty boring (Feldstein writing equations on the board again and again), but gets very interesting once Chetty starts presenting his research. It's worth it for that second part. Also it's nice to know something about the US tax system now since that's something you always have to deal with in real life.
You learn from very intelligent and coherent professors, and if Greg is still TFing the course, you are in good hands. You'll learn a lot about issues discussed in the news and be able to speak more about them, and hopefully use the knowledge to better the systems someday.
If you pay attention and take notes during lecture, you will get a lot out of this class. Feldstein and Chetty both know so much about the material they're teaching, and Greg is an awesome TF. This course really helps develop economic intuition for thinking about real policy problems.
A difficult class but Chetty and Feldstein are incredible professors and Greg is the man
This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard. Both professors are true gems and I learned a great deal about material in which I'm actually interested.
It is a hard class, but an extremely rewarding one to take.
Usually the econ department doesn't have the best TF's, but this course has Greg who will be the best TF you ever have at Harvard. The course itself can be interesting and can also be pretty dry. That said, there are only two problem sets and the material is not that challenging. It's a great senior spring course.
If you're looking for an easy course to balance out your otherwise tough schedule, this probably isn't the class for you (unless you have a strong economics background and strong passion for taxes).  The workload isn't that heavy but there's a LOT of material and the lectures can be very very dry.  There isn't really a textbook for you to learn from, and if it wasn't for the TF, Greg, I would've failed this course.  Greg was so helpful and I learned more from his section materials than all the lectures combined.
The course is a surprisingly engaging overview of public policy topics - primarily focused around theory and the adjustment of theory to fit realism.  Coming from Ec 1011a, it's an absolute breeze - most weeks the course will require literally zero work.  Problem sets and exams were easy.  Readings are very interesting but almost entirely unnecessary for the course itself (still worth reading, though).  The best part is probably the knowledge base of the lecturers.  Martin and Raj are both extremely experienced economists and they have a lot to say about their topics - if you're looking for an easier economics course out of interest, I'd certainly recommend it.
This course is what makes Harvard unique. It is taught by two of the most prominent economists in the world, who have made tremendous contributions to the field of public economics. Many of the theories you'll learn about were developed by Feldstein or Chetty, and they're both John Bates Clark medal winners. Feldstein's half of the course is more theoretical, discussing deadweight loss, tax policy, and Social Security. Chetty's half is more empirical, and covers externalities, tax salience, education, social mobility and dividend tax policy. There is also a week of HBS professor Desai lecturing on the corporate tax, which is very interesting as well. The material is engaging, relevant and perfect for those interested in the intersection of government and economics. It is best characterized as a problem set class, though there are only two problem sets. They are fairly lengthy, but the material is covered thoroughly in section - so attend! The midterm and final followed the section problem sets and the actual problem sets, and were very fair. There is a fair amount of math in the class, but it is not overwhelming, and Econ 1010a/b is enough to prepare you for this course. Econometrics and Math 1a are helpful, though not essential. Problem sets are graded very fairly, and grading as a whole is very reasonable. Greg (the TF) was one of the best I've had - very accessible and knowledgeable, having taught the course twice before. Overall, one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard; I highly recommend it.
This is a must-take course. Make sure to get to know Greg because he is a tremendous resource (might be one of the most helpful TFs in the entire College, at least from my experience). Pay attention during Feldstein's lectures, even though they are drier, because they set the base foundation necessary to understand the second half of the course. Chetty is amazing in the 2nd half. This course is why I came to Harvard and really lit a fire under me for Economics - regenerating enthusiasm that had waned somewhat after grinding through Ec10, 1010a, and 1010b.
Great class. Not easy material necessarily, but lots of support available and an excellent teaching fellow who is fantastic at explaining the concepts. Not hard to do well if you pay attention and review the material. Definitely take! Lots of practical information supported by empirical evidence.
This is a really great class, with a light workload but also a lot of interesting takeaways. Feldstein and Chetty are both rock stars in the field and it was a quintessential Harvard experience to be able to learn theories of taxation from the chief advisor to Reagan and to see the cutting edge empirical work being done by Chetty. The exams and problem sets were very fair, and it's been one of my favorite classes so far.
TAKE THIS COURSE! Especially if you are a junior. My only regret is that I didn't take it earlier. If you take it earlier, then you can use the writing requirement part to figure out thesis topics. Professors Chetty and Feldstein are awesome at teaching and really make sure that you learn the relevant topics in public policy economics as well as applicable research designs. Greg, the TF, is probably the best TF I've had at Harvard and he is very helpful so if you're unsure of how to collect data and do original research, this is the perfect class to embark on a mini-research project of your own. Some of the economics does feature math, but as a person that's not that great at heavy math, I found the calculations to be quite reasonable on both the problem sets and the exams if you've done all of the review questions beforehand. Take this class if you have any interest in tax policy and public economics!
This class is much harder than the Q makes it look.  The kind of students who take the class are extremely smart and advanced in Econ.  If you took 1010a and 1010b instead of the 1011 series you should just take American Economic Policy
Overall, an excellent course that gives student a very thorough and understandable guide to public economics and the reasoning for the important policy decisions made by our government. Professor Feldstein and Chetty are brilliant and provide engaging and informative lectures! Also, Greg is one of the best TFs you will ever have at Harvard so if he is TFing definitely take it as he will help you really understand the material which can be confusing at times.
Very interesting and courseload is not that heavy, but don't let that fool you; this is a difficult course.
This was my favorite class this semester. Taking a class with Professor Feldstein was a great experience, and really helped me gain a better understanding of economic policy. Professor Rothschild had us reading a ton of papers that covered a wide variety of topics. Overall the class was very interesting and applicable.
I don't have any complaints about this class. Marty is one of the best professors I've ever met. He is very engaging and always encourages the students to participate. Casey's half is very organized. The slides are pretty comprehensive. If you have the time and understand econometrics, it's good to read the papers.
A relatively light class but very interesting material.
Both professors are extremely knowledgeable and very engaged with the students. They want your input, and are accessible outside of the classroom. Max was a great TF and put in a lot of effort into sectio. Take this course if you want a pretty in depth look at tax and insurance theory.
