Math-oriented
This class was fantastic. Professor Golub is extremely engaging and the material is really interesting.  The class is one of the most manageable and exciting classes I have taken at Harvard.
I do not think there is another economics course like this (except the course Professor Golub also teaches in Computer Science). Networks are an extremely interesting way to apply the concept learned in Economic Theory to the decisions made by actors. Unfortunately, it was difficult to apply the concepts to a research paper, but the knowledge was certainly helpful.
Golub is a great presenter and he manages to keep you really engaged during class. Honestly, one of the smartest and most clear professors I've had during lecture formats. He is also quite responsive to student comments. The topics are quite interesting and don't require much prior CS or economics training, making it really accessible. We'll see how grading goes...the final paper is a huge part of the grade.
Content: Engaging, interesting, extremely applicable to the real world. Throughout the course we examined brought network ideas to topics like segregation, social media, friendship, transportation, and more.Instruction: Ben Golub is easily the best professor I've had  he's one of those people who speaks in essays. He has high expectations, explains concepts clearly, and always manages to motivate students to do the readings. Sophie is incredibly intelligent and supportive, offering insightful feedback on assignments and especially the final paper.Assessment: The culminating assignment of the course is a 10-30 page term paper (worth 50% of your grade). This is pretty daunting but you are given a decent amount of support in writing it, and the output is pretty satisfying. Additionally, there are written assignments here and there, weekly readings, and class participation.
This was an incredibly fun topic that is very interdisciplinary and not traditionally studied in economics. Learning about network applications to economics was incredibly fun. Ben is incredibly smart and demands rigorous thinking while encouraging discussion. While most ec classes post-Ec 1010 teach you about fish rather than teaching you how to fish, this class definitely does the latter. Refreshing and engaging.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard, and a great example of the Economics dept. actually teaching a great course. This was Prof. Golub's first year teaching undergrads, and I'm glad I took that chance. He was always available for office hours etc. and, though busy, made sure you got help if you wanted it.
If you have a lot of background and are planning on taking this course, think hard. If you're the kind of person who's willing to reach out to Ben independently and want to do research on your own, this is a really great option because instead of wasting time on problem sets and exams you're spending time talking to the world expert on network economics about research projects and potential collaborations. If you just want to boost your technical knowledge, take the other networks class. But you really should take at least one of them because networks is a big growth area.
Fantastic course. Ben really helps you learn how to think like an economist and write clearly and logically. The material is really interesting and relevant to real life
Ben is a fantastic professor, easily the most intelligent professor I've had at Harvard. His casual demeanor and genuine concern for his students makes him very approachable, and he does a great job of connecting his material to the real world despite being a leading theorist in the field. If you even have an inkling that you might be interested in network economics or are interested in an economics course that actually applies to marketing, social behavior, and many other tangible topics, lottery for this course!! It might seem intimidating at first, but you'll be challenged and pushed to think more critically than you've thought possible while learning about an increasingly relevant field. In the current digital age, everyone should have some knowledge of network economics.
Class is amazing. Such a gem among the seminars! The information is really fascinating, though I wish some of the material were covered in more depth. I also wish psets were in more depth so the material was more rigorous, but that probably would detract from the breadth of info.
It's the first class at Harvard that I was challenged. I loved it. Do take it.
make sure to really do the readings, it makes the class super helpful and easier to follow along
Ben is great, the content is interesting. This is the class at Harvard that I thought all of my Harvard classes would be like (I was sorely disappointed, obviously). Found it senior year based on friend's recommendation -- glad I did, it redeemed Harvard a little bit for me. It's not easy, but it makes engaging rewarding, go to office hours.
I believe this class was a great introduction to certain network topics and their role in economics and sociology. If you are interested in writing a research paper or pursuing a thesis in networks, this class will be good for you. Ben is a leading professor in the realm of networks and economics, and is a great resource at each stage through the process of writing the final paper. The course is structured so that 70% of the grade revolves around the final paper, with certain parts of the final paper due by specific deadlines (i.e. the literature review, the data description, the empirics, etc.), so that the actual paper itself is mostly just a series of editing and combining past documents. There are certain places where the class could be improved. The problem sets at the beginning of the semester were much more time-consuming than initially thought and there was not a lot of clarity regarding how they would be graded. I feel like the most learning in the class came from the process of writing the final paper, rather than the problem sets. Furthermore, certain topics were introduced as readings to do for a week, but they may have needed more in-class time to truly understand properly. Ultimately, the class is heavily what you make of it. If you want to write a research paper on a topic that truly interests you, Ben and Mauricio are there to help. Ben is very straight-to-the-point and doesn't like BS, so if the research component truly interests you, he will help you create a solid final product.
If you are thinking about taking a junior seminar in the Econ. department, TAKE this course. I went into this course worrying that the topic may be too narrow to interest me in the long-run, however after taking the course, you realize how widely applicable the concepts discussed are. Ben and Mauricio are amazing, some of the nicest, brightest, and understanding professors/TF's I have had here at Harvard. TAKE THIS COURSE. You will not regret it.
Ben is great professor and true expert on networks. Networks are a very interesting topic and  important. Expect a good amount of work for both, the weekly homework and your final paper.
Not too difficult. About 6 hours / week on PSETs until you start writing the final paper. The final paper is a great opportunity to write about something fun, if you have CS experience (Stata, R, Python) you will have a larger range of potential topics open to you. The material is great, and the readings are interesting and not too long. Ben is a good instructor, definitely go to office hours.
