Great lectures on very interesting topics.  Low key lectures with professors who are cutting-edge in the field.  Definitely recommend
Learn some really interesting things and are on the cutting edge of economics. If you're an undergrad you definitely have to work to keep up as a high level of modeling is expected
It is a great course to get an overview of current thought in behavioral economics.
I definitely wanted to take a behavioral economics class and the topics were indeed very interesting. Laibson, Shleifer and Mullanaithan are all very good instructors and often the topics are from their own recent research. Unfortunately the course is still very unstructured, as every week a completely different topic is presented.
The course presents material that could be relevant in many other fields.
It is a great opportunity to learn for professors at the cutting edge of the field and gain a perspective on how to include a behavioral perspective in research.
The course covers really interesting and fun stuff so it is quite enjoyable
Laibson and Mullainathan are two of the world's most renowned behavioral economists. I would definitely recommend this course. It is not particularly challenging, especially for students who have at least some basic familiarity with math.
An enjoyable course so as long as you are definitely interested in the field. Very heavy on the particular research agendas of whoever is teaching.
This course gives a cutting edge look at the potential of behavioral insights for economic policy.
I wouldn't really recommend it for undergrads. It's very research-focused. David and Sendhil are great lecturers and the material is interesting, but I dunno. I didn't really like the course, because all of the grade differentiation depends on the final exam, for which we didn't have much preparation in terms of practice problems/psets.
We have some of the experts in the field of behavioral economics, we are fortunate to have the topic taught by them.
Lots of interesting topics. May be better geared towards sitting in on than actually taking.
Very interesting and innovative knowledge on behavioral economics.
The course is great, but you should make sure to work out the math and begin problem sets early, since they are very difficult and important for understanding the concepts and preparing for the final. Also be aware, that the course focuses a lot more on math, than the name suggests, so be comfortable with it. Also the students are mainly PHDs and the course is quite research oriented, so as an undergrad, it was quite a different experience from what I was used to.
This course is an excellent introduction to the field of psychology and economics.  The student would benefit from a strong background in microeconomic theory and time to work through models independently; this requires initiative, as the class does not really "force" you to learn the models thoroughly (I would have benefited from more assignments).
This is a great class -- possibly the most relevant class I have taken for my current research.  It is comprehensive, entertaining, informative, and a great return on time.
Painless way to fulfill distribution.  Not particularly engaging though.
The models for hyperbolic discounting and the David's personal way of teaching are a tremendous help for procrastinators as me to understand their own behavior.
This is probably the coolest econ course you can take as an undergrad. Behavioral economics is a really interesting field, and you get to engage directly with two stars in the field who clearly enjoy teaching the class
It is a very good course, but make certain that you are very self-motivated and that you are willing to go back to your dorm room and home and work out all the math of the theories.
Great intro to behavioral economics.
If you like behavioral econ, this is a great course All the models are really interesting (e.g. models of the representativeness heuristic, models of procrastination, models of limited arbitrage, models of unstable financial systems)
An amazing whirlwind tour of recent topics in the burgeoning intersection of Economics and Psychology.
Great course, covers a wide range of topics.  Not too time consuming if you want to take it to fulfill the econ PhD distribution requirement.  Gives you enough about all topics that you can pick the ones you are interested in for your own research and go in depth if you want to.
This is pretty much a workshop in behavioral economics, it probably ought to be called that.
Try to take it if it's not team-taught
don't overestimate yourself
Take a good look at the syllabus and make sure the topics being covered that year match your interests.
If you want a great introduction to a wide variety of topics in behavioral economics and behavioral finance, this is the course for you!
If you want to do research in behavioral economics, then take this class. Very helpful overview of current research topics in this area.
Ec2030 provides a fantastic overview of the canonical papers and topics in behavioral economics.  The course is quantitatively much less messy than 2010/1011a, but the implications of the models presented are incredibly striking.  Highly recommend to undergrads interested in the material.
For a graduate-level econ course, this is a very minimal time commitment. The teaching (especially David) is very good. Check the syllabus before you take the class! Had I realized that 3/4 of the class would be on behavioral finance and hyperbolic discounting, I might have waited to take it next year. These are certainly important subjects, but there are so many other applied behavioral topics I'd like to learn about. I would have preferred a harder course, but with a more diverse syllabus.
Laibson's part of the course is extremely interesting. Schleifer's was less interesting for me, but that might be because I'm not interested in finance.
This is an amazing course that I cannot recommend highly enough to anyone considering research in behavioral economics. Two professors at the forefront of the field essentially present the most cutting edge work that has been done in the recent past and that is being done right now, much of which is theirs. Schleifer and Laibson are both tremendous academics and amazing lecturers.
If you don't like finance the first half of the semester will be very long.
This class is a fun and insightful combination of psychological and economic research. It will help you learn about yourself and give you ideas for pushing our knowledge further.
if you are looking for economic theory in behavioral economics... bad choice
The course is a pretty shallow overview of behavioral economics.
It's a hybrid between a research seminar and a traditional course with very little overall structure, but each class is a great introduction to a current research topic.
Expect problems with the required research paper. Typical academic writing block. I was expecting this only for my third year in the PhD program.
I felt like this class had a lot of potential and fell short. Things weren't covered in enough depth or rigor -- it was more of a survey of topics behavioral economics than depth on any one of them. David Laibson's section felt too close to his section of 2010c. Sendhil never got to economic models, instead lingering on the experiments that motivated them and then running out of time. Andrei's lectures on behavioral finance were good, but you could probably get more out of a course just on behavioral finance if that is your cup of tea. In short, its an interesting field and I enjoyed the reading and lectures, but thought the course could have had more focus, rigor, and depth.
Do the readings, they are a great introduction to the field.
Low workload, pretty easy.
Great material, great lectures but limited faculty interaction. You maybe able to get the same impact from the course by reading the papers and lecture notes.
Be careful about the final project.  It can require quite a bit of work.
Really interesting class from great professors. Not too math intensive, although you're left to figure out most of it on your own (not discussed in class). Not too challenging for an undergrad
This class is pretty low workload and fairly interesting. If you're interested in biases and behavioral economics then you should definitely check this out as an alternative to 1030.
Lecture can be hard to sit through because they are 2 hours. The problem sets are interesting and are basically the technical part of the high-level concepts from lecture. There is a final exam worth 75% of your grade, so be prepared for that.
Exam very important, interesting material but will require work and time in OH (especially for UG's)
Approachable introduction to behavioral economics.
It's a good survey class.
overview of frontier research in behavioral economics. taking the final rather than the paper means that the workload is not that overwhelming. the problem sets were really great.
It is a very interesting class if you want to decide if Behavioral Economics might be a topic of interest for own future research. However, it is only a first stepping stone.
This class was awesome. Andrei and David are incredible. I would gladly recommend this class to anyone interested in psychology and economics.
A chill class that hasn't changed much over the years. The problem sets are a bit bashy though.
Gives a good lay of the land. At times may sacrifice some depth, but still covers a couple of models thoroughly on which the psets are based.
IT's fun and easy
The problems sets are challenging, but the lectures are extremely interesting.
It provided me with a nice introduction to the field of behavioral economics. The content of the class was a great mix of learning about the classic concepts, modeling, and discussing recent studies.
The assignments in the course are analytically demanding but don't offer very helpful insights. I'd recommend taking Bridgette Madrian's applied behavioral economics course at HKS over this one.
It is a very interesting course on recent advances in economics.
As an undergrad, I thought this class was very interesting and well-taught. Would highly recommend!
It's a great introduction to incorporating psychology into economic research.  Be prepared to do some leg work to dive into your favorite topics on your own, but this class is a great survey
Great laid-back introduction to research in behavioral economics from the world-experts.
A great overview to behavioral economics!
