Ask questions during the lectures and sections to maximize your returns from taking this course. Do not leave the term paper assignment until the end of the semester.
Not worth the trek from cambridge
Start your research paper early, and don't wait to solicit feedback until the 11th hour.
The professors are excellent and the support of the TFs was just amazing! I definitely recommend this course to everyone.
This class is a truly amazing opportunity to learn from two of the greatest minds in Economics today. Professor Sen and Professor Anand are both remarkably kind and accessible, and lectures were always engaging. The teaching staff was also extremely helpful and supportive. While the 25-page final paper counting for basically the entire grade can be very daunting, it's not impossible. Definitely consider taking this course if you're interested in health and development.
The class is an amazing opportunity to learn from extremely accomplished professors who care about humanity and bettering our collective world.
It's great in terms of getting to know Dr. Farmer and Dr. Sen.  Other than that, I really don't feel as though I learned a ton from the course other than what I taught myself in writing the final paper.
Fascinating course but previous experience in discipline highly recommended.
If you have the chance to take this class (if it's offered again), you should. This was an amazing opportunity  simply being in the presence of these two giants in their respective fields filled me with a sense of awe every time I sat in lecture. It's one of those classes that you will only have the opportunity to experience here at Harvard. 
The course was pretty lax, although the single 25-page paper at the very end was quite daunting  I think I would have gotten more out of it had there been shorter response papers (<1pg) every week and a shorter paper at the end. However, I appreciate the idea of researching a topic in-depth and having to write an extensive amount  it was my first 25 page paper, and something I think all students would graduate from college having done.
You will not find more knowledgeable or renown professors. Dr Farmer and Dr Sen were thoroughly great to listen to. An experience you won't get anywhere else. The course itself can either be a lot of work or very little, depending on how much you put into the readings. Start earlier than you think you should on the paper.
This class is new, so I hesitate to complain too heartily, but it was really, really poorly organized. The professors are such hot shots and I really, really wanted to hear what they had to say, but it ended up just being story time once a week rather than a real class. There was too much reading and not enough flow during lectures to actually pay attention to the nitty gritty details. I was quite disappointed in this class, but I can only hope that they can get their acts together and bring a really amazing class to the table next year with some time invested in organization, more assignments, and the like. Also, they announced that there would be section (with only two days of choices) during the second or third week of class, so beware if you have a tight schedule.
I'd tell students to take the course and do the readings before class. The Professors are fantastic, but having context changes the way the class is viewed. I'd also tell them only if they are passionate about health or social justice: this is not for the uninterested.
The clear strength of this course was the quality of discussion between two remarkable people with fairly similar views but very different approaches to inquiry.
I took this as an undergraduate. Undergraduate section was one of the most academically engaging and just fun times for discussion I've had at college. Lecture was pretty bad. There were occasional gem moments and the professors were very nice and funny, but it was unclear what points they wanted us to take away or why they were interesting. It was also often two hours of lecture without visuals, and without a pathway. It would bop from topic to topic more like watching Sen and Farmer chat-- fun, but hard to takeaway main points to play with yourself. Section helped fix this and we talked much more about how to evaluate and develop the best possible health policies globally.
A fascinating class but very little sense of what it is students are meant to learn or what they should be capable of doing as a result of completing the class. Material probably too basic for students with graduate or professional experience in global health or health equity, but may be a useful introduction for undergraduates and those new to the topic.
This class is the reason you come to Harvard. I highly recommend this class for all concentrations.
