Very good class if you like economic history and can tolerate religious history.
If you are studying economics as a concentration or secondary and want an economics course that departs from the usual graphs, theorems, formulas, etc, this class is great! Be warned: this class is definitely more like a history class, so if you're expecting it to be at all like economics, you won't like it. That being said, if you go into it expecting an interesting and engaging history course, you'll love it! If you enjoy history, don't mind writing, and think the course content is interesting (religious influence on economic thought) then you'll really enjoy this class.
The material is very interesting if you like intellectual and religious history. Although the pace of lectures and volume of readings can seem intimidating, you only really need to know the key ideas, so the course is very manageable. Definitely worthwhile if you find the topics interesting.
A great course connecting the timeline of Christianity with advances in economic thinking. I highly recommend anyone with mild interest in Christianity and economics take this course.
Great way to satisfy C&B, study groups beneficial for readings and study guides, lecture attendance needed, start papers early
This is a history class, not an economics class.
Challenges your presupposed notions of the "science" of economics. Any ec concentrator looking for a writing requirement course should take this one.
This class is great. I wasn't sure at first that I would like the material or the lectures, but Professor Friedman's style of lecturing and the section leader's attentiveness to student needs made the course a great one. The material is useful for understanding the connection between religious thinking and the economic ideas we hold dear.
great class, great prof, great sections
It's interesting material but structurally not great.
I really enjoyed this class. I thought the material was interesting and engaging. Definitely go to lecture hours with Professor Friedman. He is a great professor to get to know, and he really likes talking to his students. The papers were not very difficult to write, but were still challenging, and the midterms were fair but required a fair amount of studying.
This is an OKAY class. It's not very hard, but it's easy to disengage with it and skid lectures. Section participation is not graded, so you can get by with by writing good papers and simply studying hard for the midterm and final.
A great Econ class if you are interested in the beginning of the discipline and the thinkers who influenced it.  Friedman is a good man and great lecturer.  No math, just history and writing.
Spend the time learning the material well. Go to every lecture and review the notes, otherwise it is very easy for you to be lost in the material.
This is a reading intensive course so be prepared!
need to take thorough notes in lecture and really understand the quotes that they put on the website
This class is a great class. Don't take it thinking of it as an easy gen-ed, but come in willing to learn about Econ from a different light and you'll have a great experience.
This class is okay overall--I recommend with reservations. I recommend because if you think you are interested in the material, like I am, take it. I was interested in the latter half of the course, when we learned about American history and religion. I was less interested in the philosophy component surrounding Smith. The papers in this class sometimes are graded harshly. Lectures are kind of dull and unorganized. The final involves basically memorizing a lot of information, but many classes require that. This class is also a few birds with one stone; economics (plus writing requirement), history, and Culture & Belief. Ultimately if the material interests you take the class, but know this is not a shining gem. You will though gain some pretty interesting insight into why America is as it is today with regards to just how powerful religion has been in shaping this country.
Great opportunity, but expect many readings and need to attend classes!
Shockingly interesting material, very dry lectures. It's very focused on learning about the denominations of Christianity, which as a non-Christian was hard for me to catch up on.
Be ready for a history class in which you will have to memorize a lot about Protestantism.
Take this class if you can. It is really a cool class and pretty interesting overall.
Just spend time on your essays and study the lecture quotes for the tests! Super fair class and very interesting stuffff
The readings are excessive and superfluous, you don't really need to do them. Go to lecture, it is the most important aspect of the class. Take advantage of your Tf's as they are very helpful with the papers and tests. Go to the big review sessions before the midterm and final, they are very helpful.
This is one of the most interesting classes I have ever taken!
Interesting material, but the lectures are quite dull. The essays are engaging, and time consuming. The most important quotes from the readings are posted online, so you can get by without doing them. Good class, worth taking.
Take if you don't mind the idea of sitting down and sifting through American theology.  It's link to economics is tenuous beyond constantly stroking Adam Smith's ego, and it's more or less a "history of religious thought in America" course than anything else (hence why two of the TFs - who are all great - were actual religion doctoral student.  Friedman is...interesting.  Not sure what to say beyond that.  HOWEVER: MAJOR REASON TO TAKE THE COURSE.  It fulfills the Econ writing requirement, Culture & Belief, AND Studies of the Past.  Three reqs, one class.  Easily the best reason to take an otherwise mediocre class.
Professor Friedman is an excellent lecturer and this course is truly his passion.  Each time you go to his class, it will feel very much like story time.  The assessments are reasonable in that they challenge you but are not too hard.  Do be prepared that this is a course for writing, not for doing math (there is essentially no math!!).
take this class if you are interested in hearing about economics through the lens of religion. will go deeply into religious background, which I had little knowledge of before this course. Professor Friedman's lectures were interesting, but you do need to have an interest in religion much more so than economics
the pace of the lectures is REALLY fast and the slides aren't posted on the class site so bring a laptop
This class is heavy religion, light economics. It is much harder than you may think from the first lecture, but the material is incredibly interesting once you get to the end of the course.  The last
Effectively this is a history class - detailing a historical account of the rise of capitalism. It is moderate both in terms of difficulty and workload, and is an interesting class if you enjoy history-based course material.
Read all primary sources. The exams require a lot of memorization.
This is a great course. It's a bit more challenging than it appears on the surface, but it's definitely an interesting course. You'll study a mix of philosophy, religion, history, economics, and politics. There's a lot of materials but the TFs are very upfront about letting you know that the most important readings are the primary source readings. Professor Friedman is a great lecturer and loves to get to know his students personally. Hence, you should go to office hours. Be prepared to take notes quickly as Friedman goes through slides pretty fast. He always picks a great set of TFs and sections dig deeper into some of the most important course topics. Overall, I would recommend this course whether you're interested in religion, economics, or just want to take an interesting gen ed.
It's a great class and an interesting one. It really shows how Christianity has influenced economics.
This is a cool course.  It counts for ec, CB, and study of the past, so ayeeeee.  A moderate amount of reading that you pretty much have to do.  Make sure to have a study group if you take this course to split readings and go over ideas.
I really enjoyed the subject matter of this course. I learned a lot about the founding thinkers and writers of modern economic theory. As a non-economics concentrator, I had been looking for a course that would allow me to engage critically with the philosophical underpinnings of economics. This course definitely did that! The course felt a little repetitive at times and I did not feel like every reading was necessary, but overall I got a lot out of this course!
Although located in the economics department, this course felt more like a history class to me. That being said, I really enjoyed this class all semester! The material is presented so well by Professor Freidman in lecture and reenforced well in section. The papers really require you to engage with the readings of the course and understand the historical narrative on a deeper level. I recommend this class to both economic concentrators anyone else interested in the subject!
This course is less work than a pset based economics course however the material is dense and the TFs are not very helpful and lecture is bland. The exam and essay questions are complicated and very long.
It's an okay class if you're willing to learn about Puritans and Calvinism and more about religion than economics, really. Helpful if you've taken AP World History/AP European History before and know a little about Calvinism, although in this course you delve into the specifics a lot more. The emphasis on religion can get a little tiresome and repetitive, and it's sometimes difficult to see how it ties into economics.
Take if ec concentrator. Optional paper for writing requirement.
Stay on top of readings.
I think its a great class but the assessment process could be streamlined.  Essays seemed to be graded haphazardly
This class seemed very interesting at the beginning, but be carefull! It gets very repetitive towards the end of the semester. In any case, you might still want to take it because it fulfills both CB and econ writing requirement at the same time.
It's a lot harder than it looks. There's a lot of material, and you need to know all the readers and thinkers cold.
If you have knowledge of Christianity, and have an easy time with papers, then this class is not bad at all.  Interesting information, and Julia makes section interesting and easy to conceptually grasp the material.
Very interesting class if you give it the time, readings are important but engaging in section is even more important
I'm a senior taking this class for an ec secondary and would not recommend this course to anyway. Friedman is brilliant and the overarching theme is interesting. However, I would not recommend the class. Read his article on the subject and you will get most of what you would get in the class. The papers are difficult to understand and require you just to do one reading and word vomit. The exams are a lot of tedious memorization. The class is not particularly rewarding. The class is very disorganized and the section component is poorly conceived if you don't have David as your TF. If you are thinking about taking this to fulfill multiple requirements: DON'T. Rethink it. There are great ec electives and other cool CB courses. I was told not to take it (by ec, applied math, gov, and psych concentrators) and didn't listen.
This class was AMAZING. The lectures were great and although the readings are not necessary, they were really interesting as an Economics Concentrator to understand the  fundamentals of the profession.
This course surprised me a great deal and in a good way. It is not your conventional Economics Class. You learn a lot not only but the history of economics as a discipline, but also the main figures of religious thought that have shaped British and American policy and culture. Workload is reasonable and the lectures are very interesting. I would personally say that I enjoyed the first half of the class a little bit more, as the second half became a little bit repetitive. But on the overall, a solid class with a lot of thoughtful and entertaining readings.
Great course.  Very fair and engaging.
A really interesting way to think about economics and capitalism. But like everyone else will say, since lecture slides aren't posted, be prepared to type super fast.
Professor Friedman is a great lecturer, and this class makes you think very deeply about religion and the influence of important thinkers on economics.
It's one of the best intermediate Ec courses at Harvard.
It's a lot of knowledge offered in lecture form, but it's a worthwhile class to take once you realize how much religious influence there actually was on the economic discipline as a whole. It also explains the differences in political parties in terms of economic policies in the 21st century.
This is my favorite class I have taken at Harvard.  Ever, actually.  I found the material fascinating.  If you identify as Christian, this is a fascinating overview of church history, especially protestant history.  I was especially happy because I didn't feel there was a biased approach to the academic examination of Christianity.  I was worried about that going into the class, but happily, I found that there were no normative statements made about religion.  It was purely observational - examining how religion has influenced economics.  The sections were fantastic; I loved the format.  It was incredibly engaging - with debates and discussions.  And the lectures were intriguing.  I never felt bored.  I wish I could take this class again!  Yup, I loved it that much.  And I wish I could've spent more time really enjoying the readings because they were all fascinating.
This class is pretty interesting.  You only have to write 3 papers that are pretty interesting and a midterm and final.
it is hard
Super interesting class. I actually wanted to go to lecture.
More of a history course, but a good one if you're interested in European history during the enlightenment and also the history of economic behavior in US.  Not for more "hardcore" economics majors.
Take this course! Professor Friedman is fantastic and an asset to have as a faculty advisor. He is a great teacher and makes the material endlessly interesting. Go to his office hours and interact with him-- he is one of the finest minds on offer in the department of economics.
If you need c&b and/or the econ writing req and/or studies of the past, decently painless way to fulfill
Take during semester when you have extra time, because the reading is heavy every week and you won't get the most out of the course if you don't read everything.
The first half of the semester is a fascinating intellectual history of self-interest; the second half is a less interesting but still worthwhile account of the development of American non-elite economic thought. Only a very rudimentary understanding of microeconomics is necessary for the course, and I'd strongly recommend it to History, Religion, or Social Studies concentrators. Look over the syllabus: if the delightfully eclectic mix of texts sticks out to you, disregard the low Q scores (the course is full of more quantitative types who aren't particularly interested in the material) and take the class.
Lectures and material is super interesting. Papers are difficult, but overall low workload.
I think this class is a great western economic history through the lens of religion.  I learned a lot through this class, although it is a bit reading intensive for an ec class.
Lectures are interesting, but Professor Friedman has a meandering style and prone to go off on tangents (planned tangents, that is -- there are slides prepared, although the content of the tangents are only marginally related to the material at hand, which is why they're still tangents). Sections go more in-depth than you need to know for the exams, and honestly, you don't need to do any of the reading other than the primary sources relevant to the essay topics you choose. Overall an interesting course, although grading is rather arbitrary, and like most essay-evaluative courses, it is easy to get a B+/A-, but impossible to get an A.
Too too much work, but definitely good material. It might be slightly boring to sit through the lectures in which the pictures of architecture of France are picked apart with seemingly no relevance to the readings, but it's great if you have a good TF who brings it all together!
This class is more a religion class than an economics one. I gets way too bogged down in religious nuances and so many times in the term I forgot that I was taking this for ec credit. That can get really old really quickly. Lecture slides aren't posted online which wouldn't be a problem except for the way lectures are presented. There is a ton of random information that is totally irrelevant (like what specific Church authors preached at) and delivered really slowly but the actual material is sped through. 

In hindsight I would not have taken this class.
It's an ok class, but unless you're interested in religion, I would avoid it.
This is a unique class in the department that I recommend concentrators and non-concentrators alike to take.
There is a LOT of readings. Do them and you will succeed.
Very interesting materials if you like history, economics, and/or philosophy. Keeping up with the readings will help you very much in writing the paper and studying for the exam.
This is a pretty interesting course, with a lot of information that helps to explain religious influences on economics. If you're looking for a course that covers a lot of information on the interaction between economics and religion today, this course only talks about it for one lecture. Start the last paper much earlier than the others if you decide to write it.
I feel like I actually did learn a lot of really interesting information in this class, but it feels kind of disjointed. Hopefully they will restructure the material. If so, I'd recommend it.
This class is fine. I expected it to have more of a modern focus (all but the last two weeks is spent before the 1950s), and I'm not sure I would have taken it if I had known its exact path. The information is not terribly difficult to grasp, and although I did the majority of the readings, I probably could've gotten by with just going to lecture and looking up the excerpts online. If you're an Econ concentrator who is looking for a light class to go towards your concentration requirements, this would be a good bet for you.
This was a really cool class. We looked at the works of so many interesting religious thinkers and economists, and spoke/wrote about them from such a unique perspective. It was also pretty challenging: the section discussions were at a somewhat advanced level, and the essay questions forced you to really understand these concepts and thinkers. Professor Friedman is a great, engaging lecturer, and the TFs were both so intelligent and cool. Awesome class.
This class is an incredible blend of religious history, american history, economic history, and modern day economic policy.
This class has been my favorite Gen Ed at Harvard! At first, it seems like the class is talking about a very obscure and odd subject. However, as the class progresses, it becomes clearer and clearer all of the themes that this class covers and how it is applicable today even. I took this for Gen Ed credit and for the Ec Writing Requirement, but I was so glad that to find that I loved the class. Professor Friedman always delivered very interesting lectures and concepts. I really wish I had had a chance to interact with him.
Great Ec Elective. Some of readings are hard to understand in detail, but section and the review sessions were awesome and could summarize them to give you the main point which is what you need for exams and papers. Great Ec Elective
Super cool material, definitely take it because it fulfills so many requirements, as least for Ec majors.
It creates an intersting connection between past religions and how they may/did effect previous economic thinking, however there are many difficult readings.
This course feels more like a Social Studies course than an Economics one. There's nothing wrong with that, and you learn some really interesting stuff about the origins of economic thinking. However, if you don't have experience reading social/political theory, this course may be more difficult than anticipated, as it relies heavily on primary texts and drawing connections between primary authors.
This class will teach you something interesting and make you see religion from a new applied perspective.
This is a great course if you find the material interesting. If you don''t find the material interesting this class will be the bane of your existence. Lectures are boring, no lecture notes are provided, and the assignments are very difficult. However, I enjoyed the material and loved the course overall.
This was a very rough class for me. Lectures contained so much content, but it was difficult to really absorb the material, especially since I was busy trying to type everything down because none of the slides would be online. Professor Friedman was very accessible outside of class with his regular office hours, and the TFs were also quite accessible. The writing assignments were particularly difficult for me, since my writing leaves much to be desired. However, compared to other courses, this class seemed to be much harsher in terms of grading, and it was even mentioned in class, that if there's anything we should have learned by the end, it is how to write. Also, the teaching styles of the TFs seemed to vary greatly. They may choose to take the big picture approach or take the close reading approach.
The course is good and the TFs are great, but the real downfall here is professor friedman's lectures
Solid econ class, functions more like a history class.
As a social studies concentrator taking this class to fill the economics requirement, I really enjoyed this class. It's a great review of Adam Smith with a focus on the developments in modern economics, but taking it with economics concentrators--many of whom seem to have internalized that capitalism is good for all without question--can be frustrating.
a lot of reading is needed...good to have a background in religion...manageable if you are a good paper writer
First, this is NOT an economics class--it's a social studies class. I was not prepared for that.Second, it is a VERY rewarding class if you give it the opportunity. However, the lectures are entirely unhelpful. They end up being typist practice because you're trying to copy everything on Professor Friedman's text-heavy slides at the rate that he speaks. And the sections aren't very helpful because you are attacking a large number of readings, that realistically no one has read, because they are each too difficult and there are too many of them to do. And then finally, the course doesn't test you on any concepts that are too advanced (outside of the take-home essays), so you don't really need to understand section or lecture. All that aside, when you do take the time to engage with one of the readings and we do actually discuss it in lecture or section, it is very interesting and a rewarding departure from your standard economics course.
Good Economics elective to take - one of the best economic history courses in the department.
Econ 1776 is a wonderful class worth taking if you are interested in the intersection of religion and economics! It is an excellent overview of Christian thinking and economics since the 1500s. What's particularly enjoyable is this course's focus on primary source readings -- we got to read Adam Smith as well as works by other foundational thinkers in economics. Note that the course is relatively fast-paced; it covers a lot of history and countless figures, so be prepared to memorize a lot for the exams.
Stay on top of the readings. Go to class
you will get frustrated
The readings are somewhat painful but very interesting if you like economics, religion and history all in one. Thankfully, if you take this course, you don't actually need to do the readings for the papers or exams. It's a great class with very interesting lectures by such a wonderful lecturer Professor Friedman. Take this class for your econ writing requirement!
the tests will be extremely difficult
This class is really interesting and the readings and coursework are very manageable.  Professor Friedman is great.  He's a really nice guy and he makes the class fun and interesting.  Definitely take this class if you're looking for a good ec course without as much math and a little more writing and critical thinking involved.
super interesting stuff. really interesting idea on the development of the way Americans think and why they think what they think up until the present day and beyond from influences from over 200 years ago. wow.!!
Though lectures are interesting, lecture slides are not posted so lectures are a rush to copy down the  material on the slides (which is a lot). Exams and papers are graded harshly, and I felt no matter how hard I tried, it was difficult to tell how I would do in the class. Additionally, it was difficult to decipher the chronological order of concepts/events--the course could do a better job of making this very clear, as it is important for exams. Lastly, by the end of the class, the tie between religion and economics was still unclear.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading, and focus more on religion and history than actual economic principles, but it is a very interesting class nonetheless.
Readings are great. Examinations are meant to lower your grade. Be prepared.
Be prepared for a lot of reading and lecture slides that aren't the most captivating, but the material is fascinating, and I would encourage many to take this course as it knocks out a general education requirement as well as economics for those that are concentrators or those receiving secondaries.
EC1776 is a great way to fulfill and econ requirement and C&B. It is very well taught, but make sure to attend lecture as section will discuss topics covered in lecture in much greater depth.
Interesting material, though the connections made between religion and economics are sometimes tenuous. No background in either religion or economics necessary, but as with all classes, being somewhat familiar with the course topics helps; knowledge of the history of calvinism in particular would have been very useful.
Tons of reading.
I would grade the course as a B+. The lectures Friedman delivers are engaging and helps us grasp the most important intellectual thought of American development. It is definitely worth going to lecture and you'll look forward to them. The papers were a bit vague, and the TFs wanted specific answers (inconsistent). There is no help on writing papers. The sections are painful because of the little structure. The readings are dope. Do not do the secondary readings, only the primary ones. NEEDS A COURSE PACK! WTF, COACH? Aside from that, we learn the most important trends in American religious and economic development.
If you like philosophy/ theory/ religion, this class is great!
The class is interesting, especially in lecture when you consider how the course material shaped American history. Sometimes section felt contrived unfortunately. Any time you get econ concentrators in a room talking about theology, it can be tough.
Tons of reading but you absolutely don't have to do it all. Very interesting material, essays are not too difficult. Section is very helpful. Exams are somewhat difficult but you can BS your way through the semester.
HARD, but worth it. Learn a lot about a subject matter you're probably not that familiar with. Fight for yourself though, and do the readings. Get a good TF, pay attention in lecture.
A good option for the writing requirement for economics, and also a good Ec elective with not much prior knowledge needed. It helps a lot to stay up on readings, as the midterm and final would be very difficult otherwise. Professor Friedman is a solid lecturer, and the material for the most part is interesting
Take only if you need to do the writing requirement
Professor Friedman gives a lot of information in his lectures, and the readings are extensive but fun and very interesting.
I really enjoyed this class. If you do the work required, you will get a lot out of it. Go to class, do the readings that you will discuss in section, and discuss your papers with your TF and you will really learn the material well.
This course is a good overview of religious thought - not so much economic thought. There could be less lectures - 2 a week would be plenty. The reading is not too difficult, but the midterm was quite difficult.
Ec 1776 is a great class that for exploring the way economics, particularly in the US was shaped by religion. The class pulls together ideas and disciples in a non-obvious by very compelling way.
Professor Friedman is at best a dull lecturer. He will fly through densely packed slides faster than you could possibly take notes and refuse to make the slides available outside of lecture. His lectures are clogged with unnecessary or irrelevant information that he expects you to immediately recognize as superfluous and not write down. Things he tells you are unimportant will then make a surprise appearance on the midterm, which the TFs will utterly fail to prepare you for. The subject matter of the course is promising and the readings are interesting and well chosen but the course ultimately leaves a lot to be desired.
One of the most interesting classes I have taken at Harvard.
Reading is helpful, but you won't miss too much if you can't do it.
Its a fairly easy class and great for econ students who are regretting their choice to concentrate in economics :)
The course is not work intensive, but does expose students to an applicable and interesting way people have seen Christianity and economic theory over the past several hundred years. The course should not be called religion and the rise of capitalism--just Christianity and the rise of capitalism
This is a great course for anyone interested in the intersection of American economics, politics and religion! I'd recommend it highly to anyone across departments, for a genuine insight into the origins not only of capitalism, but also of parts of the modern American spectrum.
Take notes during lecture. It will be hard but worthwhile when it comes time to take the exams.
I do not know why this class is in the economics department. The majority of students in the class are social studies and it is thought accordingly. It's a good way to fulfill multiple different requirements.
There is way too much reading.
It's almost impossible to keep up with notes in lecture since Professor Friedman puts so much information on the slides. But lecture slides are not posted, so you end up spending all of class trying to keep up with the notes but not actually understanding or being able to listen to anything.
The course is graded quite harshly and its pretty easy to fall behind on the readings. That said not all of the readings need to be done.
This class was very interesting and a really great course. I really enjoyed the lectures and the work load was nothing overwhelming.
This was a good course, but be aware that it has a lot of religious history.  It is not necessarily like a normal economics course.  Cool because you also learn some history of the study of economics.
I would tell them to be wary of the level of difficulty. Readings must all be completed and you must attend every lecture. Additionally, you must be ready to type very quickly to get the information down.
the actual concepts are extremely interesting, however it seems that the organization behind the course is still being figured out
A very interesting class that is sort of like a justice for economics. I really loved how different this course is for an Econ concentrator, and covers material that is very important for a historical understanding of what you study.
The course material is very interesting and the class has a clear thesis, but grading feels subjective depending upon TF and the overarching connections between lectures can be confusing.
This course is very interdisciplinary-- which I enjoyed-- but which may not be for everyone.  Be ready to face a time crunch in the midterm, but, otherwise, very enjoyable course!
Just about every part of this class was great.  Professor Friedman has an infinite wealth of knowledge pertaining to economics and history, and some of that will certainly rub off on you throughout the duration of the course.  You'll get some truly interesting historical insights on capitalism that are simply a cool thing to learn about. Additionally, as an econ concentrator, you can fulfill the writing requirement by doing three relatively painless essays and at the same time fulfill a gen ed. If you're wavering between this class and another gen ed because it seems like it will be easier or have less work, choose this one.
This course was incredibly frustrating. Expectations were not made clear heading into assignments, and grading was harsh. Comments on assignments would be very positive, focusing on things students had done well in a paper, but the corresponding grade would be incredibly low. That is to say, very little constructive feedback was offered. Sections were helpful in understanding the difficult theological topics discussed in lecture, but offered no preparation for essays and assignments. The professor has a clear thesis about the connection between religious and economic trends in the United States over the last three hundred years, but does not do an acceptable job of exploring alternatives, focusing instead on cherry-picked examples from across three centuries that fit neatly with his hypothesis.
This was an interesting and not overly demanding course to take. It is not really economics focused at all, more so on the history and religion side, focusing on writing and critical reading of the texts. Professor Friedman makes a good case for the ties between religion and economics, and he is great to talk to and learn from during office hours. Julia Reed is a wonderful TF and very well-versed in the subject matter.
interesting but you have to do the readings which are long, boring, and hard to understand. Class could be summarized in a 3 page paper. But still worth learning all the contributors to economic theory, especially if you are an ec concentrator.
This is an excellent course covering some of the most important developments in western thinking from the 17 century to the present. For the economics student, be prepared to set aside supply and demand curves and pick up a history book!
It was a great econ course that satisfied the writing requirement and a GenEd.
Freidman is one of the few econ professors available and eagar to help students.  Unfortunately, the course material was not very interesting.  Lecture slides were not posted online.
The exams will look like History exams, but they will be graded like Economics exams (i.e. you have to write essays, but there are VERY specific answers they want to vague questions).  Go to lecture -- you will be tested on information that is ONLY in the lectures and not in the readings or section material.
It's like an easier version of a divinity school class. But still a lot of religion, more than capitalism. The readings were impossible to keep up with, so be prepared to put in that work!
Avoid this course.
Really it's a class in "intellectual history" more than economics.  Very good if you are interested in religious history and the history of ideas.
Overall a good class, but not as breathtaking as I had expected. The material is very interesting, but it sometimes gets lost in lectures that move to fast and focus too much on history. Do the primary source readings during the semester, or at least read the lecture quotations that are posted on the website--they're a good summary of many of the readings if you don't get a chance to read them all. Section was great for explaining concepts.
this course should replace ec 10 as the introduction to the discipline. it's a great introduction to how economics developed into the discipline that it is today, though this course does see it through the particular lens of religion, and is not as broad in scope as a course to history of economic thoughts could be. nonetheless, the lectures are often engaging, and well-presented, and often preceded by a piece of great classical music. no regret in taking it.
Make sure you go to lecture- slides are not posted.
Professor Friedman is an interest lecturer.  There is a significant amount of reading and the papers can be challenging, but overall the workload is manageable.
I found this course to be very interesting and relevant to current discussions about the links between religion, economics, and politics. It is a fairly demanding course; the amount of reading assigned weekly is often considerable and the standard for papers is fairly high. However, the tests were straightforward and the lectures were always very clear. Friedman doesn't put the lectures online though.
This course provides a useful introduction to both the formation of the capitalist system and the changes in Protestant thought that have occurred over the last four centuries.
This class is closer to an intellectual history/philosophy class.  We read a lot of original sources that you might find in a social studies tutorial for example.  Don't take it if you're uncomfortable with that kind of reading.  Also, it can get somewhat dry at times.
Professor Friedman's lectures are great and the material we study is very interesting; however, understanding / analyzing religious influences on economics over time is complex and does not have one right answer.
Take this classit's a great break from typical economics courses.
This class is a great way to fulfill the writing requirement for ec, i would definitely take it.  it may seem slow at times (in terms of the subject matter) but its worth it. Friedman is awesome, make sure you visit him at office hours.  he talks pretty quickly but just make sure you grasp the big stuff The lecture quotes they post online are really useful
One of the most interesting and unique classes at Harvard. You will learn all sorts of interesting things about the history of the school and the nation, as well as the history of religion and politics in Europe and America. Great way to fill a Gen Ed and the Econ writing requirement
Tough grading.
Very interesting, well taught.
Although many students were frustrated with this course, I really liked it. Reading and discussing Adam Smith's Theory of Moral Sentiments, Wealth of Nations, and Lectures on Jurisprudence were great. Every economics and/or government concentrator should read these works before they graduate!
This is a relatively interesting class taught by a very good (but sometimes boring) professor. The sections were good and the assignments manageable. Overall, the readings were very interesting and well selected.
You will find yourself typing up the lecture slides in lecture and not remembering much of the actual ideas presented. Before the exam, this accumulated amount of notes will appear stressful: the lectures often lack a more general approach, not filtering the "big picture".
The workload is not too bad. It's a lot of reading so create a study group (saves you in the end when cramming for the exams) and there are only three five-page papers (two if you're not going for the writing req). I enjoyed the material a lot. Professor Friedman presents an interesting case and he's very nice and obviously really enjoys the material, also.
Awesome class about an interesting and very influential subject matter!
This is a very interesting class for anyone interested in economics, history or religion.
One of the only classes in Econ that deals with intellectual history, especially the roots of modern economics. The professor really cares about undergrads. The history of religion (Calvinism onwards) was especially intriguing. Some of the connections felt a bit of a stretch, but definitely makes you rethink and appreciate the thinkers behind economics - especially Adam Smith and his Theory of Moral Sentiments.
This could have been a really good class, as the topic has a lot of promise; however, it was terribly organized.  There were too many readings and the lectures didn't really answer a lot of confusing questions.  Half of the course is the history of Calvinism and there needs to be way more Adam Smith.
Very dry and dense readings, but interesting concepts, overarching teachings of the course, and great teaching staff. If you need the writing requirement for econ, take this class.
This is a great course, as long as you're NOT looking for an Econ course. There is no economics involved, as it's entirely theological and intellectual history. If you're a religion, history, or social studies concentrator, you'll probably find this course both fun and engaging, but also pretty easy to excel in. If you're an ec concentrator who prefers not to read a huge amount, probably best to pass on this one.
It's more of a religion course than an economics course, just be aware of that.
Very interesting subject material covered in an accessible and entertaining way.
There is a ton of reading, although it isn't necessary to keep up with it all. If you're interested in religious history or the history of economic thought, definitely take this class! A great way to get a Gen-Ed and econ concentration requirement (one that fulfills the writing requirement) out of the way.
It's a great class if you're interested in economics or religion, but it is quite a specific topic, so it's probably not for everybody.  I think it's definitely worth it though, because it's rare to get a class where an economist talks about social/religious issues.
The readings are really interesting. And the lectures are extremely informative, so make sure to take good notes.
The final exam is miserable.
This was such an interesting topic with a thesis that is so pertinent to understanding the public discourse today.  I highly recommend taking it because you get such a great perspective of economics and the history of the subject in a very different light from one of the most passionate professors I've had at Harvard so far.
Easy to get a good grade if you regurgitate what they tell you. Not as accommodating if you see things differently and want to express it.
Lots of reading; slides unnecessary but pay attention (will be quizzed, but won't have to do reading)
This course is not straightforward. The expectations for what you will be expected to know are not made clear; as a result, you'll learn only as much as you are willing to invest in this class on your own - don't expect lecture and section to give you the "answers" to points of contention in the history of economics. The reading load is intense, but certainly manageable. Papers are fun to write. Tests are difficult to prepare for, as little review materials are provided. The hypothesis of the class is certainly interesting and relevant, though.
A lot of reading
For people who need an economics elective, this class is great because it is different from other economics classes in that it is more history oriented. It's very interesting AND it also satisfies the writing requirement if you do the extra paper which is not much work at all.
Good way to get a gened requirement within the Ec department. You don't need Ec10, at all, to take this course. The course has a large vision--putting the last 400 years of religion and economics together--and while it doesn't quite fulfill all of the vision, it comes close, and that's pretty cool.
The amount of reading and assignments is fair, but you must stay on top of it all. Lectures can be rushed and sometimes irritatingly so.
Its a great course and fulfills a gen ed painlessly.
The material is interesting and the lectures are actually pretty engaging. I wouldn't take this class if I weren't someone who likes reading texts on social theory, though. It's not a traditional economics course.
The readings are very, very dense but you do not have to do them. The flow of the course is sometimes strange and I did not put all of the pieces together until the final but realized I liked the class as I studied for the final. It was not an easy course though.
This class seems to appeal to a certain type of student, and less so to others. For scholars of culture, history, and social thought, it is a very rewarding experience. For those who prefer to focus on the more technical aspects of economics, maybe less so.
This course is a nice platform for thinking about a set of ideas that are really important for understanding how our society got to be the way that it is.  I think that it's a totally worthwhile part of an undergraduate education.  Lecture itself could be a little bland, and I'm sure that the quality of section will depend on the TF that you get, but overall, this is a very reasonable course to take.
I didn't find this class as boring as other people told me. I'm an Atheist and I never had much exposure to religious texts, but I found the course material not hard to read. Prof. Friedman is nice and friendly, but I think what ruined the experience for me was mainly the TF. Avoid Graham Clure if you can--he arrived at the section 15 minutes every time and never seemed to have prepared agenda for discussion. I felt I was just wasting time at the section. Since sections don't count toward the grade, I didn't have motivation to complete the readings beforehand either. I complained to the professor about the sections, and my TF improved a little, but still not satisfactory. It was an easy way to satisfy the writing requirement if you are an econ concentrater though.
Decent class, but wasn't nearly as interesting as I imagined it would be. It sort of lost focus mid-way through the semester.
The material is not gripping, but it isn't difficult and is a good way to fulfill a needed req.
It's an interesting class, providing a historical sense of how economics came to be. It's a nice mix of European and American history. Professor Friedman is very nice and really wants to get to know students.
it's not a bad class if you're interested in religion and economics. the material is interesting.
The lectures are great.  It feels great to tie everything together at the end of the lecture to see the big picture.
This course has nothing to do with economic theory.  It is a history course that may as well be called the History of Economics with some Christianity.  Only take it if you want to satisfy both an econ requirement and a culture and belief for gen ed.
The lectures are good, but the readings are boring and overly technical in the first part of the course. Take the course for Professor Friedman, who deeply cares about the subject and about the kids in the class.
This is a great course for someone interested in the principles that provided the original foundation of modern economics. Although the course begins with Smith and others who came before him, Professor Friedman brings us all the way up to the present day. I think it's a very interesting course that helps one understand the way that religion still serves as a basis for some people's economic decisions. The work load is manageable and the teaching staff is great. Take advantage of meeting Professor Friedman in his office hours. He is extremely approachable and enjoys meeting his students.
Even though there are a lot of readings, keep an open mind and the subject material is actually pretty interesting (though unexpected for a course in the economics department).
There's a good amount of reading but it's definitely not unmanageable. Also, sometimes it feels like there's a slight disconnect between some of the ideas presented in the course, but that's only because the course itself is pretty new, as are the ideas. Professor Friedman is writing a book on this very topic right now; it's exciting to be part of it.
Take this if you like history, philosophy, religion, and lots of reading. This is more of a social studies/history/religion class than an economics one.
Take it only if you're interested in the topic and intellectual history. This is more intellectual history than economics, and would really be better categorized under history.
This is an economic history course and a lot of discussion revolves around facts rather than theory.
This course is a great way to get your writing requirement, an econ credit, and Culture and Belief done all in one swoop. It's not too difficult time-wise, though there is a lot of material to cover for the midterm and final.
This class should be relabeled Religion and the Rise of Carpal Tunnel. Lecture slides are not posted online, yet a knowledge of the details presented therein are crucial for success in the class. For this reason, the majority of people spend the lecture frenetically typing rather than actually absorbing and appreciating what the professor is saying
Take the course if you are interested in the topic material and you are prepared for a lot of (primary source) reading.  The lectures are very good.
By "Religion and the Rise of Capitalism," Prof. Friedman really means "Calvin and the Rise of Adam Smith." But if you're into that, the class is fairly interesting and a chance to take more of a history class within the ec department. Lots of reading, but the secondary sources are not necessary.
This is not an economics class, it is more about intellectual history and religion. If that interests you, take this class.
Painless, but doesn't have much to do with Economics.  More of a History class.
This is a very enjoyable and engaging class.  The workload was just right: enough to elicit a full understanding of the subject, but not enough t create undue stress.  The professor goes out of his way to engage each student in the subject matter.
Readings are interesting. If you're an econ student, it's great to learn some of the historic thinking that has shaped your worldview. However, some of the loose ends of major themes in the class are left untied at the end of the course.
If you like the material then take the class with this great professor.  However, the assignments and grading are not straightforward and there is not a lot of coherency in course material
If you want to understand the role of Protestant thinking in influencing the development and our current view of capitalism, this course is one of the few relevant courses offered at Harvard. There is a lot of reading; so it is recommended that you form a study group.
If you are more of a humanities student who prefers reading/writing to problem sets but wants to learn a little about economic history, this is a great course for you. However, the reading will likely seem daunting if you are a more quantitative student without much experience with a reading/writing course at Harvard. Be warned that I found the lectures interesting at the beginning of the year very interesting, but by the end of the year, I was very tired of them. As the year progresses, Professor Friedman becomes more and more likely to stand up in front of the classes and read quotes from assigned readings. Overall, it's a decent course, but make sure you know before you take it that although it says economics in the title, it's more of a history/philosophy course.
Readings are interesting (Smith, Tocqueville, etc.), but there are 85 of them and they are sometimes dry.  Class is curved around a B/B+, lower than most that are at least around a B+.  It's more like a history class than an economics class.  Overall, I'd stay away from it - I learned a lot, but there are much more interesting/easier courses out there.
While this class seems interesting, and the professor is wonderful, the assignments and readings are unreasonable.
class will be good if you have a sincere interest and time to read everything. will be a pain if you don't have one or both of the aforementioned. i would not recommend this for a senior going through e recruiting, as attending class is pretty essential for understanding what's going on.
Frustrating. Both in understanding the class/how contents fit together, and in receiving horribly curved grades
This is a philosophy/history course, so do not expect it primarily to be about economics. It is great for anyone interested in learning about the development of economics and the relationship over time between religion and economics and how they influenced each other. Those who are interested in the course only because they want to learn about how all of this influences current debate will be disappointed. Very few economics concepts involved. No previous religious knowledge is necessary--I came into the course with very little background and had no trouble. Learning about Calvinism was one of the most interesting and one of my favorite parts of the course.
Heavy reading load required
If you are interested in religions, take this course.
A very nice way to learn western intellectual history
Parts of this class are very interesting, but you must attend lectures, and it is important to not get too far behind with reading. I feel you learn much more about the evolution of religion than about economics.
Ec 1776 is one of the best history courses you will take at Harvard College. It offers a wonderful survey of thought about economics, from John Calvin onward, and traces the course of American history along with it. Don't be fooled by the department label: this is a writing and reading intensive course. Take it, enjoy it, but be forewarned.
Good class. When studying, focus mostly on the broad themes and ideas, not minute details. Great set of readings
This class is a lot of work.  You receive hundreds of pages of pithy reading a week.  While the reading is interesting and worthwhile, there is an overwhelming amount and almost no one does the reading, so section is just awkward.  Your grade is really not influenced by if you do the readings or not because all you need to know for the tests are on the lecture slides and you only need to do the readings for the essays.However, the readings are valuable just for general knowledge and the midterm and final are not hard (which is frustrating if you actually do the reading).  And Professor Friedman is really nice.  He does let you out of lecture late consistently, but he is a great guy.  Even grabbing a dining hall meal with him is totally worth it.
Only take this class if you are seriously (!) interested in the material. Read a couple of short sources from the syllabus to get an idea of the materials (they're boring for the most part).
The whole connection between religion and the rise of capitalism was rather tenuous, if you ask me. The course did not do the best job of connecting the material. We read hundreds of pages of sermons and other religious material, and then we somehow made slightly irrelevant, unbelievable inferences about economic development.
This class has far more reading than I originally thought it would - be prepared for a lot of dense readings from some fairly ancient authors.  However, when it all 'came together' in the end, I felt like I had truly learned something worthwhile and had a deeper understanding of not only how the economy works but how the U.S operates and the effects of religion
The material is generally very interesting, especially if you don't know much about the connections between religion and economics in the Western world. This is definitely a history class rather than an economics class - something that was helpful to know from previous CUE guides - and there is relatively a lot of reading, but the primary sources are quite interesting and in general it is very manageable. I can't say that I really understand the modern connection between religion and economics too well (this part of the course is rushed), which is unfortunate, and there are definite gaps in the logic of the course, but I do think I've gained a new perspective on the historical evolution of perceptions of self-interest, economics, etc. and so I would recommend this to anyone interested in the topic and looking to fulfill the Culture & Belief/economics writing requirement.
lot of reading but if you can manage it is worthwhile
This class definitely is not a standard economics class, but nonetheless, it offers a very valuable insight into the history of economic thought and the social, political, and religious forces that influenced and shaped the academic field that we study today.
Very hard, way too much reading, and unfair exams. Don't take it.
The reading is prolific and dense (a lot of primary sources). Professor Friedman's lectures are instructive and engaging, but section is difficult to get through unless you're completely on top of weekly readings and know them well enough to formulate/contribute opinions in class.
No lecture notes so you have to go to class every MW and sometimes F at 10am. not fun.
its a history class, don't believe what they tell you...
Beware: this class is argumentative, it tries to prove a point.The argument is complex. Thus, you will always be confused as to precisely what and why you're arguing something. everyone was always puzzled
Very good class. Be ready to be alert in lecture though. He lectures quickly! The reading list might also look long, but a lot of the readings aren't particularly necessary.
This is a history of economics course--it is important to like history to like the course. Furthermore, the thesis of the course is not stated and presented clearly. A lot of information is presented but large conections is often draw without lots of supporting information for the connection.
I took this course a freshman to satisfy the Culture and Belief gen ed requirement.  I found it was a very interesting way to do so, but not an easy one--there's a lot of reading, and there are papers as well as exams (although the papers are quite short).  So take the course if you think it looks genuinely interesting, but not just because you think it'll be an easy way to knock off culture and belief without doing a term paper.
A great class. There are a lot of readings, and do keep up with them, but they are worth it. Professor Friedman is great, and the course opens your eyes to a different side of economics.
Not interesting enough for your time, too many readings and almost all of them are very dry and boring, progression of class disorganized. Not much time spent on economic theory.
You must like reading in order to like this class.
I thought that some of the material was repetitive. We spent too much time on the founding of America, and then almost no time at all on things past the Industrial Revolution.
Readings are carefully chosen and if You do them, then You take away a lot from the course.
Please don't take this class unless you are a hardcore religious fanatic. Otherwise you will be bored. You spend the majority of the time reading super dry Calvinist treatises of the 17-18th century. This is not a history class even if it covers historical material. The concepts are all very abstract. In addition, the professor's lectures are terrible and scattered. He also doesn't live in the 21st century, so refuses to share any of his work with the rest of the world like by posting his slides onto the course website, not even when it came time for finals. The TFs are useless and uninformed and runs pointless, yet mandatory sections with aimless conversations that only slowly kill you by consuming hours of your life that you can't get back. The essay assignments have prompts that are too specific, so that you aren't allowed to actually make an argument and write a good essay. Finally, the exams have very vague questions with no feedback on why you got certain grades and no examples of expectations of good answers.
Tons of reading. Make sure to do it weekly!
It is very disorganized and difficult to understand the "bigger picture" or the main theme of the course.
Econ 1776 is a great class in which you study the very interesting history of economic thought. It's probably the most interesting option for satisfying the Culture and Belief Gen Ed requirement, and it was a great experience to take a class with Professor Friedman.
Very interesting and helpful to understand many aspects of today's socio-economic trends.
Very good class, just be prepared for the fact that it's more of a history and philosophy class than economics.
don't take it if you are not extremely interested in the subject.
Eh
it's a great class! take it!
This is an interesting class if you are looking to satisfy the Economics writing requirement.
The professors and TF's are really, really knowledgeable and helpful! They're great sources of information and ideas.
Although the topic sounds interesting, the class needs to be restructured.
don't expect an ec class, more like a history of religion class
too much reading
its definitely an interesting class, but its more of a history class than an economics class
If you are really interested in the history of economic thinking
A really interesting way to fulfill a core requirement.
You don't have to go to lecture because the lecture slides are clear and complete.  But you should definitely go to discussion sections so that you can talk about the readings and ground what you have learned in lecture (or from the lecture slides).  The sections will help with paper writing.
For atheists, be prepared to struggle understanding religion.
This is a history class. If you're expecting how religious ideas have influenced the nitty gritty of economic theory, this is not such a class. This is a history class about how the fall of Calvinism launched Adam Smith into considering economics and about how different religious groups have then accepted or rejected components of economics and economic policy.
More historical in focus than economics, but extremely interesting no less.
This course is a lot of reading (but you don't have to do it all) and it's worth taking a class with Professor Friedman.
follow lectures carefully, and do readings whose titles come up in lectures.
take advantage on the resources on your own; i started to enjoy the course too late in the year, but i learned a great deal from it regardless.
This class was a great blend of history and economics. The lectures were great and I learned a lot.
It is a good class except that it is a history course incorrectly named as an economics course.
This is a pretty good class in which you'll learn a lot about religious and economic thinking throughout time, but at times you may have a hard time connecting everything. There's a lot of reading, but not much of it's actually all that important for sections.
The course is more an intellectual history than an economics one.
Easy class.
This course was a great way to synthesize studies of American history, economic history, and religion. The reading list was superb and included selections from books that all Harvard students should read at some point if they haven't already. The course also provides great insight into the intellectual history of Harvard and its early professors/presidents.
You have a lot to gain by keeping up with the reading, though it is possible to get by without completing all of it.
Although you get more out of this class if you do the reading, I honestly didn't have time to do more than skim a lot of it and still really enjoyed the course and did well. If you're willing to work around a few new historical ideas, it's a great and relaxing class. The exams are much easier than you might expect as well.
Very fair class.  The material was fascinating (especially the second half of the course).
A student should really be interested in historical economics if he or she decides to take this course. A lot of the readings are from a hundred years ago or more.
