Small meetings with amazing professor and TF if pascal is still there. Great learning experience
Loved this course. Sendhil is great. You get to implement a behaviorally-informed solution to a problem you see in your daily life. Much more satisfying than your average course project. Just make sure you are always making progress on your project and you'll be fine; don't leave it all for the end of the semester or you'll be screwed.
This is a great class that gives you a lot of freedom. Sendhil and Pascal are great to work with and give you a lot of good insight on how to develop your project.
Take this class if you like behavioral economics and might be interested in writing a thesis.
This class is great if you are self-motivated and interesting in pursuing one project in depth over the course of the semester.  The class mainly meets in small groups, where you get feedback from the professor and other students on the progress of your project.  Sendhil is a very interesting professor to get to know.
This course is what you make of it- I ended up working quite a bit on my project, but the amount of time commitment varied hugely in the class. I had a good experience with my group and the teaching staff.
Unfortunately, the most disorganized class I've taken at Harvard, which is disappointing since the Professor is amazing :(
Think of this as a guided independent study, which means you can get a LOT out of it if you choose a problem statement that you are genuinely interested in. It's easy to get away with not a lot but to Sendhil's (and Pascal's) feedback is really a unique experience, so if you put in a lot, they'll give back. Also, small group meetings are a cool way to get to know people in the class--I made good friends out of it, because since it's such an open and unstructured class, it's really interesting to see how others think and be able to give/get feedback from your peers.
This is a very independent class and you can make it as easy or difficult as you like. I chose to tackle a more difficult project, but Sendhil and Pascal are great advisors and helped me with each step along the way. If you have something you're passionate about, no matter how ambitious, definitely lottery for this class. I got great advice and feedback on how to carry out my project and it's been a great experience. Highly recommend!!
This class is amazing! Sendhil and Pascal are both extremely brilliant and this is an opportunity to really take the reigns on your own project. That being said, this class requires a lot of self-motivation. Work will not get done if you're not prepared to be extremely disciplined. But if you're prepared for that challenge, then you can really get a lot out of the class.
This is a class you would be glad to have taken. Identifying a problem, designing a plan, and implementing the solution was fun during the semester especially if it was a topic you liked.
It's very chill until the very end! Have to have self-discipline. and you won't know your grades the entire time.
Take this course. It gives you a fantastic way to practice designing and executing experiments.
best class ever
The experience of trying to understand a real life problem was amazing. But this is more of the independent, outside of class time type of stuff. In-class stuff... was... lacking.
This is a great opportunity to learn how to apply economics to real life, with a great professor
It is very enjoyable and the instructors are great. A bit more structure would have been appreciated.
This course has so much potential to be great next time around!
In my 2.5 years/3 semesters at Harvard, this has been the only economics course I can say I actually enjoyed. I don't think I've ever looked forward to going to any class until I took this one.
good class. interesting material covered, and you get to do a hands on project at the end. just don't expect to come away with having learned a lot of theory from the discipline behavioral economics. also grading: you don't know what you have in the course until the very end.
You may have to think in bendy ways, but it isn't difficult once you get the hang of it. Being able to talk to the lecturer every week on a personal basis is a definite plus. You get what you put in to this class; there is some limitation in what your project/paper can be, because of access to resources, but there is still lots of room to really push it.
this class is amazing, but you have to be very self-motivated since there's only really the one assignment at the end. Sendhil is more of a guide for you doing your own project than a typical professor.
This was a really interesting class. Totally different than most other classes I've taken. Very chill, although sometimes too chill. Sendhil is an amazing professor but you don't get to spend time with him much because the course only meets once a week and we would often have weeks where we would not meet. Very little work required but work depends on how much time you want to put into final project. Final project and paper were hard because there was limited guidance on how to prepare the presentation and project. However, Sendhil does take the time to help you and provide feedback on your projects. Would definitely recommend this course but the course requires a lot more structure for it to become more useful in terms of student learning.
I loved the real-world application component of the class. However, I sometimes felt that we weren't provided with enough material to work with and that the assignments were too unstructured.
This class was great as junior economics tutorial because it was organized in a small section setting and everyone really got to know each other well in terms of class discussions and small group discussions. The final projects were awesome and great to learn about. However, the class does require a fair amount of self motivation in terms of creating your own structure to complete the final project. Also, the class lacks organization and a good amount of lectures so if you like a lot of structure (class, due dates, assignment guidelines), you'll have a difficult time. Professor Mullainathan is a very inspirational instructor and economist, however.
This is a really great class. Unstructured at times, and sometimes unclear as to what expectations he has of students. Sendhil is an incredible lecturer however, and brilliant in guide your progress toward creating a very memorable and meaningful final project.
Definitely take this seminar if you are concentrating in Econ! Behavioral Design is very interesting and the project is a great experience (also it is the only assignment). Just be prepared not to have any idea what your grade is whatsoever.
This class is a really great opportunity to take ownership of a project and devote lots of energy to testing whether an intervention can make a real-world impact. It does require a lot of work, but because you work on your one project for the whole semester and nothing else, it can be very manageable if you're smart about your time.
