Instructors: Prof. Glaeser, Head TF Wei Huang. Ec1011a presents engaging, sophisticated material in a way that may not be the most conducive to learning. Oftentimes, the course is difficult and demanding simply for the reason of being so. Students looking for a challenge will find great reasons to take it despite its shortcomings. Breaking it down:CONTENT: A rigorous overview of microeconomic theory.  Mathematically derives all results you learn in Ec10a from fundamental principles and assumptions. First analyzes how firms behave, then how consumers behave, how both interact in a market, and ends with a few miscellaneous topics like game theory and asymmetric information. Likely teaches economics in a way that far outclasses similar classes at other universities. That said, such a strong emphasis on precision and complexity may mask the underlying intuition to an extent.LECTURES: Professor Glaeser speaks in an expeditious and elaborate manner that exhibits incredible focus and raw intellect.  He effortlessly references historical, cultural, and empirical details, inspiring students to appreciate what it means to study under the world's brightest minds. However, the effectiveness of his teaching leaves much to be desired. Glaeser expects so much of his students that he leaves most of the class confused about the underlying concepts.  Students often read through the (already fairly confusing) lecture slides beforehand in order to follow his ridiculous pace.  Lectures give a jumpy overview with extraneous details and sloppy equations rather than deliver the core material in a clear and concise manner. I conjecture that the course may be deliberately taught in this manner in order to force students to decipher the material themselves, either as a misguided way to force students to think more critically about the material, or to weed out less talented students and maintain a reputation of being obnoxiously difficult. MATH REVIEWS: Professor Glaeser holds extra lecture sessions, typically weekly on Fridays, to go through more practical problem solving methods. This demonstrates clear effort on his part to promote learning, but these are also often too bogged down in lengthy math.  Too much emphasis is placed on algebraic manipulation rather than the overall concepts and procedure.  Other classes have demonstrated that similarly complex material can be taught clearly--the instructor considers how much information students can take in at once and strategically emphasizes the critical concepts to sympathize with students who many not keep up with all the details.  Overall, this class fails to do this, favoring speeding ahead and trusting that students will catch up through pained struggles. SECTION: Section partially mitigates the problems described above. The quality of sections depend on the TF. The head TF this semester performed fairly well at clarifying and organizing material glossed over in lecture.PROBLEM SETS: The clearest manifestation of the course's unnecessary complexity.  Problems are annoyingly tedious, often dealing with absurdly complex algebra to no benefit of learning the material or developing economic intuition. The completion-based grading policy can push students to just give up.PROJECTS: Modeling projects involve constructing an economic model of a real world policy or fictional situation.  They reinforce the material and may allow for some creativity, but occasionally degrade into tweaking terms and equations to get ideal results. Their greatest flaw is that TFs (at least in this semester) didn't seem to read through them particularly carefully, often providing nonsensical feedback that makes students feel like their efforts were wasted. EXAMS: Of tolerable difficulty, but requires incredible speed to complete all the questions. Typical mean is 40-50%. Felt pretty reasonable.
You have to be prepared to work very hard in this class, and at times be able to self-teach. It is imperative that you take responsibility for staying on top of the class material, or you will fall behind (it is very difficult to catch up). Because there are few office hours, be prepared to dig into the material by yourself and find your own learning resources.
This class gives you a fairly good understanding of how economics is done in the present day and experience with developing models. Class is good for developing economic intuition off of mathematics. However, this class could also teach you nothing if you do not try to learn; it is easy to get a decent grade (ie an A-) without learning any economics if you are good at math
If you don't like math, do not take it.
You will learn a lot. It may not all be applicable to life/your future career/anything you ever do, however the insights about economic theory alone (which come regularly in the first 45 minutes of each lecture) are worth sticking around for. Being able to model real-world phenomena is incredibly satisfying and if you are up for a challenge this class will give it to you.
A really great class.  Requires an investment of time.  Problem sets are tricky but graded on completion, so you're not expected to get all of it right.  Glaeser's lectures are fantastic.  It is easy to fall behind on material so make sure you don't! Go over lecture slides/concepts each week (I wish that I had!)
Professor Glaeser is a genius. This man taught me how to actually think about the world around me. You'll probably get boned GPA wise but I'd honestly take the lower GPA because this class actually changes your life.
Ec1011A is a course that everybody should take to get a better understanding of how the world can be viewed mathematically. I've learned many important principles of economics, but more importantly I've learned a new method of approaching problems and thinking about the world.
Content of the class is phenomenal, Prof. Glaeser is extremely knowledgeable. Very tough class, with very little feedback. Modeling projects and to some extent the problem sets ask you to think about economic questions very carefully over a long period of time, whereas at the exams, you will be challenged with doing the same task almost without thinking. Taken by very smart students, whom you will be competing with in the curve.
Be prepared for working your way through the class with little direction and no feedback. The modeling projects had no concrete grading structure and no comments.
It'll be interesting for the first half, then slowly devolve into random models
This class is very difficult but teaches a useful and novel skill for quantitatively analyzing economic situations.
This class was difficult not because it was conceptually or mathematically challenging, but because I didn't know what was expected of me. The teaching staff was oftentimes more confusing than helpful, and there was barely any feedback on the homework or modeling projects. That being said, Professor Glaeser is an AMAZING lecturer, and he ties in really cool real-life problems and scenarios that put everything in context. Overall, I didn't really like the course because it was very tedious and I feel like I didn't actually gain any intuition at all.
Take it if you want a challenge. Great course.
Expect to spend a lot of time for this class - the weekly homework problems, the assignments, the midterm do take up quite some time outside of the classroom. However, the reward for that time is also very high. The professor cares a lot about teaching and you will learn not only a ton of economic theory but also many more things for life! Make sure to go over slides before the lecture - it helps tremendously to keep up with his super fast teaching style. If you are up for a challenge, this is THE course for you!
Hands down one of the hardest courses I've ever taken, but so unbelievably worth it. Rewarding, challenging, intriguing, absolutely fantastic. Glaeser is an unbelievable professor who really cares about his students, even though he is insanely busy.
Though the class is very difficult and unapproachable at first, if you stick with it you'll learn a great deal about what economics is really about.
This is a class that most Ec and applied math concentrators should shop. It provides a completely different perspective from Ec10 or Ec1010.
Take it if you want to challenge yourself
This course might be one of the most difficult you take during your time at Harvard, but also one of the most rewarding.  Professor Glaeser is fantastic and is obviously very invested in the growth and learning of the students in the class.  The problem sets and modeling projects are difficult and almost impossible to do alone, but you will realize that they were very helpful in the end.  Never would I have thought that I could do my own simple models for economic problems.  That being said, be prepared to endure a few annoyances with the class: depending on the year, the TFs may be very integral to your learning in the course; this year (2015 Fall) they were not, but the CAs were a great resource.  The exams are quite difficult, but at the end of the day the curve is quite generous.  Overall, the course is a great way to improve vastly in economics (if you're on the fence about 1010 versus 1011, take 1011 if you are confident enough with taking partial derivatives constantly and are willing to work a few extra hours per week).
I was hesitant to take this class, as my math background is the 21 series, not 23/25/55 as many others taking it had completed.  I was taken in by Prof. Glaeser's energetic and highly interesting lectures in the first few weeks, and although I found the material difficult, I could understand it by reviewing later on.  As the semester wore on, however, I became less and less satisfied with what I was getting out of this class.  Prof. Glaeser speeds through material, a lot of which went over my head.  When he starts doing Math on the chalkboard it can be very tedious, especially if you lose track of what he's doing, as happened to me often.  Because the psets were graded on completion and effort, by the end of the semester I pretty much had no clue what I was doing on them as I had little incentive to really learn the material - given the choice between getting other problem sets that were graded on accuracy correct, and really trying to understand this material, it was obvious what choice I'd make.  Also, I think the modeling projects were not especially useful learning tools, especially considering that we were given little or no guidance on how to go about doing them.  Overall, I think this class had the potential to be great, but it was not a fantastic experience for me.  I'm still glad I chose it over 1010a, but I wish there had been some intermediate between 1010 and 1011, I think that would have suited me better.  I got the feeling that a lot people in the class also had little to no idea what was actually going on most of the time, which means at least to some extent, the class was not doing what it set out to do.
it is a must take course. if you are uncomfortable with the math, don't worry. before you know it you will be a pro at taking partial derivatives.
Prof. Glaeser is extremely enthusiastic, knowledgeable, and insightful, and some of his lectures are probably the best I've attended at Harvard. On the other hand, he does have a tendency to do math at lightning speed with messy handwriting on the board, which is very unfulfilling. Problem sets are low pressure since they're graded on completion, but the modeling projects and exams are definitely very difficult, and the math definitely can get messy to the point of utter frustration. Grading is relatively lenient (almost everyone gets B+ or higher), although straight A's are rare. Material is quite interesting and relatively coherent, and you definitely do come away with good intuition and some ability to model the world, but not without suffering in the process. You should have a strong math background before attempting to take the course, and I think Ec 10/AP Econ should be a more highly recommended prerequisite for the intuition/terminology thrown around. Unfortunately, the structure of the course this year was very disorganized, although I think that depends on the teaching staff which seems to keep changing from year to year. Overall, though, probably worth suffering through for any quantitatively-oriented person.
I strongly believe that in terms of economics it's extremely important to understand the intuition behind the majority of the concepts that are taught. In this class, I felt very unable to gain said intuition and the course probably taught me more about mathematics and modeling then it did the actual concepts. I highly recommend taking ECON 1010a even if you feel that you'll be able to handle the mathematics in this course.
Very interesting, thought-provoking and you learn a lot about policy decisions, but you need to be very comfortable with higher level math.
This class is very hard, but if you can handle being challenged and not getting a perfect score on everything, and can appreciate the difficult material you learn, then you should definitely take this.
I hesitated for a very long time trying to make a choice between Ec1010a and Ec1011a. I definitely do not regret my choice: it is amazing to learn to explain real life  intuitive (maybe) economic results through mathematical models. I came in with almost no Economic background (I haven't taken Ec10a) so that didn't help as I was often lacking intuition. Professor Glaeaser truly cares about his students and about this course that he's been teaching for all these years. However, there was a huge issue with the teaching staff this year; apart from the head TF who was more or less helpful, the two other TFs almost did not exist; they would never check and answer questions on Piazza, would only hold a 1 hour office hour and 1 section per week .
Glaeser is a genius and a master professor. The material and coursework will be extremely challenging, and if you do not have good TFs, you will suffer. If you do not keep up with the material, you will suffer more.
This course was a great introduction to modeling and helped to explain real world concepts in mathematical terms!
This class is definitely not easy.  That being said, Glaeser is a great lecturer, who has swaggy suits.  During class, the first 1/2 will consist of learning some economic theory and as a class talking about how to model some problem talking about pros and cons etc.  The 2nd half, Glaeser will do some math super quickly on the board you can't follow along.  The sections were horrible, but thankfully the CAs were able to help keep this course manageable.
This class provides an interesting and mathematically rigorous approach to microeconomics. However, for every 20 lines of work on the problem sets, there will likely be 1 line of economic intuition, and 19 lines of algebraic simplification. If you're considering this course, be prepared to do lots of algebra (and hopefully be good at doing it quickly).
This is definitely the best course I have taken at Harvard. Glaeser is extremely inspiring and intelligent. Most importantly, he cares about teaching and listens to feedbacks. Each class starts with a 20 minutes discussion on real-world issues and then dives into taking derivatives. Sure it will be a tough class, but as Glaeser put it, you should be maximizing knowledge, not GPA. That being said, I recommend going over lecture slides before every assignment and reading them before class, if possible.
Very hard, but very worth it. I learned a ton. Don't take it for a good grade, although the median is usually an A- or a B+ in the end. I don't regret taking it, even if it was really hard.
Pros: Ed Glaeser is a good lecturer and a really smart guy. I enjoyed lectures, except for when I got totally lost (which was very often, since they were so fast paced). Cons: One major aspect that I think could use improvement is organization. For one, there's no textbook that we follow, meaning our only available resource were lecture slides. The slides, however, are often long and mired in math; it was not clear to me, on more than one occasion, which material from the slides we were expected to know and which we weren't. Furthermore, I felt that the problem sets were not helpful in learning the concepts that we were expected to understand. Often the problem sets themselves were badly written and unclear, and I felt like I had little recourse when unable to understand how to solve the problems (especially since the course staff is VERY unresponsive on Piazza - shamefully so). Finally, there was little to no feedback given on any problem sets or modeling projects. Most problem sets I receive back with no mark other than a simple check! Clearly I get things wrong, but the course staff fails to bother to mark those parts. This is frankly lazy. These aspects of the course make me unable to recommend it.
This class is incredibly difficult but also incredibly rewarding. Professor Glaeser is a great instructor, and will expose you to a number of fascinating economic topics. It's definitely important to have a strong background in multivariable calculus in order to do well.The class is a lot of work too. Luckily, psets are graded based on completion, which is definitely a godsend. Overall this is a great class if you're looking for some mathematical rigor in your economics classes.
There are two main reasons to take this class. First and foremost, the class imparts upon you a way of thinking. Professor Glaeser not only presents established models in Microeconomics, but also their justification. Moreover, he encourages critical thinking in assessing the shortcomings and insights of these--as well as models you yourself may create. Every class begins with a broad topic which Glaeser walks the class through by asking and talking about the parts that are relevant to the construction of a mathematical model. A large part of your final grade is also the completion of three modeling projects, which test your ability to take purposefully ambiguous questions and do something with them.In addition, the class sharpens your computation. The problem sets require computational fortitude as you wade through a sea of variables--not just Greek and Roman letters, but lowercase, uppercase, and annotated with all sorts of funky symbols. If you cannot take partial derivatives with ease, this class will pose a struggle. The midterm and final themselves hinge on the ability to do these computations at a very fast pace (they are intentionally written so that the average student will only have time to get through half of it). Thus, by the end of this class, I feel that my ability to knock out the algebra to focus on the core economics has dramatically increased.
Take this over 1010 if you want a rigorous understanding of microeconomic theory. But, be weary that this course is extremely difficult.
Be prepared to really commit to learning the material on your own no graded p sets
It's a hard class and be prepared to spend a lot of time on it. It is more a math course than an economics course, but is nevertheless extremely interesting and relevant.
Take this class. Prof. Glaeser is great.
This has been by far the most rigorous and rewarding course I've taken at Harvard. It's math heavy, so make sure you're confident in your calculus (esp. taking partial derivatives) skills. More than that though, if you're at all interested in economics and the modelling of real-life problems, take this class. It's not easy, you'll spend countless hours trying to understand the pset questions and modelling projects, and the mean score on the final is always about 50%. Don't take the class if you want an easy A, take this class because you want to be challenged and get a real taste for what higher-lever grad school economics might be like.
The following conditions are necessary and sufficient for your enrollment in Ec 1011a:1. You have taken at least Math 21a.2. You have an interest in economics or want to take an economics class but aren't sure which one to take.3. Glaeser is still teaching it.If you satisfy the above three conditions, you do not need to continue reading this Q guide. Just enroll in the class. Your returns on investment will be high, your heart will be gushing with positive externalities, and -- despite the class having a monopoly on your Monday nights -- you will have made the utility-maximizing decision.
If you're up for the challenge, this is an extremely rewarding class. Glaeser is a fantastic lecturer, the topics you cover are all very interesting, and I feel like I grew a lot. Just be ready for an extremely difficult course as well.
In one of the last lectures, Professor Glaeser mentions that the point of a Harvard education is to maximize knowledge, not GPA. I think that sentiment sums up this course - if you're willing to put in the work, it pays off. You learn a lot about economics, about creating models, and about topical issues, but you have to wade through some frankly dishearteningly low medians on projects and exams first. This class is not for the faint of heart, but it's well worth it in the end.
very difficult, rewarding, but you may still feel like you don't understand economics at the end of it.
Don't take this class unless you know you can devote A LOT of time to it. My one regret is that I couldn't make it to a lot of office hours, which resulted in a lot of cramming at the end of the week before problem sets were due.
A good class where you can learn a lot of economics, but a heavy workload. I would take this class if you have good math skills and are serious about learning economics from a very mathematical standpoint.
Do not take this course unless you are very, very interested in economics and have good understanding of calculus. If you are motivated enough, it can be an interesting course.
Teach yourself. The professor/section are useless.
Because this course was taught by a visiting professor, the class seemed to suffer.
Be prepared to work hard, and not understand a lot of things at times
Take it. Challenging but rewarding. Good for transcript.
do check out the professor, he can make or break your desire to major in economics (guess which type I am).
I would recommend it to people with a strong math background
If you want to learn something fascinating in a mathematical context and are willing to put some work in, take this great class!
Nothing.
dont take this class with HLH
The material is interesting but this year it was very poorly taught and disorganized
Very interesting material, terrible professor.
I can't tell much, since I had a visiting professor.
This is the worst class at Harvard. You have no support at all. I would never, ever, ever, take this class again and I strongly hope the professor is fired and removed from academia for being an incompetent moron.
Skip the lecture, attend section, do the workbook.
Need to be very comfortable with advanced calculus
Do no expect to be taught the material properly.
The class is very poorly organized and taught, it is hard to learn if you don't understand it already.  I would definitely NOT recommend it.
If you want a rigorous, mathematical version of the economics you learned in AP or SA 10, take this course.
This course is excellent, but hard no matter how you slice it. One might take it purely as an elective but I believe that it's better to reserve this class for those students who might find some concentration benefit from it. Ec 1010 or Ec 10 are quite good for those who simply want a taste of economics, whereas Ec 1011a is designed moreso for those students who intend to utilize the ideas discussed in the future.
wait until Glaeser teaches it again.
This class is for someone who not only is solid on their understanding of multivariate calculus but is also prepared to learn vast amounts of the material on their own, without help from the professor or teaching fellows. Even those with a strong math background may struggle if they have difficulty learning material on their own.
I know that this year was an extenuating circumstance, and difficult to organize, so the issues we had this year are likely just temporary.
Well, I got screwed this time with a professor that was pretty terrible.  Stick to 1010a unless Glaeser gets back (probably misspelled, whatever).
Don't take this class, per my above comments. There's just no upside.
Economics department here is a joke
If you're good at math and you want an introduction to economics and an A, take this class.
Probably a good class, with interesting material. But this year's professor was chronically late with promised notes, and lectured in a way that didn't cover any of the material on the midterm, focusing only on theory (much of which is covered in Ec 10)
Only take it if you feel confident about your problem solving skills. There's a lot of math.
interesting and potentially useful
Difficult, but worth it.
Make sure that you are okay with the class structure!
Its better than Ec 10, and smaller!
Don't take it if Glaeser isn't teaching it
You have to be fully interested in economics and willing to put up with a really poorly taught course.
If you devote yourself, you can learn a lot of interesting mathematical models.  Glaeser's notes are telling, especially on the last lectures.
A necessary evil.  Teaching was subpar.
Taking this class is not much different from self-learning the material, except that you'll get credit for it.
Read professor Glaeser's notes.
In order to get anything out of it, you have to be motivated to work on the problem sets.
For people who like math and mathematical modeling.
takes a lot of personal effort/time outside of lecture to learn the material
Take it ONLY if you're very interested in the mathematical side of economics. As an economics course, it's not very good. The math part is ok, though.
i got lucky i didnt have prof glaeser
Although this class is interesting, it exposes many of the flaws in economic thought, such as many assumptions about rationality. It definitely stimulates thought about the matter.
This is the worst class I have taken so far at Harvard.  It is poorly taught but the assignments are extremely difficult.  I will likely leave the class with a poorer understanding of microeconomics than I would have liked.
Regardless of the professor, this course has raised doubts in my mind about the commitment of the Economics department at Harvard to undergraduate education and the provision of a challenging environment that nurtures individual student interest in the field.  While I found the subject material fascinating, I was disappointed with the degree to which I had to rely on intrinsic motivation to convince myself to spend time outside of lecture on the class.
Don't take this class with this professor.  It was by far the most terrible course I have ever taken at Harvard.
I wouldn't recommend this class, especially with the visiting professor teaching it. One of the biggest mistakes I made at Harvard was not dropping this course on time and instead taking ec1010a.
Interesting course but material is not that accessible.
If you know multivariable calculus well, the class is very easy, and has some useful and interesting material.
If they change the professor, I might recommend it.
If it's not Gleaser teaching it, don't take it.
You should take the course, but the responsibility is yours to see that you actually learn stuff.
I have no experience with EC1010a, but my guess is that if you can handle the extra math, there is more to be gained from EC1011a.
If you want to learn more about economics and see how math explains it, this is the course to take.
Only take it as a requirement. Only take it with a different professor. Only take it if you're interested in the subject and enjoy math.
If you're an economics concentrator, you might figure you should take the "Advanced" track and therefore take 1011a instead of 1010a.  But really, unless you really like the math and see yourself using such math with economics in the future, you might as well take 1010a.  In retrospect it wasn't a good choice to take 1011a, and you should either unless you're an applied math/ec concentrator or just insane.
The tools learned in this class are invaluable for an ec concentrator. But those tools have to be taught well, and have to be taught properly.
I would not recommend the course if it was like my experience this year. However, simple changes - such as having graded problem sets, better communication between the professor and TFs, and having problems and materials relevant to the present class (as opposed to recycling problems and material from last year) would improve this curse substantially.
Sometimes I would feel like throwing something at Glaeser and walking out of class since he jumped and sped and lost everyone so often. It is demotivating and demoralizing to be unable to follow lecture despite having a math and economics background and despite trying hard to understand what is going on.
This class will make you understand what it means to be graded on a curve.
Though the class has flaws and is difficult to keep up with, it is the most interesting material and one of the most intellectually engaging classes I have taken at Harvard.
EC 1011a is a very difficult class, but also a thorough treatment of microeconomic theory. It is great to build all of the material from scratch. Real comfort with multivariable calculus is really needed, and some background in optimization and convexity might prove helpful. (Think Math 116). Professor Glaeser's lectures (and especially his policy discussions) are engaging. That said, the class also suffers from some severe teaching problems.The class really needs a coherent, comprehensive set of study materials, whether this be notes or a textbook. It is very frustrating to have to study from fragmentary lecture notes. The section notes were promised but never posted online. Same thing with Scribe notes. I would suggest that Professor Glaeser should either follow someone else's textbook, or write his own. Two of the problem sets were impossible to solve, and it is frustrating to spend hours on them just to see the problems cancelled at the last minute. The exams put a lot of emphasis on algebraic manipulation, at the expense of testing real understanding of the material. It ends up being such that the grading of the exams will reward pre-existing math and test-taking skills rather than understanding of the material taught in 1011a. The modelling projects are hard, and very little to no feedback is provided on them (as more generally with the work done in this class.) The grading of the projects also appears to be inconsistent.
This course is a great general introduction to the mathematics of human behavior, as conceived by an economist. If you are interested in developing the quantitative tools to study problems ranging from crime to work-leisure balance to discrimination, then you should consider taking this course.The only reason NOT to take the course would be if you aren't able to make yourself comfortable with multivariable calculus. In practice, this pretty much comes down to variations on a single optimization problem ( max{f(a,b)} s.t. constraint ), so if you're cool with taking partial derivatives and solving systems of equations (or committed to making yourself "cool" in this respect), then you should be totally fine. That said, understanding the ins and outs of all of Glaeser's slides (which are great) does require some mathematical maturity, as his material is loosely based on a graduate-level text from the 90s.Yes, this course can be intimidating. Yes, lecture will go over your head if you don't read the slides in advance. Yes, the course will require you to sludge through algebra on a weekly basis. But if you are committed to putting in the work, you will leave the course with a desire to digest the social world with the mathematics of optimization, or as Glaeser himself put it, to "understand the world through first-order conditions."
I came in with basically no economics background and very little "applied" math background (took Calc AB in high school and Math 23 freshman year, so didn't know the derivative of ln x off the top of my head coming in), and had a blast in the class. Section was really useful, Glaeser is basically an experience you have to have at Harvard, and you get a super-quick crash course in economic intuition and the ability to model, both of which you really don't get in Ec 1010 from what I hear from my friends. Would recommend if only just for the experience of hearing Glaeser talk, but also for a super super quick and intense crash course in learning economics.
I would recommend it with enthusiasm, but only to those who are prepared to handle it.
Even a math 21a background can sometimes feel inadequate for the math in this class. DO THE PROBLEM SETS
This course is very difficult. Problem sets take a very long time, the other people in this class are very smart, and the lectures can be intimidating. That being said, if you take the time to learn the material it is rewarding.
You can really get a lot out of this course if you're willing to put the time in to understand all of the cool nuances and unintuitive (or intuitive) results discussed in class.
It's a lot of work, but you know what you're getting into. It's not an impossible class and if you love math, it's pretty awesome. I would say it's largely worth it, since I love the feeling of setting up a model and seeing my intuition and logical results coming from it. The projects are a LOT of work (I think I spent around 12-15 hours on each of the 3) but the psets themselves are not TOO bad, especially since they're graded basically on completion, not accuracy.
Don't take this class if you don't like taking partial derivatives.
The assignments are not easy, so find a good group of peers to work with and get to know the TFs and CAs well early on. Glaeser's lectures are so-so, and you will need to put in additional work outside of class to really gain a good grasp of the material.
A very tough but rewarding course. You'll leave it feeling very confident in your ability to model microeconomic phenomena.
The class will be very hard, and will take a lot of time; however, I learned a lot and enjoyed the class. The material is very interesting and you will learn a lot past basic ec10.
This class is fantastic. It's tedious, but eventually taking partials becomes easy. Glaeser is an amazing lecturer and you learn a ton. Definitely worth it.
This is a great, albeit very difficult course, be comfortable with algebra and multivariable calc BEFORE coming into the class and read the lecture slides before hand and you will have a great experience learning a lot from one of the best professors you will have ever had.
This class is fantastic, and Professor Glaeser is the best, but review your multivariable calculus before you take this class!
The first half of the course is about optimization. The second half of the course consists of optimization and Ec10 mumbo-jumbo jumbled further.
Don't fall behind. Catching up takes manifold the effort. Be ready for a rewarding but challenging experience.
Take it - it is a really comprehensive introduction to economics
This is a great class that equips you with a more structured way of understanding the world. It lets you transform real world problems into tangible, tractable models and pushes you to think about solutions with great policy relevance from an economist's perspective. Definitely take this course and you'll learn a ton.
This class is very difficult.  It requires time spent outside of assigned work.  Glaeser is a great lecturer and you should attend all of his lectures.  TFs will be pretty useless, so get what you can out of them.  If this isn't the most challenging course you're taking this semester, you're likely (not surely) way in over your head.
If you don't mind algebra-bashing, I would highly recommend the course if you are at all interested in economics. This class really does help you see the world around you in a more quantitative and rigorous way. That said, be warned that the most interesting part of the class definitely comes towards the end. The tests are brutally difficult, the modeling projects are definitely not to be procrastinated, and the psets are non-trivial if you want to get anything out of them, but this class isn't the massive time-suck I think it's made out to be. Glaeser is the epitome of the classic Harvard professor, and his topic lectures alone make this class worth taking.
If you are passionate about economics and are willing to work hard, this the best class.  Just make sure your math background is adequate (Math 21a or equivalent) and stay on top of the material.  Go to section, go to office hours, and work with peers because the lectures are excellent but move very quickly.  Take advantage of opportunities to interact with Professor Glaeser...he is brilliant!
If you want a mathy approach to economics, this class is for you.
This class is challenging, and the lectures are much more interesting and engaging than the 1010a lectures.  However, I feel that the course was SO challenging that I missed out on learning the basics. I had a strong background in multi-var calc and econ from both high school and freshman year at Harvard, and I struggled big-time in this course.  As much as I enjoyed Prof Glaeser and his lectures, I wish I had taken 1010a so I could have a solid understanding of intermediate material instead of a shaky understanding of advanced material.
Aside from the fact that you learn a lot of cool and varied content, Ec 1011a is a class that makes you aware of what you do to model something -- anything -- mathematically. It's hard, if perhaps not as much as its reputation warrants, but (usually) rightfully so (except for the occasional crazy problem, but then everyone thinks it's crazy). Organization could be better, though generally there's plenty of office hours and peers for support. All in all - it's time and it's effort, but you get a good deal out (and not just ec).
Professor Glaeser is an incredible lecturer and person overall, but this course oscillates wildly between amazing and awful. You learn a lot very quickly, but be prepared to put in the work.
This class is incredibly well taught, but be prepared to be very challenged. You get what you put in for this course, so if you're not prepared to put in the hours, don't take it.
Great class. Very interesting material. Although challenging, it was also very rewarding.
This course has its definite strengths and weaknesses. It has amazing lectures - Professor Glaeser is one of the premier economists in his field (he specializes in cities) and an incredible, engaging lecturer. That said, sometimes lecture can be overwhelming - once he moves into doing partial derivatives on the board, he moves at lightning speed and it takes an entire semester to learn how to follow him so quickly. The problem sets are difficult and extremely time-consuming, but they're graded on a completion basis, so they really shouldn't be much of a stresser. The midterm and final are brutal. That said, I learned so much in this class, and anyone who is remotely interested in economics should take this class; it teaches you how to think like an economist and gives you a really great idea of what graduate economics work might be like.
If you want to take this class, be ready to do a lot of independent learning. Also, get a study group with whom to do the p-sets.
This class is difficult, no sugarcoating it. What's more, I feel like it was much more needlessly complex math than actually learning economic concepts. In fact, I feel like the crazy math the include in problems actually hindered my understanding of some things. This class is good for learning how to model, that's what sets it apart from 1010. Otherwise, go with the easier class.
I took this course as a freshman, with a background in multivariable calculus and introductory economics. ONLY take this class if you are super comfortable with deriving a lot of partial derivatives at high speed. I am more social sciences oriented, so I am not as practiced in the math as some of my colleagues in the course, and they were eable to get through much more of the tests, even if I felt like what I could get through on the tests I got through correctly. Glaeser makes the course much more interesting than Economics 1010, so if you have the heart to stomach longer problem sets and a lot of math, this course will be much more engaging.
Very hard, but also extremely interesting
This class is not easy: it required a large time investment for me to do problem sets and review the material. However, if you have a strong math background, you will be fine (though in order to get a solid A, you have to beat the countless physics and math concentrators who take the class). The modeling projects are difficult but informative. (Make sure to start them early.) 1011a will teach you how to theoretically model real-world decisions. The applications to addiction, used car markets, etc. are fascinating, although our models are usually too simple to provide very realistic results. Glaeser's lectures are good at explaining concepts, although they sometimes left me lost. I think Glaeser is genuinely well-intentioned and cares a lot about whether students understand the material. At the same time, he is condescending when students ask questions that he deems stupid, which makes it very hard to ask questions in class. Other than that, he does try hard to elicit class participation and isn't angry when people give wrong answers. He gives a lot of real-world applications, which is super helpful.The TF's seemed like they were doing a good job. My TF was Andrew Das Sarma, who was very knowledgeable despite being an undergraduate. He did an excellent job of explaining key issues and going over problems in class, and he made sure to focus on the topics that were most confusing to students. However, although Andrew was happy to answer questions, he was not very nice to people who gave wrong answers. This aspect could be improved, though he did a great job overall.One final comment: While a lot of people complain about the difficulty of problem sets, I thought that was an asset. The psets are graded on a check/no check basis, and if you submit anything basic, you'll get full credit. Therefore, if you really think they're THAT DIFFICULT, you can still BS them and do fine. At the same time, they really forced me to think about and grapple with the material, and I got a lot out of that process.
Economics 1011a is a challenge, but it's probably the best introduction to higher-level economics - beyond the supply/demand graphs - that one can get.  You learn how to use math to tackle some of the most prevalent policy issues of our day (ex: our final project was to determine the effectiveness of different health insurance policies) from a world-famous professor who really knows what he's doing.  Some of the teaching staff aren't super-helpful, but Andrew was a truly fantastic TF.  If you like to work things out with math instead of making blind ideological statements about world issues, take this course!
This class was amazing, one of the best courses I took at Harvard. However, just be prepared to not get the grade you would have easily gotten taken 1010. If you are fine with a worse grade and want to learn a tremendous amount take this class.
This class is insanely hard, but you will learn a way of thinking about the world and analyzing things that you could never have imagined without it. It's got problems like any other class, sometimes significant problems, but at the end you will be satisfied with how much you have grown and what you have learned.
Glaeser is the man!
When in doubt, take the chain rule.
No prior Econ experience is necessary. You just need to be fast at taking multivariable derivatives and algebraic manipulation. This course is definitely worth your time if you did well in multivariable calc.
Amazing Professor
material is phenomenal and at times extremely beautiful. Glaeser is good at talking about economics but pretty bad at teaching the math behind it. If you are willing to self-study the entire course, then take it and it will be a phenomenal experience, but don't except any of the teaching staff to lead you to insights. I'm glad I took this course and it's taught me a ridiculous amount about micro and modeling, I am interested in graduate school in economics; I feel like if I wasn't interested in graduate school the reward-to-work ratio of this course would not be worth it.
I would highly highly encourage you to take this class. You learn so much if you put in the effort, and it is extremely difficult for almost everyone taking it, but that makes it that much more rewarding.
This class does not underestimate its students. If you like thinking about mathematical models and work through the algebra to reach an applicable conclusion you will enjoy this class. The problem sets are engaging and sometimes tedious but they are basically not graded so students have the freedom to think about the ideas more thoroughly. Prof. Glaeser is an amazing lecturer and he takes pride in making this class engaging, diverse and difficult. You will focus more on developing models rather than textbook Ec10-style approaches and jargon.
Through many hours of work and confusion, this class opened my eyes to a different way of thinking about the world. If you're considering taking the class, be very comfortable with math, and be prepared to spends lots of time working on homework and projects without much guidance from the teaching staff. If you put in the time, you can get a lot out of the course.
Ec 1011a is a very interesting and very challenging course. Though experiences vary across individuals, it is generally difficult to learn all of the material well. Professor Glaeser is enthusiastic and engaging during lectures. He begins each of them with an applied policy problem from the real world, which it extremelely intriguing and helps make the mathematics seem real and relevant. The mathematical components of the lectures are often quite difficult to understand, which is unfortunate, so one should make sure to allot plently of time for office hour help and section visits. Problem sets are very heavy on algebraic manipulations with a plethora of variables. Taking derivatives suddenly becomes more difficult as the student deals with function composition, multivariable functions, and the quetsion of applying the envelope theorem. While the mathematics are rewarding and challenging, they really feel like a pain. The course is not organized wonderfully across the various components, and the lack of an accompanying text is a weakness. Personally, I think I should I spent more time with TFs, in section, and reading the optional textbook. The material did not immediately make sense to me. In conclusion, this is a hard class, but it is a very good microeconomic theory course. For mathematically comfortable students of economics, this course is a must -- even though it has weaknesses, it is way better than 1010a. For others, this may not be a good choice.
Prepare to take a lot of partial derivatives.
I love this class, I love Ed Glaeser, I love economics
This class is challenging-- very. Beware that you really do need a very strong math foundation. It's a great class and it's worth the extra work but only if you can actually get something out of it, (and it's difficult to learn much if you don't satisfy the prerequisites, even math 21a people struggled quite a bit).
The class can have a lot of brute math, but Professor Glaeser is an amazing lecturer, and it is a great introduction to modeling.
Get ready to do Lagranges upon Lagranges.
Edward Glaeser is an excellent lecturer with a wonderful dry sense of humor, and his lectures were usually the highlights of the day (it helps that urban economics, one of my primary interests, is also his research specialty).  However, the homework assignments often felt unnecessarily difficult, requiring far more expenditure of effort on doing messy algebra than on understanding the problem.  We also received poor guidance on the modeling projects that made up a quarter of our grade, and whose grading was quite ill-explained.  (Then of course there's the absurdity of making and giving grades to economic models without any empirical data to test if the model is valid; when I asked Professor Glaeser about this, he said that he agreed, but that making models from data was a topic for econometrics rather than for theory.)If you are not an economics concentrator, consider auditing the course and attending the lectures instead of taking it for a grade, especially if you have a heavy problem-set workload otherwise.  I did enjoy 1011a a lot, and its status as the first rigorous course for students coming out of Ec 10 is responsible for many of its shortcomings, but much could still be done to improve it.(One last note on the prerequisites: 1011a was my first ever economics course.  If you have taken single-variable calculus but not Ec 10 or similar, then if you ask a friend for a ten-minute explanation of how to compute a partial derivative and spend half an hour leafing through an AP Microeconomics review book, you should be fine.)
Professor Glaeser is a genius and his lectures are interesting but he moves extremely fast. Most days walking out of lecture you feel like you took in a quarter of what was actually said. This course is the hardest course I've taken at Harvard and while being an interesting subject, for me it was simply too hard to enjoy the class. I felt in over my head throughout the course, and walking away I wish that the class had been a bit easier to follow.
I made it a whole lot clearer and more natural by adding a whole bunch of algebra.  Professor GlaeserIf algebraic confusion is the light of your life, you're in for a treat.  Professor GlaeserI can't control myself. I have to write down first-order conditions.  Professor Glaeser"What's the sign?" - Professor GlaeserThese quotes should give you some idea of what to expect from this course. You will take and sign a lot of partial derivatives and deal with algebraic messes on a regular basis. Modeling projects are very difficult, but also rewarding. Problem sets are also difficult, but essentially only graded for completion. Get to know some of your classmates as you do problem sets - your peers are among the most intelligent math and physics people at Harvard. It's all but impossible to get an A, but almost everyone gets a B+ or A-. This applies even though I consistently had one of the top scores on Ec 10 exams and excelled in Math 21a. I looked forward to Glaeser's lectures twice a week. The quotes above are a glimpse at how funny he could be (it took a lot of restraint not to write more), but it was genuinely fascinating watching him fill up eight chalkboards with derivatives so quickly it was impossible to follow (so don't worry if you don't understand what's going on - just copy furiously and be sure to add in a few Glaeserisms!) Between these lectures, problem sets, projects, and exams, you'll model almost anything you can imagine, from cities to hatred. Economic intuition is almost never completely lost in algebra. You'll be terrified of exam scores in the 30s, but don't worry - the curve takes care of it.What's the sign of U(1011) - U(1010)? Positive.
This is the only real undergrad econ class at Harvard.  If you want to understand what economics is really about / what economists do for a living, take this class.  Also, useful general knowledge for understanding how the world works.
only take this class if you are VERY INTERESTED in mathematical economics. i took this class "for fun"...bad choice. 1011a is a great class, but if you aren't passionate about it, you're going to hate it. it asks a lot of you and is often frustratingly difficult, and it's not worth it unless you are seriously interested in math+econprofessor glaeser is wonderful though. i always enjoyed his lectures. i also thought it was very nice of him to take his students out to lunch
If you have the appropriate mathematics background (i.e. you can take a partial derivative) and you're willing to work, I can almost guarantee that this will be one of the most rewarding and challenging classes you will take at Harvard.  The professor is absolutely brilliant.  There won't be a lot of guidance from the teaching staff, so I would recommend finding a pset/study group.  Still, it's definitely worth it!  You'll learn how to model, which is an incredibly useful skill.
Professor Glaeser is a truly brilliant man and makes this course what it is. The modeling approach to economics provides amazing insight into difficult questions. However, if you are looking for a standard economics course to follow Ec10a, then do NOT take this class. It is unstructured in the conventional sense of economic pedagogy and I'd recommend shopping all options. But overall, amazing course!
Future students should keep up with the work in class. They should follow the proposed textbook as the lectures progress. Also, struggling with the homework may be frustrating but is necessary to obtain a good grasp on the concepts presented. Definitely get the textbook.
Professor Glaeser is a fantastic lecturer, and he will change the way you think about economics. However, the logistics of the class SUCKED. like seriously. There were sections and review sections that were cancelled without telling us. So weird. Also the course ended up being more about doing ugly algebra rather than actually developing economic intuition, which was a major disappointment for many of us.
I went to Professor Glaeser's office hours in the beginning of the year, to ask a question about the first problem set. Professor Glaeser told me that this was the first time in 20 years that a student had ever come to his office hours to ask about a problem set, and recommended that I ask a teaching fellow instead. Professor Glaeser did answer my question, but I do not think that he enjoyed answering it, or that he cared about working with me. I did not go to Professor Glaeser's office hours often after my first visit, but I often felt burdensome, especially in lecture. Professor Glaeser is not unenthusiastic, but the rhetorical questions and (seemingly) mocking comments that he makes during lecture make it appear that he does not care very much about teaching the material to students who don't already have some grasp on it. I think that this class is meant to be a signaling class--it is an opportunity for great econ students to show that they are great. I don't think it's much more than that.
A fantastic class. There really is no better way to learn economic modeling than Econ 1011. But be prepared to slug through many hours of calculusexcellent lectures but very involved problem sets and tests.
This class is the most difficult I have taken at Harvard. Glaeser is unreal - brilliant and actually so funny if you listen closely. I didn't miss a single lecture, but I also didn't ever leave feeling like I had understood what he had just lectured on. The concepts in the first few weeks are deceptively easy and he moves slowly at first, but the level of the material and the pace accelerate rapidly. Tough grading isn't a joke - 26% on the midterm and 35% on one of the projects right here. HOWEVER, it is pretty common knowledge that the grading is such that the top 10% get A's, the bottom 10% get B's, and everyone in between gets A-/B+, and even with those horrendous grades I was in B+ territory. If you want to take this class, either prepare to dedicate your life to it and get an A/A-, or take it because you're intellectually curious and you don't mind a B+ in your GPA. I took it expecting a B+, and if I could do my semester over, I would still take it! I learned more than I have in any other class, and it really does change how you think.
Literally amazeballs. Glaeser is second to none in terms of quality of lecturing, and this course actually changes the way you think about life.
It's a really great class, with not much economics background necessary. Curiosity and comfort with multivariable calculus is the only prerequisite.
If you're going to take this class, just be prepared to put a lot into it. If you aren't sure if this is the right class for you, this probably isn't the right class for you. It will frustrate you, it will confuse you, and you will be stuck on projects into the wee hours of the morning in desperation. That is, unless you're really brilliant at math, in which case you probably don't even need this Q guide to convince you that this is the right class for you. In the end, you will probably learn quite a bit, but also feel like there was a lot covered in the class that you didn't really retain. At least, that's how I feel. I guess the main difference between this class and other hard classes I have taken is that after finishing hard problems in this class, I honestly wasn't sure if it was right; economics is just sometimes very nebulous like that. All in all, though, if you feel comfortable with the math (which I'm not sure I was even ready for), then take this class for a challenge. I don't regret taking it, and you probably won't either.
Great course that teaches you how to apply mathematical models to a variety of problems.  Definitely take it if you are at all considering grad school economics.  Not that much support from the teaching staff on homework or projects so it really helps to take it with friends.  One of my favorite courses at Harvard
I would only take this class if you must. Don't pair it with another really difficult course in the same semester. It is very time consuming and challenging.
challenging class. make sure you know what you're getting into
this class is taught so badly! they teach you how to model AFTER you handed in in 3 modeling projects. they breeze through the material and the psets are generally very difficult to finish and theres a huge incentive not to finish anyway. get a study group ASAP.
This course is going to be difficult. Try not to fall behind in P-Sets because that will make the assessments and examination extremely difficult.
Incredible introduction to modeling economic phenomena. It's a hell of a ride, but you're going to love every bit of it.
Take the course if you are comfortable learning things on your own. The lectures start off by being quite instructive but trail off towards becoming gibberish towards the end. There is no textbook and the TFs honestly don't provide any help. They tell you to think... and to try and figure out for yourself if your thinking makes sense or if it doesn't. There is no indication given as to whether you are on the right or wrong track. Honestly take it if you are willing to put enough effort into learning things on your own.
Make sure you think through your decision to take this class. You will be challenged - but not necessarily in a good way. You may find yourself working incredibly hard on problem sets / projects and yet taking very little away in terms of actual knowledge. Glaeser's a brilliant professor and gives awesome lectures, but the course suffers from a poor teaching staff (both in terms of organization and ability to teach) and a substantial disconnect between material tested and material taught. The math wizards get by fine, but prepare to be frustrated if you don't have Math 23+ background knowledge. In the end, this course just didn't feel all that rewarding despite its immense difficulty - if you're not that strong mathematically (or comfortable teaching yourself difficult material without much assistance), you may actually get more out of Ec1010 because you'll actually be able to understand what's going on!
Great course if you're willing to put in the hours. Try to keep up in a textbook and review slides often. It's easy to fall behind.
The class is a lot of work, but certainly both entertaining and informative. One of my favorite classes at Harvard so far.
This was an amazing class with an amazing professor--anyone who likes economics AND math ought to take it. General economic principles are taught through optimization problems; in particular, real world situations are modeled making it far more interesting and Professor Glaeser forces students to take a turn at modeling which, despite being incredibly hard, was incredibly rewarding. Don't be frightened by low exam averages, etc. The one negative is that homework and the midterm ended up being a lot of algebra bashing and it was easy to lose sight of the underlying economic principles.
Be sure you're up for it.  The class is a big commitment, and may be one of the more challenging classes you take.
Um. It's quite hard. But it's also interesting. So it's up to you to maximize your utility depending on how much you value learning interesting new things over maintaining your sanity during finals period. But in all seriousness, this is a great course with fascinating lecture material, though if you want to start off on the right foot, it helps to be very comfortable with multivariable calc. Prof Glaeser is an awesome professor who can bash out calculus ridiculously fast. Those projects that you get 2 weeks to do? He could probably do those in half an hour. But by the end, you'll hopefully have a better grasp or modeling and more of an intuition for economics. And you'll really dread hearing the question, "What's the sign?"
Make sure you have a balanced workload the semester you taket his course to get the most out of it.
Engaging lectures by Professor Glaeser, but the modeling projects can oftentimes be a drag.
Take the course if you are very good at math (yeah, I mean good by Harvard standard), have some knowledge of econ OR you are a math genius and want to check some econ.If you are in neither of these categories you probably will get scared of the class after the super of fast lecture and marathon derivative taking of Professor Glaeser anyway. Now remember that even if you are good this class is hard. So don't take this as your fourth or fifth class. Also remember that the only good study material for this class is the lecture slides. They are extremely good. So study them from the beginning.Seeing professor Glaeser take partial derivatives is like seeing Usain Bolt's 100m sprint! So take the course.
This is an exceptionally difficult course, and not one to be taken lightly.  If you have any reservations about taking this course, postpone your enrollment until you feel more prepared.
Be prepared to spend a very long time on the problem sets.
This course is very difficult. It is also very rewarding. If you're not planning on devoting more time to this course than any other, Ec 1011a may not be the best for you this semester. But if you are willing to devote double-digit hours per week and per assignment, and if you are comfortable with multivariable calculus (or, basically, the chain rule), this can be a tremendous course. I entered it planning on majoring in Economics, but mostly via process-of-elimination, without the full-throttle enthusiasm I hoped for. But I left this course thinking about almost everything in terms of economics. The modeling component of this course is something especially key that you won't find in 1010a--learning how to think about models (and weeping/struggling with your own on the very hard projects) provides a new understanding for viewing the world. Prof. Glaeser is a strong lecturer (albeit you may glaze over during his chalkboard calculus excursions), and his class is a good one.
People say this class is hard, but people say lots of classes are hard. Chem 20, for instance--but Chem 20 is just fine if you put in the time to go to office hours and understand the concepts. I took this class with similar expectations. However, this class is hard not because of the content but because there is no support. Inadequate explanation of the concepts, inadequate/nonexistent office hours with TAs and CAs, inadequate/nonexistent practice problems and tests (with inadequate explanations on the solutions) and inadequate feedback on psets! So, good luck, but there's not really a reason to take it because they don't make an effort to actually help you learn the material. Prof. Glaeser also enjoys reading equations quickly so he can look cool/smart and make people confused, instead of focusing on explaining concepts thoroughly.
Prof Glaesers class needs to be reformed. It is a confused class seeking an identity. Prof Glaeser rushes over several very important areas in economics  such as externalities-so that he can demonstrate how economic modeling can be used to describe any situation in life from marriage to crime to having children. That is exciting but most of us knew that anything can be modeled. He does the students (some have whom have EC 10 and some of whom do not) a disservice by not going more deeply into some fundamental economics issues. What I found unacceptable was that there was no reading list for this class (particularly as there was also no textbook that could really be followed). There were no articles assigned! There were only Prof Glaesers words and the TFs. We know that Prof Glaeser has no equal. Unfortunately, we also know that not all TFs are equal. TFs can be : serious, coherent, caring (I have had such TFs in quite rigorous maths and stat courses) or they can be: incoherent, unable to communicate in English, uncaring, unable to explain why different (from theirs) models shouldnt work equally wellEc1011 has this type. If TFs cannot explain why they prefer certain models over others, what alternative models might be created to assess the same problem, why some do not work etc..THEN HOW IS THIS A CLASS THAT TEACHES MODELLING. If modeling projects are assigned, there should be a clear grading key (for a subject that is so mathematical the subjectivity of the grading was unacceptable) for projects. Projects are assigned with no reading list assigned. And to top it all: one of the TFs writes notes to the class in which he suggests that if students read and borrowed from other peoples papers then it might be considered plagiarism! Of course, no one had bothered to mention that we could not read and borrow from other peoples articles. Moreover, I am sure there are no published papers that could solve all the projects assigned to us. I love maths and I love (d) economics. I still love maths. As I understood it, mathematics is a tool to do economics. You would not have thought so in this class. I should have taken another maths course instead. It would have been more sensible. He needs to decide whether this class is for economists or not. Or, whether this class is an attempt to show mathematicians and scientists that economists can be as rigorous as they are. If the objective is the latter, it is a pitiful one. Economics and mathematics are both extremely interesting and useful subjects and economists do not need to feel that they are lesser.
Professor Glaeser is an amazing lecturer and so far the best I have had at Harvard. The course is hard, and be sure to know your calculus before. Be aware of the three projects, they can be time consuming.
It is hard, it will test your creativity, intuition, and analytical skills; but you will learn how to model.
I loved this course for the economic real world applications, but hated it for the nearly intolerable slog of multivariable calculus on the p-sets. I would say I'm pretty comfortable with multi, but when a single equation gets to be nearly a page long by itself (a nearly weekly occurrence), it's not the calculus that's the problem--it's the algebra. If you don't like math, don't take this course. But if you can tolerate (or enjoy, for you masochists) pages upon pages of algebra, this course is both enlightening and informative.
Professor Glaesar is an incredible lecturer! Definitely take this class over Ec 1010a. Just beware of the projects...start those early!
Challenging, rewarding course with absolutely phenomenal professor but largely unhelpful TAs
It is a very difficult class that will definitely challenge you, but I am very glad to have taken it. The modeling projects also give you a good taste of what it is like to be an actual economist.
The returns to effort in this class are thoroughly random. If you are confused in the first week, expect to continue being confused. The only reason you will not fail is that everyone else is similarly confused. But this is not the best way to spend a giant portion of your time in any given semester. Take a class where you will actually improve. Where the TFs/CAs give you useful feedback. Where you do not rage quit halfway through every pset.
You will learn a lot from this but be prepared to be intimidated by the complicated math and morale shuttering exams and projects. The projects are also incredibly hard.
Be prepared to spend a heck of a lot of time in this class. You don't need to know much beyond basic Ec 10 going in, but you'll have to learn a lot quickly. Go to office hours! By the end, you'll have a new appreciation for the more quantitative side of economics (and be able to take the derivative of absolutely. everything.).
This is a wonderful course, with wonderful lectures featuring Prof. Glaeser and his sardonic humor. The problem sets, projects, and exams are all very challenging, but finding a good group of people to work with and brushing up on your speed multivariable chain rule and Lagrange multipliers will definitely help. I'm really glad I took this course and it teaches very useful modeling skills.
This class is extremely tough but extremely rewarding. Whether it is the right class for you depends on your interest. The math is challenging, but all you really need to know is how to take a partial derivative and do a Lagrangian. At it's heart, this course is about modeling. If you just want to understanding microeconomics, take 1010. However, you will learn so much more in this course both about economics AND how to develop systematic ways of thinking about the world. If you have any interest in academic economics, political science, or sociology, take this course. Also, Ed Glaeser is perhaps one of the most intimidating yet kindest and interesting professors at Harvard.
Everything else about this class, except prof. Glaeser, needs a lot of improvement. The materials are arbitrary in the second half of the class -- there are no specific themes, just models after models tossed out to the bewildered students. The assignments are ridiculously long and tedious, at times unnecessarily. The TFs really don't care that much about students -- evident in their answering questions and their comments on graded homework, or lack thereof. This class should not be taken by anybody except those who are pretty set on going to Econ grad school, who love getting tortured weekly by psets, projects, or exams, or those who are curious as to "How bad can it be, dude? After all it's only a class". I then invite you to try it out yourself.Speaking of which, the worst part of this class is the projects. Not only are the prompts very vague at best, the TF also grades it quite arbitrarily. And don't think about going up to them and arguing about it, since obviously they won't listen.
Best economics class at the undergraduate level!
It was a hard class, but manageable.  If you put in effort, there's a lot of resources available that really help.  It takes a lot of time though and the assignments (problem sets, projects, exams) are all really quite hard to work through.  But it's rewarding and even (sometimes) kind of enjoyable.  The lectures are excellent.  Section's worth going to and so are office hours.
By far the best course I've taken at Harvard. Incredibly challenging, but you'll learn the core of microeconomic theory at a graduate level. Absolutely worth taking if you're at all considering studying economics beyond college, but also just a fascinating class if you like math.
Even though they seem obvious when just stated to you, you will find out on the projects that the types of models Glaeser explains in class are somehow extremely difficult to come up with yourself. Think deeply and carefully about how you might do this.At least this year, all the psets were doable in less than 5 LaTeX'ed pages. If your psets consist of pages and pages of messy algebra, learn how do to manipulations more cleanly and efficiently.Learn LaTeX, it makes psets a lot less painful to do.
I would say that this is a good class because what it aims to teach is an incredible set of tools to look at and analyze the world. That being said, it is not particularly good at teaching what it aims to teach. Prof. Glaeser puts on a good show, and lectures are interesting but if you really want to learn what 1011a has to offer you'll have to do it largely on your own. This is obviously easier for some people than others, and the course definitely does not go out of its way to provide extra support. Additional materials are sparse and often poorly explained. Get your hands on the section materials from 2011, by Zhenyu Lai. Be committed to and interested in what this class has to teach, or this will just be a waste of your time.
start your projects early! I enjoyed this class though.
Ec1011 would be a great class if it had a more dedicated teaching staff.  The TF's were generally not helpful (with the exception of Terng), and the CA's give pretty much no feedback on problem sets. Some TF's or CA's would cancel office hours with very little notice and no explanation. On the other hand, take this class if you want a taste of what a real economists does, and you are ready to slog through a lot of partial derivatives. The course really challenges you to think like a real economist does and throws a lot of models with real-world applications at you. The modeling projects were my favorite because the problem is similar to one an economist would try to model. For example, in one project I modeled an individual's investment decisions between bonds and stocks. You also get to work with other people on the first two projects. Glaeser's a really engaging professor to listen to, so don't miss lectures. Also beware that the midterm is pretty brutal in this class. I'm still glad I took this over ec1010a, though, because it introduced me to modeling from an economist's perspective and a new way of thinking about the decisions I make.
Great course to really get to see the view of the world from the perspective of an economist.  Highly recommend to anyone who wants to learn a new lens through which to see the world.
For people who take only Math21a (or equivalent), only take this class if you are really interested in mathematical thinking and are really comfortable with it. I recommend of shopping it first.
This class is unlike most at Harvard. It is frustrating, difficult, and has little or no reward at the end. I do not recommend it to anyone.
Difficult but rewarding. Also, the focus of the class is more on the mathematical side of modelling.
lol derivatives
I have really mixed feelings on this class. In some ways, I learned a lot and love it, in other ways it made my life living hell, unnecessarily. I think you learn a ton more than Ec 1010a, so if you're choosing, I would pick 1011a. I'm not that strong in math and I finished, since I really wanted to learn Ec. Unfortunately, in many ways this class prevents you from learning, since the culture is incredibly arrogant and bitter. Glaeser considers himself an "educational Calvinist", so while he's brilliant, be warned.
Lots of assignments. Homeworks ever week except exam weeks and the second of the two-week project period. Homeworks may be overly difficult depending on the head TF, but don't get stressed since they're graded 0-50-100. Projects hard/long, but interesting. Exams okay once you realize you won't finish, but just do as much as you can.
The material would be nice to learn. However, the course is incredibly poorly run, and the sections were not very helpful.
Make sure you understand how modeling works, get started on projects early and realize that the maths is not supposed to be elegant.
Know how to differentiate. Not just like, "I took math" knowledge. You really have to understand partials and the chain rule etc. But if you're willing to dedicate time to this class, it'll be rewarding.
When I was reading the cue guide last year, I read that this class wasn't hard if you were an applied math major and good at taking partial derivatives. Well, I'd say multivariable calculus was one of the easiest classes I've taken at Harvard. I'm good at taking derivatives and optimizing. I figured, "Hey this won't be so bad. I'm smart enough where this is what I should be taking." What I failed to realize was that, as an applied math major, what I value most about my economics courses is the intuition they build in how I approach real-life situations, and the reason I'm an Applied Math Ec major is because I want to learn more of this intuition. This class is not the place to learn it. You'll become great at optimization and partial derivatives, but if you want to learn real-life economics, this isn't the class for you, and I definitely regret not taking Ec1010. This isn't because this class was really hard (it is, and as I said, I'm good at math). This is because you won't walk away feeling like it was worth it. My other main complaint is that the class is graded entirely on a cuve. What this means is you're grade simply depends on how you do comprare to everyone else. As a result the class is very competitive. People don't take the time to help each other out or collaborate.
Start early on the modeling projects
Good, useful class to develop modeling skills and more analytical thinking. Wish there had been more staff support though
It's not the easiest of courses, but it's a challenge you learn a lot from.
Ec1011 has some pretty neat material. If you are interested in taking at least one econ class before graduating, take this class. For Econ majors, if you want to get a taste of what economics is really like, take 1011. If all you are interested in is getting a glorified business major, take a lower leveled class for the same credit (1011 is several times more difficult than the lower leveled counterparts). And you have to hold respect for the man, Prof. Glaesar, who deliver excellent lectures at fast speeds. His first lecture will be designed to scare off those mathematically weak, so don't be afraid if you haven't taken multivariate calc or introductory economics. You don't need either for the class. Also, just saying, we had an incompetent head TF this year (Ty Turley). Example of incompetence? Forgetting to schedule a final exam for this class with the registrar. Seriously?
This class is seriously amazing. Only take it if you like challenge and want a class that will push you without being ridiculous about it. my favorite class at harvard by far. It'll change how you think
This course is the hardest course I've taken at Harvard, hands down. If you are ready for a challenge, which can be rewarding but also deeply frustrating take this course. If you're unsure whether to take this or Ec1010a, then take Ec1010a. If you take the course, get to know Glaeser. He is intimidating at first, but he has a soft side that I wish I had gotten to know better. Participate as much and as often as you can in classroom discussions, although at times you must be able to accept that you will be lost. The teaching staff is there to help you, so take advantage of them.
A fantastic and inspiring course for those with a very strong math background
Amazing class! I learned a lot from brilliant and dedicated teaching staff (Glaeser, Zhenyu, and Danny). The modeling projects were a lot of fun, but certainly pushed my limits.  Negative Q-evaluations are probably not representative since a lot of people were  stressing out about the difficulty of the class.
It is a very interesting class, but very difficult
Take this course if you're passionate about economics. Glaeser is a fantastic lecturer and while the course may be purposefully made harder than it needs to be, it's definitely a better bet than Ec 1010a.
this class is very difficult. you learn a lot, but be prepared to be confused and work hard. make sure you're already comfortable with pretty abstract multivariable calculus because you have to do a lot of that from day 1. glaeser is incredibly brilliant, but sometimes moves so fast that you get lost. he is helpful if you need, though. the course seemed a little unorganized at times -- it was hard to get psets back, and exam preparation materials were not too great. zhenyu was an incredibly helpful tf, but the others were not.
Expect to work a lot, but understanding the subject matter feels very rewarding and applicable to the real world. The materials in the course are not very accessible, and the lecture is not very helpful without being able to go over the lecture notes later (although they did have those a year ago, so might as well in the future). There is not enough practice in the course, and my section was bad (although you can go to any of the sections, which I could not do because of time conflicts). Reading lecture slides BEFORE the lecture and trying to understand the content beforehand while taking notes on the things you did not understand independently is mandatory to take anything at all from lecture.
This course is a mathematically rigorous of microeconomics, which makes it really interesting and cool.
This was the worst class I took. It was poorly structured and very difficult. I found that there were not a lot of resources to help those who were struggling. Definitely stay on top of things--I let myself fall behind and ended up very lost in the end. While the curve is known to be quite generous, beware of the modeling projects--these were very difficult and there was little guidance--and know that typical means of studying may not always be helpful. If the course is structured differently with better guidance, it may be worth taking. Otherwise, just sit back and watch Professor Glaeser write random stuff on the board.
1011a is approximately the greatest thing ever. I cannot express via this text box the urgency with which I encourage you to enroll, provided that you know how to take a partial derivative. The act of sitting in lecture is simultaneous consumption and investment: you benefit enormously in both the present and the future. Ed Glaeser is an outstanding teacher, an awe-inspiring chalkboard mathematician, and a singular, manifestly intelligent human being. Looking back, I am confident that this class will have been one of the best experiences of my time in college.
Unless you are coming from Math 55, this will be the hardest course you have taken at Harvard. The work is very difficult, the class moves very quickly, and the peer group is very math savvy. Be prepared to get 40 on tests as average. That said, the material is really interesting and Glaeser is a great professor.
It's hard, but a great experience.  Prof. Glaeser is an excellent lecturer!
You should not pass up this opportunity to meet and learn from Professor Glaeser.  I plan to concentrate in economics, because of this class and my interactions with Glaeser outside of class.
It's tough, but it can really change the way you think about everyday situations.
bros, take this class. It's really awesome. You will spend a lot of time on projects, but it's still awesome.
Take this class with your friends and support one another! It will be so important in your long-run survival in the course and staying afloat with material.
I am a mathy person who took this course out of personal curiosity. The material is really fascinating, but if you're in a similar position then I strongly recommend not taking the course. Go to a few Glaeser lectures (audit, maybe) and read Varian if you think the material is cool, but do not subject yourself to the course staff. The TFs feel, perhaps correctly, that doing the work for this course is not worth their time. Because Glaser leaves the work of the course to the TFs, this indifference manifests in appallingly shoddy assignments and frustrating personal interactions. I was warned against this course and didn't listen, don't be me.
Go over the chain rule and product rule. Otherwise, just work hard and you won't regret it.
The class isn't nearly as hard as rumors make it out to be. Find a good study group to work with for the assignments, and you'll find the class becomes much easier. Prof. Glaeser is also a great lecturer, and the class is very interesting. I'd definitely recommend it.
You will walk out of each lectured very confused. Though the professor is incredibly smart, he seems to expect you to understand everything he does in class. This course could be better structured as well, since some TFs worked much harder than others. Also, grading seems to be really arbitrary, and you don't know how you're doing in the class at all...
Be prepared to work hard, especially on the projects. Worth the effort.
Take this class if you are at all interested in a rigorous introduction to micro theory. Lectures are great. Glaeser is a boss - very knowledgeable, eloquent, and engaging, even if he does do math faster than you'd like. Be sure to start work on the modeling projects early, since they will take quite a long time.
If you're up for the math, then, by all means, take this class. Just be ready to invest a lot of time
Tests are crazy and the projects are too, but you learn a lot and it isn't very content-heavy. Hard to study for, perhaps.
This course substantially strengthens your reasoning abilities. It teaches you how to go beyond the phenomenon and see the underlying mechanisms. You'll find substantial improvement in your analytical abilities at the end of the course, though it is very demanding.
This course teaches you the roots of economics. It's difficult, but definitely tells you how to actually answer questions with economic implications. Modeling is the basis from which many economic conclusions are drawn, and this surely teaches you it. I took 1011b before a, and I don't recommend this. Take 1011a first.
Don't take it if you already have a hard schedule otherwise and aren't incredibly fast and accurate at multi-variable calculus... you will be buried. If you can handle it, though, you will learn a great deal.
This class has a lot of potential. The material is interesting and challenging, and the professor is intelligent, glib, and responsive. But it's really hard to figure out what you have to do in order to do well, and I felt like there wasn't anything additional that I could have done, which was frustrating. The course didn't feel very structured, which is understandable since it is at a unique level (between intermediate micro and advanced micro) that is not comparable to most other micro classes. However, it has improved tremendously since previous years, thanks to Glaeser's openness to feedback, and will doubtlessly continue to improve.This class will definitely help you decide whether you want to/should attend econ grad school or not (in fact, you should definitely take this over Ec 1010a if you're thinking of grad school), and if you're an Applied Math or Econ concentrator, I feel like it will be one of your better course requirements. But I wouldn't recommend it as a pure elective unless you're already very interested in economics and modeling (in which case you should be an Applied Math or Econ concentrator).
This class is not a cake walk. It's not even a fun difficult class. There is a lot of grunt math and frustration and rage at the system involved with Ec1011a. At the end of the day, however, I don't regret taking the class. Despite the lack of answers ever posted on the website or the impossible midterm and exam that the class did not prepare you adequately or the rapid pace designed to lose the most people possible, I learned how to model the world in a quantitative manner. I also learned that I don't really like Economics. Still, I'm glad I took this course, and if you're more interested in learning rather than your GPA, I suggest at least giving this class a look. You may never know.
The class is great! More math than economics, but gives you a way to actually model decisions, which is really cool. Glaeser is great! Hilarious in his suits with his Coke, but he's so smart! You DEFINITELY need to form a group that works together - if I didn't have a group that I did psets (and modeling projects...) with, I would have drowned. The class seems SUPER intimidating at first, but stick with it for at least a few weeks... it definitely gets better over time, once you get more used to doing Lagrangian maximizations and taking FOCs and price ratios.
Some of the lectures were amazing, but some of the projects and lectures weren't as great and could sometimes be confusing.
Glaeser talks too fast, the material is very hard, and the TFs do very little to aid in your learning. If you are not acing Ec 10 or a super math genius, do not take this class. If you are an auditory learner, do not take this class, as the visuals and audio are what you need. If you are on the fence about this class, do not take it. It is miserable.
This class is the hardest class I have ever taken in my life, and I can't imagine an undergraduate economics class being any harder. That being said, you really learn a lot of practical things about economic modeling and get to discuss real-world issues using your models, which is very rewarding when you can figure out a way to do it.
This is one of the most challenging classes I took, but it definitely opens you up to the concept of economic modeling. This course however seems to brush over much of the economic intuition behind these models, leaving you feeling like your knowledge of Ec at the end of the course is the same as at beginning. Also, given that Ec 1010a now satisfies the App Math-Ec requirement, I'd recommend taking 1010 instead. You are likely to learn more econ that way and save yourself the time and struggles associated with this course.
This is a very good introduction to econ modeling. Prof Glaeser is great and the staff does a very good job at structuring material.
Professor Glaeser is absolutely brilliant. Certainly one of the best professors I have had at Harvard. As for the course, know your math and you will be fine.
Ec1011a is for students who want to be challenged and learn a few interesting things about the world. It is far superior to Ec1010a (from what I've heard) in terms of teaching you things and being interesting, albeit very challenging and poorly managed.
While this class seems like a more mathy way of learning the material covered in an introductory micro course, the emphasis on mathematically modeling human behavior promises to be useful in further study of economics.
I shopped this course freshman year and didn't like how the professor talked so fast and seemed to be a snobby econ person, so I took ec10 and hated it because I found myself surrounded by snobby econ people. Thought I wanted to do applied math ec so I shopped this course again sophomore year. Hated it again, took cs50 and switched to applied math cs. Junior year I realized I was two courses away from a secondary, so I forced myself to take it. I discovered professor Glaeser more genuinely cares for his students than any professor I have every met. I wanna kick myself for not giving him the chance freshman year because I hated ec10. It was too simplistic and boring, and there were too many kids in the course so I didn't get personal attention. This class changed my whole perspective on economics and now I wish I would have studied it. Take this course.
Stay on top of the material and you should really enjoy it.
I took this class as a freshman, expecting my background in AP Economics to be sufficient. The material is much more in depth and unlike anything I saw in high school. It seemed like the only material that carried over was vocabulary terms. Despite that, I learned a lot, and I am very glad I took this instead of Ec10 or Ec1010. The material is difficult, but if you have no idea what's going on, chances are a large portion of the class doesn't either. And the curve is quite generous.
This course is one of the best you will take at Harvard.  Glaeser is a boss, and really knows the material and has superb delivery every lecture.  However, I will say that you get out what you put in.
The material in this class is useful but the class provides merely the frameworks of economic modeling and leaves a lot of the application up to the students which makes it challenging.  The course is also not very well organized which becomes frustrating as the semester goes on plus there is a substantial amount of work required outside of class as well as very challenging exams.  Know multivariate calculus very well before enrolling and be ready to work hard and learn on your own.
The course is a difficult one, and it requires a solid math background. That being said, it is a good challenge and you learn a lot about modeling. It requires a lot of effort, but the teaching staff are very willing to help you out. Professor Glaeser is extremely smart and is very invested in the class.
Very difficult material, but somehow tons of fun! Glaeser is very entertaining, with his quick wit and three-piece ensembles. If you can get over the fact that exam averages are in the 30s and 40s, you'll soon enjoy watching Glaeser take derivatives at the speed of light in front of the class.
Just calm down and think clearly on exams. Everything else should be pretty interesting and not too painful.
Awesome class if you like econ/modeling. Professor Glaeser is an amazing lecturer. The section notes were extremely helpful.
There is a lot to be gained from taking this course, but it will be frustrating to anyone without a very high comfort level with multivariable calculus. It is very difficult and the self-selecting nature of the course puts its students at a very high level. Personally, I think I felt more surrounded by intelligent people in this class than I have in any other class at Harvard. Professor Glaeser is great. There are times at which you will probably be lost in one of his math frenzies on the board, but I do think that he really enjoys teaching this course and it shows. If you're up for a challenge, go for it.
Great class if you want to learn how to model real-world phenomena. Ec 10 is not really a prerequisite. Glaeser is really awesome, but his lectures can be really fast at some points and it is easy to get lost. He's definitely one of the smartest, most interesting, dynamic, and though-provoking profs you'll have here though, and on that basis alone I'd recommend the class. Lecture was something I looked forward to every day. Don't expect to get much feedback on the homeworks.
This class teaches you how to set up a model based on nothing but intuition, then take derivatives to arrive at conclusions no better than what you would get by intuition. It also teaches you how to tell if something is positive or negative.Valuable life skills aside, Professor Glaeser is a very cool (and insanely smart) person, and the TFs (Andrey in particular) are fantastic. Just be aware that you need to make the top ten in order to get an A; below that, you could be 20th or 60th in the class and get the same grade (A-). The returns to effort are uneven at best.
If you are very competent mathematically then you will enjoy this class very much.  If you are not a huge fan of math you will hate this class, regardless of how interesting you find the economics aspect.
Don't take this class unless you are not concerned about your GPA.  Only 10 - 15% of the students get A's, and everyone tends to be very smart.  It's hard to compete with the most brilliant Harvard students.  However, the TFs are fun and office hours are the most valuable part of the whole course.
If you put effort into it, you will learn a lot.
The teaching staff works hard to help you with the material.  It's a hard class, but they do their best to explain it to you.  If you're willing to put the work in, i would strongly recommend it.
You will learn how to effectively apply simple mathematical modeling techniques to social and economic problems.
The class material is very cool and Professor Glaeser is great. It is hard at times but definitely worth it.
This class is ridiculously hard and time consuming. Glaesar's lectures aren't effective because he makes the material more difficult than it actually is. However, if you're going to take Intermediate Econ, do this as opposed to Ec1010 because you will learn so much more.
Ec1011a is a hard course that will take a lot of work, but it will absolutely be worth it. This class teaches you how to think mathematically about the world and will give you a rigorous intro into serious math based economics and proof based math in general.
If you do not (a) need this class for your concentration, (b) think you might want an Ec PhD, or (c) love torturing yourself, then DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS.  The needless difficulty of the assignments and unfairness/subjectivity of the tests overwhelm the occasional interesting concept taught in lecture.  That being said, I am very glad I took this course; it has changed the way I view the world, and it has honed my quantitative skills.  Be prepared for a tough and unrewarding semester, with a small payoff in the end.
some topics were very interesting, saw plenty of models, learned how to create and analyze a model, further strengthened the idea that there are pros and cons for any arguments/policiesalthough it's his 'thing' to breathlessly, as fast as possible, present mathematical equations that are three lines long and to invent variables named x-star-twiddle-double-prime-bar, glaeser is fun to watch and keeps you interestedi was deciding between 1010 and 1011 and i'm happy i chose this onealso WORK WITH FRIENDS
This class is hard and a lot of work. It is often overwhelming and frustrating. It will also change the way you think about the world, because you'll around modeling your life in your head. This might not be a good thing for everyone, and you should know that it's really a mathematics/modeling course, not something very connected to Ec10 at all. You should also know that you'll get large portions of psets wrong, and the midterm average might not break 50%.
Do not take if you're bad at math. This was unnecessarily hard. Only take if you really want to challenge yourself. You don't learn any economics, just learn to prove what you learned in Ec10 with MATH.
This class changes the way you look at things and the way you understand the world. That being said, it will stress you out. You will have late nights. You will stare at questions for a long time and not know where to go, you will do the same problem over and over and still not be satisfied with your answer. But take this class. You probably won't regret it. Probably. Oh, and Glaeser's awesome.
This class is competitive, it's challenging, and it's a lot of hard work. However, you will learn economics. I strongly recommend this course over 1010 for economics concentrators with a strong math background or applied math concentrators. Be prepared, however, for a very fast-paced class that is not too kind to non math jocks. At the end of the day, this is more an applied math course than an economics course; so, I would think about another course if you are not totally comfortable with single and multivariable calculus.
Prof takes pride in teaching the hardest economics class at Harvard.  As an athlete, I would say do not take this course alone.  This is a great mathematical modeling type course though.  Make sure you are comfortable with math more so than econ and make sure you know people that are going to be taking this course with you so you can work on problem sets and projects together.  Trying to take this class alone is very difficult, even for the standard normie
You will get a crash course in micro and learn way more than you expected after ec10, but just be ready because it takes a lot of work, and you cannot slack off and put off anything.
All you really need to be able to do is take partial derivatives. The hard part is often just the algebra and thinking through how to just start the problems.
Extremely difficult to understand. Sections and study groups will save you
This course is a mathematical modeling class, not an intermediate theory course.
This class is very good.  You should be very comfortable with math, but a knowledge of economics is also extremely helpful.   The modeling aspect comes from this economics intuition.
This class is a thrilling experience.  Very challenging but also rewarding
This class requires a huge amount of effort to keep afloat. Take it if you're up for a challenge or love math. Glaeser is a character and is one of the most entertaining professors I've had, and the TFs are pretty good, but I can't stress enough how much work you need to put into this class.
It's a hard class, but you learn a lot. It can be frustrating, but the TFs are extremely helpful. You also learn a ton from your peers. Take it if you can commit a lot of time to it. It's worth it.
There are lots of smart people in the class, so at first it seems like you are way behind. At the end you realize that everyone is pretty lost but you just have to learn how to do some of the basic problems and it will be all good.
Take this course if you have a strong economic intuition and are very comfortable with advanced multivariable calculus
Perfect class for those who want to see if they would like to become professional economists.
This class will kick your butt on a daily basis. You will go to lectures and walk out feeling confused and overwhelmed. You will do your psets will confused and overwhelmed. Furthermore, the projects get increasingly harder and there isn't much help available for them. Projects are often on top of psets and very close in time to exams. On top of everything, exams are ridiculous. Average is usually about a 30 or a 40. Take this class if you have to take it, but be ready for quite a ride. The material is definitely interesting, but it will be ridiculously hard every step of the way. Good luck.
really really interesting and just as hard
I feel like a stronger person after taking this course. Also, in all honesty, it's not that bad, especially if you have friends who are also in it with whom you can do the problem sets. With teamwork, the daunting problems aren't so daunting anymore, and actually become illuminating. Some of the intuition derived from the mathematics found in this course are actually quite stunning and beautiful. It's a cool class, and you will learn so much more than you will in 1010a.
This is a hard class, but if you are good at math and want to learn real economics, you should take it.
this is very challenging at first, but gets better as the term goes along.  Ready to challenge yourself.  But at the same time, you learn a lot.
Hardest class you'll ever take in your life. It is so hard to study for a test when your goal is to get a 40. It does have some interesting material, but the psets, and tests are brutal. You should have a very very strong math background as you take some ridiculous derivatives. I thought I could handle the challenge, and I got rocked. So far out my league. WIth all that being said, it was a good challenge and very humbling experience. Good luck!
Let C(E,G,F,T) be the cost function of taking Ec1011a, where E is the effort put into taking the class, G is the subsequent GPA decrease, F is the frustration that comes with trying to get answers from TFs to homework assignments and T time working on projects, and let U(L) be the utility gained from learning. max U(L)-C(E,G,F,T) and realize that you should have taken Ec1010a instead.
A difficult class that teaches a really cool skill: modeling phenomena.
Very difficult but rewarding.
You need 23a or higher.  21a is NOT SUFFICIENT to do well.  You will struggle.  You will not sleep.  Do not take with other difficult courses.  They expect a lot all of the time with very little instruction (i.e. modeling projects).
The class deals with math more than economics, and the math itself is not very interesting (just taking partials and solving the same problem again and again).For someone who has never taken economics, the first couple of weeks are interesting, but after that it's just rehashing the same problem with slightly different parameters.
This is a really interesting class. Be warned, however, that it is hard. You need to have a serious grasp on Math 21a (mainly partial derivatives) and be comfortable with learning new mathematical "tricks" very quickly. Glaeser is a great professor and is insanely smart (though he likes to show it off), but he will undoubtedly lose you when he starts writing stuff on the blackboard. The lecture notes are one thing, but when he moves to the chalkboard, get ready. Ridiculous equations coming at you a mile-a-minute. I am not trying to scare anyone away here - this is a great class and you will learn a lot. I found the concepts fascinating, but it will make you work. Go to section, go over the lectures later that night to make sure you understood them, and use office hours wisely. Great course, but make sure you are ready.
Students should know beforehand that the course is a real punisher. It doesn't necessarily have high returns to effort (numerically, that is). The class is a competitive environment and it's easy to feel lost. But it is rigorous economics taught by some of the brightest and best in the world, and on that level it was a blast.
This class is very difficult but extremely rewarding. You have to put the work and effort into it. Your classmates will be the applied math and physics concentrators, very few ec people. Learn from your peers and study like crazy for the midterm and final. Also, get a good partner on your modeling projects. All in all, if you are on the fence about taking the course, you definitely should because you will actually learning something.
Math Majors: DO NOT EXPECT ELEGANT ANSWERS! The psets can be lots of work slogging through algebra, but they're enjoyable. Also, this class made me start evaluating my decisions explicitly considering utility maximization.
Glaeser is amazing but talks too fast.Andrey is AWESOME BEYOND BELIEF. actually all TFs are
It's a problem-solving class. The lectures are fast-paced, so it's best to review the slides afterwards and discuss confusing concepts with TFs.
If you take this class, this would very likely be your hardest course this semester, if not at Harvard. You cover a lot of material in not very much time, and if something is not solidly in your mind after you learn it, you will feel like you may be falling behind. Even if you understand everything, if you can't do the Math efficiently, the homework will take longer and the exams will feel like a disaster. Basically, this is not a course to be taken lightly.That being said, if you think you can handle the math, this course will be extremely rewarding. The professor is a great lecturer and is passionate about teaching. Lots of help is offered; be sure to take advantage of it, which is something I should have done when I took it.
It's real hard but surprisingly manageable. Only in this course have I legitimately felt like a Harvard student, pushing myself to my limits in a fascinating and pertinent area of study. Glaeser's passion is contagious and his lectures captivating; if you're up to the math, take this course--and stay up to date!
Take this course!  It's MUCH better than 1010a, and you will learn much more (although it is more difficult).  Also, the other people in the class actually care about economics, which makes the class much more engaging and stimulating.
This class is really hard, but interesting. The essence of this class is analogous to a language class, actually. You will learn how to take economic problems, translate them into the language of mathematics, and then (after chugging through the math) translate the results back into economics for interpretation. In order to survive the middle part of this process, you need to be comfortable with multivariable calculus, but the important skills you will learn are actually how to transition back and forth between math and econ.
Tough course. Problem sets take a lot of time and are long and tedious. Tests are very hard. Lectures are fast and hard to follow. But, Glaeser seems to care about his students and the TFs are pretty good. You finish the course knowing a bit more about economics, and a lot more about partial derivatives.
This course was an incredible experience. The math is not difficult, but very ugly, and it will require some careful consideration and analysis. However, if you put in the effort, the intellectual rewards are enormous.
Possibly the most rewarding class I've taken at Harvard. This is one of those classes that will cover so much material and make you think so much that you will genuinely feel smarter by the end of it. Ec10 goes at a nice, easy pace, and Ec1010a just reviews everything you do in Ec10. If you really want to challenge yourself to learn to think like an economist, there is no better class out there.
Teaches you the basics of modeling. Very hard to get an A, easy to get a B+ or A-.
Exams are difficult.  Problem sets are graded pass fail, so it's easy to get behind.  Some of your most gifted peers are in this class; that is one of the greatest parts of it.You will also learn how to do real economics.
This is a difficult course that requires good time management.
A great course if you're willing to do the work and have the required math background.
Don't take it if you are not comfortable with math. Be mentally and physically prepared. Do push-ups if you need to.
I knew this class was going to be difficult, but it was still a lot harder than I expected.  A's in Math 21a and Ec 10 does not mean you'll cruise here.  It's like trying to drink water from a fire hydrant - there is just so much material covered at a blistering rate.  You'll learn so much though - if that's what matters to you, it's worth it.
This is the hardest class I have ever taken. Think very very carefully before subjecting yourself to this.
This is a rather funny course. Looking back, I feel that I have learned mostly some methodology for approaching specific types of problems, rather than any powerful or sweeping ideas. For example, general equilibrium problem: solve individual demand and supply --> equate aggregate demand and supply. Most of the material is fairly intuitive. The lectures are...interesting. Professor Glaesar's speed at finding partial derivatives and first-order conditions at the board is impressive, but even more impressive is his ability to fly through Beamer slides. Sometimes, you have to go with the flow and hang on to knowing the general idea of what he's doing, since the calculations are just too complicated to be done in a couple of seconds. The TF staff this year was awesome. Section was very helpful. The assignments were pretty good overall, except for the modeling projects. I don't really see how they helped. Lastly, a word about difficulty. The past Q-guides have warned that familiarity with math was required. In my hubris, I was not really daunted by this, thinking that I was okay in math. Well, now I will be spending my days after reading period vigorously practicing partially differentiating all manner of nasty expressions.
This is one of the most interesting classes I've taken at Harvard but is also probably one of the hardest too. If you decide to take the class, get ready to work a lot.
Be ready to work very hard, but you'll learn a lot and start spewing ec terminology.
Take this course. It will change how you view the world. Also take it early. I regret not having taken it before senior year.
You will learn so much economics. Don't be frustrated if everything seems way over your head in the first few lectures, because it will all become much clearer as the semester progresses. Edward Glaeser does make the course intense, but it was definitely well worth it in the end.
Find a group to work with. Read the lecture slides before class. Read the lecture slides after class. Never miss section. This class is very hard and you will hate it, but you will learn a lot if you work for it. It will turn out to be a love/hate relationship.
Though tough, it is a good course, and people should take it if they are not afraid of a challenge.
From what I've heard, this course was much better this year than it was the year before. It will definitely be your hardest class though, so be prepared. You will have a love/hate relationship with this course.
It's tough, but if you can keep up, it is well worth it.
I really did enjoy this class.  However,  you have to be really interested in what you are doing, and love thinking through the models, in order to reap the rewards of this class. Take it if its a concentration requirement, if you want to get a phd, or if you are genuinely interested in the models and this particular way of thinking. Otherwise, there's no point. Too many people hated this class for no reason.
Glaeser teaches well, and the material is genuinely interesting, but the class is brutally hard. If you're at all skittish about math, then this course is not for you. But if you're either brilliant at math or willing to grit it out, then you'll finally feel like you learned something at Harvard.
This is a hard class. Not many people will get As (from previous courses, probably 13), although the grade has not been out yet, the professor promises that the median of the class will get a B+.
It's pretty hard, but you will learn to think in a totally new way.
It's hard, but if you do the work, it's worth it
Don't take this class if you want to learn about Economic theory. Take it if you want to learn more math than Economics. Take it if you're extremely good at math. If you're merely competent, that won't cut it.
Only for those willing to work hard or required to take it.
It's a great class, though it requires a lot of time. It really explains the econimical concepts from their fundaments, through using math.
It is a rigorous treatment of economics- no graphs or numbers, but formal mathematical models.  You should be very comfortable with calculus or you will struggle in this class.  Go to lecture and section.
Take it as a challenge. There's much to learn.
Very difficult, only take it if you're willing to put in the hours and get over the frustration.  But it's very, very rewarding in the end.  Glaesar is AMAZING.
Take this course if you have a firm grip on multivariable calculs, and you enjoy math.  Also, the course gets better as it goes on (I enjoyed the second half of the course more.)  This course is definitely the real deal in terms of learning mathematical micro econ, but it id not all that fun.
The reason why I took this course was to fulfill a requirement for Applied Math with Economics concentrators. According to former policy Applied Math with Economics concentrators were required to take Ec1011a, Ec1011b, and Ec1126/1127. However, this policy has changed and either Ec1011a or Ec1010a can be taken. Therefore there is no reason to take this course unless you enjoy taking lots of partial derivatives and figuring out whether they are positive or negative.
A difficult class that teaches you a lot. Take it if you want to really understand how to think like an economist and want to challenge yourself.
Don't take this class if you want to have your hand held. This class is meant to be a punishing experience that forces you to learn material or else. The students are intense and the material takes more time than you want to spend on it.
Only take this class if you hate yourself, are a math wiz, or ABSOLUTELY have to for your major.
Hard but awesome, changed the way I think about the world.
You learn a lot from this course, but it is a lot of work and fairly difficult.
the material is great, but lectures are not very exciting
If you have a strong math background, and want exposure to economics, this will be a very enjoyable and, but the end, relatively easy course. However, just be apprised that it ends up feeling a bit like an introduction to applied math; I mean, I haven't taken any applied math courses, but this course was the first one in which I learned about mathematical modeling and ways to apply mathematics to the real world. Especially if you need a social analysis (or whatever gen ed requirement this satisfies), this is your best bet for a non-flaky course.
If you don't have the ability to create economics models out of thin air with absolutely no guidance, this course will be impossible. If you can only write on a test what has been taught and not derive new things under time pressure, again, this course is not for you.
if you like math and like studying people
If you like economics and math, take this class.
You should take it only if you're willing to work hard and do a lot of math. This isn't storybook economics.
The material is very interesting, but often present in an inaccessible way.
This is a hard economics courses, but it is very fun if you like math.
It's just a tool.  You wouldn't look to a slide rule for profound answers, don't look to 1011 for 'em either.
Difficult, but worth taking if you're serious about economics.
If you want an excuse to hate economics, take this class
It's a good course, but be prepared to be intimidated by the professor and your fellow peers.  Everyone is a math genius, so if you're not - don't expect to perform well academically, but you'll have a good time learning the interesting material.
Prof. Glaeser is rude, arrogant, and a bad teacher.
You will panic every Monday night before problem sets are due until you realize all you need is a check. You will panic the night before every exam, though.Scores go up and down every exam, so if you're safe on one, you might not be safe on the next.
Its an interesting class in which we learn a lot.
This course is difficult and the difficulty is increased by the absence of any form of reference or textbook. However, the professor in my opinion makes up for this problem, and I would take the class again just for him. His lectures on all aspects of microeconomics are incredibly interesting in depth and breadth. Your understanding of economics and view of the world will be changed by this course if you take it seriously.
Really hard
I mean for a lot of other courses its a prereq, so you're kinda stuck taking it. Tough break bud.
Know what you want - don't just take it because you want the hardest class.
very difficult but offers many rich opportunities to someone interested in economics
Be prepared to need to understand economics and the math behind it at a seriously advanced level.
math is icky.
Good class if good at math and interested in economic modeling.  Only take if willing to work hard and don't mind applying math concepts.
only take this if you have to.
it's best to take it only if you want to be an academic (Ph.D in Economics) or if it's required (ex. Applied Math). and you better have gotten an easy A in Math 21a. I got an A but it wasn't that easy and now i'm flailing with all the Applied Math students in the class, and i'm only an Economics concentrator.
Only take this class if you are sure about it.  If you're not taking it for Applied Math or Economics credit, I would seriously reconsider.
This course teaches you how to think economics in math.
If you like math and need a social analysis core, this is the class for you.
prepared to be in econ grad school and get a 30.
The class is totally doable and extremely interesting for students who are good at math and science.
I took this course to decide whether to concentrate in Economics. I will not concentrate in Economics, because this course gave me the impression that Economists find results by assuming their conclusion and then feeling "done" when they infer that result from mathematical gymnastics based upon their assumption.
Professor Glaeser is not a good professor. He is harsh, unattentive to studets' needs, and lectures at a breakneck pace, despite the fact that no one can keep up.
If you think have done multivariate calc, at least enjoyed it, and want a challenge, take this class. If you really want to understand the mathematical component of economics, take this class. If you are an econ concentrator, who does not really fit the above but just wants to always be on top of everything, take 1010. You will most likely find that you will come out very far on the bottom if you stick with 1011.
This class is very difficult, and if you're an ec concentrator, you will likely find yourself mixed in with a bunch of applied math/ec people.  It's possible to struggle in the course and still wind up with a satisfactory grade, but it may be frustrating at times.
If you want to use math in economics effectively, take the class. If not, please save yourself the agony.
you better know math way better than ec
You can't get help if you want it...you can't count on the professor, he's not nice...you don't learn much unless you're a genius. BUT you do get exposed to a lot of material that is interesting. Once you get into it, youcan definitely get by not doing too much work a week...the curve is really good and it all evens out. so if you need it for a concentration requirment, dont worry abotu it, you'll be fine. but it wont be fun. and yea, the prof seriously makes me so mad. hes rude to his students...why does he even bother teachign this class? wait, because he has to.
You will learn a lot from this course if you work hard. Don't be intimidated if you find the material difficult and inaccessible at the beginning of the coruse. At the end of it you will be a confident economist!
I'm glad I chose this course over 1010a-- it was challenging but well worth it.
This class is taken as more of a requirement than anything else.  It's not especially fun, but it's almost like a necessary evil.  Professor Glaesar does try to make it interesting, and you really get out of it what you put in.
This course is notoriously difficult, and is essentially a "trial by fire".  Make no mistake:  You will need to be resourceful and pro-active taking this course, and you will need to go out of your way to collaborate with your peers if you hope to survive.  The course is incredibly disorganized and rushed and has no mercy for the unprepared student. All that being said, this is a rare chance to take a class with many of your brightest and most driven peers.  Also, while Professor Glaesar often comes across as self-absorbed and uninterested in helping students, he is incredibly intelligent and legitimately interested in what he teaches.  Besides, there aren't a lot of times you get to take a class with a professor who shows up in a suit every day.
The biggest weakness of this course is Prof. Glaeser's lectures.  He speaks very quickly and takes every opportunity to use the blackboard to confuse students rather than clarify concepts.
Be ready to do math every day at a high level, but you'll love how useful the math can be.
It's definitely a good course to take to establish a strong foundation in mathematical economics and modeling. Plus, even though it's hard and badly rated, it's still a better experience than Ec 1010a. Be aware of the effort you must put into the class though.
This class is hard. You have to take it for applied math/ec so I guess you just got to power through knowing it can't last forever.
The class pays off towards the end, but is pretty head-turning and complicated.
Be ready for a difficult course.
Tough.
Be really really sure you want to take it. This class is very hard, and sometimes even after knowing how to do problems, the exact reason why you did something eludes you under the Math.
this class is very difficult!!!
Learn how to take derivatives very quickly of complicated functions and equations as early as possible. Plan on teaching yourself how to model by learning from the examples Professor Glaeser puts on the board.
Only take this class if you have a strong economics background and a solid interest in mathematical economics. This class will take a lot of learning independently. You will not learn anything through lecture or section unless you have the initiative to learn on your own and in general feel comfortable with economics.
Although this class can seem intimidating, it was the most illuminating journey into economics.
Recommended to those who are interested with a strong background in math and are willing to possibly take a hit in their grade in order to have a more challenging learning experience.
The topics of the class are pretty interesting, but the professor goes at an extremely fast pace, makes unreasonable assumptions about what the students know and do not know just to conform to his 3 year old slides, and exams are too lengthy to really demonstrate a student's true-understanding of the material.
The prof. delivers the lectures well; section is hit-or-miss, depending on which TF you get. Prof. Glaeser is a fluid speaker, but he often gets bogged down in math. Rather than literally reading equations off the board, it would be easier if he just talked about the concepts implied by the equations. I can read the equations myself; I'd rather not have a rushed flood of equations thrown at me.
If you have to take this course, take this course. If you really want to take this course but don't have to, make sure you have loads of time on your hands to take it.
If you are a math wizard, this will be an interesting and useful application of your abilities.  If you are not, take 1010a and save yourself the anxiety.
take it if you like mathematics more than economics
important things to learn, but not much direction in terms of learning... have to take initiative to teach it to yourself
This course emphasizes math very heavily.
This class will increase your mettle in terms of facing more difficult classes later down the line, but will be a struggle for most students and there is a possibility you will retain very little of the material.
Obviously, everyone who is majoring in economics or applied mathematics should strongly take this. However, this course also loses sight of some theory because of the mathematics.
This course is awesome. It looks hard at first, and the math that Glaeser does very quickly on the board can be intimidating, but as the semester goes on you realize that you are using the same tools over and over again, applying it to different models. This is a great course to look at how logic and mathematical analysis in the form of economic models are used to look at many different topics.
Excellent if you'd enjoy taking a lot of partial derivatives to discover things that seemed pretty commonsense in ec10.
For students who are interested in economics and not daunted by math, this is a great class!
This course is really hard and scary, but also the class I learned the most in and the best lectures I had; Glaeser can seem very arrogant but he makes up for it with really interesting lectures. Be sure not to fall behind and try to find people to study with and do the assignments with. Take it! Just know it is hard and that you need to study and do the homework to do well.
It's undoubtedly better than 1010, you learn more, it's more relevant to the field of economics. It's a great course taught by a great professor.
If you are an ec concentrator: do not think that if you did well in Ec 10 this will be fine for you.  A ton of people in this class are math, applied math, and physics concentrators.  If you don't have a good math background, do not take this. Be ready to be overwhelmed by a lot of math.  If you are OK with working through it, you will get a lot more out of this class than 1010.
Really be interested and be willing to learn the stuff on your own.  It's interesting but if you only do what's asked of you, you'll come away with nothing.
I would definitely recommend this course to anyone with a solid math background who enjoys mathematical modeling and has at least some interest in economics.
This class is appropriate only for people who are interested in economic theory and mathematical models.
Professor Glaeser lectures like he expects you to think at the same pace as him. He scrawls on the board, his slides aren't well organized. You learn alot, but unless you are extremely confident about your math ability or you do not get beaten down easily, expect to struggle.
prepare to be dominated
I would recommend this to any student who needs to take an intermediate level Economics class, as long as they are very comfortable with math.
It is extremely hard to get an A in the course. You basically need to more over 90% of your peers.
pretty good class, very useful, although professor is hard to follow and there is not much material you can use to prepare. but with sufficient level of math the course should not be too difficult to tackle.
Very challenging, but it's a course unlike any other offered in the nation.  You learn an incredible amount, and Glaeser is a great lecturer.
It is much more about math than economics.
Only take this class if you're looking for a mathematics course with a tiny bit of economic flavor. Definitely only for Applied Math concentrators rather than Economics concentration or secondary.
Great course with interesting topics. Be prepared to work hard
Ec 1011a is something exceptional--it teaches you how to think rigorously as an economist, sure, but it also establishes a framework for how to think about problems in society and how individuals relate to one another. One of my favorite courses at Harvard, and it makes me regret not taking more Ec while here.
If you're planning on taking this class and the most math you've taken is 21a, don't. The class will assume knowledge of proofs and some statistics, and you will feel uncomfortable asking for these concepts to be clarified when it seems like all of the other physics/stat/math geniuses in your class understand everything. This is an unnecessarily hard class and will not leave feeling like you learned a significant amount of economics.
Piece of cake.
Modeling Projects - read other papers online. Sections and OH - go, they are probably more useful than lectures. P Sets - actually try to do them even though grading is really, really lenient. Class as a whole - recommended to those interested in economics and comfortable with multivariable calculus.  Hard class, but really quite manageable and doable.
Ride the curve.
What a waste of time... you don't learn anything that is not trivial. Lecture format with slides is terrible, there is no textbook, the problem sets are badly done. The material is interesting somewhere deep down, but this class will only bring you disappointment.
It's frustrating, it's angering, and it might even make you want to rip your hair out in the process.  But, it's worth it in the end.  You don't learn much new economics in this class, because that's not the point of the class.  The point is to learn mathematical modeling applied to economics-related situations, and to learn how to think about problems far more analytically.
This is a great class and the material is very well organized. A thorough understanding of multivariable calculus is definitely helpful; some understanding of real analysis and probability is also complementary.
This class is challenging and requires a fair amount of time commitment, but is so much more rewarding than Ec 1010a and helps tremendously in building economic rigor and intuition behind all that fun Ec 10 stuff. If you're not comfortable with multivariable calculus, this class probably isn't for you, but if you're coming in without too much economics knowledge but have a strong math background, you'll do just fine.
I would be honest about the difficulty and the frustration that comes with a very interesting course.
Very interesting subject material.
The class is extremely hard--there is no hiding that. But you leave really feeling like you understand math and creative problem solving better. Also, a real community built on mutual suffering develops in the class so there is really no point where you feel like you are alone. No matter how hard the material is, the people and the TFs made everything sort of in reach and the class was overall a positive (though at times sleepless) experience.
This class is extremely difficult and unfortunately, unrewarding.  There is a big gap between what is taught in class, what is expected on problem sets, and what you are ultimately tested on during the midterm and final.  The sections and online practice problems were, for the most part, disorganized to the extreme.  Usually, I recommend tough classes because of what you take out of them.  Here, I cannot.
Very hard, time consuming. Take it as your main class if you're able to put some time in. I'd imagine that it's rewarding if you can give a lot to it.
Very difficult class but you do get a lot out of it in the end if you are willing to put in the time and effort.
This class is hard, but worth it if you like modeling/economics.  Glad I took the class and feel better for it
Do not take this class- you learn very little if you have ANY other commitments because there just isn't the time- basically, all I have learned is that YES I CAN TAKE A DERIVATIVE.  Then its just a demoralizing class and not worth taking.
Do not take this class, worst mistake I've made thus far (and that says alot!).
If you love multivariable calculus, and can think and dream in calculus, then you should take this course. You won't learn that much economics, but you will learn how graduate level microeconomics is done.
It as incredible class if you have the time to commit to it and the math background to handle it.  I struggled but I'm definitely happy I took it.
This class is, as most people will tell you, quite difficult. To some extent, your success may be contingent on the quality of the teaching staff.

You'll be surrounded by very intelligent people, taking a very rigorous class. The situation will at times feel intimidating, but I have to say that this was one of the most enjoyable classes I took. I honestly felt like I was learning a lot. The content is consistently engaging, though--because problem sets and section notes and modeling projects and answer keys are recreated yearly by the teaching fellows--not always consistent in quality.

From reading past Q scores, both 1010 and 1011a had very positive and very negative reviews. The negative reviews for 1011a all said it was too hard; for 1010a they claimed it was too boring. Too hard or too boring--take your pick.
Ec 1011a is an excellent course with an exceptionally dedicated teaching staff. Yes, it's a lot of work, and yes, it's difficult, but you learn how to do economics mathematically. The course is genuinely interesting because of the topics that we consider, and I'd say it gets more interesting as you go along. The last third of the course, about game theory, is especially fun. I had only taken math through 21a, and that was enough preparation in terms of calculus. However, it does seem that this class would be difficult without some statistics/probability theory -- I was simultaneously in Stat 110 (as much of the class is), but I imagine it could be a lot more confusing with 110. (Stat 104 is a very weak substitute.)
When they say that you can take this class even if you don't have extreme familiarity with mathematical concepts "if you put in the extra work", they really mean it. You will have to work much harder than many of your peers who are familiar with abstract math, have taken modeling/probability courses etc. And even if you do all the work needed, the marginal returns per hour of study are hardly worth it. Take 1010a, work less, and get more out of it, without loosing sleep for nothing.
This class is as difficult as everyone says, but it is manageable to get the work done. However, I'm not sure how much I actually took away from this class regarding specific skills and knowledge. I think my style of learning fits better when I have a smaller amount of material to learn, even if the class itself is more boring. Overall though I think this class made me more excited about economics and helped me see how I could actually apply what I'm learning.
Taught me how to think like an economist!
While clearly a stronger alternative to Ec 1010, 1011 leaves a lot to be desired.  Overall, great professor, great section, great tests.  However, terrible p-sets.  They are poorly written and almost impossible to understand, making is so that many students cannot complete them, turning in sub-par work.  I learned a lot and put in a lot of work, but I would be wary of taking this course unless you are willing to put in a lot of extra time into the class.
I took this class as an elective with no previous economics experience and do not regret it. The class's focus is on getting your hands on the real math and quantitative material economists work with. It's good practice for multivariable, economic modeling and intuition.

This year was different from others with Ponzetto teaching instead of Glaeser, so further comments may not apply to future classes. To be clear, I overall enjoyed the class; lectures were interesting and fun, and my sections were well structured. 

But in general the weekly experience was this: material was marred by disorganization and lack of structure. It was often frustrating to see that the details of the material were sometimes not paid attention to and remained ambiguous or unclear. 

The problem sets were my real complaint: often very poorly written, irrelevant, not proof read or even non sensical. (I've heard this is an unusual problem: with Glaeser the psets are instead just very hard.)

It took extra work on my part to get ambiguities cleared up and piece material floating in different places together, but in the end I did learn a lot of things (though I lack practice at doing the math due to the pset problem mentionned above). I loved the opportunity to get acquainted with the real language and thought process behind economics.
This class is an excellent introduction to intermediate microeconomic theory and mathematical modeling. While it is extremely difficult at times, particularly in the case of the modeling projects, it teaches you a great deal. The teaching is quite effective; while the sheer breadth of the material covered made it necessary for some topics to be covered very quickly, the course's use of Piazza made it possible for students to get the help they needed. The teaching staff is very good; Professor Ponzetto is very engaging and knowledgeable as a lecturer, and quite approachable outside of class, while my TF, Andrew Das Sarma, was great at helping us understand the material through rigorous and sometimes pretty hilarious problems in section. Take this if you have a relatively moderate course schedule, and are up for a challenge; it is not easy, but if you are genuinely interested in the class, it is worth it.
Econ 1011a is far more challenging than 1010a, but also more rewarding from everything I've heard. If you can handle the math, 1011a will give you a very practical set of skills (modeling, optimization, game theory) that can be applied to just about any economic situation.
This class is hard, but rewarding. You will learn so much in this class, but be prepared to put in the time and effort.
This class is super hard. REALLY HARD. But you learn so much. You learn to mode, to think analytically, develop economic intuition, and work with very bright peers. Just be prepared to be painstakingly meticulous if you want to maximize the amount of utility you get out of this class (an exercise you can do in your sleep after you take this class).
Good class.  The material is somewhat bland but it is presented very effectively.
This is a great course. It is not an easy course. Especially near the beginning, you will likely feel lost, but by the end of the course you will see that the work paid off and will come away with a real understanding of economic modeling and a new way to look at and analyze the world. If you are willing to put in the work, definitely do this over Ec1010.
Be prepared to be lost. Completely and utterly lost. You are on an expedition towards knowledge and your instructors only have slightly more idea where they are going than you do. This class is a great class for anyone at Harvard who thinks he/she is very smart. By the end of the class you will realize you aren't. That said, it's a challenge, and when you survive it, or understand a concept, it is one of the best feelings in the world.
If you are willing to put the work in, it is a really awesome class.
The modeling projects are EXTREMELY demanding, however as an Econ concentrator, I think this will help me much more than 1010 in marginal analysis and the development of mathematical intuition.
It's a hard course, but if you really want to get good at economic theory and/or multivariable calculus and/or economic modeling, you should take it.
This course is very hard, a lot of work, and often frustrating. If you are ambitious and love economics, you should definitely take it. If not, probably not.
