This class was pretty interesting. In giving us exposure to "data analysis in the real world"-- it did that. Did I learn anything about the data analysis methods- not really. Was group work hard?- Absolutely especially when people had different backgrounds. Was this an easy workload class? - Absolutely. Having 30 minute meetings each week made the class very easy in terms of deliverables.
Take this course if you have a good group in mind walking in. The entire course is structured as a semester-long case worked on by a group of four people, so having friends who you know and trust in the course is a good idea. Be prepared to conduct fairly in-depth data cleaning, regressions, and more rigorous statistics techniques. It's fairly low work if your group is good, but can be stressful if you don't have the right people.
Especially for this being the first year it was run, the course was quite good.  I think most likely the most common complain will be that people ran into issues with there data or things along those lines - this makes sense - it was the first time the course was run, and the instructors did not anticipate the full extent to which the other parties would delay in getting their data over.  I imagine that they will arrange things in a way so that this is less of an issue next year.  Moreover, the course is meant to introduce you to real-life data work, of which dealing with data issues is an aspect.
This class is a really cool way to get involved with real world economics. It has been an incredible process to actually come up with economic answers that have actual implications for our group's client. The group component of this class is a bit hit or miss.
Take this class!!! If you do so, I recommend that you (1) make sure the problem you're working on matters to you, and (2) if you can pick your group beforehand that would be ideal - you will be spending a lot of time with your group. With an interesting project and a good group this class would be a great experience.
Despite the drawbacks of this course in terms of organization and guidance (I would guess that these issues will be fixed soon since this was the first offering of the class), this is an ENORMOUSLY helpful class that will challenge you and strengthen your skills considerably, whether you are applied math, econ or any other concentration.
I enjoyed the "real world" aspect of this class, in that you get to work with an actual company on an actual project, and a lot of the companies are really cool. However, some of the structural aspects of this class could be improved. For example, having a final presentation, an individual final paper, and a group final paper all due during reading period/finals is not something I really want to repeat. But hopefully the organization of the class will improve in future offerings.
This is the coolest course I've taken. The teaching staff is phenomenal. You get a chance to work on really cool, real world issues, and you'll learn a ton
You will be assigned along with three other students to one client, and you will help that client with a data project. That's it: no lectures, no sections, just a brief weekly meeting. If you have a client with a cool project and clean data, you've got an easy, enjoyable, and unique semester ahead. If you get stuck with a bad project, things could go south fast.
This has been my favorite experience here at Harvard, and I am pretty sure it will be the best class I take here.  This class is incredible-you are able to work with data that is normally extremely difficult to receive, engage with your team and client, and learn real-world skills for problem solving.  THIS CLASS IS AMAZING!! all ec concentrators should take it (if you make the big lottery!)
Class is highly dependent on the project you get. Your very likely to get a great one. Some groups had a tough time with their clients and/or data however.
This a great class that closes the gap between the academic world and the professional world when it comes to data analysis
My friend liked to call this class "Consulting-101", which is pretty accurate. This class will give you hands on experience, working with a client to answer their question. If you're willing to put in the time, this class will be an incredible learning experience for you.
Great courseSendhil is a fantastic professor, and the class is very hands-on and allows you to take the initiative to learn.
This is a really great opportunity to apply Econometrics principles to real-world problems. Our client actually visited campus to hear our final presentation, and really appreciated the work we completed throughout the semester.
This class is a challenge because the assignments are open-ended and you construct them yourself. But that's what's awesome. Someone actually reads your work and listens to your ideas. You get to have impact!
By far the most rewarding class at Harvard. The combination of potential for self-improvement while completing a task for a real-world client is unparalleled.
Possibly best class I've taken. Basically just one big project - very fun to think about, and great not to have exams and the like. Good preparation for real world. Had a really fun problem (micro-finance for me) to work on, and enjoyed the whole experience immensely.
Ec1150 is a great opportunity to apply knowledge of econometric and statistical techniques to solve real problems with large datasets.  The course is very open-ended and self-defined, and you should be very comfortable with planning out and pacing your research throughout the term.  The statistical knowledge you'll gain will be very specific to your project, but the general research and client management skills you come away with, although less tangible, are arguably more valuable than knowledge of any particular econometric technique.
Very unstructured course. Can be a good fit for some, bad fit for others. Not bad for its first year, but could use some improvement.
It's not really a class, it's a project...a little more involvement would have been nice.
Sendhil is excellent at creating courses with real-world applicability.  This class is no exception.  If he continues offering it, I highly recommend you take it. Sendhil and Pascal are a great tag team. Somehow they're able to allow for a massive variety of different projects and experiences while still creating a positive experience for everyone.  Great course.
This class would be perfect if it taught students to grow up and work with other people. Or let you officially work by yourself. As is, you're just exposed to the bad, the ugly, and the uglier in people. Welcome to the real world.
Great opportunity to work on very cool projects with very cool companies/organizations, under the guidance of a great prof-TF team. Students selected for the course generally tend to be quite motivated so group work is generally a good experience (based on personal anecdotes and on talking to friends).
If you can get into this class, take it. Sendhil and Pascal are awesome -- you'll learn a ton.
It's a very hands off project and you're working with a group for the entire semester, so be wary and pick good people to work with if you can. The class involves a decent amount of statistical coding, so at least 1 or 2 people in a group should be extremely comfortable and strong in R or Stata. Overall, it was a great class -- you work with a real client and help them solve a data problem. There are some pros and cons to the lack of structure, but this class couldn't happen in any other way, and it's a great real life learning experience.
group data projects are difficult and messy and take more time than you think, but if you get down and dirty in the data you can learn a lot
