This is a great class.  Not necessarily an easy throwaway, but the material is super interesting, and Prof Mortimer is great (Although I guess she is leaving after this semester...)
You learn a lot from the class and Professor Mortimer is great. However, the TFs are not very helpful, the final is hard due to the algebra and not the concepts, and the workload is not light.
One of my most enjoyable economics courses.
Be aware that industrial organization is very micro, and consists of the organization of markets, not firms (at least at Harvard it does). It's difficult to say much more, since Prof. Mortimer won't be teaching it next year...
A great chance to learn about industrial organization on an undergraduate level, while getting your hands dirty enough in the math
This is Julie's last year teaching this class so much of the info here is useless. However, the course structure is excellent. You do quite a bit of paper reading and experimental design though, so back ground in econometrics would be a huge plus.
Really great class. It was my favorite economics I took at Harvard. Lots to understand, but not overly difficult.
Really useful class, integrates math in an easy way (also gets rid of the annoying problem in some econ classes where they try to take all the math out of it and ends up making the concepts less intuitive as a result)
If you like read papers and do econ research, maybe this is the right course for you.
It has all the rigor of a theory class like the 1010 series but is also much more interesting and smaller! I felt like I was doing "real" economics again in this class. It is tough and you will have to keep up, but I thought it was totally worth it.
Typical Harvard worthlessness
Very manageable workload. TF office hour very helpful.
If you are interested, it's fun.
Few classes will introduce you to a field in as sophisticated or complete a way.
Ask for help as soon as you don't understand.
Lectures are long but engaging. Problem sets and exams are difficult, but not incredibly time consuming. Most people seemed to take it pass/fail. As long as you met the prerequisites, you'll be totally fine (I took 1010a/b and the material was completely accessibly). Would definitely recommend pass/fail though due to difficulty of graded assignments. Not a ton of work overall though.
Professor Lee gives great lectures. But the course is quite difficult, unfortunately.
Be prepared to work hard, but this class is very informative and rewarding.
I would highly recommend this course to anyone looking to see how the theoretical concepts of microeconomics work in the real world. This course is probably the closest thing to a business type course you can take at Harvard and you can tell that a lot of folks who worked/will work in consulting or related areas take the course. That being said, you will need to have a strong foundation in microeconomic theory to do well. Additionally a strong background in econometrics and introductory calculus is recommended. If you don't feel you have this background, then I would recommend taking the course pass/fail as many students, even those strong in these areas, do considering the rigor and extent of the course. Problem sets are reasonable and occur roughly every two weeks, which is nice for planning purposes. The only real downside of the class is that lectures are three hours long once a week, which can be difficult, even with the break Professor Lee offers midway each class. Professor Lee is also very engaging and takes a lot of time to design problem sets and readings. While the course was somewhat challenging for me having not taken a micro-based course in years, it was also one of my favorite economics courses at Harvard and I feel that the course finally connected a lot of dots for how microeconomics works in the real world. Overall, I would highly recommend this course and encourage you to consider it.
This is a great econ class for non-econ concentrators interested in firm strategy
This class has awesome material but very hard to get behind! Professor Lee is amazing but the class goes on for quite a long period of time!!
The class is great, but I would recommend them to take it p/f.
Probably the best lecture course I've taken in economics. The professor is enthusiastic, clearly puts time into creating effective slides and discussions, and is at the forefront of cool research in the field. I particularly appreciated the policy-relevant examples drawn from newspaper headlines. Regarding difficulty, the problem sets are very manageable, so I wouldn't worry about them. The midterm (and the final, I assume) are difficult, so I wouldn't take this course and try to coast through.
This class is pretty difficult but worth it! The topics are really interesting and are very relevant to real world scenarios. I didn't realize the full breadth of what econ concepts could explain until taking this course. Prof. Lee is very enthusiastic about the material but down-to-earth and approachable about assignments/expectations.
Robin is a fantastic professor and makes everything easy to understand. I could not recommend this highly enough.
The three-hour lecture is intense and you will probably struggle to stay focused.
This class was an unexpected gem. It's been one of the (if not the single) most enjoyable econ classes I've taken here. Prof. Lee is an extremely engaging lecturer, and possesses both incredible academic and emotional intelligence, which can actually be hard to find in teaching staff. The content helped affirm all of the theory I learned in previous microeconomic classes: 10a had felt too simplistic, 1011a felt too abstruse, but IO helped me make sense of both economic principles and the world. I also like that the class balanced between teaching theoretical models and also reading empirical academic papers. The material and workload are both extremely manageable.
This class is absolutely great.  The material is both accessible and challenging, which is great.  Professor Lee is amazing, and the workload is more than manageable.  You should definitely take this class if you are looking for a really cool and fun micro-related class.
TL;DR: Take this class if you're interested in how markets and firms work - you'll get pretty incredible exposure to all the topics that is manageable even without a whole lot of math background. I really can't believe the Ec department has gone this long without a course like this, and I'm really glad Prof Lee is the one reviving it. Caveats before I review: I'm a senior, took 1010, and am generally not your prototypical "let's make a model" ec guy. I took this class pass-fail on a whim and ended up being very glad I did. To be honest, I probably learned more Ec1010 in this course than in Ec1010. Pros: great topic - most business-centric class I've encountered at Harvard (but that doesn't make it any less theoretical); really structured course and work that balances theory with application; prof that really tries to make it accessible to all levels and really tries to respond to feedback; incredible breadth - has exposed me to really interesting questions and almost made me wish I'd written a thesis (...almost)Cons: 3 hour lecture (though only once a week), midterm was challenging (and I imagine the final will be as well) This was the first year of the course but I can only see it getting better in the future.
Great class - Professor Lee is really passionate about IO and strikes a nice balance between theory/models and real-world applications. The material is much more in depth than the brief coverage of monopoly/oligopoly in Ec 1010/1011 but not overwhelming, and in-class discussions about weekly readings (research papers) are really helpful in making the topics from class more concrete.
Good framework for thinking. About industry. Structures
