The course was extremely disorganized during the first part of the semester.
The professor is very knowledgeable. The topics covered are very interesting. The professor is not very enthusiastic, so sometimes the lectures got boring. Overall a good class. I am glad I took it.
confusion
You get a pretty solid understanding of international macro from this class. Professor Farhi is a good guy, but a little bit checked out when teaching the class. Very low work load. Exams are time crunched so prepare for that. You'll get into this class what you put in. I would recommend reading the book ahead of class (although not required to get an A, if you want to actually learn what's going on, and appreciate how smart Farhi is you should do this). If you're pre-econ phd you'd probably be better off taking rogoffs class
It's easy, but it's super slow. Take this if you just need the econ credit and don't want to put a lot of time in
Take it for an easy A. Although you won't learn much, the teaching staff honestly doesn't expect very much...
On the one hand Prof. Farhi is a brilliant Economics mind and you'll be happy to learn from him. On the other hand the class is horribly disorganized and the TF this year was completely inept. Be prepared for the timing of psets to be unpredictable, and to receive no feedback on either psets or midterms (they won't even give you solution manuals).
I honestly would not recommend this class to future students, unless major changes are made. The lectures are dry and boring, you spend more time tinkering in Excel than actually working with theory and models for the problem sets, and section is uninspired and unhelpful. It gets to the point where this experience is somewhat of a disgrace to all parties involved. On the brighter side, you will probably learn something about macroeconomics - and I appreciate that this class goes into greater depth than Ec1010b. However, at the end of the day, I'm not sure if this redeems the overall experience involved with taking this class. This class has a lot of potential to be great, but the teaching staff needs to show that they actually care about the students learning this material and participating in lectures/sections.
First, have a really solid understanding of Mundell-Fleming before taking this course. It'll really save a lot of pain. Take this course if you're looking for an in-depth understanding of international macroeconomics. Problem sets were not very helpful and section was at an odd time making it difficult to attend.
Good way to fulfill the intermediate macro theory as prereq
This class is great if you would like an overview of macroeconomic policy taught by a very knowledgeable professor. It is not a structured class though, but the midterms and final were fair in that they only tested what we went over in class. To do well, make sure to get the book and read each chapter every week! The lecture slides make a lot more sense if you read the book before going to class.
A very interesting class. Farhi is really intelligent and a good lecturer. The material is interesting and very useful as well. A very relevant econ course.
Professor is brilliant, but not much direction in terms of assignments/midterms. Come to learn, but not to have a great classroom experience.
You *should* know/learn this class's material, but...it's sort of terribly boring. And I don't know how much can be done to rectify that.
The lectures are very interesting, and the material is not very difficult. Section should be completely changed in order for it to be an efficient and effective component.
