Incredibly interesting material, with great professors + problem sets.
LOVED IT!
A laidback class for those looking for a little bit of fun in the course schedule, though attendance is mandatory, which might or might not be unfortunate. Not suitable for students looking for a math-based econ class.
This is a challenging course but extremely interesting.
Come to all the lectures, but don't worry about the readings.
A really fun course without too much work outside of class.  You will have to deal with the wild swings of lecture ability between Laibson and Shleifer, but it all ends up being positive in the end.
If you are looking for a relatively easy way to fulfill an ec requirement, this could be it. But the two-professor format and other problems make the course sometimes incohesive.
It is an amazing course, but the grading is harsh.
Keep on top of the material.
A very good course where the academic reputation of the Professors is truly matched by their quality in teaching.
Professor Laibson is great.  Professor Schleifer sometimes lectures very slowly, which makes his lectures pretty boring at times.
I really liked this class, but don't enroll expecting a grade curve! The first problem sets take some getting used to, but the material is interesting. Most people are ec concentrators, so be prepared to prepare accordingly for the tests.
This course will change the ways you make decisions and approach problems in life.
If you've never studied this stuff before, it's worth learning about.
This class helped me learn a lot about taking classical economics theory with a grain of salt.
Interesting and applicable course.
Great class the illustrates the limitations of classical economics by offering interesting insights into the world of psychology.
It is not easy, and you should be confident in your math skills.
extremely interesting class, yet beware of the less interesting problem sets which are more difficult than they need to be.
A great opportunity to learn from brilliant professors in a field that will probably transform what we know about economics in the future.
It starts off great but is really not intellectually stiumulating after the first few weeks
Transformative material.
I have already recommended it to every other PhD student in my department (computer science) who looks at AI and decision-making. I think it's essential for understanding how little we know when it comes to really predicting human behavior, even in its simplest forms of expression, but also for learning what the main lines of thought are in tackling this extremely complicated problem.
laibson is one of the best professors and the topics of the class are interesting!
Great way to see how economics doesn't fully explain human behavior and the steps that economists are taking to fix that.
David Laibson is amazing, Schleiffer is very boring.
Awesome class, definitely take it especially if you are Ec or Psych.
Interesting material and easy.
I would tell them that the problem sets are a little difficult, so they should work on them in groups. I would also tell them to go to lecture.
If you can deal with the fact that you will be evaulated oalmost entirely based on your understanding of mathematical models that are sorta covered in lecture but not thoroughly and different from teh ones in lecture then by all means take it.  The lectures are interesting.  IF you're not good with them, then don't bother... it will be a huge source of frustration
This is an outstanding course that every economics student should take.  It provides an excellent introduction to the field of psychology and economics and helps you re-think the logic of many of the economic models studied.  For non-economics or math students, I strongly recommend this course, but as it is rather difficult, I suggest taking it pass-fail.
the class was rather difficult, especially if you are not extremely strong in math and conceptual models; don't take unless you are prepared for difficult equations and models
This class is excellent for anyone who has doubted the universality of economic theory. It allows you to take a look at how people actually behave rather than how they should behave, which can be very interesting.
time consuming
Hard. Its interesting at first, but only take it if you also like finance because it is deceiving at first.
be sure to know math
If you can, take it pass/fail.
lectures are important and sections are indeed optional
Relatively painless Applied Math/Ec requirement.
That Schleifer is enormously boring, so they have to decide if this is worth it to have Laibson as a lecturer.
It is interesting information, but not an easy class.
Don't take it.  Waste of time.  Didn't learn anything.
Psych and Ec will keep you interested and on your toes.  Just don't get sucked in by the interesting course materials and be surprised by the mathy problem sets.
It gives a good overview of what behavioral economics is all about.
fun at times, interesting, but hard and frustrating
You will definitely learn a lot of interesting concepts in this class, but you will also have to work hard to earn a good grade.
You will learn a lot but its ridiculously hard. Audit it or take it pass fail.
This is an incredibly interesting class, and the concepts covered will be useful your entire life.
This course material was very interesting but Schleifer's lectures were fairly boring.  The course is pretty challenging as are many of the problem sets.
Interesting material that is presented by engaging professors but it is a bit difficult.
A fascinating tour through all the many ways the predictions of standard economics are wrong.
Very interesting exposure into behavioral economics.
It will be very difficult to do well, but regardless of your final grade, you will have learned a lot.
Interesting content, not so interesting assignments and exams.
Take this course if you are interested in decision making and the material, but beware that the instructors are not very accessible.
This course is a great way to learn how to improve your decision making and learn about why people act the way they do.
If you're interested in behavioral economics, definitely take this class.
lot of math, only take it if you like to do psets
If you're a math person, don't bother. If you're a psych person, you'll like it.
Relevant information.
The course is a great introduction to behavioral economics!
Great introduction to field
Very interesting class, but very very hard. If you have the option, definitely take it pass/fail. Go to lectures because they are very interesting. If you absolutely have to miss, try to miss on a day that Scheliefer is lecturing.
Really heavily consider the amount of other work you have to do in the semester.  Pass/Fail is a good option for this class.
Very interesting class
While this class is one of the most challenging economics classes I have taken, it also has been the best economics class I have taken. If you are willing to take the time to learn some of the more nuanced concepts and to really absorb the material, then you will love this class. The topics are interesting and relevant, and Laibson is a fantastic lecturer.
The Shleifer lectures are painful.
fun and interesting course, professors are great
If you have a quantitative background you'll find all of the math too easy.  But, it's still a fun class and worth taking.
its a very interesting class but you are definitely at an advantage if you are a math/stats person
Pretty interesting, but a lot of this you've heard already if you're in Ec.
A course, which truthfully provides you with key insights on how people do not make rational choices and what this means for society.
Grading is intentionally and disingenuously pedantic.
A fun class, ask those who went before for hints to make money!
This class is really interesting but you should be prepared to study
I think you get a lot out of taking this course because it shows a different more practical side of economics that is important in the real world and on the job later in life.
The material is very interesting but you have to be ready to do work if you want to do well. If you just want to coast by, then you don't have to do too much work, but this class is definitely NOT a gut.
Keep up with the lecture material and do the readings
Knowledge of game theory and finance helps.
I would like to tell them that the material in the class is interesting but the assignments are very harshly graded. Its a lot of work, often times, not all of it is useful or relevant either.
Some interesting material and very good lectures.
This is an interesting class, but sometimes hard to follow.
This course is really hard and not interesting.  Professor Laibson and Professor Shleifer know a lot but are not good at teaching undergraduates.
Although this course can be overly difficult at times (exams), the general economic skills this course teaches you make it something all economics majors should take at some point during their time at Harvard.
This is the sort of class you'll be talking about with people over dinner.  What accounts for bias in news sources?  Why do new computers come with cheap printers?  Why do I procrastinate?  This class was no cakewalk, but it was manageable and I enjoyed it more than any Economics class at Harvard.  Definitely take it if you have the chance.
If you want to take a fairly easy interesting ec class, take this.
Laibson's lectures are great and material is interesting, but not a very well-run class, hard to do well in, and Shleifer is boring
I would recommend this course to students who are interested in the subject and is willing to attend every lecture.
The course material is very interesting and applicable to daily life. To the extent that classical economic theory does a very bad job at describing how humans make decisions, this class offers an important (and rare) perspective on why this is the case and how economists are trying to revise the standard models. The problem sets are challenging but doable. Professor Shleifer and Professor Laibson are excellent lecturers and encourage participation in class. They are also accessible outside of class. Section leaders are hit and miss.
be aware that this course is interesting and exhausting
It's an interesting class teaching interesting and useful topics. It's just slightly disorganized, too big, and graded harshly. It feels much more like a psychology than an economics class, so be ready for lots of subjectivity in grading, and not that many calculations. Teachers tailored a bit too much to students who were scared of math.
Shleifer's lectures are completely boring, but Laibson's are really cool and make the course worthwhile. Don't bother with the readings - not that much there that isn't covered in lecture. Give yourself a few hours to do the problem sets, because they can get bogged down.
be prepared for very interested, applicable material
This was a really great class, but at times it was unorganized - I'd still say it's worth taking!
It was extremely interesting
One of my favorite courses in the department. One of my favorite courses at Harvard. The Professors are really awesome and make the course fantastic.
This class introduces you to an exciting new field of economics.  Even if you are uncertain if you are interested in the material, I would still recommend the course to gain exposure.
If you're comfortable with math/modeling (have taken 1011a), this course will be significantly easier for you. If you're not as familiar with these methods, it's great to take pass/fail
This class may not be offered any more, which is unfortunate for you because I think it is a great class! If you are interested in studying how human beings systematically errs understanding the underlying decision-making process, this is the right class for you. Hopefully the professors will decide to continue teaching it. Otherwise you can take the close substitute (the packing problem) in the fall.
you'll learn a ton but you've got to work. take advantage of the professors as much as you can. this stuff really applies to life, unlike a lot of econ courses at Harvard!
Interesting but quantitatively demanding
Take this course! Unfortunately, Prof. Shleifer is not going to teach it again but Prof. Laibson is superb!
Really interesting material if you like economics and psychology.  Some lectures are great; some are really boring.  Some problem sets were easy and straightforward; others were difficult, tedious, and confusing.  The TFs were on the whole unprepared and incompetent, but most of the material could have been learned from lecture slides.
This is by far the best class I have ever taken.  It is incredibly interesting and was so good.
This class won't exist in the future.
This class is incredibly interesting. Definitely take it if you're interested in behavioral economics.
Behavioral economics is really interesting. If you've taken the 1011 series or other advanced math-y classes, the math here is easy. (If you've only taken Ec 10 and no math, it might be a bit trickier.) However, this class is maybe not as inspiring as it could be, and the problem sets and exams are fairly technical/detail-oriented.
Great professors, interesting material. Exams are tougher than expected.
This class is very difficult and not very well-organized. They don't provide any useful material (review questions, past exams) to help prepare for the final. Sections were also pretty unorganized and didn't really cover relevant material beyond deriving the equations in a way that not many people understood. Laibson's lectures are fantastic though and great to listen to. Shleifer covers some interesting topics but he is a pretty boring lecturer so it's hard to pay attention. It would help to have some background with finance for this class as the behavior finance stuff can get tricky if you don't have previous knowledge. Overall, it's an interesting but difficult course.
Take notes on the lecture printouts
A chance to learn about the merger of the principles of economics and psychology
Great course. Professors are really interested in the material and interested in helping students.
Great Class!
Fun, interesting material, but not as easy as you might think
This class is confusing. It's taught assuming students are familiar with lots of math, which may confuse some. There is not really a strong connection between lecture and section, and the problem sets/tests don't seem to relate to lecture and section in obvious ways. The material is fascinating, but be prepared to spend a lot of time making sure you know every minute detail and iteration of the problems you encounter.
Take it! I think it's a pretty important caveat to the rest of the economics courses you'll take.
Some of the material is really cool, and it's cutting edge. Plus you are taught by the people that created some of the most important models in behavioral economics.
This class is really interesting--it presents completely new material & shows a different way of thinking. I would tell future students, however, that the psets take a really long time & are pretty stressful to complete (but you can drop 2 so its not that bad). I really liked the small experiments we have after class--fun! The professors are great-- they are always available to get in touch with you and they are very friendly & nice.
Do this class is you are sincerely interested in the material. It's a lot of work
This class presents an excellent opportunity to learn more about the budding field of behavioral economics.
There's a big disconnect between lecturers and between lectures and section.  The first week of Laibson lectures will give you a high decision utility, but the experienced utility of the course in general is quite low.  You will learn a lot but in the midst of the course it's hard to feel like there are overarching themes.
There are definitely flaws with the class, but overall this class is absolutely fascinating. Professor Laibson's lectures were probably the only lectures so far at Harvard that I have always looked forward to and was disappointed that they were over.
Prof. Laibson is awesome, but Prof. Schleifer is one of the most boring professors I have ever had.  Material is very interesting, but skip Schleifer's lectures.  Problem sets were not too hard, you only have to do 6 out of 8 too.
This course was amazing. Probably one of the only ones on behavior economics taught at Harvard. David Laibson is definitely a spectacular lecturer and Andrei Schleifer is truly a genius in economics. The course does require some math so be sure to be comfortable with that if you are considering taking the course. Otherwise not much work for this course outside of problem sets. I would definitely recommend it to anyone interested in behavioral economics.
Very nice class to take as an applied math requirement because there is not really much math in it at all.
This is a very good course. It is a little all over the map but touches on some very interesting topics and will change the way you think about advertising, decision making, and other interesting areas of application. Lectures are generally pretty enjoyable and the material is challenging but definitely doable.
The course material is fascinating and the workload is relatively minimal. If you've taken other Econ classes that overlap, there are a lot of similarities (meaning less work for you!).
This can be an interesting class, but if you're an ec concentrator, you will have seen a lot of the material already.  Professor Laibson is excellent, but Professor Schleifer is not the most dynamic lecturer.  Also, be aware that there is a large section of this course devoted to behavioral finance, so if that's something you're not interested in, maybe think twice about enrolling.
This class is really interesting, especially if you are interested in the overlap between economics, math, and psychology. The behavioral theories are so interesting because they describe decisions we make in every day life in a mathematical way. The problem sets are manageable. The lectures are enjoyable on the most part.
very interesting class with great professors
The material presented in the course is very interesting.  Professor Laibson is engaging and interesting.  Proffesor Schleifer's lectures are boring a lot of the time.
Great class!! Lectures and material is incredibly good. The professors are fantastic. More Math than you expect.
Interesting material but the presentation could have been better. The course was somewhat disorganized and it was hard to integrate all the concepts. Also some of the more mathy models were difficult to understand. That being said, the emerging field of behavioral economics is extremely fascinating, and Professors Laibson and Schleifer are the leaders of that field. Much of the class is centered around their research so it's pretty cool to be able to take a class with them.
get ready to do a lot of math.  at the same time you learn a lot and it changes how you think about your own decision making
This class is not easy, but is one of the most interesting economics classes you can take at Harvard. Instead of focusing on unrealistic models where Supply meets Demand, etc., you actually learn about how real, sometimes irrational people make economic decisions. Professor Laibson is a fantastic and approachable teacher.
Laibson is a great lecturer, but Tomaz often mixed up examples, got confused by his own slides, was disorganized.. It was his first time teaching this course, so he will probably improve next year, but some of his lectures were painful to watch as he stumbled over himself and the material he was supposed to be teaching us. There were slides with pure math (and no real explanation), and often even the TFs didn't really know what he was trying to get across with his slides/examples.The problem sets in the beginning of the class were really cumbersome (no way to do them without office hours), and the TFs were not very helpful, but things got better as the course went on. This year we had all new TFs and a new professor, so things were understandably shaky for the first third of the semester.Also, for the field of behavioral economics in general, after a while it starts to feel silly trying to model things like procrastination using numbers and equations, but that could just be my own personal feelings about it.
Great class! Not very difficult but still learned a lot.
good class, worth taking
take if you're interested in psychology, the quantification of behavior, in realizing the critical perspectives to economics.  a good amount of math, some interesting material - sections and lectures could have been better, but still learned a lot
Laibson's lectures are great. Tomasz's, more maths heavy, and sort of...poorly done...but still necessary.
It can be a difficult to get the math if that is not your forte, but it's manageable if you just run over the problem set because each of the concepts has a distinct mathematical process that you can master through memorization. The exams were pretty reasonable (and much easier than the psets) so you'll be fine if you just run over past exams to see how they manipulated the math. It's never as hard as you initially think, but I definitely had to work in this class to understand it all. The material itself was interesting and is, to me, a more honest look at where classical economics fall short. These ideas in behavioral ec should make future ec classes more interesting as it provides a perspective from which to question/probe.
Professor Laibson is a great lecturer.  One thing you should know before taking the course though: we never really discussed the problems that we had to solve in the problem sets during lecture, only in section.  Office hours are really useful though.
Very, very quantitative class. Frustrating because much of the material tested on/on psets is unrelated to lecture. Course needs to be much better connected. Interesting material, but this is not an easy econ class.
well it's not going to be offered again anyways, so what's the point? tomaz, i appreciate your enthusiasm but your self-deprecating humor was very distracting from the actual topic. the lectures were fairly easy to follow, but did not prepare us well for the problem sets. laibson is a great lecturer!! and he was a marshall scholar! super cool! the mistakes on the lecture slides because it was copy and pasted from last year made it seem like the instructors didn't pay too much attention.
This class is definitely not easy, but it is probably my favorite economics class I've taken at Harvard. Laibson is the man and the material is super applicable to your life. Take this class! Don't be afraid!
A painless way to fulfill your AM economics requirement
Great course! Professor Laibson is awesome, lectures are engaging, problem sets are manageable, exams are pretty reasonable, TFs are accessible, and the topic is interesting! Behavioral economics is still such a developing field that the subject matter feels new and exciting.
A great survey course in behavioral economics. Laibson is a great dynamic lecture, Tomasz less so but he tries hard nonetheless. The midterm and final are fair and straightforward and test material directly from problem sets and lectures. Problem sets are often nuanced and grading may be a little bit subjective. Great class, learn a lot of very interesting stuff giving you a new perspective on economics while not being overworked. TAKE IT!
This course gave me great insight into how my own behavior as well as being intellectually challenging.
Take it with Laibson!
Laibson's lectures are good and the material is very interesting and applicable to real life. However, make sure the TFs don't suck.
If you're interested in economics and psychology, take this class! You will not regret it!
This class is great. The psets in the beginning are a lot harder than at the end, so don't be scared by the first two psets it got easier. I think that this class was very fair and well taught. It is really great the second half of the semester.
You have to like psychology and mathematical modeling. If you are resistant to one of those, this might not be the best fit.
The class is very interesting but they don't prepare you very well for the psets
It's a really interesting class that will change the way you think about the world. However, lecture isn't very interesting. The psets aren't hard at all if you think mathematically, but can be a challenge if you don't.
Laibson is an awesome lecturer, I don't know if he is teaching it again but if so, he is the reason to take the class.
Great course, but beware of the work. It is time consuming and hard.  However, you actually take something away from this course that is applicable to real life, and I think that's more important than any grade.
This is the best economics course I've taken. The main thing I learnt is that behind the obvious criticisms one can level against the traditional economic model of agency, there is a real and fascinating intellectual challenge, to wit modeling and systematizing our understand of precisely what is wrong with the traditional model. Also, prof. Laibson is excellent in every way.
Very interesting, very fun class if you have any interest in behavioural economics. Both professors, especially Professor Laibson, made an effort to make us understand and appreciate models. Not overtly mathy, but don't be math phobic if you take it. Grading may seem arbitrary.
It's an excellent subject with a good teaching staff.
Not an easy course, but fascinating and exciting material. Highly recommended.
Very interesting material, but challenging if you're not on top of your stuff and just want to cram and procrastinate.
Take this class only if you are prepared to deal with the p-sets and workload.
While Tomasz was not overly interesting, some of that was not his fault, as he slugged through the dense material while David was given more of the interesting, interactive, and "glamorous" topics. If you understand this is a psych class more than an ec class, study and memorize accordingly, it is a class that is very interesting (even if it is not the most practical)
This is a great class. Take it!
If Tomasz is not teaching and Laibson is, then definitely take it.
It is a great class. You will learn a lot. Lectures are interesting Be ready to be challenged by the psets.
This class isn't a gut but it's doable. The professors are great and the topic is interesting, so I'd definitely recommend shopping it to see if it's for you.
This is an amazing class with two very impressive professors. If you are willing to work a little bit harder, the reward is great. Problem sets are fun, and they usually don't take too long. The first half of the course (Strzalecki) is more model-based, and the second half (Laibson) discusses applications more. Laibson is a very engaging lecturer.
The professors truly believe, from the bottom of their hearts, that the students taking the course can and will contribute to the field in a major way. In many other classes, professors feel really preachy and go through the motions. These professors care a lot about our learning this material. I wish I took this course as a sophomore instead of as a senior because it is just so refreshing and moving to have all these amazing areas of research laid out in front of you as they do.
This course is one of a kind and is taught by one of the leading researchers in behavioral economics. Professor Laibson is extremely interesting and engaging as a lecturer, so the second half of the course was one of the best courses I've ever taken. Tomasz was still great though, and explained everything thoroughly during his half of the course. Overall excellent, and I highly recommend it to psych and economics concentrators
Any econ student should take it. great professors. applicable for all econ concentrators and more
This class is very interesting and it definitely changed my understanding of economics.  I was able to apply a lot of what I learned to marketing and human behavior.  That being said, the second half of the course (when Professor Laibson started teaching) was more engaging than the first half was, and section was often disengaging.
The material from the class is interesting and the lectures are engaging. Behavioral economics is something that all econ concentrators should have at least some understanding of. But watch out, this class has horrible grading policies, so be prepared to arbitrarily lose points on all of your assignments.
This is a FANTASTIC course introducing behavioral economics. The lecturers are the ones who built up the field, and are enthusiastic in explaining the contents to us, as well as how future students could do new researches.
Good course, go to OH for HW.
The topics in this class are interesting, but very poorly conveyed. I had been very excited to take the class, but was disappointed by the lectures and the sections. Tomasz isn't great at explaining concepts, and David expects a lot of previous background knowledge that not everyone has (like knowing asset pricing). This class isn't welcoming to non-economics concentrators, both in terms of the work and general attitudes conveyed by the professors. If you're really, really interested in the topic, I would take this class pass/fail. This class has a lot of potential, especially with such an interesting topic, but it doesn't deliver.
As I am sure a lot of other people said, the Laibson half was far more entertaining and interesting. That being said, the Tomasz section was a very important foundational knowledge. The class certainly isnt easy--it is as time consuming as another advanced economic courses. Behavioral economics is a really interesting field and the professors of this class are at the front edge of it.
Make sure to get a good TF.
Super super fantastic class. A lot of interesting examples and relative class topics.
The material for the class is really interesting, but I think some of the lectures could have been covered in 30 minutes, which makes class hard to sit through sometimes.
The subject material itself is very interesting. However, lecture can move verrry slowly and a lot of the material can be covered much more quickly. The problem sets were a bit of a challenge but very do-able. Overall, not a bad class that requires minimal time effort.
Amazing material and very engaging lectures (esp Laibson)
The first half of this class (taught by Tomasz) is very mathy and a little slow. However, Tomasz spends a decent amount of time building the foundation of understanding for the things that Laibson teaches in the second half of the course (and it's well worth it). Professor Laibson is a fantastic teacher and his lectures are engaging and interesting! **You will probably have to go to section/OH for the first half of the class as Tomasz psets are occasionally substantially more difficult than the lectures examples. However, the exams are not as hard as the psets!
If you dont like math and want to understand real econ behavior better, this course is for you
Laibson is brilliant, his part of the course makes it worth it.  Tomasz is a very smart dude, just not a great lecturer.  You learn a lot
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard. Not gonna lie this first half is pretty boring and poorly taught but Laibson makes it all MORE than worth it and you will not regret it!
This class is the child of psychology and math. The material is not only interesting but very relevant and will probably change your behavior in everyday decisions. Tomasz's lectures in the first half of the class are hard to get through but David's are incredible. Both of them are really committed to doing a good job with this class so I think it will continue to get better over the years.
Liabson is a LEGEND
This class is a super good class to take if you have an interest (even slight) in behavioral economics. It teaches many concepts and models to demonstrate concepts. Some lectures may be boring than others and psets can be pretty difficult but if you go to office hours (don't be scared to email for extra office hours!! Tomasz's office hours were super helpful!!) then you will have the help that you need to do well.
Pretty easy class. You can put it on a lot of work or very little. Very interesting material and professors do a good job of giving us a thorough treatment of it.
The class is fascinating.  The first half is a bit slow moving, so it is more math focused.  The second half with Laibson was incredible.  He is a fantastic lecturer and really tries to engage the class.  Make sure to go to section.  during section, we would go over the pset for the week, which helps you do the pset in an hour.  Also make sure to study the psets for the exams.
The material in this course is absolutely fascinating. I loved attending lecture because the topics are those that I am passionate about. The problem sets are generally pretty difficult, but you can get a perfect score if you attend office hours once a week. The midterm was fairly challenging, so make sure you truly understand what you did on each problem set before taking it.
It seems like it will be interesting, but lectures will be difficult to pay attention to and problem sets much too difficult.
The material is interesting, yet  I didn't really like the problem sets. At times there was less of a connection between lectures and problem sets.
Where do I start? Ok, first with the good: Professor Laibson is great. Obviously super charismatic and excited about the material, definitely made everything really clear. That's the only good thing. Tomasz, the second professor, often was confused about his own slides or failed to explain material in an effective manner, leaving the class confused. Sections are pointless. You basically just spend the whole time going over the pset THAT YOU ALREADY TURNED IN. Because solutions to the psets are posted the day that they're due, the fact that entire sections are spent going over these solutions THAT ARE AVAILABLE TO EVERYONE ONLINE is quite frustrating. If there are questions about the turned in homework, people can go to office hours. I don't understand why we can't go over material discussed in lecture/readings/or the upcoming pset. But at least the psets were fairly easy. Still don't feel like I truly learned anything that I couldn't have guessed at before.
The course covers a broad range of topics in psychology and behavioural economics. There is a lot of focus on the material in the lectures with little outside sources, so it is important to attend those. Section is a little ineffective considering that it is simply to go through previous problem sets to which the solutions are posted online. The readings reinforce the material provided in the lectures but are not necessary in order to get the most out of this class.
Topics are very interesting. Psets are tricky but not too much work.
A must-take course for anyone who is interested in economics; it provides excellent complements to standard economics theories.
The course material could be very very interesting, but it's taught in a very dry, simplistic way. The workload is light, but the exams are not easy. If you need an econ or psych requirement out of the way, then consider this course -- otherwise I'd look elsewhere.
This course really teaches you what the behavioral biases are and how they operate in a concrete manner. Merely becoming more aware of your own behavioral biases is likely to significantly improve your ability to make decisions and conduct analysis.
This is an amazing course that has been one of my favorite that I have taken in my three years at harvard.  The lectures are engaging and the material has some really interesting real world applications.
The final is significantly more difficult than the midterm.
I have mixed reviews for this course. First, the good. David Laibson is a world leader in the field of behavioral economics, and much of the topics discussed in the course involve his research, which is something that you can only find at Harvard. He is the single best part about the course. His lectures are engaging, exciting, and relevant, and he hosts lunches in Houses towards the end of the semester to meet and get to know students. He also makes a sincere effort to learn the names of everyone who asks questions or comments in class. I learned how to live a better life through this course. However, the other lecturer, Tomasz, is much weaker (though improving), and sometimes seems confused by questions and the material. There are ten problem sets, though you can drop two, and they are fairly difficult. They require a good 2-5 hours to complete, and can be frustrating at times, as there are very few examples of how to solve the problems before they're due, and the teaching staff isn't the most accessible or helpful. Sections simply went over the previous weeks' problem sets, which was not helpful at all in preparing for the next week's problem set (though they changed this towards the end of the semester based on feedback). The midterm was fair, though the curve was strict, and it was not easy to get an A or A-. The final was very difficult, with the time constraint being inhibiting. Grading tends to be on the tough end, with the syllabus reading "we worry about grade inflation at Harvard, and this course will not be a grade gut." Overall, an interesting course with relevant and engaging material, though the teaching fellows and section are fairly weak, and the exams and grading are most strict than most courses, and more than they need to be. I hesitated to take the course for this reason, and in hindsight, should have taken it pass/fail.
This is an awesome course! If you are an economics major and want to know how you can think more realistically based on your knowledge in economics, definitely take this course. If you aren't an economics major but want to understand your own bias and decision making process, definitely take this course!
It is harder than it looks.  Very mathy and not very organized.
Lectures, especially Laibson's, can be interesting - however, the psets are tedious and overall the course can seem less interesting than expected.
Laibson = GREATTomasz = not. I went into this class with very high expectations, hopes, and excitement levels. I was let down, mostly by Tomasz's lectures. The material taught by Laibson was very much more like what I was expecting, but that was only for the second half of the semester unfortunately.
This class is quite dry. The material is more difficult than anticipated.
This class is a great introduction to the big ideas of behavioral economics. The professors did a good job of provoking critical thought during lectures, and section leaders did well in providing the intuition each week for the problem set of the previous week.
This is an incredibly interesting class, but is not well structured. The material is absolutely fascinating, but the teaching staff is pretty unaccessible, the pests are confusing, and the class doesn't seem to be a priority for the professors, Overall, though, I think what I learned in the class makes it worth it, and Laibson is a great lecturer.
Interesting class, good lectures. Does tend to overlap with several other classes so is better earlier rather than later. Would probably not recommend to someone who has already had a lot of exposure to the topics.
Great material and gives you a new way to think about economics and classical predictions.
The material you learn in this course is super-applicable to your life. The material can be confusing if you are not comfortable with math, but if you are then it's actually very cool how much can be learned about human behavior / decisionmaking just via some pretty basic models.
If you are interested in behavioral economics, this is a good course to take. Harvard does not have too many offerings in this field. Lectures are ok, experiments are fun, psets are where you get the most out of the course.
this class is easy but also not very rewarding. you won't feel like you've learned something important at the end of the semester. prospect theory is cool, but the rest of the class is all over the place and scatterbrain (especially the second half of the class). lecture's move at a snail's pace. little material is covered, and it takes forever.
Ec 1030 is a good course that covers a lot of different topics and definitely gives you a more accurate view of how people act and make decisions. The problem sets can be difficult and take a fair amount of time, and the exams (especially the final!) were fairly difficult, at least in my opinion. But if you're interested in the topic, you should take it -- it is rewarding!
Very cool concepts!
This class is an interesting look into the very interesting and exciting field of behavioral economics. The subject material is fascinating, and though the material doesn't feel very mathematically rigorous at times, the models typically end up being good ones. Problem sets are easy, lectures are typically extremely engaging, and the subject is a great one, but do be prepared to find the math slow and/or lacking.
A very interesting class. However, the topics and models covered are closer to an intermediate microeconomics course than a psychology course (i.e. behavioural economics). If you like econ/ micro and want to take a course with moderate workload that covers interesting applications, take this course!
This course was not what I expected. There were two more problem sets than on the original syllabus, so you should check to make sure they are telling you the truth. The problem sets are also ridiculous compared to the lectures. Laibson is a great lecturer, but Tomaz is almost unbearable.  Overall, not what I expected and way more of a pain than I expected.
Take it, but don't feel the need to go to class if David isn't teaching.
Great overview of behavior economic concepts combined with practical learning in assignments and philosophical debates about the ethics.
As far as Economics courses go, this one is not terribly difficult and often touches upon interesting subjects. However, the dual-professor structure of the course means that roughly half the lectures will be less than stellar, and students must be proactive and reach out to the teaching staff if they want to receive any sort of thorough feedback on their work.
Laibson is interesting, but the material is pretty slow/simple and the TF staff were unimpressive.
This course was interesting and fun, but not life-changing. I enjoy behavioral economics and find the material very interesting, so I liked it. However, the course started out slow and ultimately I feel like I didn't really learn anything mind-blowing -- a lot of the ideas are pretty intuitive. Tomasz teaches the first half of the course, which is rough because his lectures are significantly worse/more boring than Laibson's. The workload is super manageable - don't be intimidated by 2 psets/week. They usually give you the answer key beforehand, and the p-sets are short. But don't get too lazy about it - the range for the midterm was very big since it's easy to get by without really learning until the exam hits you. Take this if you're interested in behavioral economics (though maybe not if you already know a lot about it) and need a manageable, easy-going economics course!
Great class - very interesting. Two p sets a week aren't bad, usually quick and painless just to help you review what you learned in lecture
Amazing class! Laibson is incredible and a fantastic lecturer. The material is fascinating and the workload isn't very strenuous.
I was going to say something really savage in this intro (i.e., Psych and Ec? More like SIKE, dont take this Ec class), but I dont want people to think that I thought it was miserable. I mean, I thought it was miserable, but I dont want people to think that. Additionally, I would like to preface this by saying Ec1030 was definitely a REWARDING class, but only in hindsight. It teaches you how to think, and the lessons that I walked away with will certainly be put into practice. Furthermore, the academic difficulty is not the problem herethey told us in advance that there would be 2 p-sets/week, and that this wasn't an easy A. So, as long as you know what to expect going into the course, youll be fully prepared to do the work. However, the class was extremely disappointing. This is NOT a jab at the professors at all; they are brilliant and at the top of their fields. This is an attack rather on the course as a WHOLE. Logistically, section is useless. Although I didn't personally sit in the laptops-only area, there IS a laptops-only area that you have to APPLY FOR, and there are problem sets whose questions throw SO MUCH SHADE at the people who use laptops in class (as if people in the non-laptops sections DONT have their phones sitting right next to them on their desks). Problem sets are graded arbitrarily. The entire curriculum could be reduced to a few chapters in Thinking, Fast and Slow. Lectures are either incredibly dull or peppered with so many questions that we dont even finish going through the slides. Imagine the most annoying kid in your section. Imagine them asking intricately-worded questions that are tangentially related to the topic. Now imagine that being the entire 1.5 hour lecture... I actually like economics, but if I had taken this class as my first elective, I would have been deterred from concentrating in Econ, in the fear that the other classes in the department would be as lackluster as this one. Some students will rave about how amazing this class was, and I dont think they've been emotionally manipulated into liking it (although there were several, questionably ethical commitment tactics employed to get people invested in the class, like holding a lottery with a description longer than the syllabus, or a problem set due before Shopping Week even ended). To be fair, though, the last few classes were highly interesting and I thoroughly enjoyed them. However, due to recency effect, and being somewhat of a sophisticate and predicting that I would suffer from this bias, I drafted this review throughout the semester so I could provide an as-accurate summary of the class as possible. Deciding whether to take this class is a question of, Do the ends justify the means? Yes, the end was rewarding, but the semester it took to get there was definitely one of my bigger regrets. See, you could take Ec1030 and maybe learn a thing or two about behavioral economics. Or you could NOT take this class and read Kahnemans book and a few of the professors papers instead. That way, you could learn just as much, if not more, by the end of the semester, and still have your GPA/dignity/will to live intact.
This class was great. The lectures were very interesting in general and the class is not that much work overall. Laibson's lectures were particularly engaging.
Great class, very interesting. Professors are fantastic, and the class really changes the way you think about the mind.
Great class, minimal time commitment week to week, interesting food for thought
This is a really great class if you're interested in the intersection between psychology and economics. There's a pset due every class but it usually takes less than an hour and are very low stress. The topics are interesting, and the TFs were wonderful
THIS IS A FANTASTIC CLASS!!!!! I love behavioral economics and this gives you a wide breadth of topics but you actually understand it so you walk away with important take-aways and insights that you can apply to pretty much any decision-making framework. The exams are fair, and while there are 2 psets a week, they usually release an answer key and are very manageable - plus it ensures you stay on top of the material. At times, the wording of questions can seem a little unclear so early on you should ask for clarifications if necessary. Both professors are adorable and are clearly passionate about the subject, and it was just a great experience over all.
This is an interesting econ elective that is balanced between intuitive concepts (that are on tests/psests as mini-essay questions) and math-heavy concepts (more traditional ec pset questions). There are engaging lectures, regular (decently short) psets, and fair exams. We learned about topics very relevant to our own lives (like about procrastination and the inability of our present self to make the most optimal decisions) and I was able to connect the course to my own behavior and improve some decision-making skills. If the rational-based models used in most econ classes bother you because of how unrealistic they seem, you should take this course and see how the behavioral economists update models to better reflect the irrational behavior that people actually exhibit in the world.
theoretically interesting but not so much material that you're always engaged
It's a great class! You will learn a lot of cool things that can be applied to everyday life.
Honestly loved this class. The material feels very "smart" and intuitive. Bi-weekly Psets are posted with solutions
Ec1030 is a great course taught by two fantastic professors. Professor Strzalecki is actually very funny, and the material he teaches is very cool. Professor Laibson is really friendly and very engaging, so the second half of the course is lots of fun.Ec1030 is not necessarily the easiest course, but it's not meant to be particularly painful or difficult. There are multiple psets a week but they never take too long, and they're good preparation for the exams. I would recommend this class for sure. They work really hard to make it accessible to those with all levels of economic and mathematical experience and the material is some of the coolest I have seen so far at Harvard.
Great class, I would actually recommend taking it earlier in your college career. The material is more conceptual than theory-based or math-y, so I'd imagine it's not too hard to get the gist of as a freshman or sophomore. I took it as a 2nd-semester junior at the same time as a couple of super hard Econ classes, and this was definitely not at the same difficulty level.
if you are interested in psychological microfoundations of behavior --> this is the course!
A truly incredible class - take it regardless of your ec background! It'll change your perspective on many facets of life, give you takeaways that will be applicable to other fields of study, and allow you to flex your mathematical and critical thinking skills. Lectures are genuinely interesting.
A great economics elective and introduction to the field of behavioral economics. Would highly recommend to anyone interested.
This class is challenging at times but worth it. Absolutely take it if you're interested in behavioral economics
This isn't an easy class, and the 3 weekly problem sets can be annoying, but this class is good if you have any interest in behavioral economics. Tomasz and David are both great lecturers and really passionate about their field.
Definitely take it, and Tomasz's half is arguably better than Laibson's.
Take the class. It's interesting, considered many questions anyone interested in Econ has thought of from time to time. Gives useful insights for own behaviour too. Some maths, so be somewhat comfortable with basic math.
This course is fantastic. Laibson is an incredible lecturer and the topics covered are very interesting. Would highly recommend to anybody even remotely interesting in behavioral economics.
very very easy.  it does give you some good fun facts but not sure it is worth taking unless they make it harder.
The first half of this course as pretty disappointing. I am not someone who normally has trouble paying attention in lecture, but I struggled to stay awake while Tomasz lectured. The second half with Professor Laibson was much more engaging and interesting. You should recognize that the first half of the course is nothing like Professor Laibson's introductory shopping period lecture, because it is taught by someone else. The material is interesting but not presented in an order that makes it easy to understand how concepts relate.
this course is no joke, but you will learn real things. Prof. Laibson is the man and you will want to go to lecture and participate.
If you haven't taken psychology before, this will add to your understanding of human interactions in a more theoretical way. Definitely opt into the laptop section, it's better trust me. And make sure you study hard for the exams, the class is more competitive than it seems.
It is definitely an interesting class, especially in the second half once you get the mathematical foundation. I would perhaps advocate for making a stats class a prereq so that not as much time has to be spent on the stats portion of the class and more time can be spent talking about interesting concepts. Very applicable stuff that seems pretty trivial but really makes a difference.
One of the best ec classes I've taken so far. You learn a lot of new information in a very straightforward way. One of the advantages of having professors involved in psychology is that they know how to teach effectively! The workload is very manageable and there's a lot of resources for help.
Very good class.  Develops both qualitative and quantitative models of super interesting subjects in economics and psychology.  This stuff is really interesting and really applicable.  The teaching staff is great at what they do.  The grading can be tough, but does assess well -- I did the psets for completion and not understanding at times and then was accordingly caught off-guard on high-percentage exams.  If you take it, you can get by without putting much work in, but I recommend taking time to really learn the concepts.
Great class! David and Thomasz are great professors who put a lot of effort into the course. There are psets for every class but they're usually easy (or they post the solutions before they're due) so don't worry about this. Definitely the best economics class I've ever taken here at Harvard.
I throughly enjoy this course. The first part was pretty math and proof heavy which can be boring but the insights and ideas are very interesting,
This class was a fascinating introduction to behavioral economics.  Most of the course focuses on discovering how people actually behave (as opposed to optimal economic models) and describing the way we make decisions.  This course is very relevant to everyday life, and I found myself thinking about the material often when making decisions of my own.  I would recommend this course to anyone who would like a (slightly) quantitative approach to psychological phenomena and how it relates to economics.  Also, Laibson is an amazing person and professor!
This is a phenomenal class.  In all honesty, there is a good chance it may not be great for your GPA because it IS difficult and the professors "worry about grade inflation at Harvard", but few classes at Harvard will be as good as this one for your general development as a human being.  The topics are super interesting and very easily relatable to daily life.  Overall, the class will really challenge you to think and will change the way you think about human decision making.  Oh, and David Laibson is only like THE COOLEST professor at Harvard.
This class is WAY more quantitative than the first two lectures suggest. Definitely interesting material, but be prepared to take the quantitative approach to behavioral economics.
The portion of the class taught by Laibson will change how you view the field of economics. It's awesome and engaging. He also gives you ample opportunity to engage with him and the material. However, be prepared for some boring lectures early on with Tomasz.
A great class covering great material in a really fun and interesting way. Not very hard but does require a lot of short assignments and being present
While studying for the final I flipped through "Thinking Fast and Slow", and was shocked to find that almost every concept we covered in the course was from the book (often using the same examples). I knew there would be overlap, but I expected the course to go much further in depth on these topics than the book than was actually the case. I felt a bit cheated upon discovering this, as I used one of my last course slots on this class. If you're choosing between this and something else you're interesting, consider reading the book and passing on the class (the material is very interesting, it's unclear how much more you'll learn it by taking the class).
This course will change how you think about yourself and your world. I often found myself thinking about the subject matter outside of class. The instructors are world-class and really believe in their students. I recommend this class highly!
This is a great class to take. Intellectually stimulating, but relatively chill
This is a good, fairly easy course. The 3 p-sets per week are pretty quick to complete and a satisfying check off of your to-do list.
Econ1030 is a great class!  As the title suggests, the course lies at the intersection of psychology and economics, balancing the mathematical models of economics with the experiment-based research of psychology.  David and Tomasz are both great professors who really care about their students and the future of the field - often times in class they'll make references to how the field is young and how we as students have the ability to have an impact should we choose to pursue it, giving you a sense of empowerment not seen in most other classes.  The course is also kept to approximately 65 students, giving the class a much more close-knit feel and enabling students to speak up and ask questions without hesitation.  Having a problem set due before every lecture may seem intimidating at first, but is quite manageable in length and difficulty.  Overall, a solid course for concentration, secondary, or even just elective!
don't let the psets dissuade you!
This is one of the most interesting classes I've taken at Harvard. The professors are amazing, though the TFs were subpar.Beware: the problem sets are incredibly easy, and the exams are incredibly difficult.
Take this class earlier in your academic career, it may influence what you chose to do later.
While I learned a lot in this course, I thought it was fairly basic for a junior econ concentrator. I would recommend this course for ambitious and curious freshmen as well as nonec people because a lot of ec classes cover some of the core concepts in this course. I thought Tomasz' part was more interesting, engaging, and challenging because he was showing you how to build models while Liaibson's was less interesting because the ideas were fairly intuitive and obvious once you heard them. Liabson is a great lecturer, but sometimes he covers things slowly.
Very interesting course material. I really enjoyed learning throughout the semester. Go to office hours for psets. There are 2 per week but most of the time they're really short (like 1 hour each). Not sure how grading works but they say they dont like grade inflation (whatever that means). Still would recommend. Behavioral economics is a growing and exciting field.
Liaison is a great lecturer, and he is knowledgeable about a wide variety of topics that are taught in the course - a very engaging experience and a solid course.
A great introduction to behavioral economics, taught by leaders in the field. Helpful to go to section and office hours to clarify any confusion.
Great introductory survey to the subject, but don't expect advanced material! Simple concepts, psets sometimes a little convoluted but overall very doable. Class is well organized; everything is returned very quickly and logistics are never a problem
You need to be really analytical and be prepared to do proofs. It may be different from your expectation on how a psychology course should be. It includes a lot theories and might not be that practical.
This course is v. interesting, lecture slides make the psets easier
Professor Laibson is a great lecturer, take this course if you have the chance!! Section was helpful, exams were fair
Great class. Really do your best to pay attention in Tomasz's part of the class because it is a little less intuitive than what David teaches.
This is a really great opportunity to take a class with the most dedicated and prominent professor in the field. The class has been refined over the years so many times that it is extremely well run for the best possible education experience. The material is relevant regardless of what you want to pursue in the future. Take this class!
I enjoyed the mixing of Tomasz's and Liabson's teaching styles, but be prepared for the differences in psets. Some weeks, they would take 20 minutes and others much longer.
The professor is obnoxious and full of himself. will treat you like a kid who doesnt know what they are doing. if you ignore him it will make for a good way to meet apmth: social science requirement.
As a CS major, I found that I had the mathematical background for this course and was fully prepared for it.  I found the psych material fascinating and the descriptions of models a bit slow.  (Especially the first half of the course on risk aversion and expected value.)
really interesting stuff, fun to learn about.  Laibson is a champion.  pset every class is tedious but I actually preferred it
Be really familiar with models.
