An interesting course that one should take if interested in Economics.
Be careful who's your TF, go to lectures FOR SURE.
Great class to learn how real economics is done. You will learn a lot, but it  is a very disorganized and poorly taught course. Substantial self-learning is required.
Be prepared to work hard and work with others and you should be fine. If you don't like math, Ec1010b might be better.
If the professors learn from these CUE guides and replace the Head TF or show a far greater level of concern for the Head TF's work (which was entirely incogruous with lecture this year) it would be far better.)
not too much work and you learn a lot
If Y.T. is a TF do not take this class.
You don't actually learn much interesting macroeconomics. You learn how to make toy models. If you don't want to work for an investment bank or go to economics grad school, don't take this course. Take 1010b instead. It's professor, Chris Foote, is awesome.
it's tough but very worth it - it was my fav. class this term, and when i compared 1011b with 1010b at the end of the semester, i am really glad i chose this one.
I would only recommend this class if it is required for concentration and the student does not want to take 1010a.  The class was disorganized, and the professors, while generally good teachers, did not oversee the quality of the overall course well.
Willing to work hard. Take the initiative to understand the material. However, at the end you tend to learn quite a bit.
much of the class really depended on the head tf, since he wrote the problem sets and exams
The class isn't really as hard as people make it out to be; if you are good at math and like economics it shouldn't pose too much of a challenge.
Good material
The professors are great and the material is very interesting -- and you'll be able to use the models you learn as a framework for understanding what's going on in the "real" world of economic policymaking.
Do not take this class unless you are very confident in your mathematical abilities, and enjoy learning about economic concepts via mathematical models.
Is a challenging class, but Econ 1010b is more applicable to the real world
It's definitely a solid course with good professors. Don't let horror stories of the head TF screwing up on a huge scale and being egomaniacal scare you from not taking this course.
Must take if want to be able to read economic papers.
Nothing.
If you want to know the real economics, take 1011B.
This class will teach you a lot, and it is, as Prof. Tsyvinski termed it, a "badge of honor".
Easier than 1011a.
This is among the most interesting of the foundational courses I have found in the Harvard Economics department.
Take it if you have no choice.  1011b < 1010b.  Economics is entirely worthless without math.
Be sure you know what you're getting into.
Though the class is not too difficult the course material is unbearably dull.
the head TF has a big impact on the class, even though the professors are good.
Conditional recommendation: This course is useful IF one has a genuine interest in learning how economist model economic phenomena. In particular, the course is crucial if one is seriously considering graduate school in economics. However, if one is only seeking an understanding of economic concepts, then he is better off taking Ec1010b.
Be prepared to do math, algebraic manipulation and differentiation.
Great professors, be familiar with calculus
Make sure you are able to do advanced math easily.
This is a great class for those interested in development and growth.
Although the first part of the course deals with concepts, the second half is very mathematical and this course should be considered an applied math econ course rather than just an economics course.
It's a great course. The lectures are amazing. They are interesting, funny and very effective. I never read the book and the lectures were enough for me to learn and understand the material. The course is about logic, no need to memorize much.
i'm not sure it's worth the inevitable headache it will cause you.  unless you've got some past work in advanced math.
This course along with Econ1011a is probably not a good choice for a core or extra-concentrational elective because of the level of rigor. Expect to work but be rewarded for it.
If you actually want to learn economics and explain headlines in the WSJ, you're probably better off in 1010. I feel like I learned very little economics, but simply applied math to economics I already knew.
A great opportunity to learn some simple and informative models in Economics.
Take this class if your other classes will not be as time consuming.  Also take this class if you have a strong ability in math and do not make many mistakes with math.
If you love math, this is the place to be. 1010b is a joke--this is the real thing.
It's characteristic of most classes in the Economics department: large, disorganized, unfriendly, but there are interesting things to be learned.
It is not necessarily a harder version of 1010b, since it covers a different subset of material, so it depends what you are looking for.
Be prepared to work hard and immerse yourself in mathematical proofs and derivations.  Staying on top of financial news can only help you.  Take advantage of this chance to meet the professors.  Work with classmates on the problem sets.
Only take if necessary for your concentration.
This class is great! Star professors and a very timely topic.
Aghion and Laibson have completely different teaching styles, but both are very good at explaining the material. TF's write the problem sets as they see fit, which may not correspond to what is taught.
I would tell them to read the textbook written by Aghion, and not take the course. That was all I learned, so I don't know why I bothered going to the other lectures, in which I learned little and had no idea what I was supposed to take away from. I would also tell them that the final is much harder than anything else in the course.
appears to be meant more as an applied math class than an economics class
Obviously the structure of this class can be improved, but it is very relevant to your everyday life if you sit down and think about what you are actually doing. If you reflect and think about real terms, you will get a lot out of this class.
Expect to work hard, especially mathematically.  However, you will be rewarded with a deeper knowledge of econ than without the math.
Definitely worth taking.  You need a baseling level of math, but ver interesting and fair.
pretty good class but it's sometimes not clear what the point of lessons is.
Standard macro--take it instead of 1010 if you're looking for more of a challenge with a bit more math.
Class is solid across the board, problem sets are reasonable, professors are excellent, discussion of the financial crisis if very interesting
Ec. 1011b is an intense, time-consuming class which rewards dedication and hard work. If you are not willing to spend the time necessary to compete with the more intense students, you will likely not enjoy the class and not do as well as you would like.
This class is a difficult but rewarding class.
As far as I can tell, it's way better and more fun than 1010.  It bestows a good theoretical understanding of economics, and asks some interesting questions.  It's markedly easier than 1011a.
A very well-thought class that teaches a lot of well-chosen and interesting material that is essential for every economist to know. The instructors' enthusiasm is definitely a great factor in making the course enjoyable.
Don't take. Take 1011a which is both a legitimate subject and better taught.
You probably won't learn anything useful or that interesting but you have to take it for Applied Math with Economics.
i would say if you have taken calc in your life then you might as well use it and challenge yourself to take tis class becasue the teachers are great
I would advise students who are not required to take 1011, for instance applied math, to take 1010b. I think 1011a certainly has merits over 1010a, but I think in this course 1010b was much better taught and organized this term. That being said, 1010b did meet at 9am on Friday. I heard that a lot of students in my class actually used the 1010b slides to help review, so that should tell you something about the class.
If you want to concentrate in economics, I guess you have to take this class or 1010b. I can't speak about 1010b, so this may be better. But it definitely is not good, and I would never recommend it as an elective.
The course was more structured than I expected (which is good), but being an economics course, the material was still all over the place. Also, Professor Aghion is hilarious.
The class is okay if you love working through general macroeconomic models but lectures tend not to relate much to the graded material.
Very difficult. At least for me, more so than 1011a, and a little more disorganized.
This class is a great survey of macroeconomic concepts relevant to the global economy and how it functions today.
Take it if you don't want to retake ec10 (1010) and if you want a unique view of economics. But to be honest, kind of boring.
It may not seem like you're learning a lot, but you really are...
A lot of math, but fulfilling.
The professors are really nice, and the material feels applicable. None of the readings are actually required, and since they post good lecture slides it's easy to study.
Make sure you know what you're getting into
This is a pretty good course. In lecture it seems much, much easier than 1011a, but beware for problem sets and exams: it isn't as easy as you have convinced yourself it is. And apparently the curve is harsh, so it's actually tougher to get an A-/A in this class than in 1011a.
This class is really awesome.  I took it instead of Ec 10 and found I learned loads - it really turned me on to economics.  You get to learn some really cool models and conceptualize important aspects of the economy like consumption, investment, and long-run economic growth.
This course is going to be really hard but not impossible. The experience is going to be amazing as long as you come to class prepared. Also always think first before you raise your hand and ask a question - there really are stupid questions. Some might complain about how the lectures (esp. the first half) were hard to follow but I didn't find that to be the case
Ec1011a is a great class that teaches a very mathematical approach to macroeconomic concepts. Both professors are very different, but great teachers that care about the entire class understanding the material. Sections are also very helpful. I would recommend going to as many lectures as possible, even though the lecture notes are available online.
Both professors are great!
It is challenging but rewarding.  A great alternative to wasting away in 1010b.
Good class, easier than 1011a, TFs are nice, professors are fantastic. Material can get a bit dry, but it's good. Only complaint from this year was that sections were at absurd time (e.g. 9am) but otherwise, good class.
Much less volume of work and struggle than 1011a. Develops some good foundations, but is a bit slow getting there for a 1011 series course.
It was an enjoyable class, not too hard. Aghion is awesome! The topics covered by Laibson are interesting. I took it without taking taking intermediate micro and I was fine.
Super interesting material, way better than 1011a. Laibson makes material very accesible, and Laibson is fun. Watch out for midterm and final, they are practically the only two grades so make sure you stay on top of material for the tests.
Actually not as hard as it is rumored to be. Workload isn't that bad either. But if economics is something you truly enjoy, take it. If not, it'll be a torture.
It is a very rewarding course. The problem sets and exams are difficult- the problem sets can take time and preparing for the exam will also take a lot of time but it is really worth it.If you plan on concentrating in economics, I think this course is a must-take because you really learn what macroeconomics is about through the math, derivations, and models. Basically, don't get scared and take 1010b- take 1011b.
Although the material seems somewhat disjointed and it's difficult to explain what the course is about, you'll probably learn something and it's not quite as challenging as 1011a was.
Take this course if you're interested in the models behind economics - aka if you like econometrics.
Best decision I've made at Harvard so far as an aspiring economist.
Both professors are really great lecturers, and they speak about completely different subjects (long-run and short-run). The Long-run section is a little less quantitative, and is great for people coming from a strong ec background, but the short-run stuff is really interesting from a stat/math perspective
The first have of the course is obnoxious but it gets much better in the second half when taking about consumption.
I thoroughly enjoyed taking this class this year.  I was one of the few students in the class without a strong math background, and the majority of students in the class are app math, math, physics, or econ with strong math preparation.  That being said, I still felt that I left the class having learned a lot about math and econ and about applying math to economic situations.  I did feel that I spent a lot of time learning things that were more intuitive to the rest of my peers and consequently, there was some material that I never fully mastered.  I did find this course very difficult, but manageable even with my weak math background.  It is definitely not a large time commitment to get the assignments done although time is needed to excel.  I would definitely take this class again.  The teaching staff is amazing!
The second half of the semester is much more interesting and challenging than the first half.  Beware the midterm was much more difficult than most expected.
This class is hard, especially if you didn't take 1011a, but you learn a lot.
This is a very good class, much easier than 1011a and overall far more enjoyable. Aside from a very tricky midterm, material was difficult but accessible (read: you can do the problem sets by yourself). The first half of the course is easier than the second, but neither is too tough. Very well taught by enthusiastic professors who like to engage in discussion with students. Take advantage of that fact to ask for clarification, etc. Be warned that some knowledge of probability theory (having taken Stat110, for example) is definitely useful though not compulsory - it will make your life easier for sure. If you are deciding between 1010b and 1011b, don't be too scared of this course. The math is not too daunting and much of the material is more interesting and engaging.
I mean the course isn't that hard and you won't have to do a lot of work (especially if you took 1011a which is an amazing course and you should take it!) but you really won't learn that much...pretty much its just memorizing the models and working with infinite geometric series...thats about it....
Do it if you need to, or want to be an economist.  If you want to learn about econ in general, take 1010b
It's not hard, but unless there are better TFs, this class is really not worth it. The class is disorganized and low on the faculty's priority list.
DO NOT be fooled by the first few lectures - the class in the second half (taught by laibson) becomes more mathy. Take it if you want to get a taste of grad school economics; but it probably won't help your GPA.
It's a great class, but be prepared to get slammed by the midterm.
It's a little challenging, but you learn a lot. And the math is not at all crazy. Plus the professors are great!
Not as well organized as 1011a.
You must study.
Prepare for intense frustration. This class makes me hate economics, not because it's hard, but because I've realized how arbitrary the field is.
Much easier than Ec1011a, but also less interesting and less relevant (not that Ec1011a was relevant anyway). Aghion's lecture style is really not effective but he really cares about his students. Laibson's lectures were much more interesting, but the math didn't seem very useful although it was pretty simple and straightforward
Much more manageable class than Ec1011a. Though it's still difficult, it is not as intimidating and both Laibson and Aghion are very open to answering questions and explaining confusing information in more detail.
Take this course if you're looking for a mathematically rigorous economics class.  However, I don't think you learn that much more economics; it's just more mathy.
The class was mildly interesting but could have been better in presenting macroeconomic materials, such as by providing case study lectures of real economic problems beyond the subprime housing crisis.
You won't cover as many concepts as Ec1010b, so in terms of developing intuition, this class is not helpful.  however, it's taught well, Aghion is delightful, and Laibson is well organized.
If lectures are somewhat confusing or disorganized, the books often cover the same material but in a more organized stream of logic.
Interesting and not nearly as challenging mathematically as 1011a.
This course is nothing like Ec 1011a.  It's definitely easier but it's also just different in every way.  It consists of two basically unrelated courses: growth theory (taught by Aghion) and stochastic processes, asset pricing, intertemporal choice, habit formation, investment models, etc. (taught by Laibson).  You won't really learn a lot about macroeconomics but most of the material is interesting.  The lectures are pretty good but the sections are pretty bad.  If you're looking for a more challenging version of Ec 1010b, definitely go for it.
Great course to take!
This is a very good class.  But if you're in Tom Cunningham's section, it becomes a great class.
This is  a really cool, interesting class. The math is not actually difficult in this class if you've taken 21a or above. If you took stuff above 21, the math is actually really easy, but this is good, cause the math should assist the understanding of the economics, not obscure it. Aghion and Laibson are awesome, and it's an honor to have them in lecture. Midterm was really hard, and I got totally boned, though I still think this class is really good.
It is a difficult class, but the material is interesting. I think that the next year, the T.F's will solidify their teaching style, and perhaps that will greatly enhance the class.
ABSOLUTELY TAKE IT IF YOU WANT TO ENJOY YOUR INTERMEDIATE ECONOMICS EXPERIENCE!I enormously enjoyed Economics 1011b: Intermediate Macroeconomics with Philipe Aghion and David Laibson. The entire teaching staff (the TFs were so dedicated and ALWAYS reachable/approachable and made GREAT lecture outlines) was phenomenal and made the already well structured and interesting course even better. Applications to the real world were also emphasized. Dont worry about the math, seriously!
much easier than 1011a
Much like with 1011a, this class will probably be your hardest course this semester. The models are a little fuzzier and the conclusions a little more vague, but this is still a seriously mathematical course.
Very intelligent professors, from whom you get to hear a lot about their own work. Much of this class is translating mathematical symbols into intuitive phenomena.
Great class, manageable workload, with brilliant professors who really care a lot about making sure you understand the material.
Ec 1011b gave me a firm grounding in the theories of macroeconomics. It was not easy, but it was interesting material and I learned a lot.
If you are good at math, take this class. If you like an intuitive and topical understanding of macro, take 1010b. Not having to wake up at 9am MWF is worth taking a harder class.
This class presents a lot of interesting macroeconomic concepts (growth, consumption, investment etc). Expect about the same level of math, although presented more slowly/gradually than Ec1011a. The instructors are both wonderful!
If you want to study macroeconomics and actually understand theoratical background, take this course.
Horribly organized, almost no content
I'm sure you'll read/hear about how the course lacks a coherent structure. That's true and I do hope it gets improved, but I highly recommend that you take this course if you really want to learn about economics. Professor Aghion and Laibson are incredibly kind and patient. Aghion lost sleep because we didn't get the Schumpetarian model initially while Laibson constantly inspired us to make an impact. To a certain extent, the structure of this course (or lack of in some parts) reflects the messiness of macroeconomics but these two professors tried their best to present the students with the leading economics models and theories, and I did learn a lot. If you did not have the best time in Ec1011a and worry about reliving a nightmare, fear not, this class is not that crazy. You actually have time to absorb the materials before moving on to the next topic (yeah, you will see the smile on people's faces after the first class) because it is taught in a much better pace. Actually, having completed the 1011 series, I think Ec1011b should be taken before Ec1011a. Seriously.
This class embodies everything that is wrong with the ec department: large, impersonal, disorganized, low-quality in every respect. TFs who can't teach and don't care, professors who don't hold office hours, poorly written problem sets, course material with only the pretense of mathematical rigor.
A well-organized course with very interesting material and great profs. Less demanding and time-consuming than 1011a
You won't learn any macro, or anything useful...
It's a required course... but the amazing professors more than make up for it.
This class is SIGNIFICANTLY easier than 1011a and is almost a joke. Don't come in expecting to learn everything there is to know about macroeconomics--for that, turn to Ec10 (in a very introductory, survey fashion). Rather, in 1011b, you'll spend the semester really getting to know essentially two major topics: growth and consumption, which are actually not very well touched in Ec10. I was a little disappointed by the course, especially after taking 1011a--which is a strong survey of intermediate micro theory at a rigorous pace, that this course felt overtly condescending toward one's ability and the hand-holding never ceases.
Take this class if it suits your interests. It's a "rigorous" class, but not early as much as 1011a. The latter course has high expectations for its students as well as a unified curriculum. This course too often feels like a hodge-podge of economics arcana (Laibson's section).As a macroeconomic class overall, this was a bit of a dissappointment. Aghion's material was germane, but I thought Laibson gave up too much in teaching his section. I can tell you about Tobin's q-theory, but I can't say anything about aggregate demand, unemployment, the budget, income inequality. That's a lot to give up, no?
The course is well organized and the workload isn't bad.  Be fairly comfortable with math.
You'll learn the nitty-gritty of economics theory.
Laibson hates you.
This course is highly quantitative. To be honest, I would probably have appreciated macroeconomics more if I had taken Ec 1010b. Here, you learn nothing about open market operations, very little about the IS-LM model, and nothing about the more basic macroeconomic paradigms. Unless if you live and breathe math, take 1010b.
Its significantly less quantitative than Economics 1011a.
This course is approachable and understandable within a reasonable amount of time, so if there's any place to try to approach and understand a subject, this course is the place to do it.
Sometimes Ec1011b might seem a bit unnecessarily math-based, but the subject matter still shines through, is interesting and pertinent, and if you like math it is not that hard and very fun!
You will learn important information, but make sure to fill in the macro gaps you don't learn on your own.
I loved this class. The lectures were very interesting, the workload is not very heavy, and the material is useful, relevant, and well taught.
It's a good class. Professors are amazing! While you do have to learn the math behind the models we learn, the Economics part of the class is more important. A large part of the course is a qualitative understanding, which I didn't expect.
Aghion is great. Although his material is tough. Laibson was okay and his material was rudimentary. Stereotypical ec class.
Way better than 1011a
This is a really interesting class, loved Aghion's portion. It is tough, definitely not as hard as 1011a though. I hear the curve is going to suck though....sooo, yea, choose wisely. Although, if you're like me, you're applied math econ, so lets be real, you dont have a choice.
This class is really good and is not nearly as intense or scary as 1011a. Laibson's half of the course was particularly good and he is very personable and tries to get to know the students. The workload is really manageable but make sure you stay on top of everything because the two tests are basically all of your grade.
Be sure that you study Laibson's part of the course because it is very confusing and requires basically a lot of copying of his lecture slides in order to successfully complete it.
Homework isn't very draining, but be sure to keep up with the material.
The professors are awesome and if you like economics and are a quant-y type of person you should take it!
For someone who doesn't have aspirations for economics graduate school and is more interested in obtaining an intermediate macroeconomic foundation, 1010b may be a better course. 1011b is a nice course that is sufficiently challenging with good lectures and TFs, but I felt as though I didn't learn as much as I could have.
The professors in this class are in sharp contrast to Glaesar (1011a) - it's a much warmer and slower paced class. However, don't expect to learn as much.
Hard but interesting and fun.
This is a GREAT class!  There is a lot more "content" material and significantly less math Olympics than in 1011a, which makes for a more interesting class.  Both professors are very engaging and have very unique teaching styles.  You learn a lot and go into way more legit detail than in 1010b.  Take this class if you are not satisfied with the kind of logic you used in ec 10 when you moved lines on graphs around with no basis other than a theoretical, non-mathematical framework.  You will learn a lot about how the world works and go into detail on topics that are not even touched in 1010.
it's a good solid macro course with professors who care
good teaching, interesting material, much better than 1011a, much easier
Econ 1011b is essentially two different courses with two very different styles of lecturing and teaching philosophies. The TFs, however, are dedicated and intelligent and provide continuity.
The professors are extremely good and entertaining, but this class should only be open to people who are extremely interested in learning mathematical economics.
Anyone who enrolls in Econ 1011b should have very strong reasons for doing so.  Unless you are a math concentrator or plan to pursue a career as an economist, the course is simply not worth the time investment and has a high probability of hurting your GPA.  Intimate knowledge of statistics is definitely necessary and should be a prerequisite; the cursory review of statistics provided in the lectures is not sufficient for understanding the statistics used in the course overall.
It's hard work but worth it.
Not as challenging as 1011a, but not as interesting either. It will teach you some interesting things about economics, but it won't change the way you look at the world.
First part of the course is too easy and too boring. Second part is more interesting and rewarding. Managable course overall.
Ec 1011b is not as mathy as Ec 1011a. Expect essay questions on the exams, which are difficult to get a high score on. If you are interested in purely mathematical economics, then take 1011a instead.
Aghion and Laibson are fantastic lecturers (and Aghion has a wonderful accent).  The course material is highly relevant, and seamlessly incorporates your Ec10b foundations in fantastic applications to long-run growth models and short-run fluctuations of consumption and investment.  Definitely not comparable to Ec1010, take 1011 for a challenge and a great opportunity to learn from the best.
It's not as difficult as 1011 is hyped up to be. The teaching fellows are very helpful and walk you through the difficult material that is covered in lecture. The problem sets are also easy; while they seem very long, each subquestion walks you through the problem in baby steps so that you don't even need to think -- just do what the problem tells you to do.Aghion is a great lecturer and I really enjoyed his enthusiasm. Laibson, while perhaps a bit more well-spoken than Aghion, is also good, but he hand-waves much of the material and sometimes we wonder whether he himself fully knows the answers to our questions or the math behind what he's talking about.Overall, I would recommend this course. It's a good class with a lot of interesting topics covered, and I do feel like I've gotten a lot out of it.
fantastic course, much more applied than 1011b
Philippe Aghion has a very excitable way of teaching which might be hard to understand. DON'T FALL ASLEEP in class because it only makes it harder to understand the lecture when you wake up. Also, Professor Aghion doesn't really stick to his notes, so don't just turn up for class with the notes and a pen.
The economics taught is fairly interesting, but for those expecting the class to be at the same level mathematically as 1011a, the pace of the course might seem a bit disappointing.
This course was significantly less mathematical/rigorous than it has been in previous years and suffered as a result. There was very little difference from Ec10b in terms of the material and in fact the problem sets may have been easier.
I LOVED this course. It really helped me gain a lot of economic intuition and didn't get bogged down in unnecessary math. Both professors were wonderful.
Ec 1011b is a great course, and the lectures are all very interesting. It was difficult for me (I took the first semester of Ec 10 and AP Macro in high school) but if I had put more time into the course, doing all of the readings, it probably would have been a tad bit easier. That said, if you're going into the course like me, with not the full background that people usually have, be prepared to be a little frightened come midterm and final time, and be willing to work really hard! It's definitely doable, however, and if you are interested in economics, it's definitely a great class to take.
A great survey of key macroeconomic principles with a mathematical approach.
This class or a similar macroeconomic class is essential for students looking to understand the state of macroeconomic development in the world. The professors are very upfront with the emerging nature of the field, but getting your feet wet is the best way to try it for yourself. Although I found the developmental economics half more interesting, both halves were very well taught, and the assignments and examinations were very fair. The class is less mathematical than in previous years, which seems to rob the class of deeper technical insights, but I suppose that opens to a wider audience. Go to lectures. Ask questions. Make sure that everything actually makes sense. Its possible to get by in the class without doing so, but youre really robbing yourself of the experience. The class wasnt too difficult, only requiring multivariable calculus to the extent of being able to take first order conditions.I thoroughly enjoyed Ec1011b!
Very gentle introduction to real economics (research/mathematical models). Optimally, take this before Ec 1011a or as early as possible.
Take it seriously.
The class is the easiest class I took since sophomore year in high school. The instructors have intentionally "dumbed down" the course. If you haven't taken econ, this might be a good course. Otherwise, it is not worth the time. Unless the philosophy of treating students as idiots is revised, there is little point in taking the course.
Take this class over Ec1010b. You won't regret it, especially b/c the professors are moving away from math. You get to learn from amazing faculty, too!
Whether you're going to be doing economics, applied math, or any other subject, this course is a great way to get a taste of how economics can actually be applied to the real world.  You'll learn the basic models defining growth, and understand how economists evaluate the many mechanisms of our economy as a whole.  Also, Laibson is the man, his viewpoint and insight on many of the topics are exactly the reason a Harvard education is so valuable.
If you are deciding between 1011 and 1010, take 1011.
It's a good class. Laibson's a great lecturer and the material is pretty interesting. The only thing is that the course isn't the most organised and the problem sets aren't very interesting.
Beware if you took 1011a and loved it or at least respected it; this class is nothing like that.  What drew me to 1011a was the math and how Professor Glaeser really utilized it to explain microeconomic theories.  I've even heard 1011a described as a math class with economics applications.  1011b is nothing like 1011a.  It's a lot more wishy-washy and seemed to have a gen-ed feel to it at the end.  Didn't we want to take this course to get a more mathematical approach to macroeconomics?  Instead, I feel like the class is "dumbed down" a lot, for reasons unclear to me.  Psets took 30 minutes-1 hour, while 1011a psets took 10-15 hours.  I think this was because of the TF's, who weren't all too great this year.  The structure of the course is also a bit strange.  Professor Aghion does the first half on long run theory while Professor Laibson does the second half on short run theory.  There wasn't much overlap at all, which I think would have been helpful in tying the course together.  Exams weren't too bad.  If you come from 1010a, you'll probably find this course a bit more challenging than 1010a.  If you come from 1011a, you'll find this course to be a letdown in how unchallenging it is.
It's a great class!
Much easier than 1011a, not the same rigor. But still an interesting topic. The models we learn are pretty crude, though, which makes you realize how much further we have to go in the field of economics.
Can go a bit slow if you've done 1011a. Professor Aghion's part is very interesting conceptually and Professor Laibson does a lot of interesting behavioural stuff.
This class should be taken by those only seriously considering higher study of economics with a good understanding of calculus
Not a lot of work but moderately difficult. There are smart people in the class so there isnt much of  a curve on tests. Some of the material is interesting and Laibson is great!
Fantastic course! Less demanding than 1011a and you learn a lot. Also smaller course, more fairly tested, and not at 9am -- all unlike 1010b!!
Take the course if you want a decent macroeconomic introduction. It's good, nothing exceptional (don't think you'll be gripping your seat or running to lecture in excitement) but it covers what needs to be covered in a non-boring way, which is commendable. If you're coming from 1011a, feel free to sleep through the math.
The only reason to take this class (aside from if you are an Applied Math-Ec concentrator), is that Philippe Aghion is the most adorable man on the planet. And that David Laibson is quite possibly the most inspirational professor, ever. As perplexed as you may feel about how the course fits together (you have two very different parts, and the subsections of David's part feel discrete), the professors make you feel like you are doing something worthwhile. Philippe's part takes you through a series of growth models, and he dispels all of them until you get to what he definitely believes is the beacon of macroeconomics, his Schumpeterian model. I wish I could explain to you what it was, but he seemed to think it was quite important. David's part is also about his debunking most common conceptions; he will get you excited about behavioral economics! Last comment: BUY THE BOOKS. They are essential to doing well in the class. Don't buy them new, though; get them used from former students!!
This class is tough, do not underestimate it. Learn the basic processes throughly for exams.
Professors Aghion and Laibson are PHENOMENAL - they'll definitely be two of the best professors you'll ever have. In addition to their great teaching and how much they care about their students (Aghion is incredibly kind, and Laibson makes a genuine effort to learn as many names as possible), the TF's are all very accessible and helpful, the material is interesting and presented well, and the problem sets and exams are very reasonable. All in all a very solid course; not at all like 1011a, and one of my favorite classes here so far.
It's a lot easier than Econ 1011a, so if you took that and are hesitant about going through a similar experience, don't worry.  The material is interesting to learn and practice.  Go to lecture because that's where most of the learning happens.
This class has a highly conceptual focus - it is very different to Ec1011a. I enjoyed this course because the course load was extremely fair and the psets were never bogged down in mathematical minutiae. Be prepared to write essays on economic concepts/events as well as manipulate simple mathematical models. Focus on the concepts and intuition - not the mathematics!
DO NOT BUY THE TEXTBOOKS. I wasted $200 for books we hardly ever used. Also, Aghion's half of the class is much better than Laibson's. Psets are also deceptively easy.
I enjoyed the material in this class. The class was somewhat disorganized. Psets were not very well written. But overall, I still have to say I enjoyed the class, because I found the material to be ver interesting.
This class is way easier than Ec 1011a, but also more boring than 1011a and less organized.
You learn some good stuff. The exam was really hard. I wouldn't take it if it weren't required because there's a lot of repeat with 1011a and with ec 10 and lecture is pretty boring. Section is helpful, office hours are super helpful, and the psets are fun, though.
This class is much, much easier than 1011a. The algebra was simple and there were very few derivatives. I could even do the problem sets without help. The workload was much lighter. However, I also think 1011a is a better class. This class seems to lack an identity because they took away some of the math - it felt more like Ec 10 than like Ec 1011a at times. Laibson's part of the course is more interesting and his lectures are clearer than Aghion's, but it looks like he won't teach the course next year.
It's such important stuff! You should take it.
I loved the structure of this course -- Aghion lecturing on growth economics and Laibson on fluctuations and asset markets -- it gave an excellent overview of macro topics. However, I actually thought the class was slightly "dumbed down" from previous years. I would have preferred for it to have been more mathematical. After all, that is why Ec1011b is offered. It is definitely easier than Ec1011a. Nevertheless, Aghion and Laibson make an incredible team, and I highly recommend the course over Ec1010b.
The class is much improved from previous years and the material on the psets and tests are much more doable. That said, there is still a lot of obscure math in econ that you'll have to struggle to understand, especially in Aghion's lectures. Go to Yao's office hours and ask lots of questions!
Since I did not take 1011a, I struggled a little bit in the beginning but thanks to my awesome study group and TF's, I was able to keep up. I learned a lot in this course about growth models, financial crisis, and consumption behavior! Aghion and Laibson are both fantastic professors and the TF's are all really nice and super helpful.
take this class only if you absolutely need it for the concentration requirement. otherwise, i think 1010b would be a better experience. that said, laibson is the man.
Very good foundation in macroeconomics for future Ec concentrators - take it.
Mixed feelings about this class. I took 1011b, with just AP Econ background from high school way back when, because I'm interested in international development, and preferred taking the more quantitative/math-y class (vs. 1010b). In content, for me, the first half on overall growth of economies was quite interesting (perhaps not that rigorously modeled, but cool to see how factors like education, healthcare, institutions/government, etc. play a role in growth), and the second half was okay but then turned more finance-y. This course also really isn't allll that math-y, and the parts that are aren't really gone over that well and in the end you just need to know the simpler results from perhaps more complicated calculations.
This course has definitely been made lighter than it was in the past (as studying prior years' finals/midterms made clear), and by "lighter" I mean requiring less math. That may seem like a plus, and certainly the work burden is not too significant (if you've been discouraged by 1011a, don't worry, this is nothing like it). But at the same time, it felt like I wasn't getting the rigorous approach to the subject I'd hoped for; a times, it amounted to a glorified Ec 10. It's not a bad course, and you learn some interesting things. But it could be better.
You have to treat this as a math class rather than economics class. To do well, you must have a very strong math background because you will rely more on your math ability rather than critical thinking to do well in the class at the end of the class.
Unless the course is made more rigorous with more math, it is a fairly boring class. Generally most of the intermediate macro material is covered, but in a fairly elementary way.
I think this class is definitely worth taking - the exams are hard but the class gave me a much clearer and deeper understanding of the financial crisis of 2008.
If you have to take a macroeconomics course here, this is the best, I think. That being said, it was not the best run class--the TFs were pretty unhelpful and not everything is covered in class. However, the professors are both very nice and very talented individuals, if not spectacular teachers.
If you have to take it, you have to take it. Ec 1011a was a far better class, so don't get your hopes up. 1011b was ok - 4 group psets, a project, and 2 exams. The curve is awful though, and for us the median of the midterm was an 87. So the only people who will get As are probably the ones who got like 98s on their midterms and finals. The class is really annoying and terrible.
Class is somewhat disorganized, although learning the models is encouraged and really the models are instrumental in learning intermediate-theory macro.
A good course with lots of interesting material but a few structural issues (not enough PSets to fully learn all the material for example) keep it from being great. Its easier than 1011a, but the people are largely the same which means its difficult to improve from how you did relative to that class, especially since the professors rather ominously speak out against grade inflation.
Sebnem is an incredible professor but Elias is rather rude and condescending. The first portion of the class is far more interesting than the section portion. The problem sets can take a while, but you have two weeks to do them and they are done in a group, so they end up not being that bad. The midterm and final are difficult and the project takes a good amount of effort and time. Try to keep up with the material (review lecture notes at the end of each week and make sure you understand everything that is going on) but don't bother with the textbook or journal article readings (unnecessary to do well in the course and not worth your time). Tim is a horrible section leader and very poor at answering questions, but Yang is absolutely wonderful. Go to his section/office hours, and don't be afraid to ask to meet with him outside of that as well - he is very accommodating and sincerely wants you to do well in the course.
Difficult, but worthwhile.  Hugely important for any economics student
Take it if econ is a part of your required classes.
this class was very unorganized (it was the first year with these professors). section was completely, entirely useless. take it if you want to learn a couple of macro models that explain GDP growth because you don't really do much else the whole time.
Do not take this course unless taught by Aghion.
1011b is an absolute must for anyone really interested in economics and possibly interested in pursuing the subject in grad school. You need to be willing to work hard but the rewards are well worth the effort. The 1011 series shows you what economics as a science is all about.
While this course offers more econ focus than 1011a, it still suffers from an excessive focus on mathematic modeling. Would have taken the 1010 series for a more thorough economics understanding, if this course wasn't required for App Math-Ec
This class has the potential to teach you a lot but you have to pay attention in lecture/section and possibly do the (many) readings--without doing this, you will learn things, but some of the concepts might still be sort of hazy in your head. I would recommend making every effort to make it to class.
The course provides an interesting perspective on macroeconomic modeling, although it currently lacks the organization and focus necessary to recommend it highly.
This is a pretty good class but my impression is that it changes heavily year to year depending on the professors. In choosing to take the class, take a look at who is teaching. You may be better off looking at Q scores from previous years. The material is interesting and the lectures are excellent, but it can be disorganized at times. There is a lack of unity between section, class, problems, and the exams.
This class was very difficult. Be very prepared to work hard, and still be overwhelmed for the final. Be prepared to make this class your priority, and have the mental preparation to take a hit on your GPA. On the other hand, the course was taught well - Sebnem and Elias were great, and it went much deeper than what my friends in 1010b were doing.
The course has very interesting material but was taught very poorly this year.
There is little support for this class in terms of administration and organization. As a section TF, Yang is very helpful, but other than office hours, there is no venue to seek help if one is struggling. The later lectures on growth regressions and real-world data are also not quite as well organized as the ones in the first half of the course, and there is a distinct disparity between practice problems and the problems on the final exam. Be prepared to be unpleasantly surprised by problems on the final exam (assuming a similar final to this year's).
The material is difficult and the lack of structure makes it even more so; find a solid problem set group, go to office hours early, and read the lecture notes. This class does not provide you with much practice material to work with, so when it comes to the midterm and final, you'll be on your own
The course is very organized, when you start it start it with a structure and discipline.  Do the readings and all office hours.  You have to be very independent to succeed so maybe wait until Sophmore year.
This could have and should have been an excellent course. I would take Ec 1010b just to avoid it.
The material is very interesting and Sebnem and Elias deliver amazing lectures. Sections need some serious improvements though.
Not as hard as 1011a, but that doesn't mean you can slack off.
It's very different from Ec 10 and 1011a, but still a good class in its own right.
It's a great class, but know what you're getting yourself into. Not as difficult as 1011a but probably more time-consuming. The final project is very rewarding.
It is a good course but be prepared to be challenged and frequently confused with some of the concepts. Ec1011a is not a required prerequisite but is very helpful.
If you like Macroeconomics and you don't mind working in groups then this class is right for you. Lectures cover some more advanced material, but they are often a bit boring. All problem sets and the final project are done in groups, which can be a good thing if you find a good group. I, personally, did not enjoy this class, but I was also not very interested in the material, and did not join a very committed group.
This is a great course, but know that it is quite challenging as well. It was definitely an improvement on 1011a (more manageable math in lecture, group work on psets and project, more reasonable exams, etc), but it is still a difficult course.
Next year, this class will be taught buy different professors, so take this with a grain of salt. Overall, the course was somewhat interesting but not all that exciting. The first half of the course deals with short-run fluctuations. Unfortunately, we were either using the IS-LM model, which seemed too simplified, or dealing with a flood of unilluminating accounting equations. The second half of the course deals with long run growth models which seem to test credulity.
The material of this class is interesting and the workload is not too bad, but the organization of the class (especially sections and exams) will really frustrate you.
This course gives you a phenomenal introduction to real macroeconomics. This course dives directly into current macroceconomic research issues and the fundamental macroeconomic models. The math component of the course really makes learning macroeconomics much more rigorous and ultimately rewarding. This course gave me a much better understanding of macroeconomics, and I have learned a lot. Definitely recommend over 1010b, especially for econ concentrators. As a requirement for AM/Ec concentrators, this course is a great one.
Elias and Sebnem are both fun and interesting teachers. The math requirement was much lower than I expected, and the course drew on intuition more than derivatives and other mathematical concepts.
This may well be a worthwhile class when taught by Laibson and Aghion; this year's offering, however, was pitiful. Literally 75% of the pre-midterm class time was spent re-deriving results that we had been expected to formulate independently in one of the three 1011a modeling projects. Post-midterm, we were able to study two differential equations and also mumble a little bit about regressions. Basically, the pace is unacceptably slow. The instructors also felt it necessary to continually declare that the course would be graded on a steep curve. Come exam time, however, they handed answers away like candy? Sebnem literally answered two of the midterm questions on the board. Elias extended the final by half an hour for no reason. Problem sets were absurdly collaborative. If the stated goal is to generate variation in grades, this isn't the way to do it. In sum: this class was an insult to most of its students' intelligence (though most of the smart ones did wisely drop it during the first two weeks).
Interesting material but not well organized class. You'll learn a lot if you pay attention in class, go to office hours, and do the readings, but you sometimes wonder where it's all going.
It's a tough course that takes up a lot of time, and the evaluations aren't particularly fair. But you do cover a lot of cool material. Definitely learned a lot, but the experience could have been a little smoother if it was more organized.
Both professors are fantastic and open to questions at any time during the lecture and always give insightful and clear answers. I probably like the questions-during-lecture part the most.
It's a good course if you're interested in the material. Aghion bring a lot of energy but not a lot of clarity and Chodorow-Reich bring a lot of clarity but not a lot of energy. The tests were all very fair.
If you've taken Ec 1011a, you'll find this course really easy, so you might even want to consider skipping it entirely. That said, if you know more micro than macro, you might want to taken just to become more familiar with classical/more modern macro models and theories, even if you'll probably be kind of bored at times. If you haven't taken Ec 1011a, then according to some of my classmates, the course will probably be a decent challenge.
Compared to Econ 1011a, 1011b is much easier. At the same time, it is surprising rigorous (especially in the second half) and will build on ideas seen in 1011a, such as the Euler equation and utility/profit maximization. The first half of the class on growth is very interesting and quite different from the usual theory class, but unfortunately Prof. Aghion will not be around to teach it.
This course is very different from Econ 1011a. The math is a lot less rigorous, and if you got the basic derivations (like FOC) down in Econ1011a, the math won't be a big problem for you at all. The 2 lecturers have varied lecture qualities, and I personally enjoyed one half of the semester a lot better than the other.
While the ec1011 series may be more difficult, if you are concentrating in economics, they are very applicable and provide you with a much deeper understanding of the field.
The beginning of the course is much more exciting and interesting than the second half. If you make sure you understand the lectures and lecture slides each week, then the exams are very easy.
You pretty much have to take it as an AM/Ec concentrator. The first half of class is far more engaging than the second so try to stay focused. As an Econ concentrator I would still take it over 1010b.
Pretty difficult, a lot of math involved, be prepared for that. I took 1010a prior, not 1011a, and it is nowhere near the same level. If you're prepared to put the work in, can be a rewarding class.
The class is good, but the professors estimate that you pick up theories and can memorize them. The intuition behind some concepts are not strong and rely purely on mathematical understanding and relationships. If you have a strong love for multivariable calculus then go for it. If you rely on intuition then go for Ec 1010b
This class is certainly much harder than former students of both 1011a and 1011b would have you believe; while the material is taught in a fairly accessible way, applying it to problem sets and exams can be very difficult. Professor Aghion is a very engaging lecturer, and Professor Chodorow-Reich is very clear on his concepts. It could have been very helpful, though, had there been more support  to prepare for exams; this year, we did not get a full length practice final, which made it very difficult to know how to time ourselves in preparing for the exam.
This course this year was incredibly difficult and taught poorly. Do not take unless you are a math 25/55er or absolutely have to.
This class is far less interesting and far less rigorous than 1011a. I found the section of LR growth to be very boring. Rather than teach you how to think and how to model, they just have you memorize specific models. Gabriel's half of the course was a little better.
The class covers interesting material and is not terribly time intensive or difficult.
If you are an econ concentrator: do not take this class just because you finished 1011a and feel obligated to finish the 1011 series (i.e. don't let your ego get in the way, it's not worth it). The class is not as difficult as 1011a or as mathematically rigorous and focuses a lot more on intuition, and you get to learn a wide variety of topics, but it feels very disjointed partly because it is never taught by the same two professors any year. Lectures were not always worth going to, but section was helpful.
This will teach you a ton about econ and you will come out able to read complex theoretical papers. Yay!
It's difficult, but it's totally worth it in the end.  I got a great deal out of this class in terms of math, economics, and learning how to deal with struggling and initial failure.  Learning how to do that is incredibly important, because it helps you succeed in the end if things don't go your way at first.
Not many great resources for help. There are lots of applied math students in the class, and for them the class didn't seem too hard, but for a prospective economics or government concentration, the class was hard for me.
Since Prof. Aghion is apparently leaving Harvard, the course is likely to change substantially (and for the better). If Prof. Chodorow-Reich continues teaching this course, you should take it if are interested in academic macro. He gives a really good introduction to the models of modern macro.
This course is very well structured and gives a great introduction to both the long run and short run macroeconomy. I feel the level of preparation needed really varies. If you have read a lot of economic news then the intuition would come to you fairly easily.
It is not as engaging as 1011a. I personally think Micro is more interesting than Macro, but I  really felt that I got a lot less out of this class than I did 1011a.
This is way easier than 1011a, so don't be scared off by the math! The key to succeeding in this class is doing all of the problem sets and studying the models that the professors cover in class until you understand the economic intuition behind them and you can derive their results without too much effort.
The first half of the class was awesome with Aghion, but the class when downhill after that. Things that were important were not necessarily emphasized as much as they should have been and lecture was just all around boring. Definitely take is Aghion is teaching, but beware of whoever is teaching the second half of the semester.
I found the information in presented in this class really interesting. You can get a lot from going to lectures and sections, and the course is pretty manageable as long as you keep up with it through the year. I definitely feel like I learned some interesting things about macro in a relatively painless way.
I came out of this class feeling like I learned nothing concrete. The various macroeconomic growth models were interesting in their own right, but most macroeconomic subjects that kids in Ec10 and Ec1010 learn are left completely untouched by this course. The teaching staff was atrocious, and are unable to help you if you don't already understand everything, which makes for a vicious, unproductive cycle. Do not take this course unless you took Ec1011a and could complete this subject matter entirely independently.
I must preface this statement with the fact that I took 1011a the previous semester, so take this as relevant as you think it is. This is essentially a tale of two classes. Aghion always teaches the first half and a different professor teaches the second half every year. With Aghion you know what you are getting. He teaches the growth component of the class and makes sure people actually understanding what he is talking about. He is also an entertaining guy who truly cares about his students. The second half of the class was considerably less refined, but perhaps this was to be expected. The second half covered more material and was relatively more complicated. The professor was very awkward and not particularly good at explaining concepts. Don't get me wrong - he was brilliant but not the best at explaining concepts. However, if you took 1011a, you should find this class pretty straightforward. Most of the models in this class are pathetically simple...A note on the teaching staff. The teaching staff for the class was another frustrating aspect of the class. Thummim was excellent and made sure the students understand. Nathan was not a nice person, did not care about the students, and was universally hated by the class. Students in his section definitely suffered a disadvatange. He had little interest in his students.Overall, this class was a sore disappointment after 1011a. I felt I never really learned anything in this class and spent most of the time in the class frustrated by the disorganization of the second half and dealing with Nathan's annoying nature.
I took this as a potential applied math/ economics concentrator, but now that I know I will probably get an Economics secondary instead, I am not sure if I would have taken this instead of 1010b. Particularly in the second half of the course, I do not think that all of the math really enhanced my understanding of the material (but I still liked the half with Phillipe). It is not a question of the difficulty level - the assignments are relatively straightforward -it's just that this class isn't very exciting/ intellectually engaging. Only take it if it's a requirement.
You can take it but it's pretty useless. Good for an easy class.
Ec 1011b isn't easy, but it teaches you how to apply math to theory. The grading might be a bit arbitrary, but I promise you will learn a great deal. Aghion was very entertaining.
The first half of this course will seem very disorganized. Lecture notes are unsearchable and seem more than ten years old. In addition, the second half covers some
This is a solid course, and although it's,add out to be an I,possible one, if you devote your time to taking great notes to understand the material in order to ask good questions, you will learn a lot and be able to understand the world economic environment in a better light.
You simply do not learn a lot. It is not very very difficult, it is not easy. It is just ok. Lectures are dry, but Gabriel (the professor for the second half) really cares about the material and he writes his part of the final exam (while the TFs write professor's Aghion part of the final exam.) It is probably not worse than Ec1010b, but it is just not exciting.
It's better than the alternative (1010b) but not a great class. Aghion is great, but disorganized, and Chowdry-Reich could put anyone to sleep.
It's necessary for a concentration in economics but it is not a well structured class and lacks a good support system in terms of TF's and professor accessibility and that can really separate a great class from a mediocre class.
This course is a good overview of macroeconomic theory. The models are presented in a rigorous way, and both Professor Aghion and Professor Chodorow-Reich are engaging lecturers. You will learn more in this class than you will in Econ 1010b, and it won't be too much more work. From what I hear, nothing like Econ 1011a.
keep up to date with material, review lectures after class; class is not difficult but the first half is taught way too fast, and the second half (Gabriel) is extremely boring; material is overall very interesting and could be taught a lot better at times to engage students more
Overall, this was a good class. I especially liked the first half with Prof. Aghion, the topic of growth was quite interesting and Aghion is one of the foremost expert. He is also very funny and an engaging lecturer, albeit disorganized at times. Gabriel (C-R) is much clearer by comparison, provides good lecture notes and clear expectations. His lectures are easier to follow but a bit dryer. This course is pretty rigorous and not trivial, but you'll do fine if you put in the work. Multivariable is not really necessary, you only ever use partials and a few Lagrangians. You should be fine with 1b, and you won't even need most of it (I think only Taylor series came up, no integrals). Sections are good and informative. P-sets bi-weekly, very reasonable and prepare well for the final. It is not the most inspiring class but does its job very well.
This is the worst course that I have ever encountered in my 19 years of living on planet earth and moving through the education system.  DO NOT take this class.  If you insist on putting up with economics, stay on the 1010 track, you don't need this parasite sucking the life out of you for an entire year, it's honestly just brutal.
It's not well organized and it never felt as if the teaching staff cared about the students
This class sucks. It's incredible hard to follow Aghion in lecture because he goes to fast and he has in accent. On the flip side, Gabriel goes way too slow and he's pretty dull. Exams are difficult and unfairly graded. So many of us submitted our midterm for a regrade because it was graded so arbitrarily yet Aghion decided not to regrade any of them and to give more weight to his portion on the final (not sure if this will actually happen). Overall, I thought this course was unorganized and poorly run, so I urge you to take 1010b if you have a choice.
This class is pretty interesting but quite challenging.  Lectures are confusing and move at a rapid pace.  Definitely go to section.  Midterm and final aren't too hard.
The first half of the class (Aghion) was about long-run growth and was quite good, especially when he covered his own model! Only at Harvard does the professor use his own textbook and teach you the model he developed that is now accepted as mainstream. It was cool and his lectures were engaging. Dr. Willen generated less enthusiasm but tried quite hard to make the material applicable to the financial crisis. He is quite good at explaining things in simple terms, although I would have liked to see a more rigorous treatment of the issues - I felt like I just relearned Ec 10 with cooler subtleties about the crisis. Hopefully the TFs next year are different because they were awful. No one went to section because it was useless and they didn't know anything that was going on.
It is a bit of a joke after 1011a, and a much less intellectually stimulating course. I was a bit let down by how little I learned.
Take it if you have to (AM/EC people), but otherwise take a more interesting course. First half of the course in my opinion was frustrating, second half was better. Not nearly as quantitative as EC1011a, but more so than EC1010b, which I heard was a joke.
This course is often difficult and could be much better if readings were more streamlined and lined up better with lecture. Professor Willen's discussion of the financial crisis was quite interesting.
The course gives a pretty good intro to Macro, but there was little to no communication (or so it seemed) between professors.
Pales in comparison to 1011a as the instructors decided to repeat Ec-10 and strip the course of any math it seemed, but still a solid course
It's a little boring after Econ 1011a, but still much better than 1010b.
This class is super boring, and super badly organized.  I hope they overhaul it.  Willen was excellent though!
The first half of the course is much more challenging than the second part. Try working hard on all the psets. The solutions given on iSites by the TFs are not very well-written.
Philippe is a great lecturer, but be prepared for fast (and sometimes careless) math derivations, which may not make sense at first glance. Overall, the course is a good extension of Intro Econ.
Only take it if you have to and get ready for the worst!!!
The fact that the course is taught by two different professors makes it really hard to find the connection between the first half and the second half of the course. Although the final was not cumulative, I would have liked to see better flow from one topic to the next rather than a disjointed conglomeration of material.
The two halves of this class are completely different.  Aghion's part is very difficult and hard to follow and Willen's is very easy and I don't feel I learned very much.  Overall the class was very badly taught, the material was not covered in an equitable way.  This class is a requirement for Applied Math and Ec as well as the Quantitative Finance Track for Stat, but if you are thinking just about Ec I would take 1010b that students seem to actually enjoy.
Take 1010b.
Nothing like 1011a; this course is far less interesting and engaging.
Go to every section.
It's a great class. The second half is very nice about building economic intuition, while the first half feels like an easy extension of Ec1011a to macroeconomics. Second half is a bit harder because it is less mathematical and you need to be more attuned to economic insights. However, the professor made the final exam short, so there was no time pressure - I really liked that. This is also a good class to take as say, a fifth class because it doesn't take up too much time.
Much, much easier than 1011a. Aghion, who teaches the first half, is very lively and passionate about his subject (which is long-run growth.) So I very much enjoyed the first half of the class. Paul Willen took over to teach the second part, on short-run fluctuations. I would say that the second part of the class was really not challenging enough. It was very easy, and the concepts taught very basic. The problems sets were challenging in the first half, and very undemanding in the second one. I understand that the second part of the class was taught with some more rigor by David Laibson. However, this may simply have been a result of the fact that Paul Willen was teaching Ec 1011b for the first time this year, and thus did not quite know how to calibrate the class.
The material discussed in this class is very interesting, but the infrastructure is horrible. One person teaches the class, another person grades psets, and yet another two people grade exams. No one seems to really care about the students, and office hours are often conveniently scheduled right after problem sets are due and way before exams so that when people actually need help there is no one to get it from. That said, Professor Willen was very good about his office hours for the second half of the course and Carlos (one of the TFs) was quick at responding to questions over email. The midterm exam is worth 40% of the grade, which I think is exorbitant. The problem sets themselves are fine, except for the plethora of spelling and grammatical mistakes that seems to permeate every facet of this course. Overall, however, the material is good and the professors are both good teachers, so I'd recommend taking the class. The math is reasonable and actually often lends clarity to the more difficult concepts.
If you've taken Math 21a already and are an Econ concentrator, I would recommend taking this over 1010b. It meets at a better time, and the professors did a really good job, and while it was difficult I never thought I was in crazy over my head, it ends up less work overall too because we have less problem sets to do in 1011b
Take this over 1010b. It's not too difficult, but you get a more math-based foundation. It's way easier than 1011a, so don't let fall semester scare you off. It was a very straightforward class, and you'll get something out of it. Go to section! They go over problems that are almost identical to the graded problem sets.
Go to section!
necessary for an ec concentration, not the most challenging/rewarding class. lectures were sometimes dull/problem sets were dull. I think the material could be taught in a much more effective manner.
The organization of this class was a mess. I actually think that this year 1010b might have been more difficult. With two professors, one that takes over for the other after the midterm, 1011b was basically two classes. The material was pretty disjointed and the final wasn't cumulative. Still, if you want to do Econ stuff, you don't have many better options here.
The material is well-presented but very dry.  Do not take this course as an elective.
Make sure you can follow the math  and make sure you teach yourself the economics behind things
For a more mathematical version of Econ 1010b, it did not have a lot of math in it.
It wasn't as mathy as I expected, but putting it next to the alternative (1010b), it's probably preferable. However, be aware that the second instructor this year (Willen) did not provide much of a rigorous mathematical explanation of macroeconomics.
It is what you make of it. Read the book.
Take it because you need to. I found it quite simple after Econ 1011a.
If you have to take this course for applied math/econ it is not that bad. I'm not sure if I would have taken it if it wasn't required. So much easier than 1011a, but the midterm and final are weighted so heavily it can be challenging to do well. Also, so much less inspiring/interesting than 1011a.
Paul Willen is a funny guy during the second half of the semester, but you'll do most of your modeling and learning with Philip. Can't say I learned much with Paul. I stopped going to lecture. This class is a lot easier than Ec1011a.
The class was interesting, though not as rigorous as ec1011a.
I would recommend taking this class if you , if only because the alternative is 1010b. Be prepared to take 2 separate and unrelated classes, the difficulty of which will depend heavily on which professors are teaching it.
It is not to much time- if you are applied math-ec, its not the most exciting class, but also not the worst.
This is a refreshing follow-up to Economics 1011a. You will learn useful material at a more leisurely pace.
The theoretical ideas explored in the first half of the course (taught by Professor Aghion) were very interesting. The problem sets were not fulfilling or intellectually stimulating enough. I also believe the course did not cover enough macroeconomic concepts to be considered a proper, somewhat "comprehensive" macroeconomics course.
If you've taken Ec 1011a, this is the easiest class you can take at Harvard.
This class is not nearly as difficult as Ec 1011a with Prof. Glaeser in any conceivable way. The models are fairly simple and don't require a lot of math to understand. You can probably take this after Math 1b or so; Math 21a is overkill, and we never used any serious multivariate skills. The material is covered at a reasonably slow pace, for the most part. The problem sets are not a piece of cake, but they are not very time-consuming or too mentally taxing, and doing them the night before they were due was feasible. Unfortunately, the relative ease of this class arises from a lack of rigor relative to 1011a. The macroeconomic models here are terrible at explaining real economic trends, although they are elegant in some respects.The class was generally well-taught. Prof. Aghion is entertaining, funny, and generally good at explaining things. He made sure to go slowly (sometimes too slowly) when necessary. Prof. Paul Willen was visiting from the Fed, so I suppose he won't be around again for a while at least; but I thought he also did a reasonably good job. He was very cynical and entertaining, and he was good at explaining concepts, although his half of the course could have been more quantitative.
I loved this course. I thought it taught some deep and beautiful ideas in a way that allowed for a great grasp of intuition. Between the empirical and theoretical components, I now feel like I can actually speak knowledgeably on the economic issues that are constantly in the news--recessions, inflation, unemployment, etc. I think the course could be made more challenging, but unlike ec 1011a, it earns its "advanced" title by covering some (though not enough) advanced material quickly rather than by burying students in useless algebra. If you're an economics nerd, and you want to understand how national economies work, this course is a must-take.
Good coverage of topics. Math can take some of the intuition away though, even for those good at math.
Tough but good material to know.
Much easier than ec1011a but that is likely because macro might be considered an application of micro (less math based than before as well though). A class with a lot of potential, especially since the discussions on the Great Depression/Recession were interesting.
A very challenging yet manageable course. Need to put in the effort to succeed. Start psets early and go to OH. Review the lectures after each week to make sure you stay on top of material.
Ec1011b is about 60% of the intensity and volume of material of 1011a. Having taken both, I can say that while the material of 1011b goes more slowly, this led me to enjoy the class even more. Intuition that before was jumped over was thoroughly explained and tested in this course. First half of the course is with Paul Willen, who is very knowledgeable on the financial crisis and offers insight into what it's like to work at the Fed. Second half is with Gabe Chodorow-Reich--this half involves far more rigorous calculus, algebra, etc. But, the first half of the course is sufficient preparation for this jump in technical difficulty. I really liked that there are non-technical lectures integrated into the curriculum, and these are tested as well. Classes are spent discussing the zero lower bound, economic integration in the European Union and bank runs, along with the US financial crisis. These involve lots of graphs and data observation, which is a refreshing break from derivations of various models on the board. Weekly workload roughly 4-6 hours. Should be comfortable with partial derivatives and manipulating series under Lagrangians. I like that each week has  a clear topic, which makes studying for tests simple because although all of the models relate to each other via intuition, their derivations are isolated, which makes their messages distinct. Biggest frustration is that the psets don't count for very much of the final grade (20%) and are essentially graded on completion. Thus, there isn't much feedback offered week-to-week. However, the solutions are always comprehensive, which helps in studying for exams. The midterm and final are independent of one another. Section: go to Josh's section if he's still teaching next year. Great TF--he simplifies the material and offers new intuition that really helped me grasp the course material. One of the best TFs I've had at Harvard thus far. Also, lecture slides are comprehensive, especially in the second half of the course. Every step is listed, which helps immensely when reviewing for the midterm and final.
I took this course having taken Ec 10 and Math 21a but not Ec 1011a or even Ec 1010a. I think that with that background it was a really worthwhile -- and definitely manageable -- course, essentially because it introduced me to doing economics with mathematical models. At the same time, I think if I had taken Ec 1011a or a course on modelling I would find it a bit trivial.Also, Josh Abel is probably the best TF I have had for any course at Harvard. Early Christianity makes so much more sense to me now that I too have had a softly spoken (I think) Jewish man explain the truth to me in a way that makes me question how I did not realise it before but doesn't make me bad about my earlier ignorance.
The level of difficulty is much more appropriate than Ec 1011a. If you took 1011a and thought "I will never do this again", I assure you you can take 1011b without any issues. Pace and difficulty is more normal.Other than that, the course gives you a good introduction to the current macroeconomic models central banks etc. use, but can be quite boring at times.
Loved the material in the course. It was very interesting and the material was cohesive and connected well together. The TFs are really helpful and supportive in explaining the difficult material. Workload is definitely very fair, keeping the class relatively light and enjoyable.
Willen is a more fun lecturer, Gabe is more rigorous but also drier in delivery. Josh Abel was a fantastically good TF. Willen focuses more on data and real world applications, Gabe runs you through more of the core macro theory. You will be more comfortable if you have taken Ec1011a before this course, but coming from Ec1010a is possible by all means.
Most things about this course were just... fine. Not great, not bad. The lecturers are not terrible, nor are they engaging. There's not a clear overview of the topics in the beginning, and it is not clear what you are expected to know. There's not much math to it.
This course is not nearly as rigorous as 1011a with Glaeser, but it is still mathematical and interesting. It is a nice break from the highly formal modelling of 1011a, and it provides you with a firm background in the macroeconomic theories of the past century. Paul Willen's half of the course is slightly more engaging and he is a better lecturer, but Gabe's half is where all of the math (and therefore, all of the fun) comes out. Overall, this is not a phenomenal elective, but it is a good intermediate economics course.
This class is pretty difficult. It's really hard to process what's being taught during lectures because they move really fast so you just write down the math equations on the board but don't have time to understand what's happening mathematically, let alone the economic intuition behind it. You have to work through everything on your own later. Section really helps with the economic intuition behind everything. I did not take Ec1011a before this class, so if you did, this may not be as much of an issue for you because you are likely more used to it. For those who didn't take Ec1011a before this course, at first it is confusing and overwhelming, but after a week or two you start realizing how the mathematical methods function and the significance of the algorithms you use, and it becomes much more easy to understand and really is manageable.
Rewarding but challenging-- you need to learn a lot of the material on your own and sections are super helpful.
This course is notably easier than Econ 1011a, the microeconomics part of the same sequence. The mathematics is much more manageable, and the teaching is better organized. Economic intuition, too, is much more emphasized. That said, do not expect to come out of it with the same degree of heightening in your understanding of economics. On one hand a lot of the content is quite intuitive, and on the other hand the rest is very controversial: after studying several competing models, you sure aren't left with a feeling you actually understand what happens in the economy.
This is the better way to learn economics than Econ1010b! As someone who had not taken Ec10 but with a strong background and after coming from Ec1011a, I found this class manageable and really informative. I'm not concentrating in Ec but glad I learned these methods for looking at the world.
Easier than Ec1011A but similarly applicable. The lecture are less inspiring but the content is good.
This class can be very hard and requires intense math proofs and theoretical understanding. If you want to study economics intensely, definitely take this class.
Having taken Ec1011a, this course was much better and the workload was not outrageous by any means. the textbooks and TFs are both great resources as long as you make sure you have time to use them. The first half of the course had more engaging lectures, but Gabe explains everything very well and follows a really strong structure. if you're looking at this course, you probably have to take it. As far as Econ courses go, it could have been  much more time-intensive. Just stay on top of the reading and really make sure that you absolutely understand the psets.
Great class! Would recommend if you are interested in rigorous economics
taking 1011a made this class so much easier. Paul's part also much easier than Gabe's.
Good class that builds macroeconomic understanding.
Hard af.
Only take as a concentration requirement. Not a good introductory macroeconomics class nor one that will increase one's interest in economics.
This is a course which is very easy to fall behind in. The material is not that difficult compared to 1011A, but the lectures are excruciating and you will probably skip them.
This course has a large focus on the complex derivations of the economic models which are used to explain the intuition that is mostly assumed in Ec 1010b. This can make the material inaccessible and hard to grasp, especially if you aren't as familiar with the mathematics of economics.  I would highly recommend taking Ec 1011a first, because although you don't need it, the math skills you learn in that class will help you get through the psets and exams in this class (because they assume you know how to do all of it).  The class is somewhat poorly organized and isn't super rewarding.  Chodorow-Reich gives effective lectures that do teach the material, but his slides covered in complex algebra become almost inaccessible, especially because he often assumes that we completely understand them right away. Additionally, it is hard to get excited or interested about the material because although the lectures are great and cover everything, he is very boring and dry.  Willen was very funny and interesting (especially when he talked about the Federal Reserve or the Financial Crisis) but was not very helpful to learn the material on his psets.
If you are considering learning economics in grad school, take this course. If you are not a math person, you might want to take 1010b.
This class is brutal. Unless you love econ I wouldn't take. Only a midterm and a final for grades. Definitely really confusing and hard. Avoid if you can.
Overall I feel that the course did not do a great job of providing economic intuition. A new model was taught each lecture, but we were never shown how these models relate in a bigger picture. Assignments were graded for completion, but often did not help with intuition. Take this class if you want to learn some of the most famous macroeconomic models, but this course does not provide a great foundation for macroeconomic intuition.
You take it as a concentration requirement. It is hardly life changing or awe-inspiring. For that, take 1011a. That said, it's a solidly structured course and the TFs (Josh and Sanjay) are wonderful. If you do the work you will absorb the concepts and learn a little more about the recession which is interesting!
Take this course if you have to and have no other choice. I did not find the course material not very interesting or engaging. I would strongly recommend AGAINST taking this course as an elective. They are way more interesting and better taught courses at Harvard so do not waste 4 credits here. If you have to take the class, know that it is not a hard or time consuming one. Pset are straightforward and so are exams. JOSH IS AN AMAZING TF so go to sections!
The course is less intuitive than 1011a, but the intuition, and mathematics behind the Macroeconomic topics we study are quite interesting, and worth studying.
Econ 1011B is a natural extension of 1011A, although it doesn't include the modelling assignments that 1011A does. It is still a very rigorous course that has a lot of high level material, but is nonetheless very interesting and engaging. All of the models we went through in class were viewed in the context of real life events, which made the course applicable to reality. Both professors were very effective and the TF's extremely helpful and accessible.
Homework done exclusively on paper (no online submission).  Not a fan of how it was taught on the whole.
This course is required for AM/EC students, so I took it mostly because I had to. I genuinely love economics, so it was kind of sad that I didn't love this course. After coming from 1011a - which was incredible & always so interesting & stimulating, 1011b was a let down. The lectures for 1011a are energizing while the 1011b ones are usually pretty boring. I'm also personally a bigger fan of micro than macro. If you like finance, you'll enjoy this course more than I did. In terms of difficulty, it's definitely easier than 1011a. Section is great - especially Josh - and the homework is reasonable. They actually teach you how to do the math step-by-step unlike 1011a. The exams are a lot of your grade, but I thought the midterm was reasonable - the questions looked very similar to homework problems. Overall, this course isn't amazing or invigorating or anything, but it's also not that bad. If you really like finance, go for it! If you need to take it for AM/EC, you'll be fine.
Great class. If you like math, its not that difficult- don't be worried.
Great material, poor execution. Much easier than 1011a. Still worth taking.
This class is painful.  Only take it if you absolutely need it for your requirement.  I hated every moment of it.  The psets are horrible, lectures are terrible, and everything else is overly unenjoyable
Overall such a dull class, especially the second half. While Willen's half was reasonably interesting and fun, Gabriel's half was so boring - a lot of the class stopped turning up to lectures in the 2nd half of the semester once he started teaching. Final was reasonably fair, as long as you've studied the PSET's and actually understand the slides you should be fine.
This was a pretty poor class.  The two professors did not seem to coordinate and the level of difficulty in problem sets and exams did not match the depth with which we were taught the course material.  This is especially true for the latter half of the class, where we were not always shown how to derive equations for certain variables and then expected to do so on the final exam.  That being said, it is a good comprehensive study of macroeconomics, so take this class if you are willing to put in the individual time outside of class to learn the material before heading into problem sets and exams.
The only reason to take this class is because it is a concentration requirement for Applied Math/Ec. If you're interested in the subject matter and this is not one of your concentration requirements you'd be better off taking a less quantitative macro economics course. Both Paul and Gabe are very knowledgeable and passionate about the course material, that being said they have very different lecture styles. Paul is very laid back and funny and makes the material accessible and interesting. Gabe's lectures are quite quantitative and if you fall behind on what is being discussed it's very difficult to catch up. You'll learn a lot if you take this course, but be prepared to spend a lot of time outside of class trying to mentally iron out all of the details so you can make sense of the material.
This course is a requirement for Applied Math concentrators with an Economics focus, so it makes sense to complete. However, be prepared to muscle through material and lecture, which isn't very engaging.
If you really enjoy economics and math, you will enjoy this class. If not, you might be forced into it due to concentration requirements, but then what are you doing in Applied Math?
Jumps between things that are too easy and things that are too hard. The topics feel a bit disjoint and you don't get a good big picture sense of why any of what you are doing matters/ how it all fits together. I got a good grade in the class but don't feel that I have learned that much. Go to section if Josh is still the TF - learned more there than in lecture!
As a freshman coming from 1010a with only 21a and no stats knowledge, this class felt a little too much, although not impossible. I felt like the class assumed a lot of knowledge and terminology that I had never seen before. Section and especially Josh's office hours were extremely helpful--likely a big part of the reason I survived. Paul's lectures were hilarious, but scattered, and unclear on what we should learn. Gabe's were drier and he went very quickly, but his lectures slides were comprehensive (and he had a syllabus!). The midterm was pretty easy; the final was killer. Overall, I felt like this class lacked a lot of structure and cohesion which could merely be an annoyance if you're well prepped for the class, but could be a much larger issue if you're struggling.
Not extremely hard. Lectures are boring.
This class is awful.
Make sure you have a strong math background and have the economic intuition down, it will help you a lot.
Gabe's section is very engaging but can get tedious at times. That being said if you study the stuff carefully you'll realize you are learning very important macroeconomic tools.
Not a good class. Very boring. Going to lectures is useless. Reading slides and section notes will give you all the necessary tools to do alright.
Paul is not very good. I hated the focus on financial assets, since my learning of other macroeconomic phenomenon was cut out to make room for it. There's so much we never even talked about, such as the Philips curve. The textbook itself we barely get through a few chapters of. Paul's section also has no math, which is the whole reason for taking 1011 over 1010. Gabe's half is much better and gives a useful introduction to economic modeling.
After Econ1011a (by Glaeser), this class is somewhat of a disappointment. It's not nearly as rigorous as 1011a and not particularly well taught. That being said, it does help you get a better grasp on macro models that Ec 10b just doesn't cover.
An overall negative experience. This course is hard to generalize because there are two instructors (Paul and Gabe) and their respective halves differ so greatly. Paul's half focused more on finance (he works at the Boston Fed) and was relatively interesting and reasonable. Gabe, on the other hand, is downright bad at teaching, and his lecture slides don't help either. The material is overly mathematical to the point that economic intuition is lost in the jumble of Greek letters and Lagrangians. I would not recommend this course; take it only if you must.
It really depend on the instructor. Generally, the models make a lot of sense and are interesting to learn.
I definitely do not feel like I learned the intuition behind many macroeconomic concepts like I had in Ec10. Ec10 would definitely be useful.
This course will teach you a great deal about the intuitions behind fundamental macroeconomic ideas. It uses a variety of models to convey theory. I highly recommend taking it. I found taking it to be a very valuable experience.
This class does a really poor job of fostering enthusiasm and excitement for economics. Lectures in the beginning of the year went over concepts that were more basic than ec10b while lectures in the second half were dry and unexciting (almost no one was paying attention in class). The entire course was pretty unstructured
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard so far. It is incredibly difficult but you learn a tremendous amount. If you take this class, try to get Joshua Abel as your teaching fellow. He is extremely good at explaining the material and making it accessible.
Take this class if you want to achieve a rigorous understanding of economic models. The lectures are very math-heavy at times, but if you take the time to go through the notes, do the readings and learn the material, you should find yourself with a more fundamental understanding of economics than can be achieved in 1010b. You get to learn a lot of theory, learn how it is applied to the real world, and read papers about it rather than just using textbooks. This also makes the class more difficult - the psets tend to be tough, and the final was very tough, but I think it's worth it because of all the knowledge you gain, so I definitely recommend this class!
Econ 1011b is a wonderful course! It made me truly realize how much I learned from Glaeser in Econ 1011a (even though I felt lost at times) and did a great job combining the math-heavy econ with real world applications.
A good class, both professors enjoy economics and teaching very much. Gabriel's component was more math heavy and empirical whereas Paul's felt more applicable and generally more interesting.
This is a great class. Gabe is a young professor and rising star in economics and you learn a lot from this class. Easier than 1011a as well.
I learned almost everything from section and office hours - Joshua Abel is hands down the best CA for this course. The material can seem confusing at first, but Josh will explain it in an accessible way "this is just a fancy way for saying blah blah blah". He is extremely patient and will really try to make sure that you understand the material - he is your ally. Next thing: I gained almost nothing from lectures, especially those taught by Professor Chodorow-Reich. Perhaps his half of the course is just more difficult (and more boring), but I was never able to really engage in lecture and pay attention for more than a few minutes. Seriously, as soon as I lost him, I'd just fall asleep. Your eyes gloss over the equations and you start to think that the economic models are just a bunch of crap that don't actually predict anything accurately. Whether economics is a "wishy-washy" subject to study is a different issue, but point is, lectures suck for the most part (Prof. Willen's were okay, mostly because the material is more intuitive and he can be funny at times). Grading - Ec 1011b is 20% PSETS, 40% midterm and 40% final. If you pretty much get the PSETS correct, you will get a "check plus", but the courseheads know this - you actually need to learn the material to do well in the course because 80% of your grade comes from exams. Honestly I thought the midterm wasn't very representative of the material. The final was pretty difficult. If you have to take it, make sure you ask for help often. At the end of the day, the only thing that matters is that you learned the material. I would shy away from asking questions sometimes for fear of "looking stupid", but seriously no one cares.
This class is a rigorous take on the topics covered in standard macroeconomics course, since this course involves taking a more mathematical approach to solving problems.
Material is very interesting, and in line with actual contemporary economic research. A lot easier than 1011a. That said, I would imaging the class to be very difficult for someone who didn't take 1011a, who would have to learn from scratch a lot of the mathematical tools used in economics. Logistics are somewhat poorly organized, and there was very little support in preparation for the final exam.
Take only if you are an econ concentrator and need to take either 1010 or 1011. The lectures are super boring. Luckily the tests aren't too hard so it's not a boring/hard class- just boring. Plus side is that lecture notes are comprehensive so even if you don't go to lecture you are fine. The material is actually cool if you pay attention and learn it, but you may not realize this until the final when you actually teach yourself the material.
As AM/Ec concentrators, I hope that you don't have to take this class in its current form. This class has the potential to be incredibly interesting, but unfortunately it will gain you zero economic intuition, and instead will repeatedly drown you in math and algebra that, likely, means nothing. Josh (our TF) was the only redeeming aspect of the course, so I hope he comes back in the future. If Prof. Willen is back, be prepared for lots of asset pricing and little macroeconomics.
The lectures were not so inspiring, but macro is important and you learn the econ that is in the news a lot. They'd better improve the final next year.
