This class can be chill with little time commitment if you want it to be. But both Professor Jorgenson and the TFs are wonderful resources and you can get so much out of the course beyond the lectures if you put in extra time and effort.
This a great course to learn about the growth of Asian economies, and learn how to conduct focused independent research.
Jorgenson is great! You get to dine with him and his wife for class dinner. You get a lot of 1 on 1 time with the Professor.
Dale is incredible. He makes himself available to students and is excited about the topic.
I loved the course! Definitely got to apply a lot of the skills that I learned in earlier classes to the research paper in this class, which was really valuable since I was able to learn a lot during the process.
If you are interested in Asian Economy, I'd highly recommend this course. Professor Jorgensen is a really great professor. He gives a lot of valuable feedback and tries his best to get to know every of his students. You will have to write a 25 page paper about a economic topic of choice and it helps a lot if you are already comfortable with STATA, but if you struggle with something you have some great resources available. This was for sure one of my favorite classes I had so far.
Professor Jorgenson is very knowledgeable and I really enjoyed attending his lectures and the students' presentations. Having some prior knowledge regarding Asian economies is not a prerequisite, however, it is recommendable. Find the datasets you need for your paper early (!) in the semester, it will save you a lot of stress at the end. Do attend Professor Jorgenson's and Wentao's office hours regularly, it will help a lot!
I recommend this course very much. The insights that Professor Jorgenson offers in class about the economic issues in China, India, and Japan are very interesting and relevant to the current state of the world economy. Final paper and student presentation are also two large parts of this course, and if you seek guidance during the course of the semester, the experience will become even more rewarding.
The class itself covers very interesting topics.  You will leave this class with a solid understanding of Asian markets and the global economy.  It is not overly difficult every week as the only graded assignments are a presentation and a final paper, but those two assignments are difficult.  There is a lot of support from the teaching staff, and you will be prepared for the final paper.  If you are thinking of writing a thesis, this class will be helpful.  Professor Jorgenson does a great job of meeting with students and even takes us out to dinner.  The class itself is tough, but you will learn a lot about the topics.
This is a fun class with a relatively light workload but quite interesting subject matter. You'll get to learn about the latest Asian economic developments and discuss them in a fairly congenial setting. The paper is also a good opportunity to flex your research muscles, though think very carefully about data sources before you choose your topic.  Professor Jorgenson is one of the nicest professors in the Ec Department--go to his office hours!
This class is a great way to learn about the Asian growth story. Through a series of very interesting material, you learn an amazing amount about different perspectives and policies for growth. You get to compare different countries, and analyze events as they're happening. If you're at all interested the economic story of East Asia/India, take this class. Professor Jorgenson is the warmest and most student oriented professor I've had the pleasure of learning from.
Professor Jorgenson is awesome but you won't get much lecturing from him. Mostly presentation and discussion based, so not as engaged as it could be.
It is a great class to learn and relax. The topic is fun the professor is really nice.
Ec 980aa with Dale Jorgenson is a wonderful seminar, and I highly recommend it! It was this year's most popular Econ seminar for many reasons -- it covers an extremely important and pertinent topic in today's economy, it's a well-structured class, it balances the professor's lectures with lots of student participation and discussion, and it's taught by one of Harvard's most preeminent (and friendly!) professors.
This class is not well-structured. It begins with a few professor-led classes but then after that, it is all student presentations, which can be very difficult to stay focused and pay attention to. The only grades in the class are class participation, your presentation, and the final paper, and very little feedback/structure is given regarding these three components, which can be very frustrating. The professor is nice and makes an effort to get to know all the students, but the class material is dense and repetitive, so I would not recommend the class overall.
This class was minimal week to week work. However, knowing what is going on in the class is essential to adding substantial points to weekly discussions. Professor Jorgensen is awesome, and don't hesitate to reach out and get advice for life, school, or the class itself.
This course was poorly designed. Discussion dissolved into a serious of googling to top articles about the concept being discussed. If you have no apparent previous experience with Asia your contributions are less valued in class. The atmosphere of the class is very unwelcoming and anxious. There was no guidance on assignments and often times one feels lost while moving through it.
If you have never taken a seminar before, this course might require re-evaluating how you prepare for each class. A great portion of the class is devoted to discussion with your peers, and it becomes clear that those who have prior knowledge or keep up with current events will have more to say and be more knowledgeable overall. That said, it's unrealistic to expect everyone to know in-depth about every country, so picking an area or economic issue you are interested in and keeping up with it would be helpful.
Take this class if you want to write a thesis! It is a chance to engage with a topic of your choosing. The paper is difficult because you put it off until the last minute, but in the end it all works out. Jorgenson is an expert on the subject, so if you have any interest in Asia or development take this class!
This was a fantastic class taught by an amazing professor. Unlike many distinguished professors, Professor Jorgenson does a fantastic job of getting to know each of the students in the seminar. He actively engages each of the students in a discussion setting during each class. Student presentations supplemented with stimulating discussions comprise the majority of the classes. Some students clearly have significant prior knowledge of Asia, but no background in the area is explicitly necessary.
Take it! You'll learn a lot. A wholly pleasant experience, as long as you stay on top of your paper. Professor Jorgenson is excellent.
You should have to have extensive background in Asian economics (at least in one of the 3 major areas -- India, China, Japan) in order to be successful. The readings are more or less useless and the  professor is not the best at facilitating discussion. It might be worthwhile if you want a more relaxed (no weekly pset) economics class, but there is still a presentation and term paper. And you may walk away feeling like you learned nothing.
Professor Jorgenson only taught the first four courses of the year. Then 2 students each presented for 1 hour for the remainder of the classes for the semester. During the hour the student presented, they summarized the articles they read and led a discussion on a topic they were not well versed in. Professor Jorgenson kept track of class participation with a paper and pen on a chart that had everyone's pictures. The atmosphere of the class at times felt like students would zone out during the student presentations, but make random comments to ensure they received their class participation points. The culmination of the class is a 25 page paper, which is not an easy task. You should take this junior tutorial if you genuinely enjoy the subject material and you think you would enjoy researching and writing a mini-thesis style paper (25 pages).
Professor Jorgenson is very knowledgable.
Jorgenson is a legend on Japan, as well as the rest of Asia, and the class is low workload except the paper, with kids who are also interested in the same kind of stuff. Definitely meet his wife!
This is a great course. Prof. Jorgenson is a really dedicated teacher, readings and discussions were fun and interesting. Doesn't go extraordinarily deep, workload is quite light. There is more feedback on papers throughout the term than usual (3 checkpoints, Prof. Jorgenson reads all of them and meets with students), which is a huge forte of this course. Highly recommended!
Great discussions
Basically this class is a presentation (easy) and a research paper (not so easy.)  you won't get much help or feedback during the writing process.  haven't gotten the grade back yet so can't say how well it goes, but the fact that i have no indicator whatsoever despite submitting three drafts and receiving "comments" says something.
Very easy week-to-week if you want it to be. The only work you actually have to do is the presentation and the final paper. On the other hand, you get out of the class what you put into it, and if you don't do the weekly readings, you won't get much out of it.
Know econometrics and start working on the paper early.
Professor Jorgenson is SO kind, patient, and encouraging. Not sure if there are other professors in the department as willing to dedicate the amount of time and energy that he does to undergrads.The course itself is also very well-organized and constitutes a great way to learn broadly about the issues within various Asian countries (from the developing to very developed) largely in the present day, as well as how those issues have been addressed. That being said, it focuses almost entirely on macro-level trends and policies, so students more interested in microeconomics, finance, etc. may not find the course to be as relevant.
Definitely do the readings so you can contribute effectively in class. And even if you think you're in a terrible position on your paper, force yourself to talk to the professor and TF. They're very helpful.
Prof Jorgenson is one of the kindest and most knowledgable professors you will meet in the economics department. He genuinely cares about each student and, despite being a University Professor, is really accessible. The quality of the discussions really depends on the other students in the class and how prepared everyone is, so that can vary widely. The paper is a really useful and intellectually challenging exercise and something every Harvard student should do at some point.
I loved this class.  Definitely my favorite class this semester and one of my favorites at Harvard.  Professor Jorgenson is terrific - very engaging and incredibly knowledgeable.  I would strongly recommend this class.
This class is a great survey of the Asian economies in the post-1990s, which is a relevant and rapidly developing area of academia that I was never adequately exposed to in any other economics or history classes. Professor Jorgenson is one of the kindest and brightest scholars at the university, and is a wonderful person to get to know both in and out of class. What you get out of lectures depends on how your classmates prepare their presentation materials; what you learn independently is largely conditional on your commitment to researching for your paper.
This is a lovely class, that is not too taxing. Prof. Jorgenson is very dedicated to the class. However, the arrangement of student presentations, means the other members of the class are also going to affect the class greatly.
If you are at all interested in the topic area of this course, definitely take it! Professor Jorgenson has incredible insight on the issues relevant to the area, is extremely nice and approachable, and is really invested in the paper each one of his students writes. Definitely consider taking the class!
This is a great course if you are interested in development and macroeconomic policy. The professor is very committed in making the class a great experience and will work closely with you on your final paper. The class presentations were also very high quality and you also learn a lot from your peers.
