Prepare to have your soul inexplicably crushed while still enjoying the material
perhaps
The overreliance on diagrams to explain the welfare effects of trade gave the course an unrealistic, dumbed-down feel. Mathematical descriptions of some trade models revitalized my interest at the very end of the course, but most of the course material left me bored. Still, the course gives a helpful introduction to the welfare effects of trade policies.
Great professor!! He takes really a lot of time at any time to help students with their questions.
This class is a great introduction to some of the theory and central problems of international trade as it exists today and has existed for the past 200 years.
This class didn't change my life or make it much better, but it certainly didn't take away.  You learn a little bit about trade, but it's mostly the same conclusions that you hear from Ec 10 (that is...trade is good!)
lectures are good - dry, but helpful.  section is not that useful.
You'll leave with a greater appreciation of the complexities of trade policy. The problem sets are interesting, and Professor Helpman is fantastic. The course is not easy, but it is manageable if you put in the time.
Definitely take it. It's an awesome course with an awesome professor.
While Prof. Helpman is clearly an extremely knowledgeable lecturer, he seems to have missed a lot of small details that are required for students to understand the material they face for the first time. In order to breach the difficulties, one needs to take a lot of time in order to learn and understand the methods of learning and applying the material.
Interesting course which covers both the basics of International Trade theory and some extensions to Political Economy.
The course is pretty laid back, but in the same time very useful and very relevant to modern trade policy issues. Course uses a lot of microeconomic models, but they can be learned along the way because professor is very thorough and detailed in his explanations. The first time you come to class, there is high probability that you're not gonna like the professor. But trust me you will be wrong. First impression i, as most of the other people in the room that first day, had was completely wrong. Professor Helpman is one of the best professors i have ever had chance to work with.
