It was a thought-provoking class and some interesting lectures.
The premise for this class is very interesting! Engell and Friedman are both incredibly smart and bring interesting, if often opposing perspectives to the class. That said, many times lecture was boring and disorganized--Engell talks like a humanist: in a very roundabout way--it's easy to get bored ad stop paying attention. There is A LOT of reading, and it's not excessively clear which readings are absolutely necessary (it seems like many of them, including ones that seemed only semi-relevant were on the exams). Readings also changed many times throughout the semester, so it's impossible to plan ahead. There are some very interesting readings, which it was frustrating not to be able to focus on. Additionally, in order to get "a spread of grades", it felt like points were taken off arbitrarily on exams and assignments--this felt not only unfair, but demotivating. If you're looking for an easy pass/fail class, then go for it, but when graded it sucks unless you're willing to put in a ton of work and have an incredible attention span and self-discipline.It was the first time they taught the class, so perhaps they will fix some of these things, but beware in the econ section that Friedman apparently has a philosophy against grade inflation.
This class will be the most interesting you take at Harvard.  It will challenge assumptions you hold about inequality, growth, etc.  The interdisciplinary aspect really adds color from different academic areas, and the Professors are great.
This class has a lot of potential to be a very interesting and thought-provoking class but during it's first run, it had many organizational flaws. Many of the links between ideas were tenuous at best and so I hope the professors will work more on strengthening those links in the presentation of ideas to the class. The subject is quite fascinating and the readings were generally enjoyable, although there were way too many readings, which helped detract from section because pretty much no one had read all of them, so it was a toss-up of whether or not a majority of people had read the same reading and were thus able to discuss it.
I really good class, but I think you should have a background in either history or economics, not necessarily because the class is hard, but to think critically about economics I think you need to know something first. Great Class for Juniors/Seniors
a lot of reading, not super unified in its concept, will probably improve with time though
This class was originally titled "On Thinking," and I believe that title best encapsulates what it was all about. I found our readings, lectures, and section discussions quite thought-provoking, and I would often engage friends outside the course in discussions about the course's issues over meals, etc. I found I opened my mind a good deal about how to approach issues without clearcut answers. I would say that you don't learn much "new material" in this class. It was better as a capstone class (I took it senior spring). As a "capstone," the course helped me to consolidate and work with the knowledge and tools I picked up in all of my other courses at Harvard. It was interesting to apply this knowledge and those skills to pressing issues of national and global concern.
almost everything I got out of this class was from the readings, which were mostly interesting. it was great to talk about relevant issues of today and moving from one to the next was cool, since most semester classes would focus on one, but because of that there's little opportunity to become an expert on anything. in that respect, a great class to add as a more fun, casual way of thinking and learning or an introduction to any of the issues.
