Somehow, it is very demanding
Helpman is awesome. He clearly knows the material very thoroughly, and have contributed significantly himself. Most of the material are very interesting, and gives one a solid foundation.
It's an excellent class. Instructor covers the material in a clear manner at a good pace.
do the readings! the books on the reading list do a good job of fleshing out the lectures, and if you can do the readings before the lecture on it is given, you'll get much more out of each lecture.
This course is excellent. It provides a very broad overview of many topics in international trade. Lecture materials are very good and the readings are very carefully selected and helpful.
It's a great course. The problem sets can be tough, but they are useful. Do the readings on time.
Elhanan is an incredible teacher. He has a very comprehensive way of covering the trade literature. It was a pleasure to have him as a teacher although I found trade to be quite dry.
Very good course covering many important areas in trade and applied micro more generally. Take good notes in lectures, the slides are good but sparse. Problem sets are hard.
This is a difficult course. It is very theoretical. Prior experiences with consumer choice, general equilibrium, and economic growth are essential. The exam is very early (2 days after the final lecture), so it is essential to plan to study early.
If your field of interest is related to international trade, taking this class with Prof. Helpman is a must-do
The lack of examples can make the homeworks pretty frustrating.
2530a is a difficult but rigorous introduction to trade theory, with great lectures but a lot of work. The models and the analytical thinking may also be useful for other research. Helpman is an amazing teacher! However, be warned that you won't spend much time on trade policy or other "hot issues". This is a (great) theory course.
I feel like I learned a lot, although there are a couple of very practical reasons not to take this course- lectures are too early (8:30am!)- no TA, no chance to get help with the material- 100% final exam means if you have a bad day you're in trouble
Try to get ahead with reading, since there's a lot of ground covered at the end of the course.
Prof. Helpman is a fantastic teacher. You will learn a lot about international trade and general equilibrium modeling. All the microeconomics you didn't fully learn in 2010a plus lots of great trade material make this a great class.
You learn a lot in this class but it is a lot of work.
A great broad overview of topics on international trade.
It's clear that Helpman cares about the class and has taken the time to organize it well. This is not so for other field courses.
These models come up in a lot of other places (labor, public, macro) so the course may be useful even if you are not planning on international as a field.
