Intriguing subject. Passionate professor. Reasonable workload. I really enjoyed the class because  it teaches one to question theory. It was great to see an alternative view of economics than what was presented in Ec 10, which made me question a lot of what I was learning. Sometimes, lectures can be extremely challenging and the material difficult to follow, but the readings really help. Overall, I really enjoyed the course.
Be very comfortable with the prerequisites, go to office hours, and you'll be fine and find this a really engaging course.
Definitely take this class!  After two years of awful boring ness in EC-10 and 1010, this very different class is a welcome addition to economics at Harvard.  Everyone else in the econ department seems to agree on almost everything, but Marglin shows a very interesting different view.  Don't be scared off by the new models being difficult at first.  Also, Marglin is really nice and is actually a farmer in his spare time and brings apples from his orchard to every class in the fall!  Due to the fact that this course is based on an entirely different set of models from the rest of Harvard's annoying homogenous econ department, this class is pretty difficult at the beginning.  As you get comfortable with this different approach, things become easier. It definitely would be good to have taken EC-10 and maybe (although probably not if you know what you are doing) 1010b before taking this course.  1010a is definitely not necessary.  Also, the tests are fair and if you pay attention in class and go to section, the tests will be fine.  Also, sometimes the 2 hour lectures can be tough and scary, but they are fine after you get used to them.
This is a very interesting class; it is applicable and a good theory class. However, it can move very quickly and be quite difficult to understand. The good thing is that that seems to be taken into account in the grading on the exams.
Take this only if you have a genuine interest in the course. Be prepared to struggle through some very long lectures.  Try to view the course as a whole, rather than individual lectures.
Great course. If you want to understand macroeconomics, and what are the differences between Keynesian and classical points of view, and you also want to learn some new fresh thoughts and ideas, then you would like the course. I'd recommend it if you economics concentrator. However, this course actually requires at least basic the knowledge of macro- and microeconomics, so if you are not an economics concentrator, and it is your first course in economics, then, probably, it is not a very good idea to take this course. By the way, attend Prof. Marglin's office hours, they are very helpful.
Take this course! It makes you a much smarter person. Some of the economic common sense that I once took for granted is now questionable in this course. While I still get very confused many times, it taught me how to view the economics from multiple perspectives. Prof Marglin is extremely smart! Spend your time doing the readings. It is definitely worth the time.
Take this course only if there are no other courses out there that interest you more in Economics. Professor Marglin is a great guy, but is not the best Professor out there. The models you learn are great and all, but not very applicable. Not clear exactly what you need to learn in this course, and is basically just a midterm and a final. Not very useful course, material ok, not extremely interesting, and not great sections. Exams are pretty tough, and can be hard since not clear exactly what you're expected/needed to know.
Professor Marglin will offer you a completely different view into economics.  There truly is no other course that presents as heterodox view to the field of economics as Keynes.  You will gain deeper insight into the various schools of economics, and it will certainly change the convictions you have about whichever school of economics you most closely align with.
This is a good course if you're not satisfied with the very neat-and-tidy, perfect-world models that are presented to you in Ec 10 and Ec 1010/1011. You'll learn about an admittedly heterodox view of economics that will teach you to challenge some of the basic assumptions of the mainstream. You may not always agree, but you'll emerge wiser and a better critical thinker from the experience - I certainly did. One major caveat is the lack of assignments in the course. You only have a midterm and final to determine your grade, so exam period can be quite stressful. I hope Marglin adds some assignments to this course so you can chart your progress throughout the semester.
Take this course only if you hate yourself.
Interesting course off the beaten course of the Economics department.
Definitely my favourite economics class at Harvard! The intellectual depth and breadth it required was astonishing, but Professor Marglin made it really accessible. Really gave a convincing alternate to classical macroeconomics. Go to the professor's office hours!
If you're interested in an alternative to the Mankiw-brand of economics typically offered at Harvard, take this course! Professor Marglin's two hour lectures can feel long, but they're worth it. I came out of the class feeling like I had a whole new perspective on economic thought. I highly recommend having taken Ec1010a/b beforehand, as some of the models are technical.
This class is fantastic!  It was the first real elective I'd taken in the Economics department, and I have to say, I've never been more excited about economics.  Professor Marglin presents some really interesting models that depart from the classical conception and what is taught in classes like Ec 10. For this reason, I found the class a really informative exercise in two regards - first, in helping me to understand the mainstream models better (because you really can't follow this class that well if you don't have a halfway decent grasp on the mainstream models which I can't say I did but I do now), and second, in helping me to understand that there are different ways to approach problems and model the world.  This class lets you look at economics in a very different light than most of the department, and I found it to be a highly valuable experience.  The assessments (there's only a midterm and a final) were very fair.  And the professor is amazing!  Really good class.
it's a lot of work but I learned more than most other econ classes I have taken
You really gain a new perspective on economics. Marglin is a super smart guy that you can learn a lot from. Be patient with the class at first, it will all start making sense later in the semester. You will leave with serious questions about the assumptions made by the Mankiw models.
This is the best course I've ever taken at Harvard and elsewhere. The course covered a lot of important economic concepts and put them into their historical perspective. By comparing different economic theories and highlighting key differences (e.g. comparative statics vs. dynamics, the (dynamic/adjustment) mechanisms or 'stories' behind economic theories, etc.), the course gave me much more insight into the major ideas behind the formulas than I had had before. Moreover, the overall framework of the course - Keynes's General Theory, with many major improvements and extensions by prof. Marglin - provided a much more fundamental way of understanding these differences than when these theories are considered separately. Although there are no psets, which makes exams somewhat harder to prepare for compared to other classes, the exams are the best and fairest exams I've ever taken - they ask big picture and conceptually important questions that really test your true understanding of the course. Sections were also very helpful. I highly recommend going to Prof. Marglin's office hours. Besides questions about the material, it's great to talk to him about things unrelated (or not directly related) to the course, and he's generous with his time.
This course is a very thorough exploration into Keynesian theory. Like, very, very thorough. It can get really complicated, and definitely is the hardest economics class I've taken conceptually. But the theory can be pretty interesting, and the thoroughness is sometimes a plus. The workload is pretty light, and the only grades are a midterm and a final so be prepared for that.
Best class in the Econ Department. Professor Marglin is fascinating and provocative individual who is very worth getting to know. The way he approaches economics is very different from anyone else in the Harvard Econ Department right now. This class will either serve as a paradigm shift in the way you view the discipline, or it will force you to defend and better understand the assumptions that lie behind standard economic theory.The class is not easy, but there is also not much work. It will challenge you conceptually, and it is up to you to keep up with the concepts, as there aren't psets or other assignments. Form a study group, and get ready for a trip of a class.
This is a course that has made me reconsider my previously held opinions and attitudes. It offered lively and sound theories and demonstrated the importance of the assumptions in building economic models. The lectures were rewarding, although a bit tedious at times. However, definitely one of my favorite courses by far at Harvard!
great class! take it!
This won't be a good class for those who are not interested in pure economic theory.
No cakewalk, but very rewarding intellectual experience
Very tough, but a great class. You won't regret it.
It was difficult to connect the various points of this course together - I didn't understand how material from one lecture overlapped with the next.
This is a cool class to take as an upper-classman. Marglin knows the intellectual development of economics really well, and it is great to actually have an understanding of how the models in ec10 and 1010 came about and were accepted. Consider taking pass/fail, as there are a lot of readings and it is conceptually hard.
Easily the best econ class I've taken here. Professor Marglin is brilliant and fascinating; definitely try to get to know him outside of class. He knows so much and is so genuinely interested in this material that it's hard not to be excited about it. There is no work other than the exams and an optional paper, and the tests are fair. Definitely take it.
it's a difficult class but marglin is a wonderful professor, both in class and outside the class as a mentor.  if you want to take the class, form study groups.  study the slides before going to lectures, listen in lectures, and review with study groups after the lectures.  lots of work but a very rewarding class.  i actually learned something!
This honestly is not ec 10 required class. You should have a solid background in macro/micro econ before you take it. The course is extremely difficult unless you really stay on top of things.
Be ready to think intuitively about economics, since this course requires little in the way of mathematics. Lectures may seem deceptively easy to get through, but be sure that you understand all the concepts before the exams.
It is a fantastic opportunity to learn about modern economics: you will learn the origins of what you take for granted in every other Ec course you take. The perspectives Stephen Marglin offers are always mind-opening and informative. If you're willing to entertain arguments from beyond the mainstream, it's a fantastic course in Economics.
A very interesting class although some of the models aren't explained very well.  It will give you a totally fresh view on mainstream economics, although the conclusions that the professor reaches are sometime hard to agree with.  Overall, a very interesting class.
You will learn things that would help you understand Economics in a much better way.
Be willing to invest enough time to get the concepts, its hard to simply regurgitate.
Have to really open yourself up to arguements other than those of the Mainstream
This is an absolutely great, possibly unrivaled, course on the history of economic thought. It was phenomenal! Since there are no written assignments, it is up to the student to complete the readings but there is very much to be gained from them.
This course is definitely worth taking. Professor Marglin is not the most engaging of lecturers, but he is one of the most brilliant heterodox economists out there, and the argument he makes in the course is a convincing one. A few words of caution: if there continues to be no weekly assignments, make sure you really take the understand the lectures, or else you'll get slayed by the exams. Also, if you're considering this course as an elective and haven't taken the intermediate economics sequence, it's totally doable, but do yourself a favor and take it pass/fail.
Professor Marglin is a skilled lecturer and accomplished economist. The models he presents, though heterodox, are incredibly compelling and equally elegant. This class is a healthy and good accompaniment to more traditional classes.
Be prepared to be very confused at some points. The key thing to remember is assumptions made, and the implications of each assumption, in each model. Sometimes it seems like a lot of work, but the class is perplexing in a good way.
Professor Marglin is a very good professor and true student of economics.  His passion and knowledge of the subject are the reasons why I took the course.  Additionally, this class provides a much deeper understanding of economics as a scholarly subject.  I would say I have learned more about Economics generally in this class than I did in my 3 previous years as an Econ concentrator
