Erez and Moshe are great, and the course is interesting and gives almost no work.
Though this was not the most structured class, you can learn a tremendous amount in this course that is very relevant to your life. Erez and Moshe are very passionate about the material, which makes it all the more interesting and exciting. In addition, they are very understanding - deadlines are flexible to work best with your schedule.
It's interesting stuff, and I really enjoyed doing the case study class discussions. But, it's incredibly disorganized and difficult to be a student in. Also, I wouldn't take it in the fall, because Erez will be gone for nearly a month.
In this class you learn about actual ways to increase acts of altruism, which could be very helpful in whichever field one chooses to enter.
this was the first year this class was offered, and i think the course has a ton of unrealized potential. the subject matter is absolutely fascinating but the class lacks structure, and assignments tend to come in spurts. if there could be a little more clarity to the assignments and timeline, i think this could be one of the most interesting ec classes out there
This class has a lot of potential, but it doesn't quite deliver. Although there are definite highlights in the course (cool readings, being exposed to issues and brainstorming of ways to solve them), there are a lot of downsides. The professors spend most of the class having a back and forth with the same 3 students every week, while the rest of the class just sits there. The math is somewhat poorly explained, and the psets seem to come out of nowhere, as the class never covered any of the math or proofs on them. Although the topic is really interesting and definitely something everyone should know, I wouldn't take this class again unless the professors made substantial changes to the way the class is taught.
need statistics background
The course material is very interesting, but the class is too disorganized.  If you learn well in an unstructured environment, then this course will be amazing for you.
Pretty interesting class that draws in a variety of perspectives and fields. It was really cool to see all the concepts we learned apply to real life conundrums and phenomena. Typically, it's a pretty low workload, but be prepared to be thrown off and have assignments and deadlines thrown at you without much warning. The class can be pretty disorganized and did not stick to a syllabus, which made planning around other classes hard and at times stressful.
If you want to understand why people give, take it.
If you want a class to change your way of thinking, and to push you to challenge your preexisting beliefs, this class does that like no other. Moshe and Erez are fantastic.
Definitely take the class. Erez and Moshe are the homies. You will learn a lot from it. Not an extreme work load but the p-sets arent a joke. There arent many of them so its fine. I thoroughly enjoyed the class and it was one of the best classes I took at Harvard. I understand humans and social behavior a lot better now.
The material is super interesting and Mo and Erez are both awesome people to get to know and learn from. The things you learn in this course will fundamentally change how you understand interactions between people and give you an interesting approach to encouraging people to act altruistically.
Highly disorganized class. It works well if you can self-motivate to stay on track. Otherwise, there are very real risks of falling behind without much support, pull from staff to get you back on track.
