Great coverage of literature and Oliver presents well.
Hart's half of contract theory is more like an organizational economics class.
It nicely covers a broad range of topics but requires students to take diligent notes during lecture.
The models exposited here are used so frequently as building blocks in bigger models that any econ grad student should take the class.  But if you are not planning to use the stuff in your own models, the ratio of algebra to substance is perhaps too high to make the course worthwhile.
Very nice tool to know.
I would tell them that the professor is excellent and the lectures are very good at conveying the basics of financial theory. But I would warn them that the homeworks and exam questions are not straightforward even if material in the lectures is well understood.
You are fortunate because Professor Aghion teaches this course.
While Prof. Aghion may not be the best-ever teacher, the subject material of contract theory is extremely exciting & the Professor makes class a lot of fun. Be prepared though to learn a lot of the materials on your own from the textbook & notes.
Aghion and Hart are good lecturers, but it's really up to you to learn the material, and you're really only assessed on your understanding of it via two problem sets. And you basically need to review all of the models for the final exam, so you really should be studying as you go along, unless you already know contract theory...
It's theoretical introduction, not focused on creating research ideas
Very interesting course, great variety of topics covered.
Class discussion is dominated by Econ PhDs so while the material is not too difficult, it can be easy to get lost. The content is very useful, but the course does not help non-econ students to access it.
Philippe is a wonderful instructor and presents the material simply and with a great deal of enthusiasm.
Be ready to go fast. There is a lot of material to cover, but Prof. Aghion is helpful in office hours, if you get lost and it takes a little bit of time to figure out where you got lost.
The course deals with a collection of very important and often applicable models.
This course is interesting and covers a whole lot of material, albeit generally at a pretty simplified, theoretical level. Still, if you're taking this as an undergrad, it's important to have a solid grasp of mathematical methods, and despite the dearth of assignments the constant rush of material can be stressful at times.
It's easy but interesting, and the models are a good way to put some theory on applied work
You can take this course even if you are not sure whether to concentrate on contract theory because it is not very hard to accomplish this course in terms of assignments and lectures.
If you like micro theory, and you have a reasonably high degree of theoretical sophistication, this is the course for you. Contract theory models are some of the most satisfying models to work through and play with. Philippe is a very strong lecturer and a contract theory rockstar. Note that this class is significantly more manageable than 2010a/b.
Really insightful and valuable for those keen to learn about organisational design.
If you are interested in contract theory, the professor does a very good job of being engaging during lecture and you will learn a lot working on the problem sets and exams. Don't be intimidated by the tougher problems at the end of each problem set, the exam is very reasonable.
Strictly a tools course, can be very helpful for toy models. Organizations material is very interesting.
Useful modeling experience. Aghion is a great teacher.
Philippe is a lot of fun to watch and this course develops a useful tool set for anyone doing applied micro, especially labor and finance. Count it as a half class rather than a full class though - there's not a lot of work outside class.
I always enjoyed Prof. Aghion's lectures--once you get used to his lecture style, it's immensely entertaining (though not always easy to follow).
It is a very helpful course, and the material is very interesting. But make sure you have people to discuss the material with, because it can become fairly abstract at times.
great class, but hard problem sets and a lot of material to study for the exam.
This is a good course to see the nuts and bolts of contract theory, but contains little economic insight or help for research ideas.
This class is fantastic.
This is great course, but would better suit economics graduate students in their first year. Also, it could substitute for some of their core courses. But as a field course, it is still doable in the first year, but takes time from the second year  even if it is not hard at all. Its content, the broad survey of insights in the textbook e.g., is a must for all future economists.
Covers important material that shows up in many areas of economics, so it is worth learning and understanding thoroughly.
For second year economics PhD students: Half of what you see in this class is in 2010b (unless it is redesigned). The new material is dynamic screening, dynamic moral hazard, a few more ways to do the moral hazard problem, and a lot on applications of incomplete contracts. If this is something that interests you, by all means take the course. But if you are doing this because "contract theory is useful" buy Bolton and Dewatripont and read that instead; the course does not add enough beyond the book and the problem sets wont add enough to your understanding of the material given the amount of potential research time lost.
Best exposure you could imagine on contract theory (which is the must-have toolbox of any modern economist, whatever is the field).An outstanding combination of excellence in research in the field and skills in teaching.
A wonderful introduction to the most interesting part of Economics.
The class is very easy; it doesn't cover that much material, and the material isn't very hard. On th plus side, you won't have to spend a lot of time on it, but on the minus side, you won't get that much out of it.
Good class for an intro to contract theory, it is geared to set the stage for research so at times it goes into a little more depth than one would want if one just wanted to get a very high level overview.
In my opinion, the topic itself is one of the most interesting fields in economics. Lectures are quite entertaining. However, course isn't very well organized. Required workload is low - you should be motivated to work by yourself to get a lot from the course.
Interesting material, very motivated instructor, but unstructured.
This course is a very good introduction to contract theory. A lot of material was covered. However, there is not enough home assignments (only two HA during the semester), in my opinion. So, if you need additional stimulus in the form of HA and other graded activities for reading papers and studying during the semester, then do not wait for them. If you are quite organized and self-motivated and you are interested in the subject, then you can take the course. There is also no sections, which is not very good, as the models are sometimes quite hard. The course is also not very good organized.
