This class is very important for finance students, it has some flaws none of which cannot be improved by next year (see above).
The class is an excellent introduction to a wide variety of subfields within corporate finance. After completing the course you will feel knowledgeable in the conclusions the field has already reached and the questions which economists are currently tackling. Also, the professors do an excellent job of throwing out research ideas during lectures, which should inspire you to begin thinking about research on your own.
As an economist one needs to know a little bit about this stuff, but it is not very satisfying material ...
A great overview to important topics in field.
This class teaches you what you need to know about theoretical corporate finance.  In addition, it introduces a lot of the papers in the disaster known as "empirical corporate finance."  It does not provide much if any practical help with understanding the real world of corporate finance.
You should take this if you want to do finance, but it is not a particularly interesting course.
I think it is mainly for people doing research on corporate finance. This is alright. I guess that is the purpose. But maybe also spending some time on learning some basic concepts on finance would be important. There is no course in the econ department that does that properly.
I really enjoyed this course.  It covers a lot of material and it looks like a lot of work at first, but I found most of it to be pretty enjoyable and not too onerous.
Fun times.
If you want a quick way to systematicly learn about major topics in corporate finance and bring your academic critique skills to a higher level, this is the course you should be looking for.
Material very interesting and professors extremely well prepared
This class is challenging but ultimately rewarding if you want to think about finance in a different way. The professors are good about challenging you while rewarding your effort throughout; they do not unduly tax you with assignments while providing a lot of interesting readings.
Adi and Sam have a light-hearted and practical approach to this material  - this is the class that will allow you to understand what researchers are currently excited about in corporate finance and gives practical advice on how to start a research career in this field.
Good if you want to get some exposure to corporate finance.
Take it if you interested in research and want to learn about corporate finance, banking an their connections to macro. If you don't want to do research it will be a waste of time for you.
