Must take (literally) if you're doing finance as your field, but be warned is an extremely labor intensive class!
It's economics and not finance in a way.This economic approach is interesting for culture but not really for applied finance.
You're going to work hard, you're not going to understand much until you revise for the final exam, but in the end it all kind of fits together and is quite beautiful.
The problem sets are very difficult, but the course is very intellectually rewarding.
It requires that you put in a certain amount of effort but it's definitely worth it!
Its a fine course, but you should only take it if you are very interested in this kind of finance (Asset Pricing). Professor Campbell is very careful not to do too much behavioral finance or continuous time finance or anything th
The class is a lot of work but you get a lot out of it.
Interesting class, but very fast-paced lectures. Problem sets are difficult; but some questions are great for learning the material. (Some questions are just painful algebra exercises.)
Asset Pricing was an amazing course taught by one of the world's top financial economists. John is a very engaging lecturer and I was looking forward to every single one of his lectures. In terms of coursework, the material covered is more like two semesters' worth of material, so be prepared for a lot of hard work. In return, you will gain great insight into the current research frontier in the field of asset pricing.
The course covers a wide range of interesting topics, and works in a lot of empirics.
This is a great class for getting exposure to empirical asset pricing and behavioral finance. If not interested in those topics, this course does not provide as much benefit.
Fantastic intro to asset pricing with great lectures and problem sets.
This course is great for exploring the field of asset pricing in depth. It requires a decent knowledge of macro and microeconomics, which presumably you obtained in the first year of your Ph.D. program.
This course will make you conversational and operational in the field of asset pricing. If you are interested in finance, it is a great course. If you are more interested in the macro side of things, it gets quite dull at times. Professor Campbell is a great teacher and the course materials are very good.
Make sure you leave plenty of time to study for this course, but it is definitely one of the best in the economics department.
Professor Campbell course is a must for students specializing in finance. It provides an extremely insightful treatment of the field, using different approaches and relating all them together. A student studying thoroughly this class will be endowed with a comprehensive understanding of finance, both on theoretical and empirical issues. He will be ready afterwards to think critically and creatively on open research topics in the field.
Very interesting class for all economists. It provides the basic ideas of finance. Useful and very interesting even for those with no interest in being experts in the field. Best class I ever took, and finance is not even one of my fields of specialization. Very useful problem sets. Hard but worth every bit of effort.
You really need a ton of background in math and econ before you can consider this course.
Find a good team to work with on the problem sets.  Try to read the starred papers.
It is a lot of work, but it pays off if you really like the field. Otherwise the chances of dropping are very large.
One of the best courses in the field of corporate.
Fairly time-intensive, but an excellent introduction to modern asset pricing.
One of the most difficult classes I've taken, but worth the work.
Don't be fooled: This class will cause you lots of pain. But you will love it like a masochist. Bring on the morphine; it's all worth it in the end.
To really understand the material is a lot of work.
If you are interested in asset pricing, it's probably the best course. But if you just want to have a general feeling for the field of finance it's probably a terrible course. I found it extremely technical and a bit narrow.
If you plan to do finance as a researcher and are good at finance, then it's a must-take, and in fact you might be able to get a lot out of it because so much is covered. But it's not a class to take on a whim.
This is definitely a hard course, but also very rewarding.
This course does teach some nice theory, and practical problems in asset pricing, but for some reason, the conclusion most people get at the end of the class is that Asset Pricing is not a promising or enjoyable field to pursue - which is a valuable thing in itself. I think it's pretty clear to us that the representative agent models have exhausted their power in explaining real world phenomenon, so perhaps John can be more progressive and get rid of some parts of the course and focus more on the "frontier"
The course requires hard work, but is certainly worth taking given how much understanding you can come away with if you put in the required work.
You will get a great perspective on financial economics and familiarity with all of the main areas from a good teacher and researcher.
Poorly taught course. Uninspiring material with no intuition. Drop the course after the first couple weeks if you don't find the material interesting because it won't get any better.
If you are thinking about 2723 with Professor Campbell as an undergraduate, be advised that it is more difficult than 2010c and 2010d, the only other grad classes I have taken. Do not take for granted that having done well in 2010c and d or equivalent classes means 2723 will be easily manageable. If you can take the class and are interested in financial economics, definitely do. No other class I have taken at Harvard has gone through as much material as 2723 does and I have consequently learned very much. The class has been a unique intellectual experience and I would take it again with much enthusiasm despite the workload.
It's hard.  It covers a lot of material.  It's time-consuming.  Don't take the class as an elective - it's just too much time.  But if you're interested in this stuff as a research field, it's great.
