This course has changed the way I view economic systems (and other systems) in a profound way. Now I try and understand why media, finance, industry and government are producing certain outcomes and what interest groups are behind them. It should be a must course for every citizen in this country.
I think that this class is a fantastic experience. Luigi is an absolute legend when it comes to government cronyism. He experiences and research make for really great reading and his powerpoints are easy to follow to understand. Definitely take this class!
Take it!! It's super chill, very low work load and you actually learn some pretty interesting stuff.
This course was interesting but was very poorly run. The content was good but there was so much confusion surrounding assignments and it took forever to get the assingments back (which we had to pick up elsewhere... I never once saw the TF at lecture). Going into the final, none of my classmates nor I have any idea what to expect.
This class was really interesting, but there were a lot of logistical problems. Most significantly, we weren't allowed to meet with the TF even though she graded all of our assignments (she told us we couldn't get feedback from her or even clarify her comments on our p-sets). Additionally, we didn't receive any assignments back until after we had turned several in, so we couldn't improve out work. The material was worth learning, but you have to put up with a logistical nightmare to get it.
You decide yourself how much time you put in the course and this reflects what you will take away. It is a new field with controversial ideas that are questionable. As long as you keep that in mind, you might want to take this class.
Unless this class structure is revamped, I would recommend taking other econ classes.  Unfortunately, the interesting subject matter was outweighed by rather vague assignments/grading that should ideally be clarified before next year's class
This course presented interesting material and Professor Zingales was a good lecturer.  However, it was relatively disorganized and the expectations for assignments were sometimes unclear.
