This class was amazing! Such interesting course material, and incredible amount of discussion and direct engagement with Professor Goldin and the TF, who were incredibly supportive. The small class size lends itself to a great learning environment, and learning this material from Professor Goldin herself is such an amazing opportunity. Workload was very manageable and always so relevant to the class discussions-- never felt unnecessary or like work for the sake of work. Writing the final paper was so fun and a great chance to pursue an area that interests you with incredible support from the teaching staff. Highly recommend to anyone interested in this area of econ!
Professor Goldin is awesome and Andy is very helpful, but this is a class with a large research paper at the end so be prepared for the workload that comes along with that. If you're planning to thesis/want to do research about economics of work and family this is a great course.
Take this course! Professor Goldin is a boss, she is so sassy ( in a good way) and is always to the point (no bulls***). Yet, she cares about her students and wants them to succeed and do well but is so understanding when life happens. Also, the material itself is so fascinating and cool. I learnt so much. TAKE IT!!
Professor Goldin is a delight. She has a dark sense of humor, which is highly enjoyable. She is at the top of her field, making her a great resource if you are interested in the subject matter. Would highly recommend taking this course. Just don't let the final essay sneak up on you--continue to work on it throughout the semester.
Prof. Goldin is the best professor I've had in the economics department. One of my frustrations with the department is that many superstar professors are inaccessible and that classes are huge. This class had under 10 people, we could come to office hours every week and hang out with Prof. Goldin's golden retriever (a huge draw!), and got lots of help throughout the research process. I feel more confident in my research abilities as a result of this class and have actually gotten to know an economics professor!
Goldin is basically the forerunner in this field for the kind of work she does. If this subject material is interesting to you at all, take it. And do the readings -- if you don't, the class is essentially useless. It's all on your own proactivity to learn.
Interesting topic, low workload but a lot is expected of you - be prepared, Claudia will challenge you!
The material is very interesting and extremely relevant, and the teaching staff can't be beat. Do start the paper early, though, because it's not fun to have a research paper of that size creep up on you. Other than that, this class really pushes you to think about how economic theory can be applied to real life, and is well worth taking.
This is really a wonderful course. Professor Goldin is an outstanding professor and willing to go our of her way to help students succeed. The weekly time commitment is minimal although if you don't do the required reading you will not get nearly as much out of it. The final paper was difficult but extremely rewarding.
Take this class if you are trying to decide whether to write a senior thesis. The course is structured to guide you through the research process in a very manageable way. Professor Goldin and our TF Andy Garin were extremely patient, encouraging, and generous with their time.
This course is fantastic.  The subject is amazing and engaging and Claudia is the expert in the field.  Since the class is small, you get to know Claudia, Andy and the class, which doesn't happen often in econ.  This was by far my favorite class this semester.  Claudia is brilliant and quirky.  The class really gets you to think differently about economics and how to write an econ paper.  I highly recommend taking it if you are at all interested.
It's a privilege to receive guidance on a research paper from one of the nation's most prominent economists. Take this class!
A good seminar, interesting material, fair workload. Prof. Goldin and Emily are very involved and there to guide you on your final paper or anything else. Just ask!
You will not get a more fun/dynamic teaching staff than Professor Goldin and Emily Sands. They are great to work with and learn from, but realize coming into this course that it will be quite a bit of work. Especially make sure you start your final paper early and know what you're doing, otherwise it will consume your soul near the end.
Ec980x is a great course for all those interested in economic research, writing a thesis or just contributing a research paper to economics. The seminar style learning is very informative, the short assignments are a good preparation to understand what kind of questions to ask and the final research paper is compiled in a well supported process with the amazing teaching team of Prof. Goldin and Emily Glassberg-Sands. I would absolutely recommend this course to someone interested in the topic and in economic research.
I love this class! I learned so much about what I wrote my paper on. Overall the workload is very reasonable. Make sure you start your final paper early.
