Watch out for the first half -- with two difficult problem sets a week, it can be difficult to get the time to learn the actual material.
I do not think undergrads should enroll in this class. You learn a lot, and it's cool to take a class with all grad students, but the material is largely geared towards grad students who want to pursue academic research. You are probably better off taking a more specialized undergraduate elective. However, you still learn a lot. The game theory part is great, but if your goal is to just learn game theory, you probably should toughen up and skip to Ec 2051 or whatever the grad Game theory is.
Take the problem sets seriously, because that's the only time you learn.Don't spend too much time preparing for the Ed Glaeser's midterm, because (1) studying won't help anyways (just ask around and you'll hear this), and (2) grades really don't matter (but I'm sure Laibson told you about this already).
Be prepared to overwork.
There are so much to learn from this course!
If necessary, just focus on survival for the first half. It gets better.
So much work but so much learning.
This class is challenging but gives a good overview of price theory and game theory. It's a little dry, so it's not the most interesting of classes. Would only take it if you have to, since the good teaching is not enough to make up for the dry material and amount of work.
Don't feel bad if you're frustrated.
Don't go to Glaeser's lectures.
If the course format is unchanged, skip the Glaeser lectures to read MWG.  Go to the sections.
Take this class if you're interested in graduate school in economics. Otherwise, there's not really much point in undergraduates taking it.
It is a little tough to keep up at times, especially since homework is not graded on a point basis.
This was a fantastic, if difficult course. Someone from last year put it well when they said it's really 3 courses: price theory and modeling by Professor Glaeser and game theory by Professor Maskin. However, if you're willing to take on the workload, ec1011a-esque pace (don't worry about repetitive material though, as it goes further in depth), and (for undergrads) dearth of undergrads in the course, you'll learn so much from the amazing professors and other students. Kirill and Annie (the TFs) were also great and helped the professors make it a very well organized class.. Grading is a bit frustrating, though, as it's based solely on a hard midterm and final.
Mainly useful for graduate school, but not a course where you would gain intuition about economics
Glaeser's part is very hard to follow, but Maskin's part is quite worthwhile.
This is something you just have to survive as part of the first year of PhD. It lets up after the midterm.
Ed's breakfast sessions are valuable learning experience for building better models
Try to do the readings for the first quarter over the summer so that the first six weeks is less overwhelming. Make use of office hours, and contact the department about tutoring if you need further assistance understanding the material.
Learning how to write good models in the first half of the class was extremely helpful, even to students who had taken graduate-level micro before. The class gets less and less time-consuming as the semester goes on.
Don't get too intimidated by Glaeser's half, and don't relax too much during Maskin's half.
Take it if you have to! Otherwise...not the most fun course I've ever taken. Very challenging, but you'll come out feeling like you learned something.
The course cover topics very critical for an economist. Especially Glaeser's part on modeling is  very useful for future research activity
for undergrads: if you have taken 1011a and game theory, and have the time to put ~14 hrs on psets and ~10 hours of study outside of class, take it. The material is great.
Don't overly stress.
Take the first part for sure, even if the material is familiar.
Taking this course as an undergraduate was not as daunting as it had been described to me. It was challenging, but coming in with a strong enough background in economics and mathematics (Econ 1011a and a couple advanced math courses), it was also very enjoyable. The first portion of the course with Professor Glaeser works much better than 1011a since it has 30-something students instead of +100, and focuses on general models rather than sticky algebra. The second half of the course on game theory is a less breakneck pace, and more mathematical. I personally found it less exciting.
It's a great course. It's like taking more advanced versions of Ec 1052 and Ec 1011a in a single semester. It is also interesting to watch all of the first-year PhD students, so if you are considering graduate school in economics, it could be helpful.
A difficult course, but one that teaches you a lot about several different things -- traditional price and game theory (as well as a little mechanism design), and, perhaps most uniquely, a toolkit to help you model economic situations.
First six weeks move very quickly. Try not to get overwhelmed.
You will learn an incredible amount, be incredibly frustrated at times, at all times will be challenged, and in general will come away with a solid grounding in game theory and modeling of microeconomic scenarios.
You will learn a ton in this course, provided you do the required amount of work and are interested in academic economics. The first part, by Professor Glaeser, is really two courses, not one: Price Theory and Economic Modeling. Together with the second quarter (Game theory), one could say this course is equivalent to 3 typical undergraduate semester courses. So, if you are an undergrad deciding whether to take it, make sure you know what you are getting into.
I really enjoyed this course, however challenging it may have been.
The two parts are very different. The price theory part is difficult, but survivable if one remembers to read MWG religiously, complete problem sets, and attend section. The game theory part is less difficult by far, and requires less attention, but is far more technical.
This course will seem painful to you while you are taking it - but you are going to learn so much in 3 months
Working with other students on verbal problems is very helpful, but only if you have taken a good look at the question yourself. Otherwise, you may end up relying too much on the group in answering the questions.
The course takes up quite a lot of time.
Hard work but worth it.
it's required anyway, just get through it.
Learn hard and you will get what you deserve.
This class provides the basics of modern microeconomics' treatment of partial equilibrium and game theory, with strong emphasis on modeling skills.
This is a tough class. Prepare to devote a major portion of your time to it during the first semester. It yields major returns -- you will come out of it with a thorough understanding of basic price theory, game theory, and (to my mind, most importantly) the ability to create mathematical models to represent economic ideas and real world phenomena.
Very useful first part if interested about building models. Technical second part, interesting if you are into game theory.
maximize what you can learn at reasonable amounts of effort
Be prepared to spend twice the amount of time on this course as you would other courses.  Also, the first half is much harder than the second.
You need to spend lots of time solving problem sets and preparing for exams.
Focus on picking up the skills on verbal problems to be able to talk as a good economist.
This is an essential course for any economist, I think.
It's a ton of work but you come out with a lot more useful skills than you started out with.
Undergrads should be aware that this class (as currently taught) is divided into two sections---consumer theory and game theory---that are radically different. The consumer theory section is taught with an applied perspective, and will frustrate students interested in pure theory. It covers tools which would be useful to those interested in labor or public economics. The game theory section is taught from a theoretical perspective. It will give you some of the basic tools necessary to understand modern game theory research. As such, it requires a bit higher level of mathematical sophistication. However, students with an appropriate background will likely find this section easier, more compelling, and more useful than the consumer theory section, because there is very little hand waving.
Don't take it if you don't have a strong background on micro theory, and math.
Be ready to work hard, teach yourself a lot, and feel inadequate.
the course covers an advanced 1-year undergraduate sequence in a semester at twice the depth - but you will learn serious microeconomics
Do not take this course if you are an undergraduate.
Undergraduates beware.Also, if you are not there to make it through the economics PhD program, it is very unlikely that you find the mix of applied theory, "acclaimed intuition" and high theory appealing to you.
Without a fair amount of microeconomics and at least and introduction to Game Theory, this course would be near impossible.  But for those with the right background it is superb.
If you're interested in Game Theory, take Drew's second year course.  There is no other reason to take this class unless you really have to.
Don't expect Edward Glaeser and Drew Fudenberg to be good teachers. What you need to learn you will have to learn by yourself.
It's painful at times but really important and interesting stuff to know and understand well. Your time investment in this class will pay large dividends in the future.
Need to realise that all that matters from the first part of the course are verbal questions, which are difficult to study for
It's hard.  Don't be discouraged.  Spend time on problem sets by yourself and really push yourself.  You really need to put in the time to have the epiphanies that will help you understand what's going on (unless you're a genius, which is a possibility).
Ugh. Verbals.
Difficult class that takes a lot of time, but required for Ph.D. Economics students and recommended for advanced undergraduates who know they want to do a Ph.D. in Economics and can handle the class.
Work hard, and you'll learn a fair bit.
Enjoy the verbals! They're fun!
You should take this course when you have a strong interest in microeconomic theory and are willing to put in substantial work.
Be prepared to be overwhelmed. If you're lucky, it will all start to gel together about 3 days before the final exam.
Take the price theory component (i.e. verbal problems) seriously. More than any other part of the course, practicing these problems teaches you how to transform the vague research questions we all begin with into formal, empirically testable models.
This is a fast pace course which requires alot of time and effort to keep up.
This class is categorically different from others. As good as lecture notes are, it's an imperative to keep up with the readings, and you have to do everything you can to make sure you keep up.
Schedule a significant pat of your personal weekly timetable to this course in order to take the most of it (e.g. 3-6h was not enough).
This course is hard work, but give macro the time time it deserves as well or you will pay for it later in the semester. Also, try to do the verbal problems with time limits.
The Game Theory part with Professor Green was fun and interesting -- definitely worth your bang for the buck. 

For the Price Theory part, I guess be willing to teach yourself everything because you won't get much help from the professor or TA if you haven't already learned this material. If you've already learned it, I suppose the class would be interesting.
Be warned that this class is not a walk in the part by any means.
The first part is taught by Ed Glaeser and TFed by Kirill. Glaeser's lectures are very fast-paced. He is a brilliant man and believes that he has a mission to teach his class. I loved his lectures.
However, I believe that one thing that Professor Glaeser has to realize is that his classes has way too much material in it. Given that his class has way more material than my other classes, my question is: do I learn more in this class than in a class with the proper amount of material? I believe the result is ambiguous: there is an income and a substitution effect in this case. There is more material to learn than in other classes, so I have more things to go over and I am smarter by going through all of it. I am afraid to say, though, that the substitution effect, which says that I have limited time and cannot handle all of Glaeser's material and all my other classes, is very strong. What happens is that Laibson's class and any other class you take ends up suffering. Even Glaeser's class suffers from the huge amount of material we have in a 6-week period. One suggestion I would leave for the instructor is: "Sometimes less is more" 

Green's part is much easier than Glaeser's. There are fewer problem sets and class is more relaxed. I just found his exam to be unfair to what we learnt in class.

A note about the TAs:
Kirill is not the best TAs you will ever have. I felt discouraged by his sections and stopped going early in the semester. However, I was very diligent about reading the section notes at home. After I started skipping section, I improved my grade substantially because I felt better about learning the material.

Annie's sections were dull. I went twice and regret going both times. She also posted the solution to the problem sets less than two weeks before the exam. The last solution set was posted two days before the exam. How does the instructor expect me to not study last minute?
Glaeser's part takes an unbelievable amount of time. I felt like I hardly had time for any other classes. If you're a G1, you have to take it, but if you're an undergrad, definitely factor the heavy time commitment into your decision. Game theory is certainly nontrivial, but is much more manageable.
Don't be overly scared by Glaeser's part and verbals or Kirill's obsession with supermodularity. You'll eventually survive.
