I'd caution against going into the class if one was not prepared to do the required work.
This is a fantastic class if you have a strong interest in capital markets.
Very good class to learn about the markets.
The only reason you might consider going to lecture is for Learning Catalytics, which is basically like a question-clicker program. Otherwise, you might as well just read the slides and textbook yourself because lecture is basically Campbell just reading off the slides. I wouldn't recommend this class for those who aren't interested in finance or have a decent math background. There are a lot better (and easier) Ec electives to take than this one.
Need to be really good at math to do well in this course.
You must be prepared to handle the difficulty
This is the single best class that the Harvard Economics Department has to offer. Do not pass up the opportunity to take this class, it is not just for people who want to work at Goldman Sachs, any economics or STEM concentrator will enjoy and benefit from taking this class.
Awesome class for learning finance theory, psets can be overly challenging though. Midterms are do-able. Sections aren't especially helpful or necessary to go to. Lecture is the best part. Campbell is great at explaining material.
This class is very difficult, but the material is so interesting!! If you're willing to put in the time and effort, you'll get a lot out of this class-- definitely one of the most interesting courses at Harvard.
Great class, interesting material!
Follow the materials after the first midterm, that's where it starts getting more difficult.
Challenging but excellent class. Professor Campbell gives great lectures and the math isn't too bad, but it helps to have a solid economic intuition.
Great introduction to finance/markets/asset pricing. Campbell is super knowledgeable and a great lecturer. The Ec 1010 requirement isn't actually necessary as long as you have the requisite mathematical proficiency. Stat 110 is very helpful in terms of background knowledge.
Really challenging class. Take the class if you're serious about it and the material.
Great class and Prof. Campbell is a great teacher.
This class is very challenging, but you won't regret taking it. As long as you put in the work and find a good study group and/or TFs office hours to go to, you will do fine. Very interesting material and very applicable if you are interested in a career in finance.
It's not going to help you in interviews, but it's a great exposure to Capital Markets and academic finance.
This is a solid course that will teach you the main topics (equities, bonds, derivatives) thoroughly. As a big lecture class, it's not particularly rewarding or engaging unless you find the topics interesting. With that said, as far as standard lecture + problem sets classes go, this is one of the best organized and taught.
Lectures are fascinating, but exams are very frustrating
This course seems to over complicate concepts that should not be so complicated. Also, assuming understanding in lecture is a big problem. More ground level, simplified explanation should be focused on. Basically I came into the course with a decent understanding of all the concepts and left more confused than before.
You should only consider this class if you have an interest for research in finance and economics. This is not a Corporate Finance class!
This is one of the best-taught classes in the economics department. Professor Campbell does an amazing job with selecting and presenting interesting materials. The lectures are extremely engaging and the psets are well-designed. There is a lot of support both from additional material and the course staff.
This is a very interesting class.  It is challenging and makes you think, but I found the professor and his lectures to be very good and helpful.
It's a good class, but it can get quite technical and theoretical. It is not an introduction to practical financial knowledge, but a more nuanced look what academic finance is.
If you already have some basic knowledge in finance, this course could be quite valuable to you
It's not easy, but it's worth it.
Capital markets is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. John Campbell is an amazing professor who should go on to winning a Nobel prize. The material is difficult to grasp, but I found it to be very intellectually rewarding.
It is a challenging but rewarding course; I entered the course knowing very little about finance but came out learning a lot more about the fundamental theory. That said, a lot of it IS theory, so you will have to take the initiative to learn more beyond the course.
If you are interested in finance, I strongly recommend this course. I, personally, found it very helpful to take Capital Markets before interviews for junior summer internships. People have mixed opinions, but it is honestly a solid course. A lot of the topics (including mean-variance analysis, portfolio optimization, CAPM, equity valuation, interest rates, forwards/swaps, and options) are extremely relevant. The course gives a good theoretical introduction to the topics and a lot of practical application. The problem sets are never that difficult. The grading in the course is super lenient. There are Learning Catalytics questions (essentially clicker questions during lecture), but the way the course is structured, if you do all the problem sets, you don't need to do any of the clicker questions. If you do all the clicker questions, you get three pset drops. In general, it just works out really well. Grading on psets is also pretty lenient. People in Q ratings said the exams were unfair, but i didn't find that to be true. There was a fairly large curve on both of the midterms (a small portion of the class is very intelligent, and a large portion of the class is athletes and economics concentrators). Prof. Campbell is extremely smart and knows what he's talking about at every stage. I plan on going into finance and was worried about wasting my Harvard education taking finance courses, but this was a valuable experience. Take it!
This class was one of the most challenging and satisfying academic experiences I have had. The teaching staff is amazing; Professor Campbell is one off the most passionate and interestingly people to talk to, and genuinely cares about his students. The material was relevant and applicable.
This course is very interesting and useful, especially if you want to go into finance. However, it is pretty hard.
Hours will be put in, regardless of previous experience with either economics or financial markets. What I liked was that this class was purely theoretical, ignoring what many considering to be more financial (excel spreadsheets, M&A, etc.) and looking more at the functions of the market. This too will benefit anyone seeking additional help when it comes to finance. I would provide the caveat, however, that this class also demands more critical thinking than most economics classes offered at Harvard. It is very tough, but even more rewarding.
Great course, but very difficult. Be prepared to work hard. You'll learn a lot of theoretical finance.
This class is one of the only classes you can take that will teach you directly about financial markets. There are other classes that do so in the spring, but they all highly recommend that you have taken capital markets. It is true that it may be harder than most Ec courses to get an A in this class. The material is fundamentally challenging. But Professor Campbell has been teaching this class for so long that he understands how to do so and you will come away from the experience a smarter student and citizen.
Great class. Professor is fantastic and Kevin Pan is amazing TF
Terrible class. Teacher tells you in the beginning don't take this class unless you have a lot of time (like every teacher does). Didn't realize until the end of the class the reason he says this is because you need to teach yourself the entire class because the lectures do not do that. One of those classes where everyone is too smart for their own good and can't explain things in a simplistic manner. Lectures are boring and impossible to stay focused during. Easy to fall behind. WOULD NOT RECOMMEND UNLESS PASS?FAIL (only 10 students are allowed to take it P/F)
This course is very theoretical. It won't really prepare you for a finance internship or interview. The exams are more a test for test-taking than anything else. The lectures don't really prepare you for the exams either.
Be prepared to suffer. But you'll learn a lot and enjoy yourself.
Professor Campbell is one of the foremost scholars in the field of academic finance. This class in an approachable introduction to finance, but at the same time it is rigorous. This is the best economics class I have taken at Harvard. Only take this class if you have sufficient mathematical and statistical preparation. A lot of modern finance relies on probability theory, so I found the material from Stat 110 to be very useful.
It is a bit dry and it is very academical, so it won't be a great help in many jobs. However, it is extremely helpful just to know those things, to study the papers and to get this academical insight into finance.
Watch the lecture modules and go to section, and you will be fine.
It is extremely hard.
It is a very interesting class that you will learn a lot of cool material about if you have any interest in finance. It was helpful for interviews for more quantitative finance firms, and is not very time consuming or boring. The class overlaps decently with Stat 123, so for those who have taken that before it will partially a review, often in less mathematic detail.
The course is challenging but it is also a rewarding learning experience.
Great course. John Campbell is really nice and gives engaging and interesting lectures. Problem sets are definitely doable, though exams can be a little tricky (but the curve is generous). Don't buy the Bodie Kane and Marcus textbook; it's an expensive book and I only opened it three times this semester. Save the $$$ - it's one of the more regrettable poor investment strategies I learned about from this class.
Very interesting course. I found the subject matter to be great, and the syllabus is really a comprehensive list of topics extremely relevant to anyone interested in or considering a career in finance/hedge funds/etc. The exams were difficult though, and sometimes the questions did not mesh exactly with what was gone over in lecture. Also, the TFs were ok but not always that helpful, especially with logistical issues.
This class is a good introduction to important financial topics.
Prepare to be consistently frustrated with every test you take. The feeling of failure and uncertainty is very common throughout the entire course. Time and effort is reflected minimally.
John Campbell is a smart guy but this course seems a bit unmotivated and dry. The lecture material takes at most half an hour to read through and understand (compared to 1.5 hours for lecture). Tests are much harder than expected although everyone does relatively poorly and only gets half of the questions correct. Definitely a much lighter version of Ec 1011a but with the same grading distribution. Also, go to class because they use Learning Catalytics now
Interesting introduction to asset pricing...first month of the course focuses too heavily on CAPM and efficient markets hypothesis, but the latter half is worth the wait. Maybe the easiest course I've taken (Gen Eds included) but does require some de minimus background in statistics (expected value, covariance, etc.). Incredibly forgiving curve, given that the exams aren't particularly difficult to begin with.
The lectures are very interesting and the course gives a decent overview of financial markets as well as finance in general. Unfortunately, the midterms (especially the second one) were very technical and only partially tested the learned materials. The final on the other hand was very fair.
a
If you are very interested in the content and expect to spend a lot of time on it, then go for it. It is hard, somewhat rewarding, and very theoretical.
This is challenging course, I didn't understand anything that was said in class and the psets always stumped me and the midterms feel impossible. That being said, I've come away with a little bit better understanding of financial institutions that hopefully will provide good returns somewhere down the line in an interview or reading an econ article or when I'm someday investing for retirement. So all in all, the class is a good investment, but get ready to invest a lot.
Be prepared to face very hard exams that exhibit only little relation to the lectures.
I think my opinion of the class is unfortunately heavily biased by a midterm that felt really unfair and a few bad TF interactions, but other than that I thought the course material was interesting and Prof. Campbell was a good lecturer.
GREAT CLASS!  Pretty hard for non-math Ec people, not too bad for mathy-ec people.  Good lecture, great range of materials.  Definitely an academic perspective on finance, but one that is good to have regardless of whether you plan to go into the field.  Great lectures and a manageable workload if you go to section and do the PSets well.
Only take this class if you are super into finance! If you are, then Prof. Campbell is very knowledgable and the material is great. Be sure to try to keep up with course material also; makes it a much better experience.
In a class where the midterms and final consisted of such a large percentage of the grade, one would have thought that the teaching staff might have taken more time developing the first two midterms. The second midterm in particular was very demanding.
John Campbell is an excellent lecturer, and this course is an excellent and rigorous introduction to modern finance that will be very elucidating, whether you plan to seek an internship in the field of finance or take an academic interest in the subject.
This course is called Capital Markets.
It's a mix of the material covered in stat 123 and ec 1745, and the difficulty is somewhere in between the two as well. Great course for real life examples of financial concepts.
Great course that teaches you things you won't get out of a substitute course.
Even though it was pretty difficult, this was probably my favorite economics class.  If you're at all interested in finance, take this class and take it seriously.  Put the work in, and you'll come out knowing a lot about how capital markets work.
If you are looking to take this because you want to learn about the world of finance, do not. It does little to help you in that regard.
Take it if you are interested in a quantitative approach to financial markets. it's worth the effort.
This class thoroughly works through many interesting and real-world-relevant problems related to financial economics. It helps students understand what options are and how to price them, what the efficient markets hypothesis really says, and how to compare theory with evidence. The class is well-organized.
Must be willing to put in time and effort into understanding the material - not hard, but not straightforward either.
Campbell is the man. Take this course for him. He is a really engaging lecturer and teaches the basics of finance really well. The one major flaw of this course is that the lectures are a mile wide and an inch deep, but the tests are really detailed and computation-focuses. The second midterm was basically impossible, but the final was a lot more fair.
Not a crazy workload but the exams are HARD. If you think you want to take this class be prepared to study your ass off
Great class. You will learn very much and cover an incredible range of contents. Exams are demanding, but doable. Prof. Campbell is very nice and always helpful. Make sure you go to a good TFs for section.
Homework and tests are hard but material is very interesting and useful.
Not a bad class if you are interested in capital markets. Problem sets ridiculously easy, but the exam material is often subject to change.
This course isn't trivial, but it is very rewarding if your are interested in academic finance

Don't take this class if you just need to get ready fro recruiting- it isn't worth it, you should have some genuine interest in the material to get by
Well this class was interesting. And by interesting I mean a nightmare. As a reference, my old friend that took this class, who had over a 3.9 GPA, said this was the worst class he ever took and did the worst in. Its a very poorly taught class, and the exams this year were a nightmare. The first midterm was essentially the 2006 midterm, and about half the class studied it on the old course website. I unfortunately wasn't one of those people. And then on the second midterm he put on questions that were completely unlike all the other exams and unlike everything we learned. The average was a 45. I have never regretted taking a class more in my life.
Easier if you know statistics and have sounds quantitative background. To do well in this class requires more of a quantitative background than an actual background in finance.
Campbell is an amazing teacher. Material is challenging and you need to pay close attention to every lecture. Absolutely necessary for anyone considering a career in finance.
This class is so hard and the TFs are the most unhelpful I have ever had.
This is a good class. If you have some finance background, like I did, this will help improve your understanding and make you think more about some topics you never thought of previously. If you don't have any finance background, this will give you a good introduction to some things that people think about (but it's not nearly everything). As a side note, the class has many of the smarter econ students in it.
The class is excellent. Not only is John Campbell a very engaging professor who is clearly an expert in his field, but the homeworks and exams are sufficiently challenging without being overboard. The class forces you to think and engage with the material at a high level and does not attempt to coddle you through any of the concepts.
Not worth the time...
A fantastic professor teaching interesting material whether or not you're pursuing finance in the future.
Great introduction to capital markets. Campbell is great.
There's some really good stuff in the class but it's way too mathematical to be immediately digestible...Professor Campbell is an excellent lecturer and if academic finance interests you then take the class. If you just want to work in finance and learn something practical for that purpose, this isn't the best class for you.
Good class. Be comfortable with your math background. Definitely geared toward people who have taken 1011a an 1011b.
great class, just really hard
I really enjoyed this course a lot more than I thought I would. Although the material can sometimes be a bit dry, the class does a good job of making things pretty interesting. It's a well-organized, well-planned course, which also makes it easier to get into things. I feel like I learned a lot.
Capital Markets was an amazing course one of the best I have taken at Harvard. Very interesting and applicable material. Not too much work, especially as an Applied Math/Econ major it was one of my easier courses. Problem sets don't take too much time and exams are fair. Lectures are great.
Professor Campbell is a legend in this field. This was one of the most satisfying courses I've taken at Harvard. Overall great!
Capital markets is a great class which will teach you a lot. In addition, it does a great job of balancing the mathematics behind the theories and qualitative concepts.
While this course is extremely difficult and does take a fair amount of time, it has been so interesting and has actually helped with financial interviews.
It's a good course if you really want to understand the way academic finance works.
learned a lot!  was interesting and not very quantitative - definitely doable.
Interesting topic though the lecture may not be that interesting. Exams really expect you to know a lot.
For Applied Math-Econ concentrators, this course is not necessarily difficult by any means, there's just a lot of material to learn. The problem sets, although weekly, only have a few problems each, so it's really up to you to keep up with the material.
If John Campbell is teaching this course, and you're interested in asset pricing, take the course. It's not terribly math heavy (sadly), but it is extremely interesting. You learn quite a bit about the 07-08 financial crisis as well, applying what you know about stocks, bonds, real estate, and the market.
If you're looking for a way to further your knowledge of finance, then this is the class for you. It is a course largely based upon theory (you're at Harvard), but I still found it insightful and certain aspect will be applicable to real world finance experience you may have in the future. If you want to be able to speak intelligently from the theoretical side of finance, then this is definitely a course you'll want to take.
Take this class, do the psets a week ahead of time, and crush the exam!
The content of this course can be dry because finance is not always too exciting, but if you are interested at all in going into finance I would recommend this class to get a deeper understanding of capital markets.
If you are interested in topics in finance, take this class. I thought the level of difficulty and theory versus partiality was very overblown and John Campbell is a true expert on the subject. The one thing that annoyed me about this course was the speed expected for the exams.
This is a very challenging course. But with great and relevant topics.
This is a highly quantitative class. Be careful what you get yourself into.
Class requires a considerable amount of work
If you want to know about the basics of finance, this is a good course!
This course is very useful but extremely challenging. Definitely the hardest class I have taken at harvard. However, you are able to learn a lot if you push yourself through it. Make sure to have a very strong background in MATH and ECONOMICS. Being in an investment club would also give you a tremendous advantage
Great course that provides a comprehensive introduction to many areas of finance. Interesting and relevant.
I would definitely recommend watching the lectures as recordings so that you can pause because otherwise it is pretty easy to get lost quickly in lecture.
Professor Campbell is great and makes the class very interesting. It is a great was to learn about the theories surrounding financial markets
The material can be challenging at times, but Professor Campbell is great. I feel like I learned a lot from this class, though I don't think all of it is applicable to real-world finance.
This is an excellent course--John Campbell does a great job lecturing.
It's a good course if you are really interested in finance. If not, it might not be a great experience. The exams are much harder than the problem sets, but Yang the head TF is really helpful, definitely check out his office hours and section.
If you totally destroyed Ec1011, this is right up your alley-for the rest of us, it was ok; you think you are doing a lot worse than you are for pretty much the whole class, but it all works out in the end. Take it, you will learn a lot.
This course covered a broad selection of financial economics an definitely changed the way I think about financial markets. It surveys both the theoretical and empirical work on the topic, and Professor Campbell is great at integrating the different views on the subject matter.
Capital Markets was the best course I have taken at Harvard (I'm a senior). Professor Campbell explains all concepts very, very well and leaves you interested in their applications to the real world. The case studies were very practical. I believe this will be a great supplement your course load. It's demanding in terms of studying and preparation, but very rewarding. I am extremely happy I took this class.
This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard.
Campbell is a legendary lecturer. He teaches the course material extremely well, and goes above and beyond in terms of adding personal insights from his extensive experience in the field. He also has a voice smoother than the velvety sax tones of Kenny G. Additionally, the TFs were knowledgeable, accessible, and gave specific answers to students' queries in and out of section, which made working out your personal questions much easier. Possibly the best course I've taken at Harvard. I'll be working on Wall Street for second time this summer, and I feel much more well versed in the markets having taken this class.
The exams were excessively difficult. I understand that tests are meant to challenge you and force you to learn the material in order to prepare properly, but the tests were so long and difficult to the point where I feel like I was not able to accurately portray my understanding and knowledge of the material.
This course covers a wide range of topics in financial theory. What it offers is exactly what is told by professor Campbell in the first lecture: you will learn the theories, but it won't tell you what to say in an interview for investment banking and it doesn't really encourages discussions or show you applications of the theories.
You will learn a lot.
Challenging course but very useful introduction to asset pricing.
The material is good, but it is often presented in a way that is difficult to understand. If you make sure to give yourself time to work it out on your own, you'll get a lot out of this class.
This class was very challenging, but the work load is light. It's one of those few classes at Harvard where you feel intellectually challenged while not getting 15 hour psets.
If you're interested in capital markets, stocks, bonds, and derivatives, I would highly recommend this course. If you're very familiar with the material maybe from a practical perspective (e.g. previous internships), maybe you could pass on it, but it was a nice way to formalize a lot of stuff I knew. The math isn't hard - I would say the most important thing is an interest in the material. Campbell is truly an expert in the field and a pleasure to learn from.
Great class assuming you have a true interest in finance
I rarely used to wake up for 10am lectures, but I actually went to this class. Professor Campbell gave very clear lectures that had a balance of theory, math, and real-world application. I now understand the theoretical foundation of portfolio optimization and stock/bond/derivative pricing. We also did some cool readings and case studies on the Harvard Management Company, Berkshire Hathaway, and hedge funds.
This was one of the most interesting courses I've ever taken at Harvard. Great material. The lectures go by very quickly, though, so don't fall behind! Problem sets are very good at helping you to understand the material so do keep up with those, and midterms/final were all fair.
Interesting and challenging class. Assignments were a bit too easy relative to the midterms and final.
Read the powerpoint slides.
The exams are difficult both conceptually and in terms of time-management (they are very long and hard). Problems sets can take a while, and material presented in lectures is often incomprehensible at the Campbell's pace. I often spent hours after class trying to figure out what he was saying. The material, however, is interesting and useful if you like finance. Take this class only if you are really passionate about the material.
A great course: very well structured and thought out, and Campbell is a great instructor. Yang Du, the head TF, is awesome, too -- can't speak for the others since I did not interact with them as much.
This class has been extraordinarily difficult but you do learn a tremendous amount from Prof. Campbell. Somehow feels more difficult than the course when Alp taught it, as probably evidenced by how poorly the entire class does on the exams. But if you are looking to learn, and care less about your grade - Prof Campbell's knowledge on the subject is obviously unparalleled, so it's just a tradeoff between your grade vs. a true intellectual experience.
This course covers some very interesting material regarding securities pricing from a mathematical perspective. As one of the few courses at Harvard covering financial topics, I found this fascinating. Prof Campbell's instruction makes this even more worthwhile. Exams can be tough, so make sure to study sufficiently ahead of time.
The course is difficult as advertised... but definitely worth getting through (with patience)! Professor Campbell's lectures are impeccable- well-organized and engaging (and sometimes very funny). Definitely manageable in the beginning, but highly advisable to attend lectures toward the second half. If you attend Professor Campbell's lectures and Yang's helpful sections, you will be able to learn a lot and be able to grasp the concepts well.
Good course! I had no idea what a bond was at the beginning of this course, and now am very comfortable with the basic theories of financial economics and the language used to discuss finance.
It's interesting, but it's hard! I think you'll get out what you put in.
This is a great way to learn about capital markets and the academic literature on the subject.
Do take it if you're interested in finance.
Ask TFs for help when you need it. The material isn't easy, but there are also more formulas than in other Ec classes, which is helpful. Budget plenty of time to work on and understand problem sets. I don't think it's a good class if you want to learn really practical things.
This is a great class to prepare for finance. I really understand the intuition behind many of finance's principles really well now. I took this as an elective and have no regrets. If you are quantitatively sound, you should have no problem with this course.
Be prepared that this is a hard course, need a lot of time, don't take it unless you can accept a possibly lower grade to your GPA and are serious into I-Banking...
It's a difficult but well-taught class.
Pay attention to the lecture material and refer to it when doing the problem sets. Don't get behind on understanding the lecture notes. Use the TFs as a resource.
It helps to have some theoretical math background. You will feel more comfortable with the explanations. You don't need to know anything about finance before taking the course. A very good class overall.
You learn about the lifeblood of economics, and what makes the modern world go around.
Be careful of taking this class simply because you are interested in finance.  While you will learn a lot of incredibly interesting material, the course goes into a lot of mathematical depth for someone who is merely interested in the field.
Fairly decent class. The sections are very helpful, so definitely attend them if you find lectures confusing.
Difficult class that requires time to actually grasp and retain information
It starts out easy but it ramps up really quickly at the end!
For the right kind of student (interested in markets, likes math, willing to put in the time) this is a great class.
This is a useful class, especially for those interested in finance, but it is a commitment.
This class is very difficult so if you must take it, take it pass/fail so when you're getting nervous about a test, you can at least try to calm yourself down by saying it's pass/fail. That didn't necessarily stop me from freaking out about exams anyways because of the possibility of actually failing.
Very informative class. One of the best finance classes to take at Harvard.
Do not expect this course to help you with finance interviews or anything of that sort too significantly. Looks at finance from a purely academic standpoint, but is still interesting for those interested in asset allocation and valuation.
Take the course if you are generally interested in the class
Okay class.  Alp is passionate about the material but the TFs are not good.  The true/false questions are infamous for being fickle.
very good, well-structured course that gives a great overview on capital markets. workload is quite high, but it's absolutely worth it
The class was pretty hard, but the material was very useful. I think anyone seriously considering a career in finance should know these basics. Lectures were at times a bit hard to follow, but the Prof. Simsek really cared about the students and was passionate about the material, which always helps, and the TFs were very accessible. It was hard but it's more doable than I expected. It was a well organized class. Also, beware that the curve isn't that great and a lot of the people in the class will be applied math majors, so you should be quite comfortable with math and interested in applying it to finance at a basic level. Otherwise, you'll hate this class.
Take it, pass/fail especially if you are an Ec concentrator! It will make life a lot easier.
If you are at all interested in finance this course is basically required. You will learn a great deal about the concepts behind portfolio theory, options and financial markets. There's no other way to get this stuff at Harvard, and its a great way to find out it you like finance.
If you are looking for an introductory course to finance and want to understand the role of capital markets, take this course. You will learn a ton of useful and practical concepts. The course is also taught very well and all the assignments are fair/useful. Great class!
difficult
Tough class but pretty interesting. Definitely try to take pass/ fail unless you have time to put a ton of work in.
Do this class if you want to go into Sales and Trading, especially Fixed Income or Derivatives.
This course is very interesting and dry depending on the topics. However, Alp is a pretty good teacher. You must ask yourself if you are really interested in learned about asset pricing, and the different financial instruments-derivatives, fixed income bonds, stocks- because if you really don't find that stuff interesting, this may not be the course for you. The exams are fairly challenging and the material isn't very easy. This course isn't for you to work on wall street-its really an academic angle on the capital markets so you better be interested in learning from other academic papers and studies in addition to the textbook.
Great class, extremely interesting  Alp's a fantastic lecturer, and the class is moderate-difficult, just be good about staying on top of the problem sets and you'll get a lot out of it
Great class covering the basics of asset pricing and understanding how the market works. It's theoretical and rigorous at times, but by the end of the course it will all make sense and make you adept at understanding how forces will affect prices or returns. This class is more rewarding if you're familiar with the basics of financial markets, so coming into the class with experience either in the job world or classroom will pay dividends.
Challenging class, but a gem if you have taken EC1011, Math 117, or Stat 123. Exams are a time crunch, but not as hard as the psets. Lecture materials are very thorough.
You'll learn a whole lot in this class about something Harvard teaches very little about. It's not a huge time commitment (though the problem sets are tricky and do take time), but the material is a hard to grasp, in the sense that you'll be 100% sure you understand something and then get it wrong on the exam. You can take it straight out of Ec10 as long as you understand basic optimization and linear algebra
Alp is a great lecturer and a really cool guy. This class is great preparation for a career in finance, but more importantly, it provides the content for a meaningful conversation about the finance industry as a whole, the merits and flaws of our public market system, and an empirical approach to investment decisions for all types of investors. Outstanding courses. Also, the TF's did a really great job.
This course covers a lot of material, but all of the material is very applicable for a basic understanding of investments and asset pricing. Cramming will not work and it is recommended that you keep track of the course on a daily basis.
This course was the best course I had this semester. Alp is very good teacher and an even more excellent person. I enjoyed attending his office hours as he was always interested in helping his students as much as possible. Unfortunately, however, he won't be teaching this course next time, so I am unsure about the future of the course. Given that it doesn't change, the course has a manageable workload and there is help available for psets. The exams are not difficult (though tricky) and just require you to work quickly and efficiently. It is not hell like most people say it is.
Hard but very useful
Section is extremely helpful, pay attention.
It's a good course, but don't take it if you aren't actually interested in the material. I took it pass/fail, and found the workload very reasonable (job hunt + other hard classes meant it would have been tough to compete for the grade)
This course teaches you a lot about basic finance which is always good knowledge to have. The theory parts are the hardest so make sure that you ask questions/understand that at the fundamental level to get the problem sets. Exams are doable but problem sets take a long time.
Painfree, interesting way to learn about finance. Material's very interesting and, if you're mathematically inclined, both intuitive and straightforward. Also, Alp is great.
If Alp is not teaching it, then maybe my experience of this course will be different.  But it's a chill way to learn a lot of really cool concepts with incredibly fair assignments and exams.
This is a great class if you want to learn the actual theory behind many financial ideas. I took this class after spending a summer interning at a financial firm and found it incredibly satisfying to gain a deep understanding of this stuff.
It can be annoying sometimes with what they expect, but at least you feel like you learned what you needed to know about the material at the end.
If you're at all interested in finance, it's a really fascinating class.
You'll learn a lot, but it'll be difficult for people who just want to get into finance but don't have the quantitative tools (ie. Ec1011a, Stat110, etc.) to tackle the theory.
It's a very tough course. Very quantitative and the amount of material covered is daunting. But the topics are great. Be prepared to work harder than you ever have for an economics course though. It's one of the most practical econ courses.
Great course. Alp was incredible, as well. Do not hesitate to take it if Alp is offering it again.
The TF's aren't that great, but Simsek definitely taught well enough during class that TF's are adding much value.
Great course -- Alp is a fantastic teacher and obviously very interested and generates enthusiasm for this course. Take it!
Alp is a great lecturer.  I've very glad to have taken this class this semester instead of last year.
Wonderful class. Very challenging but you learn a great deal.
very hard and not much help in the course. interesting material but hard to absorb all of it
Great way to learn finance. It was well taught, and a more complete picture than Corporate finance. Definitely recommend it if you want to learn more about finance. The first few weeks were the hardest, it got easier from there.
This class is one of the hardest, most unrewarding experiences I've had at Harvard. Nonetheless, Professor Simsek is great: he really cares about the students, and his knowledge of the material is immaculate. If you DO end up making the mistake of taking the class, please do yourselves a favor and read the textbook every week before class - it will help you tremendously.
If you're applied math, this class is a dream.
This class will teach you a lot about finance.  If you're not interested in financial markets, you likely won't enjoy this class.  However, if you want to truly understand financial markets and asset pricing, this is a great class to take.  Prof. Simsek is great.
Make sure you have a strong background in math and statistics and feel comfortable going from very conceptual lectures to tough problem solving. Review lecture notes - they are important.
Good class for someone with little exposure to finance, but for someone with decent exposure to finance, only the theoretical parts in the beginning (M-V, CAPM, APT) will really be a challenge.
This class is good for a Harvard finance class, but that's a low bar.
Not as bad as people make it seem. Try it. Also, not that useful for interviews at undergraduate level so don't take it for that reason.
I read the previous year's course evaluations and saw that many people said if you liked Ec1011a you should take this class. I loved Ec1011a so I decided to give it a shot. It's nothing like 1011a and if you want to learn about finance, there are better ways of doing it.
This class is tough, but it is not the horror story that many students make it out to be. The material is interesting and much of it is very applicable. There seemed to be a concerted effort to apply the material to past and/or current situations in financial markets. This class definitely provides a theoretical foundation for capital markets and their function. Both midterms and the final were very fair, and none of the problem sets were too ridiculous. Go to section to work out any gaps in understanding. If you think you might be interested in the course material, definitely take this.
This course provides great insights into financial markets. Professor Simsek is very enthusiastic about the topic and cares deeply about his students. The mathematical approach, although it may feel unnecessary, makes it rigorous and lays a solid basic for many models in finance. Anyone wanting to work in finance coming from Harvard should have taken this course before graduating.
This is definitely a difficult class.  One of the hardest I've taken at Harvard.  You are presented with a ton of material in a short amount of time.  That being said, the teaching staff recognizes that it is a hard class and grades accordingly, so I wouldn't worry too much about getting a bad grade (that said, you do need to stay on top of your work to compete with the rest of the class).  The information presented in the class is really interesting and a great foundation if you are interested in pursuing a career in finance.
Professor Simsek is awesome! He is dedicated, funny, and great at teaching. The class is definitely worth taking if you are interested in financial economics. It gives you quite a rigorous treatment of the topic and introduces you to the leading theories in the field. However, if you take this class just because you want to enter the finance industry, you may hate it because it delves much deeper into the economics. Having taken both Econ1723 and Stat123, I think these are great complements.
Great course! You learn a lot, but be prepared to work.
Great class if you want to learn about economics and logics,
If you like finance, it's a good intro class. Further down the road you can focus on what you are interested in
Crucial for understanding the fundamentals of finance.
This is a useful class in terms of the material in terms of learning about finance in the real world.  There are more Stat/Math people in this class than other Econ classes so my no means is this class a "gem" but the material is useful for interviews and real world stuff.
Professor Simsek is a great lecturer - very clear in his explanations!
Thorough overview of derivatives markets. Alp is a very clear and effective lecturer, workload is light, and you'll come away feeling a lot more knowledgeable about the black box that is finance.
Read up on finance terms before you go
This class is amazing!! You learn a TONS from each lecture. All the concepts you learn are very cool and applicable to the real world. I am not and economics concentrator and I must say that this was by far my best class this semester! and Alp is a great teacher!
This is a great class to learn a ton about financial markets, but only take it if you have the time/willingness to learn minute intricacies. I loved it.
The class is rewarding and incredibly informative for anyone interested in learning more about finance and capital markets.  Just be prepared for tedious problem sets and difficult midterms that may not necessarily reflect your understanding of the course material.
Cap markets is a great course if you're interested in finance and investing. It will prepare you well for a job in sales and trading, investment management, or hedge funds. Don't take it lightly. There's a lot of hand-waving but you need to put in a lot of effort to truly understand the material.
If you want to find a good, mathematical asset pricing course, this is not the course for you. It really skimped on the math and used hand-waving a lot to get qualitative results.
Typical Economics class. Weekly problem sets, two midterms, and a final. Problem set answers are readily available, and midterms have a mean of ~60, just like every Economics class you've ever taken. If you have any sort of background in finance, this class is very manageable. I was told it was a very difficult class and didn't have a ton of trouble, so don't listen to those people if you know what you're doing.
Material is interesting. Professor is dedicated and very intelligent and presents material in a very clear and concise manner. If you want to find out more about capital markets, take this class.
Soul Sucking. This and econometrics are the two dementors of the ec department.
This is an excellent class. Alp is a very clear, organized, and engaging lecturer, and you will learn the academic (and practical) basics of finance very well. If you have taken Econ 1011a and Stat 123, you will find parts of this course pleasantly relaxing.
I took it pass / fail so the work was manageable.  It's definitely a pretty hard class though - so I would be wary of taking it unless you're confident you can handle the workload.
Teaches the broad academic basis of finance - very interesting and relevant if you intend to go into finance (especially sales and trading/hedge funds). Professor Simsek really puts a lot of effort into the class and cares about students.
Take it pass fail.
While not a trial by fire like 1011a, this class is fast-moving and fairly challenging. Alp is an excellent lecturer as well. Be warned that you're not going to learn how to dominate a trading floor; this is Harvard after all, so the course teaches from the perspective of an academic financial economist. This does not, however, make the material any less interesting.
Professor Simsek is really quite amazing.  He's a very dedicated teacher and will make sure that you understand the material.  I thought the course would be more mathematical in nature - it started out with a reasonable level of mathematical sophistication, but after the first midterm began to focus much more on basic concepts rather than deeper mathematical understanding.  The problem sets are pretty straightforward and not very difficult, and the exams also tend to be straightforward tests of material covered.  The readings are interesting and the material covered therein is frequently tested.
If you have good background in stats/probability will have no problem
Don't take this class if you have no intention of going further into finance. Professor's all right, but the material can get tricky and it's really easy to lose points on exams.
This class is a great intro to finance and capital markets! I learned a lot and I now feel like I can intelligently discuss basic finance and investment concepts and strategies.  The class moves quickly and the tests were fairly difficult. Problem sets were not easy but not too hard.  The lectures were interesting and clear.
Lectures aren't extremely helpful, and neither are sections. You basically end up having to teach yourself most of the material.
Be warned, this is a VERY tough class--in my opinion, harder than 1011a, but do not be discouraged. If the class sees better organization, this has potential to be one of the best classes in the economics department. You will learn more than you expected (I only realized this while reviewing for the final), as the class covers SO much information. Organization is its main downfall, but overall this is a fascinating topic, and honestly--if you even are thinking about "working in finance", you are joking yourself if you haven't taken this class, and taken it seriously. You know NOTHING about finance until you take 1723.
A lot of materials covered in this course and memorization of definitions and understanding of concepts are required for exams.
It is very difficult and time consuming.
An incredibly useful and interesting class.
Lamont is quite sarcastic and has very funny things to say about capital markets. He was a great professor. I think this class is somewhat underrated and would recommend not skipping class because you learn a lot during lecture that's not necessarily on the slides.
If you are interested in finance this class gives you the theoretical background to articulate complex concepts in interviews and understand the social and economic function of the career choice you pursue.
Problem sets are much harder than exams.
I would recommend with enthusiasm if you're interested in the subject. If so, this class is interesting and is probably one of the best classes available to you on the financial markets. It isn't easy and the problem sets can take some time, but the class doesn't have a crushing workload compared to other mathematical courses, and you'll learn a lot of material that's of use in the real world even if you're not going into finance. But if you're not at all interested in the financial markets, you'll probably be bored.
If you aren't interested in finance, save yourself the agony and don't take the class. If you aren't sure what you think about finance, this class is probably a good litmus test to see what you think.
take this class if one of the following applies:you are obsessed with financial assetsyou are super strong in math and statsyou are willing to put A LOT of work in itand you are willing to sacrifice your GPA
Prof. Lamont is really fun listening to and the topics are great. You don't only learn theory but also the way the business works. Attend a lunch with him, it's worth it.
get ready for some challenging concepts. interest in finance is a must!
You will finish this class with a deeper understanding of how financial markets and institutions work.  You will know more about successful investing and the key components of financial economic theory.
You have to really like finance stuff to take this class. If not, you will find this course very confusing and boring.
This is good if you are interested in finance and like to put time into it, but it's an introductory level course.
I've never taken a finance course before, and I am interested in working in finance over the summer. I took this course to learn basic capital markets, and I really learned a TON. I'm really amazed by how much this course has crammed into my brain over the course of one semester. That said, it's NOT an easy class by any means, and you have to work really hard. As many economics courses (like 1011) at Harvard are, the actual concepts aren't actually that difficult, but it's just not as well-taught as courses in other departments (math, statistics) are. There isn't a whole lot of support, but MAKE SURE YOU GO TO SECTION. In particular, go to Dorothee's section. I wasn't even in her section but I went to it anyway -- Dorothee is fantastic. She really knows what she's talking about and she explains things really well.
It's the quintessential finance theory course for undergrads.
Go to class; make sure you are up to speed entire time, and ask questions if you don't understand something--sometimes the way things are explained in class is not very clear.
Difficult class. Still have mixed feelings. While it is interesting, I don't think it was taught well.
This is a great introduction to capital markets, but don't take it just because you liked the 1011 series - this is much less theoretical, much less mathematical, and much more specific to (shockingly) capital markets.
Only take this course if you're truly interested in the material and willing to put in the time.
Take it if you are interested in the material but come in with an understanding of finance so that you do not entirely rely on the teaching and can handle the work on your own.
Only take it if you have a somewhat quantitative mind, and interested in finance. If that's the case, you'll learn a lot in this class.
Harder than I thought it would be.  Helps a lot to be comfortable with math even though you don't do a ton of math.  Also would have helped to have some knowledge of finance (not needed but definitely helpful).  Go to Dorothee's section every week.
If you're more quantitatively oriented, consider going to Stat 123.
Hard - take it only if you need to take it
Material is very useful, and once learned is great, but the course won't help you learn very well.
Great course for anyone interested in finance, just be warned that it's pretty difficult and math-oriented!
Essential to students interested in finance and covers many good topics, but must be able to spend time teaching oneself the concepts.  Only take if willing to put in the time and if comfortable with math.
not as hard as everyone says, easy to get checks on problem sets, need to study for exams but not overly hard because TFs are fair (midterm 2 much was made easier than 1), Lamont is great but will be gone next year
Very usefull and interesting. It makes my balls perspire.
Very easy and you'll pick up a few things. Don't expect to understand any of the details though.
Take this class only if you're interested in capital markets. The material is interesting, usually challenging and frustrating at times. A sustained interest in the topic would carry a student through the course, whereas a passing interest or simply a desire to learn finance for career purposes would not.
If you have a strong economics background, this course will most likely be interesting to you because of its mathematical content - and you won't regret taking it, because it helps you to clarify ideas you might have thought about before, but could not demonstrate or support with strict logic.If you have a background, which is more mathematical than economics, you will be glad you took this course, because it shows some interesting real world applications of maths - even though you won't learn how to make a fortune on Wall Street.
practical course that combines mathematical rigor with highly intuitive explanations
Only if you're interested in trying to understand finance, beyond trying to pick up power-phrases for an interview, and getting a credential to get your foot in the door.
You don't need any math to take this class.  Though hopefully someday the class will resume its former glory and be much more interesting.
Very hard but very interesting
Be prepared for the workload, and don't fall behind.
Very difficult, take only if interested.
It is difficult so take it only if you are passionate about the subject matter
Make sure you're up to it - it's hard work.
Very difficult, but the professor is amazing.
Take it. If you want to get an overview and understanding of financial markets which affect us daily
It is very challenging. There is a lot of math and concept intensive material covered in a short span of time.
This was a great course, but it was rather demanding.  I would fully recommend to anyone interested in economics and/or the markets.
This is a great class, but be prepared to work hard; do not take this class if you don't lik quantitative rigor.
Take this class only if you have an interest in capital markets and if you're willing do read the appropriate sections of BKM beforehand.
anyone who wants a career in finance should do this.
I got a lot out of it, but it took a lot of energy out of me. Plus, it's so impersonal. Late rules are so rigid. I once got a zero on a problem set for turning it in literally seconds past the due time (10:15), even though my last class ran very late.
Only take this course if you are taking 3 other very easy classes. Definitely meet in groups because the TFs are not very helpful because they have only limited time and usually don't respond to emails often
Don't underestimate the amount of time required to fully understand the concepts.  They are not easy or intuitive at first, especially if you have little familiarity with market analysis.
Take it if you're really interested in the material and willing to work hard - it's a difficult class, but if you're willing to put in the time, it will be worth it. Make sure to use the TFs to help you get through it - go to office hours.
It's hard but worth it
It's a great class and you learn a lot.
Only to those willing to work hard and risk their GPA.
Very intestering class, but with a high workload.
Very useful/interesting if you are interested in the material
Recommended for those with strong interests in finance.
A solid background a mathematics is useful, previous knowledge of financial markets is practically crucial.
Keep up with the material, make sure you get a good TF.
The course is unreasonably challenging. The professor is frequently going over advanced theoretical material that is not officially covered in the course. Most of the students who do not have advanced math or economics background are afraid to ask something in class to avoid demonstrating their inferiority.
If you want a job in finance, this is the 1 class at Harvard that will be relevant to your industry work.
