This was a good class, but a lot of work. Make sure you're interested in finance. It's not really an econ class, but a finance class. Everything seems interesting on a superficial level--arbitrage, fire sales, capital regulations, quantitative easing, but make sure you're prepared for a deeper dive. The 90 minute lectures are kinda tough, but the assignments (referee reports, case studies) are actually really rewarding. THe exam was tough, though.
I didn't like this class. Readings were very interesting but it was hard to know what to expect at times...
While the title seems to suggest it's about policy, it's very much finance oriented and a lot of people in the class will have a lot of background in finance so it will be sort of easier if you do. But either way, a great class - learn so much! Would recommend.
This is a fantastic class that ties together various themes from capital markets, corporate finance, financial system design and supervision, and central banking. Surely one of my favorite classes at Harvard. I would strongly recommend this class to students interested in learning about the intricacies of the financial system, but be prepared to put in good amount of effort in this class.
This class is a lot more finance-focused than I originally imagined. However, it is a great class. Professor Stein is a great lecturer and you can clearly see how passionate he is about the topic. Max is also an amazing TF. The class is very well structured and you will learn a ton from it.
Really worthwhile but killer exam
Great class because its very interesting throughout. However be warned that the workload picks up significantly over the course of the semester.
This course is amazing. Professor Stein is one of those rare finance people who is equally at home in the worlds of academia (e.g. what role do banks or shadow banks play in the economy? How is monetary policy transmitted?) and policy (how should we regulate the banking sector to prevent another crisis?). The class strikes just the right balance of quantitative models in the two problem sets, with institutional knowledge on how the U.S. financial system works, with policy considerations. Professor Stein is an excellent lecturer and made even a 50-person class feel like a discussion section.
Really a great class. A very unique opportunity to hear one of the sharpest economic minds talk about his area of expertise.
This has been the most enjoyable and applicable economics course I've taken during my time at Harvard. It provides a perfect balance between theory and application. You will come out of the course having a pretty in-depth understanding of the financial system, banking, and the financial crisis. Anyone who is interested in financial institutions or corporate finance must take this class. Professor Stein is one of the best lecturers in the department; he is concise, clear in emphasizing key points, invests in his students, and generates fantastic discussion/debate in the classroom. The assignments in the class also help students better understand the course material. One caution is that the course does present some advanced concepts i.e. taking econ 1723 or 1745 would help significantly. Nevertheless, I recommend with enthusiasm.
Prof. Stein is the best lecturer I have had so far. He mixes theory with policy very smoothly. The assignments force you to form opinions on important policy questions. Anyone interested in finance, or economic policy should take this class. It is a decently high workload, and the course is difficult, but well worth it.
Excellent class. Jeremy Stein is great, and the material is interesting. I'd only say that if you are taking the class for a grade, watch out for the final which counts for half (but probably contributed to most of the grade distribution). But otherwise, this was a really great course.
Fruitful but challenging
The breadth and depth of the material in this course are impressive, and Professor Stein is a fantastic lecturer. Not only does he teach the material well, but he also gives insights that you can only get from someone who has set on the Fed Board of Governors. Can't think of a better person to learn this material from. That said, this is also the most challenging economics course I have taken at Harvard thus far--consider taking either Capital Markets or Corporate Finance (preferably both) before diving into this stuff.
A phenomenal class all around. Stein is amazing, great lecturer, and makes you want to come to class. The material is not only useful but also very relevant. Defintely take this class for your writing requirement especially if you procrastinate
It was really hard but a good experience to learn from Stein.
This course easily ranks among Harvard's best...it combines rigorous economic theory, real world applications, and policy considerations to build a holistic view of the financial system. The privilege to discuss the financial system 2x per week with a former governor of the Federal Reserve is one to take advantage of. The course commands a reasonably high degree of economic intuition, but the workload is neither too difficult nor onerous. And if it were, I would endorse the course just as strongly.
Prof. Stein is awesome and has many experiences with the financial system. Do attend lecture and ask a lot of questions.
one of the best economics courses at harvard. super interesting and applicable if you're interested in the financial system as a whole and monetary policy. strong recommendation to take it!
This is a great class if you're going into finance or if you'd like an intensive study of the topics.
In case it is helpful to students trying to decide whether or not to take this class, here is the grade breakdown: 16 A, 6 A-, 18 B+, 8 B, and 3 B-. Some people took it pass/fail, though it obviously isn't too hard to do decently as long as you do the work. He definitely gives a huge bonus to people who participate a lot, though it can be hard if you are not very familiar with this field before taking the class. Corporate Finance or advanced finance knowledge would definitely help you, though lectures are taught fairly accessibly so that people with 1010 series knowledge could understand everything.The class is really great and I finally feel like I understand the financial system now. It really requires understanding all of the component parts and paying attention to ask questions when you are stuck, though. The two problem sets are pretty difficult and office hours are not always that helpful, but Jeremy is really committed to students learning which is nice. I'd generally recommend this course as long as you are confident about your finance knowledge. If you are not, decide whether you are fine with a B+, and if not, take it pass/fail as it is pretty clear after the first couple of weeks which kids will get the A no matter how hard you work.
The material is very interesting and Jeremy Stein is a great lecturer who has a lot of personal experience with the topic. However, the discussion often gets into very nuanced financial topics, which is difficult to follow without a strong finance background. (I studied finance and worked in the industry and still often found it difficult to keep up).
A wonderful course, offers both an excellent overview and quite in-depth coverage of how monetary policy is conducted, how the modern financial system functions and how the former can deal with crises in the latter.
Very challenging but well worth the work!
This class is difficult, but if you commit to learning its material, you will learn more here than just about any other class.
This was my favorite course at Harvard. It covers a lot of really interesting and important material and the assignments are all really good in making sure you have a grasp of the material. Professor Stein also does a great job in making the class interactive, even though it's not that small of a class. It is one of the harder econ courses, but definitely worth it if you want a more in-depth understanding of the financial system.
Stein is a great professor, really knows his stuff. Class sometimes all over the place in terms of assignments and topics but learned a lot.
Very very hard but also interesting
This class provided a fantastic introduction to the financial system and financial crisis of 2008, and it framed discussions within economic theory to provide a deeper understanding of many issues. There are a lot of assignments that take a good amount of work, but there is no midterm. If you put in the work, you'll learn a lot about the financial system, which I found incredibly rewarding as someone going to work in the financial sector.
Fantastic course with a very wide scope and many interesting facts and economic ideas.
In my top two favorite Econ courses I've taken at Harvard. Jeremy is incredibly knowledgeable about the financial crisis and the tensions the Fed negotiates (he was on the Board of Governors) and delivers information very well. It can get technical at times and there is relatively little clarity on grading, so I wouldn't take it if you're solely looking for an easy A. That said, it is a great course if you're at all interested in the policy side of finance.
Take another financial markets oriented class before you take this one, such as Capital Markets or Corporate Finance. This serves both as a way to help you better understand the material that is being taught as well as check your interest in this material. I thought it was fantastic and incredibly interesting but can see how maybe some others who don't have an understanding of what the class might be confused or not engaged as much.Other than that, Jeremy Stein is an absolutely fantastic lecturer and incredibly smart. If not for any reason, take it to learn from the master himself.
Jeremy is a great lecturer! The assignments are definitely a little time consuming, but if you put effort in they're pretty easy to understand. I didn't have a finance background and definitely think I could have gotten more out of the class if I did, but still understood enough. The final exam was pretty tough and there's a lot of information, so would recommend starting to study early.
This class is incredible. Prof. Stein is a great lecturer, the assignments are reasonable and interesting, and class involves a lot of discussion. That said, I have no clue what my grade is right now and have been given no metric for how I am doing. That puts a lot of pressure on the final and is kind of uncomfortable.
Incredible class, but the prerequisites really are prerequisites unless you are willing to devote an INSANE amount of time outside of the course to this class. I don't think Professor Stein is wrong in allowing people who haven't taken the "prereqs" to take this class -- I did, and I got a lot out of it -- but he should be more transparent about how difficult of an undertaking it would be. Wish there were supplementary course materials for people doing more self-teaching; people like me should be able to take this course but it was not fun feeling completely marooned by the course. I learned an incredible amount about the true functioning of the financial system; only class I've taken here that I think I've left being able to discuss the material on an incredibly high level
One of the greatest classes in the department. Stein is an exceptional lecturer, and brings in experience from his time as a Fed governor. The workload is hefty, but assignments are thought-provoking and rewarding. This is one of those classes that teach you that everything you've learned (i.e. conventional monetary policy in Ec 10 and perhaps 1010/1011b) is just the tip of the iceberg. A must-take if you are an econ concentrator.
This is an incredible class if you are at all interested in economic policy, the recent financial crisis or financial regulation. Professor Stein's lectures are very thorough and always interesting (especially to hear his perspective as a prominent policymaker--wow!!!). The TFs Natasha and Zach held fantastic sections after which I really felt like I learned something--they did an excellent job of picking the central themes from lectures and explaining them until we understood (and were also available outside of class). All in all this is a once-in-a-lifetime class and I couldn't recommend it more highly.
Take this course if you are interested in finance and the financial system
Professor Stein is a great and interesting lecturer, but would suggest some form of finance background before taking the class (just some vocab knowledge, nothing too extensive and definitely not much you can't learn on your own).
This is the best course in terms of understanding the financial markets and policy aspects of the financial crises, in addition to learning theoretical underpinnings of corporate finance and the banking system. I feel so confident about my understanding the of the banking system, role of financial intermediaries, and larger macroeconomic trends like the procyclicality of leverage etc. MUST TAKE! It is A LOT of work but it is WORTH IT.
Professor Stein is a fantastic teacher and cultivates a great culture in the classroom. Meaningful participation is encouraged and the assignments deal with complex topics which are interesting to write.
This class is awesome. Take it if you want to understand how 08 unfolded.
Professor Stein is so enthusiastic and helpful that you will take a lot out of the course. The assignements take a lot of work, but are doable. The topics covered during the class are interesting and most of them timely relevant.
If you really have no other options for a writing req for Econ concentrators or you're genuinely interested then go for it. The papers weren't so awful to write that it wasn't at least worth the writing req, but the material is very dense and hard to understand for someone who isn't going into the field.
It's hard, but doable
This class was a great experience. Professor Stein is an expert on the subject matter and presents the role of the Fed in a very logical manner. I really understand the financial crisis and economic policy much better after taking this class. The work is admittedly daunting but it is very worth it. This was likely my most challenging academic course so far and I am so glad I took it.
Taking some sort of finance course, whether it's capital markets or finance with Akash Deep at HKS, will definitely make you feel more comfortable in this class. Stein is one of the best lecturers at Harvard, and I would say that this class is a requirement for students looking to do honors econ or work in finance.
Would highly recommend, definitely the best class I've taken at Harvard.
This course comprehensively covers what it promises - the financial system and the central bank. One third of the course is about finance theory (debt overhang, runs, asymmetric information) and another third about the Great Recession. The theory gets very dense as we are expected to directly read from the original papers, but the TF review sessions are helpful. The practical portion exposes to many contemporary empirical studies. Be prepared to spend a few hours a week to do prior readings, and have a set of colleagues to discuss the class material with. Take this class to get quite deep understanding of the subject.
If you're looking to go into finance or financial regulation, this class is highly useful.  Professor Stein is one of the most knowledgeable professors Harvard has to offer on this subject, and he's highly approachable and eager to help.  It will be more work than advertised, but it is very much worth your time.
Incredible class. May be challenging for those who don't have a background in finance. Join HFAC if you want to have a leg up w/out taking 1723 or 1745.
This is a MUST TAKE class. You DO NOT need corporate finance/capital markets at all (I hadn't taken either). Fantastic lectures and Natasha and Zach are great section leaders. Lecture is by far the most important thing and you absolutely should push yourself to participate. Literally best class I have ever taken at Harvard.
I believe that you got into this course what you put into it, and if you put effort into it you can take away a very powerful knowledge of the financial system and the relevance to monetary policy and regulation today, and have a higher-level understanding beyond the basics that may be taught in intro finance courses. Professor Stein is at the forefront of research on some of the topics in this class, and gives a thorough treatment of academic literature (a great course if you want to start developing thesis ideas). This class was admittedly very difficult and required a lot of work for each assignment. But its with the rigor and difficulty that you truly learn inside and out the concepts of the course. The TF's Natasha and Zach were also very willing to help break down and work through the course material. Would highly recommend if you are looking for a rewarding challenge.
MEMORIZE FOR FINAL! If it's the same as our final, you are expected to remember a lot of details such as specific methodology to empirically prove a theory. Otherwise, the course is pretty well-paced and you'll really learn a lot from Jeremy who was a Fed governor and really really knows what's going on. He's also very open-minded and encourages discussion, and admits openly things he does not know.
Great class but expect a good amount of work during the semester.
very good course but requires hard work
The best finance course I have ever taken.
Really fun and useful course! I really recommend taking it! However, some background in finance is REALLY USEFUL. Tip: USE INVESTOPEDIA (watch the short videos) AND HAVE A FRIEND TAKING THIS CLASS WITH YOU. The requirements should be made "Hard Requirements". It is REALLY useful to have some knowledge of finance prior to taking the course, and this is not made clear anywhere. To say that Capital Markets and Corporate Finance are "soft" requirements is to mislead the students. I understand that it is undesirable to have some people who could do well in the course not even take it if the prereq are made "hard", but then Prof. Stein should make it clear that to do well in this course without a finance background requires a lot of self-teaching on the side and it is almost impossible to keep yourself motivated if you don't have friends in the class. I was lucky enough to have met someone in this class to go over the lecture slides. Here is how my experience went: Having added this class late (3 weeks late), by the 5th or 6th week I was REALLY LOST. I remember going to one of Max's sections and thinking "I will do badly on this course." Then, I decided to talk to someone in the class to start going over the slides. About 6 weeks before the final we started to study together. We went over 4 Lecture Slides per week, and took about 2 hours in each deck. We discussed the concepts through  and Investopedia became our best friend.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard - Stein is absolutely amazing, both in lecture and in person, and and he will really change the way you think about the financial crisis.
Engage during the lecture. It will enhance your course experience.
The question to ask yourself about this class is not whether you should take it (you should), but when to take it. This is a hard class that relies implicitly on your understanding of financial markets, corporate finance, macro econ, etc. As someone who has been studying econ for two semesters, it was hard for me to keep up with all the jargon/assumed knowledge and learn what was being taught simultaneously. For this reason, I suggest taking a few years of courses before taking this class, unless like me, you are a senior, in which case you should take the class. I heard Professor Stein's guest lecture during 1010a and knew I wanted to take a class from him before I graduated, and I am so glad I did. The class is extremely well taught. Professor Stein is the rare genius who has not only done amazing research and had personal experience working at the Fed, but also is an entertaining and extremely talented lecturer.  The course material is really interesting as well, and one of the best parts of the course are the assignments, which cover a number of really interesting papers and economic models. The exam is pretty hard and long, but fair. They won't ask you to do any math you can't do, but you'll have to work quickly and remember to think about the implications of the model you're examining. To do well on the assignments I recommend looking at them when they're first assigned so you don't underestimate how long they are. The papers can be 40+ pages and you don't want to be surprised by that the night before the referee report is due. Also, remember to add your own thoughts and analysis and not just repeat what the authors have said. To do well on the exam it's helpful to review the major themes of the course and make sure you understand the models covered on the homework. You won't be asked about anything very particular, but knowing papers/facts will help. In short, TAKE THIS CLASS, you will not regret it! Your professor, TFs and peers will all be amazing and you will learn so much.
This class is challenging and time consuming with many assignments throughout, but is well worth taking to learn from Professor Stein. If you are working in investment banking or at a hedge fund, the class will make you more appreciative of the risks and complexities in the system that you'll be entering. Your grade will also be adjusted upwards for participation in class. Even if you have experience working at banks you might still find the class difficult because the system and regulations and tools are so complex.
good class just have the requisite background
This is one of the most incredible classes that I took at Harvard.  Stein's lectures are very interesting, definitely would recommend.
Take this class if you want to get a very microeconomic view on the financial system. You should be willing to learn a lot of jargon and common abbreviations. Participation in class was not very easy as there were some students who ran the course basically. Sections are great!
This class has fantastic lectures and the material is very relevant to the real world. Prof. Stein also does a great job of creating class discussions.
Stein is awesome, you learn a lot and become super well-educated in the financial crisis. Would definitely recommend as someone going into finance. I took the class pass fail senior spring because I was super interested in the material, chill enough where I didn't have to stress about it but definitely still challenging and pushed you to learn something.
Would only recommend this class to highly smart students with a lot of background in the topic
Take this class if you want to learn about how the current financial system works and how the Fed tries to respond to sources of financial instability. Stein not only was a former practitioner but an incredible lecturer who is really creative and smart. TFs were also incredible.
Very good class.  A finance focused look at monetary policy.  You learn a ton, assignments are hard but really good in the sense you learn a lot. Smartest kids at Harvard seem to sort themselves into this class.  Stein is great
Take this course if you want a strong grounding in of banking and finance, regardless of what career you want to follow.
Jeremy's frankly the best professor I've studied with in a lecture class. I learnt as much from 1759 as I have in all 8 GenEds I've taken combined in my time at Harvard & I took this as an elective. 10/10 would recommend.
The best economics course at Harvard taught by a brilliant, charismatic, and engaging professor.  I know there are many assignments on the syllabus that will deter some, and you will have to work more than most other economics courses, but it is absolutely worth it.
This is a very hard class. That being said, if you are extremely interested in financial systems, there is not a better professor to be teaching this material. I also took corporate finance, and in terms of usefulness, this class was structured better and I learned much more.
This class was really challenging, but absolutely worth it.  Prof Stein is incrediblehis lectures are super engaging, and the way he structures the material of the course makes it really interesting. You will learn a TON.  If you have no background in finance, it will be tough and will take some extra work to keep up, but don't get discouragedstill 100% worthwhile. Take this class!!
This class is really difficult. The problem sets and final exam were unnecessarily difficult and in my opinion unfair. I did not have much finance background going into the class, and even though I knew it would be a little more challenging, I was not expecting to feel this discouraged. Studying lecture material will not prepare you for the final, it almost seems like a toss up whether you'd be able to get the math problems or not. I was really disappointed in how the exam was formatted, as we spent very little time going over math concepts and yet 50% of the exam was math problems we never explicitly learned. The material is interesting and the teaching staff is great, but I would not take it again given the choice.
Hands down one of the best courses at Harvard. Easily makes my top 5. Strongly recommend. You will learn a TON and it is SO COOL if you're interested in this subject matter. (Note: would not recommend to those not interested in finance/central banking/econ, but if the area intrigues you and you like following the Fed or thinking about the crisis, you will LOVE this course and learn a ton from an incredible professor.)
It's one of the best courses of my Harvard experience
The final is worth 50% of your grade and 2 of the 4 exam questions this year were math problems that had very little to do with the rest of the course.
You will learn a lot and get a great deal out of this course. Definitely one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard thus far, if not the best.
I learned a lot in the course but it was challenging, even with some finance background and Ec 1723.
Amazing class, extremely informative. But if you take it with a financial background (Capital Markets or internship experience) you'll learn A LOT more.
very interesting material, but you need to really be prepared
It was the best course I found in Harvard about Central Bank and the Financial System
This is an amazing introduction to central ban and does a wonderful job combining economic theory to develop in the financial system. Professor Stein is an amazing lecturer and makes the lectures extremely engaging.
It's REALLY hard, but very informative. Don't take the class if you're 1) financially inexperienced and 2) very concerned with your GPA. Lots of grad students and finance thoroughbreds dominate the discussion and the upper end of the curve.
This is an amazing and interesting class taught by the most caring and knowledgeable professor. There is a significant math component to the course and much of your grade is based on the ability to perform on two math questions on the final exam. So be aware of that going in and open your mind to things that you thought you understood but didn't actually because of the mindblowing layers of depth below.
This was one of my favorite courses I have taken at Harvard. Stein is an authority on the material and an absolutely fantastic lecturer (the best I have seen here). However, be careful, this class is not for the faint of heart. Make sure you are really invested in the subject matter, as this course is very difficult. Stein will tell you it isn't that hard, he is lying. With that being said, if you have any interest in the financial system..Take this class!!
Make readings before the class; understand the main intuition behind financial behaviors; be curious about how financial markets work; and participate actively to the class with your questions!
Great course with interesting discussions about real-world policy implications of financial crisis, regulation, and theory. Does require a good background in finance (Ec 1723 or 1745, either one should be fine) and a definite interest in financial crisis and regulation. Definitely worth it for anyone going into finance
Jeremy Stein is a phenomenal lecturer and very well versed in the subject material. If you're at all interested in monetary policy or financial regulation in the modern era, definitely take this class. You will learn a lot from one of the most well respected economists in the field. The class itself is not difficult or time intensive, but the students who do best are those with some background in finance (might be good to take Econ 1723 or Econ 1745 before this class).
Stein is an amazing lecturer, and his experience at the Fed during the crisis provides a unique perspective on the course material that one can't get elsewhere. The material is engaging and interesting, cumulatively building up to a thorough understanding of issues facing policymakers in the financial world. You read a lot of recent papers, and at the end of the course, you get the feeling that you've built out a genuinely deep understanding of some of the tradeoffs policymakers face when deciding on monetary policy and finance regulation, in a very real-world way.
