Professor Foote is arrogant and not a good teacher. The class is boring and hard.
The lectures are what makes this class special. Professor Foote is funny, precise, and very smart.
A great way to satisfy an Economics requirement, and also very fundamental and applicable knowledge to any other field of study...got a lot out of it
Chris Foote makes 9am class reasonable.  His lectures are fun and you should make sure to go to them.
Easy class.
If you're doing a secondary and don't like the quantitative side of ec, then skip 1010a and take 1010b, especially if Miron and Foote are still the respective Professors. Miron was the worst professor of any subject I've had here. Foote was the best ec professor and one of the best overall.
This was the most intereseting and revealing course I have taken at Harvard. It was even more helpful than Ec10
sections unnecessary, Foote is incredible
Sooooo much better than 1010a.  Really interesting and actually applicable to the real world.
You need to take this class to concentrate in Economics but it's not the greatest class you'll take in the department.
Professor Foote is the best economics professor I have ever had and is a great teacher.
This class was done so well.  It's not too difficult and definitely worth getting up for 9 am class.
Excellent intermediate macro class. Full recommendation!!
It is a fun class.
If you are doinga secondary and If Foote is teaching it, then they should take it.
A good way to learn new Macroeconomic models beyond what is taught in basic economic classes like Ec 10.  Professor Foote is excellent and clear at explaining different macroconomic models, and brings in real world applications of economics into the classroom very well.
Keep up with the textbook chapters and go to lecture.
Be prepared to get up early
It's much better and more well taught than 1010a with professor footnote
Reading the textbook unnecessary except as clarification of classroom concepts - though textbook is quite good.  Go to lecture if you can because verbal examples do appear on exams.  Overall, I would even recommend this course to non-concentrators because of how useful what it teaches you is.
Make sure Professor Foote is teaching the class!
This class does a great job of teaching macroeconomic theory and then applying the concepts to real world situations.  The professor is engaging and enthusiastic and the workload is very fair.
Probably a required or necessary course to take, but it is fairly well taught by Professor Foote.  The course was more challenging that I expected, and section was taught poorly, but overall a fairly well taught and interesting course.
Good course if you need to take it to fill a requirement; however, the 9am start time without videotapes of the lectures is less than ideal.
The material in this course helps you analyze real-life situations around the world more closely from a thorough, economics perspective.
Great way to learn more about how the economy works.
Excellent professor, and make sure you attend lectures because they make understanding the material a lot easier.
I would give praises of Professor Foote. He was an excellent professor who really made the possibly boring material very interesting.
If you're Econ, you have to bite the bullet one way or another, and compared to 1011, this is much better.
Only take if you have to take or plan on having a secondary in economics. This class is MUCH better than Econ 1010a.
Professor Foote is great! I like macro anyway, but this class was so much better than Ec 10 or 1010a. Foote makes everything relevant to the real world and easy to understand, answers questions frequently and is very accessible.
Go to lecture.
This course is informative and well-taught, lectures are excellent, make sure you attend.
Go to all lectures and go more often to office hours
Great course, useful models,
If you want to learn economic intuition and are not interested in going to grad school in econ, I highly recommend this class.
Professor Foote is amazing. You will never have enjoyed lecture as much as you will listening to him talk macro!
if you want to be an econ concentrator or get a secondary field in it, the course isn't bad, but there's probably no reason to take it if not, book is pretty much self-explanatory and it would be better to take advantage of other course offerings at Harvard
Professor Foote's lectures really helped to clarify the topics addressed in the textbook and, with references to current events, were very interesting.
Good grounding in Macroecononmics.
Professor is amazing! Except it's too early in the morning...
you have to take it if youre econ-- so suck it up. How to do well on this course:read teh slides, go to Prof's OH to discuss Pset. For exams, do policy experimentations and learn teh econ Models really well. All else is common sense.
keep up with reading; you become as interested as you let yourself be; its fun to apply the concepts to current events
Great class that will truly teach you the basics of macroeconomic theory unlike some other intro economics classes. Professor Foote is also one of the most engaging and easy to learn from professors I have met so far and I hope he continues to teach this course!
important material, but must be self-motivated to learn it
Professor Foote makes the class much more interesting!
A great step up from intro-macro by Professor Foote
It is probably the best of the required economics courses.
Professor Foote is awesome, the material is straightforward, and it's not overly difficult
Foote is THE man!
You'll strengthen your intro background and gain some insight into more advanced Macroeconomics.
I liked the course a lot because I thought that the professor was amazing. However, some people are not a fan of large lecture classes, and the individual focus for those who did not seek out help was not great.
If the class is held at 9am, take Ec 1011b instead because you will never go to class.
Professor Foote is amazing.
if you are interested in economics
If Ec 1010a is hell, then Ec 1010b this is the heavenly reward.
Prof. Foote is a great professor and keeps material interesting and fun!
Prof. Foote's lectures, though early and hard to wake up for, are worth it.  Unfortunately they're early and hard to wake up for.
Everyone should take this class.  Both for general knowledge about macroeconomics, but mostly to get the professor foote experience. He is absolutely amazing, and totally worth getting up for at 9am on monday, wednesday, and friday.
I really enjoyed this class. I am not an economics concentrator nor a morning person, yet I woke up at 9 am to attend the lectures and I really learned a lot.
It's not that intense and though parts of it seem boring, it sets you up well to take more interesting classes in economics later.
It is an outstanding intermediate course on macroeconomics.  The professor is one of the best that the Harvard economics dept has to offer.  And, success in the course is definitely attainable with a reasonable amount of work.
This class really teaches you what you need to understand major macroeconomic events both of the past and of the present.
Lectures are actually pretty interesting, as Prof Foote adds interesting views on pertinent examples from the real world
Take this course if it's offered by Foote. Tread carefully if it's someone new.
If Chris Foote is teaching it, you will enjoy it.
prof foote is a great, funny, interesting teacher
Stay ontop of your work! It's so easy to fall behind. Even though lectures are at 9am, try to make them because the difference between those who do/do not attend lecture is apparent in length of time spent on psets, midterm/exam scores, etc
Applicable & interesting materialWell structuredGreat and engaging professor.
This course tells you a lot about real macroeconomics.
1011b seems to offer a more challenging and rewarding alternative.
Standard intermediate macro class. Nothing too special. Professor was organized though.
If Prof. Foote is teaching this class, it will be very entertaining and will probably be one of the best 'introductory' class experiences you'll have.
Most of the people in this class are Econ Concentrators and thus you should be aware that they will be very enthusiastic and eager to learn the material.  If you're not, you should watch out.
n/a
go to class
Attending the lectures helps a lot. However, it can be learned at the end if necessary.
1010b gave me the economic tools to continue studying economics. I felt that the organization and clarity with which Foote delivered each lecture made the material manageable. Help is given on a need-basis, so as long as you're willing to put in the time, you can do well.
This is one of the best classes at Harvard. You learn so much.
With a different professor, it could have been a very boring/unrewarding class-- Professor Foote makes it worth it, though.
The problem sets are very representative of the exams.
Please take this course! Professor Foote will change your life!
Macro is interesting and somewhat useful.  Not extremely invigorating.
Foote's lectures are terrific but you will get lazy halfway through the course, stop going to lecture because it's far too early, and then the course will get difficult
It is a great class for people who wants a more in-depth conceptual understanding of economics.
make sure you have a background of ect 10
The material is interesting and not too difficult to understand, but there is a lot of it and learning all the topics and formulas for the final exam is challenging.
The course is hard but Professor Foote is the best professor I've had at Harvard.  He's very enthusiastic and is always there to help with any questions you have.
This course was interesting at times and I did learn a lot of new things, but if this weren't a concentration requirement I probably wouldn't have taken it.
Prof Foote is incredible. He makes macroeconomics interesting to students and relevant to current real world situations. Problem sets are not too hard, but give you a better understanding. Lectures, although early, are pretty good and Foote always gives a few laughs.
Professor Foote is one of the most engaging lecturers I've had at Harvard.
Take this class if you would like to see people that copy problem sets and cheat on midterms to do substantially better than you. Take this class also if you have to because you are an ec major. Prof Foote is great though.
Prof. Foote is an amazing lecturer. However, the class is difficult because it has only 1 midterm and the final is worth 50% all of which is multiple choice. It can be tricky
This class is very straight-forward in terms of structure, assignments, and grading, but Professor Foote and the textbook/lecture slides make it stand out.  It is a particularly good class for self-motivated students to teach themselves the material.
Do the problem sets.
Have to study greatly on your own. There is hardly any practice material to help you for the midterm or final. Go to office hours.
foote is much more engaging then miron
Great professor!
9am class will be difficult, but Professor Foote is certainly worth getting up early for.
Prof. Foote is a baller.  This class is excellent, lecture is awesome, sections aren't very useful, but the class can be deceptively easy--the psets are way easier than the midterm/final.
It's not an amazing class but it's fairly enjoyable for a requirement. Professor lectures well.
Macroeconomics is both practical and interesting, I think it should be part of anyone's education.
it's a solid course that teaches you a fair bit.
It's a pretty manageable class with an instructor who cares about the students
Better than Ec10!
only if you are an ec concentrator
It's a great class and Prof. Foote is one of the best professors I've had.
This is a great class to take to understand the basics of the really interesting/applicable side of economics, accessible to people not doing Ec as a concentration
To have a strong background in Ec10, keep up with the readings.
Read the book and you'll understand 50% more.
Professor is fantastic.
This is a a normal intermediate course. Not exceptional, not disappointing.
Very good and would tell tem to go to lecture becuase I learned most there.
It is very interesting and will increase your understanding of national and global economies.
Great professor who will teach you a lot about macroeconomics.
Beware - tests are much harder than problem sets!
Great material to know. Great professor.
Professor Foote is a great professor! He is very knowledgeable and interested in the material that he teaches. Much better than 1010a.
Professor Foote teaches extremely well and relates the class to current economic events to make it interesting. Definitely worth your time!
Great class if you can wake up for the early lectures.
It is well-taught by foote and if you like economics you will like the course
Very good.  Most applicable class I have yet taken at Harvard.
It's really fun, but you should go to class even if it is at 9 in the morning.
This is an extremely well taught and the exams and psets are not too bad.  All in all this is a very good course.
Make sure you understand the material very well for exams, since the midterm and final are 75% of your grade and they don't give partial credit.
Be prepared to enjoy Prof. Foote's lectures!
It's basically a souped up version of Ec10.
It's a great class but you have to be able to wake up early. I was not able to.
Great professor who teaches well and is funny too; it's worth getting up for the 9am class.
The course is pretty good. You won't get a very in-depth understanding of intermediate macroeconomics, with not enough focus spent on the mathematical theory and not enough focus spent on the fundamental economics. But you'll come out of it with some grasp of the core concepts.
Professor Foote is great, and section is a waste of time.
just remember, its a requirement
Great class and painless.
The professor is great, the class less so.
good course to learn intermediate macro--only take if interested in the subject
I actually learned about what was going on in the housing market today in a way that made it clear what the potential problems were, but not oversimplified. This was interesting and helpful.  As an economics concentrator in particular, it's nice to be able to discuss the current economy knowledgeably when people ask about it.
Great course
I would say Professor Foote's lectures are very entertaining, but material is kinda boring.  Also, 9AM!
The material is good, but you will have to learn it all on your own because the class is too early, so you either won't go or will fall asleep while there.
It's great to take a class with someone so involved in our monetary system.
the professor is great; he gives many real life examples to supplement textbook examples to make concepts relevant and clear.
This class does not require excessive work but you should keep up with the reading.
The sections are absolutely useless: go only to pick up your problem set, if your even that motivated.
Take for concentration and curiosity about macroeconomics
It's a great class.  If you're doing a secondary field, this is definitely more worth taking than ec1010a.  that said, don't take both, take more focused departmental classes.
Great for a comprehensive and in-depth (but not overly technical) course on macroecon, especially useful in the current downturn to get a sense of what's going on.
It's an easy class with a fairly interesting professor.
Please go to lecture! You will get more out of the class - it's really fascinating. I've seen how many people go to lecture every day and how many show up for the midterm - you will be in a good minority if you go to class
Much better than 1010a. Ok for a required class.
one of the best professors at Harvard, extremely interesting material
It's great.
If you want to learn macroeconomics, this is the best class at Harvard to do it.
know the lecture slides well!
1010b was definitely the better half of ec1010 as a whole.  it was more interesting and better taught.  while the amount of material covered is quite daunting, it is done in a way so as not to be terrifying; however, this course still requires work and struggling
Prof Foote doesn't know he's gay which makes for some very entertaining lectures.
Only take it if you are an economics major.
It's a great course that gives you important economics theories and concepts that are readily applicable to the real world problems we see going on today.  It isn't difficult but you still learn a lot.
Interesting lectures, reasonable problem sets and great test format. Only take it if you can drag yourself out of be at 8:30am though.
Great lectures, make sure to keep up with them.
To be very careful about the exams bc even if you have been going, they can screw you.
If you're willing to a do a little bit of studying, it's not a big deal, but make sure you're willing to do that.
It is an interesting class without too difficult a workload
The textbook is a good resource.
It's very well taught, but it is difficult
Good also for non-concentrators looking to understand the current economic situation and information.
It is great and will really help you figure out what's going on in the current economy!
tough tests especially with curve
9am lectures can be a pain, but you definitely learn lots.
The tests are far more difficult than the problem sets so make sure to do additional reading and studying along with the required weekly homework.
Take it only if you need to as a requirement.
This is a great course. Professor Foote is a great lecturer and really cares about what he teaches. Work is very manageable.
The class is awesome. Not hard if you keep up with the work and go to class.
Professor Foote is really funny! Try not to miss lecture, though. It's at 9 am and there are no videos. Also, the lecture material does not reflect the amount of quantitative stuff on the exams, so be careful to know how to solve relevant equations as well.
Go to lecture. You will do much better on the tests if you do.
Professor Foote is wonderful, as is Professor Mankiw's textbook. If you want to learn macro without having to go crazy (i.e. in 1011b), this class is for you!
Professor Foote is great. Just make sure you attend all lectures if you want to do well on the tests
I would not recommend this class to students who are not economics concentrators.
Solid course with a manageable workload and a great teaching staff. The problem sets are less rigorous while still being more effective than other econ classes, and the tests are less stressful as well.
It's not a bad class. Not really that hard. It's more about willpower than anything = making it to lecture and doing your work
It is very important to go to lectures because you will get a feel for what will be on the test. Also, you should make sure you do the practice test because the midterms are very similar to the practice test.
Really not as interesting as it may first appear. Foote is fantastic, but the early time slot makes it really difficult to concentrate.
Everything you learn in this class is very worthwhile, so it is worth your time to try to learn it all. Lectures are really useful in explaining everything, and if you go it will definitely minimize your study time.
The lectures are awesome even if they're at 9 A.M. I'm not a fan of multiple choice, especially the kind that actually have multiple answers, so that the tests were tough. The curve's high, too. However, there's lots of interesting material and Professor Foote is awesome.
Class is great, but too early in the day. Exams can be quite tricky.
Read the powerpoints!
Prepare to work hard - multiple choice tests do not necessarily mean this is an easy course. Prof. Foote is an amazing lecturer and makes it worth getting up and coming to class at 9 AM.
It's a great class. Don't be afraid to ask questions at office hours, after class, by email, if you think it will help. Also, do all of the old practice exams and problem set questions online - they really help to get ready for the exams. And show up for section - there's a good chance what you discuss will show up on the final...
Chris Foote is an absolutely amazing lecturer. I didn't find the any of the material particularly interesting by itself, but Professor Foote does as good a job of keeping the class engaged as any professor could. Most econ concentrators will have to take this class, so just be grateful you have a really great professor to get you through it. Going to section is helpful and exams aren't too bad, but cramming for them can be extremely overwhelming. Lecture is definitely worth going to, even though it's held at the ungodly hour of 9am.
Solid course requirement
The class gives an essential knowledge of macro that is important to have and that can interest students that are not necessarily econ concentrators.
If you can find it in you to get up for the 9am lectures, go to them because they are the best part of the course.
1010b is much better taught than 1010a. It really makes a difference to have a professor who actually works at the Boston Fed teach a class about macroeconomics. The class is very well organized and structured and connects to the real world much more than any of my other economics classes have. 9 am lectures are tough to get up for, but Professor Foote makes it worth the while.
This class is generally known as an easy one, and this is true.  However, it is only easy in that there is not a whole lot of work.  However, if you want a good grade I strongly encourage you to actually go to lecture and section to stay on top of the material.  It is very easy to check out of the class due to the limited course load and then realize you don't know anything very well the night before the midterm/final when you are trying to cram.
Prof. Foote is an amazing professor, and what you cover in this course is incredibly interesting and applicable to the current economic situation!
look at the practice exams
The professor gives great lectures but they're at 9 am so you probably won't make it to many of them.  The workload is light but that just means the exams are worth a lot.  The exams are multiple choice which means you need to know all parts of a problem to get it right.  A lot of possible points but there's no partial credit.  I was not a fan of the exam format, but still really enjoyed the class, especially Foote's explanation of the financial crisis at the end of the course.  Very interesting take.
Ec1010b is not too much of a time commitment, and I really enjoyed Professor Foote's style of teaching. The midterms are a little hard, but going to Office Hours and sections definitely helps.
This class is definitely a step-up from the macro part of Ec 10, but it's absolutely interesting to the see the complex mechanisms behind the simple graphs. Foote integrates the current economic crisis well into the lectures, so it's fairly informative and intriguing. Foote is one of the best lecturers I've had in Harvard so far. This is class is demanding, as the exams, especially the final exam, is fairly difficult.
I loved it. Econ that was easily understood.
If you dont want to do any work and pass fail an ec class take this
Don't let good results on your problem sets convince you that you know the content- you are expected to do exponentially more on midterms and finals. Do past midterms and finals; that is the best prep you can do.
I liked this class much better than 1010a. Chris Foote is awesome. 9am lectures can be tough but the class is reasonable overall. Make sure you look at the exam format of previous tests before taking your first exam.
Everyone should have an intermediate knowledge of economics--both micro and macro. This class would be worth taking by non-concentrators as well.
So much better and so much more useful than 1010a. If you're going to take any ec class other than ec10, go for this one
Great class.  Professor Foote presents the material in a fun and interesting way. Lectures are never boring.
Economics 1010b starts off slow, but by the end you really do learn more about macroeconomics. It is a useful course even for nonconcentrators.
This class was great. Professor Foote is a great teacher. Teaches in a way that makes it easy to understand. The format of the tests is great too.
This course was a great course overall. Professor Foote is a great lecturer. The only problem is that his lectures are at 9 am in the morning. That is never fun. Aplia problem sets are easy and there aren't really that many other assignments. The one thing to look out for is exams in this class. MC Exams can be tough for this class.
This class has been a great introduction to macroeconomics. It is not overwhelming yet I have learned a lot. Chris Foote is a great lecturer, attend lectures but also take careful notes to review. Test material comes from lecture, but it is not enough to simply listen. Also make sure to check labor market Friday data for every exam.
you actually have you to go class
Intermediate econ theory classes are never gonna be that fun, but for what it was this was a good class. Not too hard. Slighly more time intensive than Ec1010a (lots of memorization) but less difficult. Teaches macro way better than Ec 10 does
It is definitely the strongest and most interesting of the foundational 4 economics classes (among the 10a/b, 1010a/b series).
Foote is very lively and educational
I would not take this as an elective, just for Concentration credit.
This is a the best macro course that I have taken yet.
The exams can be very very tricky.
Chris Foote makes macro fun
Professor Foote is a good lecturer! But material can be quite dry at times.
Most of this course is just a review of the macro portion of ec10, so you really don't need to work too hard in it, since so much of the material is review.
Great class. If you want to get a good grade, go to lecture and pay attention. This will make life a lot easier. If not, then you'll miss out on potential test questions.
Great lecturer.
It will be harder than you expect, but it is still an exciting course.
Prepare with old exams, it will be very similar.
foote is a baller. stay on top of this class - review lecture slides-things you don't understand. prepare for midterms few days in advance. study well for final do all practice exams and finals. you'll be all set. go to lecture..you don't need to in order to do well, but the whole goal of this course is for you to develop your intuition about macro economics...and that's what prof foote's lectures will help you do if you are engaged and awake...also have to go to lecture to get some questions on exams. peace dog
Relevant and informative. Great lectures!
great class, well taught; should be taken even if you're not an econ concentrator. if considering an econ secondary and debating between 1010a and 1010b, this class is much more painless and much more useful information.
Very interesting class that went far beyond the tedious non-intuitive learning of Ec10
It's a very good class if you want to cement your understanding of the material you learned in Ec10.
Be sure to attend lectures.
Absolutely amazing lecture. 9AM lecture is very helpful and Foote is incredible. Very enthusiastic and the best lecturer i've seen at Harvard. Class is manageable and tests are easy to study for from previous exams.
Can't tell you how it compares with 1011b, but it was a fun course if you can wake up before 9 three times a week.
Multiple choice exam format is tricky, but manageable if you study the previous materials that are provided.
Know the lecture slides-
You'll get more out of the class if you go to lecture, but it is possible to succeed in the class without going very often. I wish I went more often, but when my alarm went off at 8 am, I felt no incentive to roll out of bed. The problem sets are complete jokes. The exams are a little tricky, but can be crammed for in a few days. Foote is a good lecturer, but the class structure is pretty mediocre. A class to get through if you're an Ec concentrator so you can take the stuff that you're actually interested in.
Make sure you know the material as you go - if it isn't intuitive, make sure it becomes so (go to more office hours etc. if need be)
Its a great class that will give you a good footing to understand the wider macroeconomy
This is one of the best economics class in the department. It has one of the best professors.
You can pick up 90% of what you need to know from the lecture slides, but Foote's lectures really are great. Worth giving 9am a shot, despite the futility of it.
If you are not an econ major dont take this class you dont need it. Prof foote is pretty entertaining and his experience of working at the Fed provides for a lot of real life examples.
It is great if you are willing to go to lecture. Foote is great.
Work a little every week and stick with it, you will do well.
Professor Foote is great. He's engaging and funny, which is helpful for a 9 AM class. Go to lectures. Exams are very fair. You get rewarded for the work you put in.
This class is wonderful! The tests can be difficult, but Professor Foote is witty, interesting, and really teaches you macroeconomics.
Great, but 9 am class sucks.
This course is a standard requirement for economics concentrators; obviously, a key piece for any student pursuing economics. After 1010b, you'll have a good foundation of general knowledge of key economic issues and theories.
The exams and the midterms are a swift kick in the pants.
Go to class. Seriously. I took this course reading these as well and I just brushed off everyone's "go to class" comments. Needless to say I could've done much better if I did.
Good class; interesting and informative on the real world, but not too difficult.
Lectures were good, online problem sets well-structured and exams were easy - overall significantly better than 1010a.
take it only if you have to or are extremely interested in economic models. It does give insight into the current economic situation and the financial crisis
Chris Foote is a spectacular lecturer. Go to class, it's worth it.
Ec 1010b is a must-take: you learn huge amounts of very relevant, enlightening information that Foote constantly ties back to issues in the economy today. Take it even as an elective - it's not easy, but it's worth it. All this providing you wake up at 9am for lecture and don't slack off in going to section, of course.
The final was way too hard. The class in general is not too bad though. It sucks getting up at 9am but it's worth it. Lecture's are helpful and he puts things on exams that aren't on the slides. Good luck getting up early....
This class was always worth waking up for (despite being at 9am).  I was pleasantly surprised by how great this course was; I expected a pretty straightforward macro class that would give me the tools/knowledge to continue along the economics progression.  Instead, I got an engaging, exciting course that constantly tied each week's theories into practical policy issues and debates.  Plus Professor Foote is awesome!
go to office hours before the exams and you'll be fine!
Be ready to study, this course is tough
The course was interesting, and well taught. The section formats were great, and I was a fan of the Aplia p-sets for practice. Unfortunately, the exams focussed about 25% of the time on trivia that tested how much of the stories that Prof. Foote told in lecture rather than your actual ability to solve economics problems.
You need to go to lecture and pay attention - the problem sets won't help you learn the material, so it's much tougher to self-teach than other econ classes. But you'll walk away with great knowledge of macro.
It is necessary for an Economics concentration.
It's a good class if you keep up with it. The 9am class time is a little tough.
Professor Foote is a really great professor and as someone who works at the Fed really knows what he is talking about. Section and the work load are not too terrible, so if you are second-guessing your decision to take Ec1011b, I would say that unless you know you will really miss the math, you won't go wrong with this class.
Class is at 9 AM.  The exams are impossible.  Forget it.
Professor Foote is incredible at explaining the material fully and clearly. He keeps our interest by relating concepts and models that are in the textbook to current events and economic news. The class on the whole is interesting, manageable, and applicable to current news.
Unless you absolutely have to take this class, then there is no reason why you should take it. If you do take this class, make sure you solve past exam problems -- that is the best way you can prepare for the exam (but no one tells you this).
Do every practice exam, and you will be rewarded!!!!!!!!!
You really have to make sure you keep up with ALL of the material or you will get lost.
This course touches upon some key concepts in macro and gets really interesting near the end, however, prof, Foote definitely has an agenda of his own and the course is designed to accommodate it. There are very few courses that could replace this one, but the structure could definitely improve by making sections matter.
This class was my favorite class this semester. If you like public policy and macroeconomics, this is definitely the course to take!
things are much more complicated than they seem, so it's important to link things together (e.g. link models you learn about and see how they interact).
Only take this for your economics concentration requirement.
9AM is a killer, but this is a good course if you can drag yourself out of bed. Prof. Foote is fantastic -- enthusiastic, knowledgeable, and clearly interested in teaching well. Go to section; I didn't, and I regret it.
Chris Foote is a great lecturer, very humorous and engaging. The subject matter is interesting, and this class is MUCH better than 1010a. The problem sets are completely useless; just do them and get them over with with minimal time and effort. Don't buy the textbook; you can access it online with the problem sets, and he doesn't text you on things that are in the textbook if he hasn't covered them in lecture.
9am lecture is no fun
First, I want to thank 1010b. At least I am able to understand WSJ/FTimes much better than I did a semester ago (at EC10's level). Prof. Foote is pretty accessible outside class and is an expert in what he teaches. That being said, I feel the multiple-choice format of the exams is quite unfair in that it does not reward you for the correct reasoning. Sometimes you are very prepared for a topic, but only some tiny ambiguity would cause you to choose the wrong answer. Hence there is little difference between those who are 80% prepared and those who are 20% prepared.
this class will teach you about real world scenarios; this is a class that can be immediately applied to contemporary issues.
Either go to lectures or keep up with the readings.  Aplia is a joke and the tests are the same format each year, so taking pracice tests is the best way to study.
This course has been the best Economics course I have taken so far. Definitely take it if you are interested in Economics at all.
The next step down the required path for an easynomics degree.
professor is awesome, but need to know how to take multiple choice tests well
Professor Foote is an entertaining lecturer, although he does not deviate greatly from the lecture notes when speakingtherefore, it is possible to not attend many lectures and still be as prepared for the exams by studying purely off the lecture notes (which are very informative and easy-to-read). Aplia problem sets are a breeze, but study using the section problem sets.
A requirement if you want to be an econ major - very similar to ec 10 and pretty painless
This is a solid course and Foote is a great lecturer
GO TO LECTURES! That's the only accurate indicator of what will be on the exams. You don't really even need the book that much.
Make sure to stay on top of the reading.
For students interested in economics, they should take this course.  Lectures are sometimes helpful, but it's more important to understand problem sets and previous exam material.
Try to stay on top of the lectures and the material that needs to be learned. Lectures are not boring and are very useful, so try to make it to them. The course teaches you a lot of great topics, but you need to bring a positive attitude and some self-motivation to really stay on top of it.
This class made me realize how much I did not want to be an Ec concentrator.
great class, not too difficult, very relevant and useful overall. 1010b is much more useful than 1010a.
If you're thinking about taking this class, then you're probably required to do so. So take it.
Much more interesting than 1010b. Lectures are rough at 9am but worth it if you can stay awake. Foote is a pretty interesting professor and a great lecturer.
I feel dumber for having taken this class. It is easy, yes, but also impossible to get excited about. The proportion of work that is mindless busy-work is greater than you will find in even the most obnoxious Gen Ed class. If you lack the math background, the staff of 1011b will teach you the tools needed for that class. Don't miss that opportunity to miss out on 1010b.
The lectures are quick so it may be necessary to go over the material before the assignments.
Go to lecture. Professor Foote is worth it.
Keep on top of work in this class. It will suck when you have less than 2 weeks to the final exam and you've been blowing off all of the readings and lectures.
I thought it was harder than 1010a.
Go to the lectures. Yes, it is 9am and it feels like you don't really have to go, but believe me, you do. Aplia (the pset software) gives you a false sense of security and you don't realize how much skipping lectures screws you over until it is too late. Go to the lectures.
Course material was interesting, useful, and well taught. The course was not too difficult, although the end of the course on the financial crisis was rushed and confusing. Exams were not very difficult, but there are alot of tiny detail questions that require memorizing obscure pieces of information. Lectures are good, and sections are well run. This course is not a big time commitment.
sucks, but gotta take it.
The materials that are covered in this class will be necessary background for future economic classes, so this class is very important.
I suggest going to lecture.  The exams are directly from lecture and you'll do really well in the course if you go.  Foot is a great professor and lectures are worth your time.
Macroeconomics makes the world go 'round. It would be a mistake not to know about it.
Amazing class taught by a very well organized and enthusiastic professor that really wants you to understand the material. You will learn a lot!
This course is frustrating.  The exams test your ability to perform on a multiple choice test, and do not reward you at all for correct methodology.
Foote is supposed to be a good lecturer, but at 9 a.m. you don't really care. Try to stay awake, because he will punish you on the exams with relatively obscure questions from his lectures.
Try to make every lecture even though it is really hard to do so....Foote is amazing.
It's very fair and much, much better than 1010a
Professor Foote is fantastic. This class is much more enjoyable than Ec1010a, even though it meets at the ungodly hour of 9am.
go to lecture! section contributes nothing, but if you're motivated, you should work through the section psets. no partial credit is given on tests. I actually looked forward to the Aplia problem sets...but they're clearly the easiest part of the course.
Lecture at 9AM automatically means your grade is at least a third of a letter grade less. Unless, of course, you are a morning person!
You have to take it if you're an Econ concentrator... so.. yeah.
Great class if you're an Ec concentrator or if you just want to learn more about how the economy works.
Interesting professor. Lecture is very good and informative.
One of the hardest parts is waking up for 9 am lecture.  However, if you are able to do so, you will learn a lot about what is happening in the economy and learn a lot about macroeconomics.  Professor Foote is a great lecture and does his very best to make lectures as exciting as possible.
only take it if you need a no effort core (or you want to get by with an easy class as an ec major I guess)
Make sure you keep up with the workload throughout the semester! Like with any other class, it can be easy to fall behind, but in this course, it is very hard to catch up because there are so many different models discussed.
the first time in my college career i regret not going to more lectures...prof foote is an excellent lecturer, makes the material very accesible.
If you like economics, this class is great, especially if you like macro. Professor Foote is a great lecturer, easy to follow along.
The professor is quite amazing and the material presents a really elegant system that describe how our markets work.
Professor Foote is great!
It's harder than 1010a.
Take this class only if for your concentration or a secondary.
9 AM lectures are KILLER. That said, you don't have to go to do well, but Foote gives a few questions on tests on things from lectures that aren't in the book and does give a mean lecture (mean in a good way). But M/W/F, if you try to go, 9 AM is like the apocalypse.
It is a wonderful class and the first economics course that I really really enjoyed at Harvard. If you want to take any class past Ec10, this is it! The professor is amazing. The 9 am lecture time was difficult for some people, but I think it's well worth it.
Leave yourself a lot of time to study for the final exam. It's definitely challenging.
Solid class to learn about macro economics, good professor, much better than 1010a. Don't be afraid of this class because 1010a was lousy.
Professor Foote is an incredible lecturer, and wonderful if you get the chance to know him a little. He's also really funny. Go to his office hours! But really, Go!
If you aren't an Economics or math/science major, this is a challenging course, but it is worthwhile despite the potential hit to your GPA. Just be prepared to work harder than everyone else if necessary. I was not as thorough in my studying as I should have been. Go over the lecture slides throughout the semester, browse through the book, review the Aplia problem sets, do the section problem sets. Then you will do well.
Go to lectures
The course is interesting and very applicable to daily life.
Study hard for those exams, and do try to go to lectures. Foote's a great professor.
It's extremely edifying and fascinating if you put in the time to go to lectures, read the textbook, and go to office hours. If you do indeed complete the above, you'll emerge with a much better understanding of economics, and it'll enlighten your worldview and your understanding of today's society.
Don't just drag yourself out of bed to the lecture, but really force yourself to pay attention as well. I found the class to be misleadingly easy until I took the midterms/final.
I really enjoyed taking this course.
Don't take 1010b unless you're actually going to go to lecture/section.
Ec1010b is a very well-taught course with clear slides and expectations. Exams are straight-forward with no surprises, and Aplia problem sets focus more on understanding the material than tricking students. Foote does an excellent job tying concepts back to very current events, including the financial crisis.
It's a great course if you can get up early enough.
best lecture econ class I've taken so far
This course is difficult but applicable to concepts in the news today. If taking 1010 for a secondary, 1010b is certainly more interesting than 1010a, although there isn't a huge difference in levels of difficulty.
-one of the best professors ever
interesting class.
Its at nine AM, which is a drag, but Professor Foote is a good lecturer.
Professor Foote makes it worth it! Otherwise the material gets really dull if you're not an hardcore Econ major.
This class was perhaps the most enjoyable economics class that I've taken here at Harvard. Professor Foote explains things clearly and in a way that makes you very excited to learn about even the driest of economic concepts.
Way better than 1010a.  Would really recommend, Foote is great, and it is a very fair and interesting class.  And fairly easy as well.
I took Ec1010b to fulfill a Core and thought it was really fascinating and not too much work.  The lectures at the end about the financial crisis aren't structured as well as the others, but it is really interesting to find out what actually happened.
Multiple choice questions make the test enjoyable and an attainable study.
The class is great in that it covers very relevant topics and you learn a lot throughout the semester.
Prof. Foote is awesome
If you are going for an ec secondary and are choosing between this and 1010a. Absolutely take this class.  100 times better even though it is at 9.
Everything's on the lecture slides, but attend lecture also.
Must go to lectures at 9 am. They are good, but getting up consistently is tough.
Although it is a concentration requirement, it is pretty painless. The early class time is terrible but I would highly recommend going. They help you learn the material a lot better and help you know what to focus on when studying for tests. Even though he posts lecture slides you can study off for the tests, they aren't a sufficient substitute for actually going to his lecture. The best way to prepare for his tests are reviewing lecture slides/notes and the old tests. The section problem sets and aplia problem sets are only slightly related and not worth the time it would take to go over them.
Go to lecture- Foote does a good job and throws some things on the midterms and finals that are not covered in lecture.
This is an excellent class that gives you a chance to learn about events happening around the world. Professor Foote is one of the best I've ever had.
Lecture is useful. Section unnecessary. Baddah-bing, great class.
Professor Foote is fantastic. He works at the Boston Federal Reserve Bank during the day, and this allows him to have a foote (sic) in reality. He is a dynamic individual and a great lecturer. His knowledge and insight come through in his presentations, which are consistently clear and well-fashioned.
they dont make you do much work which is good and bad.. its hard to do better than average because the class was very tight with just a few questions each test separating the top and bottom. foote likes to ask questions from lecture, which most people dont attend. so the only way to get an edge is to go to 9am class every day, but that doesnt even guarantee that youre above avg
I found the sections to be more helpful than the lectures in terms of completing the problem sets and learning for the exams, however Professor Foote still makes lecture worth going to if you can wake up early enough.
Go to section.
only take if you like econ
A good class that helps you understand macroeconomics better. Tough. Multiple choice exams can be a good or bad thing.
This course was an excellent macroeconomics class. The integration of the current fiscal situation made the course material very relevant. The class is also well taught, and Professor Foote is quite an entertaining lecturer.
Foote is the best guy to see at 9 am. He is so enthusiastic. It helps to go to lecture, but if you just can't make it out of bed (which is often the case), the lecture slides are really detailed.
interesting material, fairly well taught, but no one's going to hold your hand like in ec-10
This class provides you with fundamental macroeconomic knowledge that is useful even outside the world of academics.
very good
It is well taught an interesting, but only for those that have an interest in macro econ.
This class gives a good overview of Macroeconomic theory but it requires a lot of background knowledge and willingness to teach yourself material, and it doesn't go in enough depth to make it particularly interesting. If you're not a concentrator, I would not recommend taking it unless you're ready to put in the work and time to make sure you're at the same level as students who are taking multiple economics classes.
Much better than Ec10. I would recommend this course to anyone interested in politics, social issues, economics, business, etc. The course deals with a lot of relevant topics and current events.
Workload is incredibly light.
Foote is an excellent lecturer -- stay on top of the material, and read the textbook, it will be your best friend. There is little interaction with the student, as sections are optional.
You must like taking multiple choice tests.
Great class for an economics requirement! Even though the class is at 9am, Professor Foote makes lectures fun, interesting, informative, and definitely worth going to. The online problem sets and multiple choice tests supplement the wonderful teaching.
Its better than 1010a
Multiple choice might kill you. The curve is horrible. But Prof Foote is amazing.
Make sure to go to lecture
Try to keep up at least with readings, if not lectures...I didn't and it made studying for the final terrible.
Regardless of whether someone is an economics concentrator or not, this course will provide students with a fundamental understanding of intermediate macroeconomic theory that is both interesting and very practical.
Try to go to lecture. It really helps out to go.
This course gives you an awesome sweep over macroeconomics.
macro is kinda boring
It's a required class, so you should take it.
Great class to take, you learn so much and the professor is absolutely wonderful.
This is the best econ class I've taken at Harvard so far! Prof. Foote is an amazing lecturer, definitely worth getting up for 9 am class.
Study for the midterm and final pretty hard. They're worth a lot of your grade. Go to section. Go to lecture. If you do all that, you should be fine.
If you want to understand macroeconomics, this is a great survey course. Especially if you don't have much background already, you will learn a lot about how to understand current events, the recent financial crisis, etc. The workload is pretty light and Prof. Foote is very helpful and enthusiastic.
GO TO CLASS!!! it sucks waking up early for 9am class, but believe me, it'll be worth it. AND DO THE OPTIONAL PROBLEM SETS AND GO TO SECTION. if you don't do either, you will surely regret it come exam time. unfortunately, i learned the hard way. don't be like me. foote is a great lecturer and the class should be painless if you put time into it.
Do the aplia problem sets immediately after lecture.
Only take it if you have to, do not take it for fun.
be prepared to work hard and study
Everyone should understand the basic workings of the economy around them and this course offers that important knowledge.  This is a great course.  Professor Foote is an excellent professor.
It's the class I have enjoyed most out of the 4 economics classes I have taken so far.
Take advantage of office hours - Professor Foote is definitely willing to meet with students and talk about either the class, his work at the Fed, or anything really.
I would say that the multiple choice format makes it more profitable to go over old exams, and sometimes to know how to solve a problem rather than why. I would encourage students to attend lecture in order to do well.
Great class in general - definitely better than god awful 1010a. Foote is great, make sure you go to lectures (even if it's 9am, it will help you understand the material). This isn't a particularly hard class to do well in, but to do so, you must be on top of the material (do the psets!), and make sure you shop around for a good TF (Wayne was awesome!). Exam questions repeat themselves (same format, different numbers) so work hardest on those to prepare for the final and mid-terms!
Try and go to section...
Make sure you attend lecture. It's early but vital to your experiences in class.
Great class! But be sure to  study hard for exams and don't make mistakes!
much better than 1010a
Not as bad as 1010a!
do not take this class unless you have to. It made me hate economics.
Study hard for your exams, since exams account for 90% of the grade.
you will focus on understanding the key issues facing the US and world economy today. it will leave you with a pretty solid grasp of all the terms you will ever hear on the news, and you will even be able to make arguments yourself. also, this is not a very quantitative class. you don't need to know calculus or solve equations. it's all about understanding the graphs and learning the models.
If you are interested in the macroeconomic happenings in the real world, this class is great in helping you understand why they happen. However, the textbook is almost superfluous since all of what you need to know is on the lecture slides.
Attend and pay attention during lecture. Yes, they're at 9 AM, but Prof. Foote's good about keeping you fairly awake, and sometimes he'll drop random facts that aren't printed on the lecture slides that'll just happen to sneak their way onto the midterms and final exams. Also, keep up with the material (e.g. review the section problem sets within a week of section) to make studying for exams easier.
Read the chapters BEFORE lecture because Foote moves at a lightning fast pace. If you aren't already very, very familiar with the material when he goes over it, you won't take anything away from lecture.In addition, if you can't wake up by 9AM, you won't get an A in the class. You can easily pull an A- just by reading and not going to lecture, but you really need lecture and section to get the A in this class.
Although the 9am lecture time sucks, it will really help to come to class. First, the professor explains everything clearly. Second, he's entertaining. Third, he will ask several questions on the exam that you can't answer unless you came to lectures. And the stuff won't be on the slides.
Go to Lecture even though its at 9am
LOVED this class!! Prof Foote was engaging and funny, course material interesting and relevant.  Take it! But actually go to class and study- the people I never saw in class were usually the ones who looked very sad when they got their exams back.
Trickier than most people admit it to be
Much better course than 1010a
This is a great course. Professor Foote is engaging and has kept me awake in his lectures despite it being a 9 AM class. You will come away gaining greater appreciation for economics and more advanced theory.
The lectures is entertaining and information in the course are entertaining and interesting.
Be prepared for morning lectures. Go to section where the TF is actually helpful and don't be afraid to meet with Professor Foote. He is definitely the most helpful.
Great course. Keep up during the semester. Get behind and its tough. I did that. And it was tough.
This class will let you have smarter dinner table conversations with anyone!! (Which is why we come to Harvard, really)
This class is awesome. Aplia is a really great way to learn the concepts and forces you to read the book. Also, you leave the class very much more aware of how the macroeconomy and financial system works.
Take this class if you have taken Ec 10 before and have a strong background in economics. Also, be ready to wake up before 9am three times a week, it's not easy at all! Read the coursebook, and definitely go to sections. They are very useful!!!
annoying. foote is obnoxious. dont take it unless you need to
Go to lecture; get a good TF
Ec1010b with Professor Foote is a wonderful class, and I recommend it highly! The class covers a lot of material and ends with a truly fascinating look at what caused the Great Recession / financial crisis of 2007-2009. Professor Foote does a great job at trying to explain difficult concepts intuitively, mixing in an endearing sense of humor as well. Always do the readings and Aplia problem sets, as well as the section questions -- they are very helpful. The multiple-choice, AP-like exam format wasn't my favorite, to be honest. But overall, this is a very helpful class that will leave you with a solid, robust grasp of macroeconomic theory!
Go to lectures. They are interesting and cover everything you need to know for exams.
Professor Foote is great, but this class is not quite as easy as the other intro/intermediate ec classes before it. Prepare to actually study hard for exams.
Really good class.  Although the lectures are at 9am, they are very worth attending -- Prof. Foote is a great lecturer.  You will come out with a really solid understanding of macroeconomics.
Prof. Foote has the unique ability to explain difficult concepts in plain words.
Great macro class, Foote is a great professor
I probably shouldn't have taken this class as a freshman.
study past exams and problems sets, and you will do well
This is a great economics class at Harvard.  Macroeconomics is very applicable in the midst of these uncertain times at the Fed, and Professor Foote does a great job of explaining what is happening in the economy today.
The lectures are engaging. To me, this separated this course from Ec 10. However, it's another of Mankiw's books, so it's the same perspective. The section, however, is extremely unhelpful. They don't teach; they go over practice problems. I don't know if this was true in other sections, but in mine the TF was extremely inefficient at explaining difficult concepts or even answering students' questions. This at times was infuriating.
Go to every class! Professor Foote is a great lecturer! Your level of understanding of the world would increase exponentially after taking this course! Take it!
The structure of the learning in this class (and exams) is somewhat odd. The class separates the models learned from chapter to chapter rather than synthesizing and comparing them as we usually do in most other classes. Also, the format of the exams can turn out to be challenging, but the concepts themselves are not too bad.
do old exams before the tests
Not an easy course. GO TO LECTURE. It's 9am three times a week which is demonic, but you'll miss so much if you don't go. Trust me.
This course did exactly what I was hoping it would: provide me with a basic understanding of macroeconomic concepts. I took this course concurrently with Stat 123 (Applied Quant Finance on Wall St) and a Social Studies tutorial on the financial crisis, and I found that I was able to get a lot more out of these courses with the knowledge that 1010b provided.
Even if you aren't an Econ concentrator, you might still want to take this class because it is fairly work-free, and you will still enjoy the material when you are study for the midterms and exam.
Lectures are good. But exams are annoying and extremely punitive.
This course will be challenging and require you to keep up with problem sets and attend section (though it may be technically optional), but Econ 1010b will be a very rewarding experience and Professor Foote is a brilliant and engaging professor.
Go to lecture. Read the book. Pay attention to aspects of lecture that are not included in the book. A decent proportion of the test will be based off of these facts. Section is very helpful. You may or may not really need to go in to get extra help though. The questions are relatively straightforward. I would say that understanding core concepts is more important than just solving questions.
Ec 1010b is a great course just don't get fooled into thinking the exams will  be easy since the problem set are.
Beware the multiple choice tests. Otherwise, a great class.
This course is brutally hard and not exciting at all.  It essentially puts more math to the ideas in Ec10 and the professor is a complete turd.  He ends midterms before time is up so he can go to work.  The chip on his shoulder could hold a gallon of guacamole.
Take Ec 1011b if you're at all interested in Economics. Ec 1010b is oversimplified to the point of being very boring and caters only to those who want an easy degree. I really wish I had taken Ec 1011b, but it conflicted with another class of mine.
This class is great!
Difficult but worth it
Professor Foote is an amazing teacher!  9 am class is hard to get up for, but it is totally worth it.  (Plus, there are still 15 minutes of hot breakfast left at Annenberg after class!)  His lecture style is logical and makes the material relatable and easy to understand.  This is a good course to take (even if you have no prior economics background, like me) if you would like a better understanding of the underpinnings of and trends within our economic system.
Great course. I stopped going to lecture midway through, but I got a lot out of just reading the book and doing the problem sets on my own. A very relevant course. You become well-versed in economic concepts that are important for understanding current events.
Necessary class for concentration, not a fun elective
9AM lecture and video not available online
Make sure to attend the lectures! They're pretty insightful
Ec1010b is a great intermediate economics course, contrary to some other intermediate courses. Professor Foote makes the class incredibly applicable to the real world.
It makes a difference if you go to class and also try to not fall behind. Do the psets because those help too.
Make sure that you are willing to commit to wake up at 9am
Professor Foote's lectures are extremely effective and he is AMAZING at teaching. This class teaches you practical information that could potentially come in handy for internships etc. I recommend just buying the Aplia key and avoiding buying the textbook. The textbook cost me over $100 and I did not use it once this semester. Professor Foote's slides have all you need to know for exams, homework, etc.
Keep up with the reading - think about the class on a chapter by chapter basis and look for connections between the chapters.
Wake up and go to class. Don't fall asleep. Go to section of the best TF's.This and a little bit of multiple-choice luck will get you far in this course.
This class, though not easy, is pretty straightforward in terms of work. Since aplia problem sets can be done three times for best scores, you're really being assessed primarily through the midterms and final, which are important (so there is not much individual problem solving in the class other than through the aplia assignments). Practice midterms and finals are great preparation for these, since the format and style of questions are very similar.
Be ready to attend the 9am lectures as they are important for the exams. Section psets should also help.
Book is helpful for aplia and getting a better understanding of the material, but minute details or side boxes are not tested like they are in Ec 10. Prof Foote is a good lecturer, and it is important to go to lecture in my opinion, as the kids who don't usually have it reflected on the test. Go to section to as well!
Be sure to keep up with the materials so you don't have to cram before the tests. Also, 9 am class is difficult but worth going to just to keep up with the material.
Do everything that is said to optional and you'll be better off than most. Prepare to be fooled on exams so make sure you have a full grasp of everything
Be prepared to not enjoy it.
Foote is a great lecturer, but 9am lecture is tough to make 100% of the time. it's worth it though! the exams are very tough, you need to study the slides and old exams very very carefully and don't focus as much on the actual economic theory since there are no free response questions that measure your knowledge like that
Foote is great, but the time is just much too early
If you aren't prepared to go to lecture, don't take it or at least set aside time to watch lecture videos/read lecture slides each week.
I am happy I took this course. I believe every Harvard student should enter the world with a relatively in-depth perspective on how we all fit into the national and global economy. This class does not need any prior knowledge of economics so long as you are willing to put the work in. It fulfills the Empirical Reasoning requirement without anymore math than basic algebra, so long as you memorize the final derivations. Best of all, it is immediately applicable to your life.
This was my favorite economics pre-requisite. Professor Foote is fantastic and makes the 9am time slot worthwhile. You should be sure to come to class everyday and I guarantee you will learn something valuable.
Only take this class if you're going to concentrate in ec. It's at 9am, so you think you'll go to lecture but won't. Section is questionable. The problem sets are really just a waste of time. Plus the tests are REAL tough.
I like macro ec, so this class was great for that. Prof foot is awesome, and section can be helpful. Aplia assignments are actually helpful, and tests aren't too bad. Very straightforward, informative course
This is a great course. If you're interested in economics and/or politics you should definitely take it.
work hard and go to lecture
Great class, great content, brilliant professor gives great lectures. It's testament to Prof. Foote that over half the class turns up every day at 9am even though the lecture slides are all online. The content is interesting and the relevance of it all is explained. I loved this course, would recommend with enthusiasm!
Interesting material that will teach you a lot about macroeconomics.  Foote is a good lecturer and accessible.  Stay on top of the readings, go to lecture and section.  The problem sets are easy but you will struggle on the midterms/ finals if you don't keep up.
This class is one of the most well-run, interesting economics classes at Harvard. Professor Foote is a very good lecturer, and I strongly advise attending lecture every class (though it's at 9:00 am), as well as section. The weekly problem sets are extremely straightforward, and the section problem sets provide more challenging material that is comparable to the concepts tested on the exams. Read the chapter before attending lecture and section, and you will understand all the material; nothing in the class is too difficult to understand. Professor Foote is a really nice guy; get to know him at office hours and/or faculty dinners. Albert is an EXTREMELY good TF, and did an incredible job reviewing and explaining concepts. Finally, while the exams can be tricky, it is very easy to do well if you've read the book, attended lecture and section, and done all of the past exams. Overall, a very solid class that provides relevant information on the macroeconomy and financial crisis.
I wouldn't recommend it, but if you're majoring or doing a secondary in economics, it's a requirement. The exams are not fair, and the professor chooses such irrelevant information on tests, that's its disheartening.
The class is perfect for anyone who is serious about a concentration or secondary field in economics.
materials and lectures are great and interesting, but the class being at 9am might make you hate the class from time to time.
It's relatively enjoyable and quite informative.
This class is very interesting, but sometimes focused too much on memorizationif you pay attention in lecture (and go to 9am lecture!), you'll do fine.
Great class. Pretty easy and Foote is a good lecturer. Highly recommended for Ec concentrators and non-concentrators alike.
Professor Foote is great!
Try to go to class and do the readings
Professor Foote's lectures are great! If you go to his lectures, you will do much better in class and learn much too!
Go to the optional sections...
The course is good and Foote is a great lecturer but you just have to make sure you keep up with the material on your own because the aplia assigments are quite easy and not reflective of the difficulty of the exams.
Professor Foote is great! It's a concentration requirement so you don't really have a choice but to take it.  However, you won't regret taking it.
Go to lecture; its interesting and definitely helpful.
The tests were absolutely ridiculous and unfair, not in that they were easy or hard but because the way points are assigned on the exam depends more on when you make a math mistake (on the midterm, it could have cost you up to 5/29 or 15% or so)  add in the fact that the "check all that apply/you must get all correct to get 1 point for this question rewards strategic error-making over actual mastery of the material, particularly over 2 exams worth 20% of the grade each, neither of which were out of more than 35 points. For context, 15% on a midterm could be up to a 30% boost on the curve, or the difference between a B+/A- and a solid A. pathetic. It's an amazing course in terms of material, and Foote is a good lecturer (considering the 9 am timeslot that's high praise), but there really is no explanation for this ridiculous exam system. improvement much needed.
Foote is great!
I liked this class much better than the Macro portion of Ec 10. Professor Foote is a good lecturer and makes the material easier to digest. Though 9 am lectures on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday are difficult to wake up for, they are invaluable for the exams as Prof. Foote often diagrams or discusses key concepts that will be tested. Sections are not mandatory and in my experience were not worth attending, anyway. The TFs are not the most effective teachers of the material.
READ THE TEXTBOOK ON TIME, DO THE SECTION PSETS
Although this class is not a repeat of Ec10, a major part of the materials are not new. Slides are good.
An unfortunate combination of difficult and dry. Hard to make yourself enjoy this class.
This is easily the dullest class I have ever taken at Harvard.  You don't move conceptually beyond introductory economics and instead develop models that may or may not apply to the real world.  Professor Foote is not as engaging as he seems at first.  The tests are just aggravating, since you need to know really subtle distinctions.
This course is pretty difficult and fast-paced.  Make sure to keep up with the reading otherwise 9 AM lectures are hard to keep up with.  Tests are difficult but curved.
It's one of the less painful required classes in the economics department, and professor Foote is great.
it's good if you really have no prior knowledge in macroeconomics.
Ec 1010b is definitely preferable to 1010a. The only downside of this course is that it is at 9 am. Other than that, Professor Foote is great and it is a course with a fairly low workload. The topics covered in this course are very important for understanding current economic policy.
Even if this isn't required for you, I think it's good information to have.
Week to week, the lectures are good (if you wake up in time) and the Aplia psets are easy, but be sure to study for the midterms since they are harder.
Section is horrible, no point in showing up. Professor Foote is awesome but you will have to drug yourself to the sc at 9 am 3 times a week. For ec concentrator it's a rather painless class but it doesn't really facilitate a lot of learning. I would consider doing 1011b.
This class goes over many interesting and relevant topics in macroeconomics. You will better understand what's going on in the current economic situation after taking this class.
You really need to keep up with practice problems and actually do aplia properly, because its really difficult to do well on the tests if you just dont pay that much attention to aplia and get by in lecture.
Coming after Econ 10 and 1010a, Econ 1010b is much better taught and more interesting (Unlike Miron, Foote is an engaging lecturer and uses good slides, and unlike Ec 10, actually teaches the class). However, making it to 9 am lecture can be a huge struggle, and its possible to do well in the class without going to lecture or section. It ends up being a pretty low time commitment per week.
Excellent course except for the sections - foote is great and does a great job explaining the material.  The applia problem sets help you to learn the chapters and the exams while challenging are all multiple choice and very fair.  A must take to understand macro-economic policy and much better than Ec-10.  Take instead of Ec-10 if you can.
Much better than econ 10, though Im sure it is difficult to make it to 9am class for non athletes. But I really feel I learned a lot and can engage with current economic problems.
Go to lectures and read the book. If you do both, this class is great.
Professor Foote tries his best to make a 9 a.m. course as interesting as possible.
It's pretty much an exact repeat of Principles of Economics. Somehow Mankiw managed to make two different textbooks with the exact same material.
THIS IS SO MUCH BETTER THAN 1010a. Professor Foote is great and makes the course so relevant. You must take this class! You will learn so much more than you did in Ec 10 about macroeconomics and how it connects to the world. You will come out with a better understanding of the financial crisis and other large economic events.
This course does not test your ability to learn the material, but rather your ability to manage your time.
Professor Foote is a very engaging lecturer.  Although the material is naturally more interesting than 1010a, this class is also taught infinitely better.  And, the professor adds in tidbits from his job at the Fed into every lecture, so you get a lot of practical knowledge.
You'll do better on exams if you attend lecture. There are some things that are only talked about in lecture, not in lecture slides.
This course is another ec requirement that you have to whip out. It's better than Ec 10 and Ec 1010a, but it's definitely not without it's flaws. It's at 9 am three days a week (terrible), most of the class stops going to lecture because of that and because lectures were, sometimes, pretty boring. To study for it, try to pay attention in lecture and read the lecture slides (they are way better than the book). Also try to compile all equations and graphs in study-guide like sheets as you go to help study for exams. A lot of the exam is just knowing these basic graphs and equations.
Aplia is not indicative of the difficulty of the class.
This course was great! Professor Foote is fantastic - he was funny, engaging, and passionate about economics. The material was very straightforward; completing the practice exams and reviewing the section problems is the best way to prepare for the midterms and finals. The exams are all multiple choice, and most of the questions are similar to those on the exams from previous years that can be found on the course website. The material on the Great Recession at the end the class was very interesting and clearly presented.
Great introduction to macro. Professor Foote is funny and very good at explaining each chapter at lecture, making 9am class not bad at all. Aplia problem sets take very little time, optional section and section problem sets (that I highly recommend). Overall an enjoyable course where you learn a lot!
Foote is a fascinating lecturer; however, the exams are very different than anything covered previously.
Make sure you go to section and do the problem sets. It will make a huge difference when exams roll around. Also, Prof. Foote is a great guy - his OH are worth going to just to hear about his experiences as an economist in Iraq.
Serious gem. Assignments prep you for the course material and all the past exams are at your disposal for studying. Great class. Foote is a stud.
The lectures are really good, but they're super early. That being said, the lectures reflect the book very closely (aside from the last week) so you don't actually need to go to lecture to do well. The course is pretty easy, but not as fascinating as other ec classes, so only take it if you need at as a prereq/requirement, not on its own.
Formatted differently from other Harvard courses: online Psets and multiple choice tests
Go to lecture!
The tests are hard, but Professor Foote is assessable. If you don't udnerstand something, go and seek help right away because it will come back to get you on the exam. The 9 AM classes are annoying sometimes but deal with them and go to lecture.
It's a great class, and you'll learn a lot, but it's no walk in the park.
It is difficult. Be careful, go to lectures.
Great course with a great professor. Try not to miss the lectures although they are at 9 am. Foote is just the best.
This class is better than Ec10 or 1010a, with a great component about the recent housing crisis and recession.
This is the same class as Ec10 plus 1 chapter on IS-LM
go to lecture and keep up with the material; use the past exams to guide your studying throughout the semester.
Keep up with the lectures since there is some useful content in there. 9 am lecture is killer but the material is pretty straightforward. Just stay on top of it.
Go to lecture and you will do fine
Great class, just stay on top of the readings and DO THE OPTIONAL PSETS or you will suffer come exam time
This class teaches you a lot about the world around you (housing bubble, financial crisis, federal reserve). Exams can be tricky though. This course is way better than 1010a. If you only need to take one of courses (i.e. you are getting a secondary), take this one.
exams are graded on a curve. 9 am class is essential unless you are very bright and can learn it on your own.  Lectures are pretty good.
This is a much more interesting class than 1010a. Don't let your experience there influence your decision to take it.
You will have a solid understanding of macroeconomics after taking this class, but it is not exactly "exciting."  It is definitely worth it to go to lecture -- Professor Foote is funny and makes an effort to present the material in an understandable, engaging manner; you won't get as much out of the class if you just read the slides online.  Also, be wary of the tests: they are not fun.  Multiple choice/no-partial credit format that can be brutal and can feel like a poor test of your understanding of the material.  In sum, no matter what, you will learn a lot from the class, but if you want to do well, you have to pointedly study to the tests.
Great way to learn the basics of economics, quite interesting
Be prepared to work harder in this class than in intro ec. Also allot enough time to aplia!
Thought it was much better than 1010a. A little fast-paced and there is a lot of material though.
If you're looking for an intermediate macro course, be careful about this one, especially if you're the sort of person who likes to learn things in the rigorous way and hope to use math in econ. There're many people who decide to take this class simply because they didn't want to continue ec10. but then they usually regret because you won't be able to do 1011b once u take this one.
This class is awesome and drastically improves your knowledge of macroeconomics. This class really solidified my interest in Economics and really made me enthusiastic about my concentration. Highly recommended for everybody.
Honestly, if you aren't interested in policy, this course isn't going to be super interesting, which wil frustrate you when you are learning about AT 9 IN THE MORNING. Some parts outside of that were great though, the growth models were very logical and the material that supplmented the book about some of the economic schools of thought was very nice. But overall, if you aren't interested in learning about policy, and you have decent math, just take 1011b.
This course will give you the basics on Macroeconomic models, and help you understand the differences between fiscal and monetary policy. You will hear about these policies from the lens of the Federal Reserve, because Professor Foote works in the Fed and he is an expert on that angle. Much of the course is very applicable to real-life situations; why poorer countries have lower levels of production than richer countries, why Argentina experienced great recession in the 1990s with their fixed exchange rates, why Greece is experiencing trouble; but on the other hand, a lot of it is based on Models, and concepts on a chapter-per-chapter basis. Great way to understand the Fed and the 2008 financial crisis. Professor Foote and his lectures are amazing!
This class is awesome! I really loved the material covered (why is Africa poor, what started the financial crisis, what is the current strategy for the Fed, etc).  Assignments were quick and tests were fair yet challenging.
A fantastic class. It gives you valuable insights into what monetary and fiscal policymakers are thinking, and a solid foundation for better understanding economics-related current affairs. Professor Foote uses a lot of examples from both domestic and international policy arenas, and gives a really great overview of the financial crisis in U.S. Not a lot of stress, and great learning experience.
Very Boring. Only take it if you need it for a requirement.
the exams are all multiple choice: not the best format for a subject where the answers are debatable
Study the lecture slides. I'm still uncertain as to how important reading the book is for success in this course.
It's difficult, but it is manageable
If you are an Economics concentrator you have to take this course regardless, so just grin and bear it.
The class is difficult and early, but Professor Foote is awesome. The best thing to do is to learn the information for assessments by looking at the book and past materials.
do your reading and go to lecture
Macro is enjoyable.  I would make sure you are taking the class for the right reasons because many people complain about it a lot.  For doing well on the tests, do practice tests, look over the lecture notes, and make sure you can differentiate between the different models.
Great, pretty easy class. Foote is awesome, going to lectures is definitely optional (reading his lecture slides and the book are definitely enough, though Foote is a good enough lecturer to make it worth your while to go), and the connection to the real world is pretty interesting.
1010b with Foote is a good, solid economics class. Lectures are pretty interesting (Foote's funny in a cool way)and he cares about getting the material across to the students. SUCH an improvement compared to 1010a. Piece of advice: READ THE LECTURE NOTES. Study the lecture notes for exams. They're thorough and  remarkably helpful--everything you need to know is in them (besides a few readings and Labor Market Friday memos).
Go to lectures. They are very helpful, and the main source of exam material.
Great course: Ec 1010b offers a very clean and intuitive introduction to macroeconomic models.
Definitely take this class! While there are horror stories about Ec 1010a, this class is nothing like it and was definitely worthwhile. I enjoyed it and felt as if I learned a lot- the end of the course also gives a lot of intriguing insight into the recent financial crisis.
Christopher Foote is a great prof. He is interesting and knows what to focus on without dwelling on unimportant stuff. Problem sets are a joke because it takes your highest score of 3 tries. Section, then, become super important but they are totally a hit or miss. I had to adjust from a horrible TF to a great one so be prepared to switch if needed. Exams are doable just make sure you do the old exams because they are directly used in the current exams.
With Mankiw's textbook, no matter how bright and fun Prof. Foote might be, this is insdisputably a BAD course. The book does not prepare you for the very hard final that includes meticulous economic reasoning. Even the course itself is not designed to provide you with those skills to ace the final.
study
Make sure you get a good TF
Economics 1010b is actually a pretty fun and engaging class (especially in comparison to the absolutely dreadful 1010a). Foote is a great professor and manages to make all of his material interesting--mitigating the fact that this class takes place at 9 in the morning. The problem sets are deceptively easy, and while the exams themselves are not overly difficult, they can be kind of tricky. Also, section can be kind of a drag depending on who your leader is, but that's the case in most economics courses.
Great way to learn about macroeconomics.  Don't be scared away if you didn't enjoy it in Ec10.  The lectures are interesting and fun, although they occasionally repeat what's already in the textbook.  The homework isn't time-consuming, but the midterms and finals are difficult.
If you put in the work it will be a very rewarding course.
This class is a great introduction to macroeconomics, the lectures are great, problem sets are easy but that also means that ability to do the psets is not a good indicator of how prepared you are for the exams.
It's what you would expect from an economics course at Harvard
Very helpful in better understanding MAcro.
It's much better than ec 10 and ec1010a, the Prof Foote is fantastic! Make sure you do each chapter of reading, go to lecture, and pay attention to the section problem sets. Aplia problem sets are really easy and kind of fun.
This class is not easy or extraordinarily interesting if you aren't into economics unlike Ec 10.
I like this course a lot. If you take it, make sure to go to the lectures - you don't have to go to lectures to get an A, but they definitely worth going.
Interesting material, great and organized lecturer, good textbook.
It's definitely a LOT better than Ec 1010a, even though the multiple-choice tests can be surprisingly difficult. Make sure you spend time and keep up with the content and really try to understand the topics before you take the tests. It was hard to self-motivate to get to the 9am lectures, but it is worth it if you can make it -- Foote is a great lecturer.
Even though 9am lectures are rough to make, you should definitely make an effort to go. Prof. Foote is an awesome lecturer and you will do better in the class if you attend lectures.
Go to class. It sucks, but you should do it. It will make all the difference in the world.
Good for the intuition behind major macro concepts. Foote is a great lecturer. Only thing to be wary of is the 9am timing.
I thought the multiple-choice only exams were absolutely horrible. How on earth is it testing my knowledge to stack up 8 possible combinations on one multiple choice option? I personally think 1010a is much better even if it takes more of an effort at the end at least you have your fate in your hands a bit more than with this hell.
Econ 1010b is a great class because at the end of it, you'll be able to think critically about any macroeconomic situation occurring in the world at any time. It just makes you better as a person. Definitely take it. The exams might look hard, but with repetition and practice, you'll be ready to do very well on any of them. Take the course.
P-sets are a joke. Foote is awesome but 9am is just not happening. Take it if you learned ec in high school and want to understand how the crisis is unfolding. And obvs take it if its a concentration requirement. Midterms harder than you think.
Try and stay awake in class. Lectures are amusing, but not necessary to ace the class. Read the lecture slides and the book before the test, and you'll be fine.
Keep up with the reading as the course goes on, seriously.  The problem sets won't require you to do any reading, and neither will the lectures or the sections.  Read the textbook regularly or you'll end up pulling a few all-nighters before the exams.
Foote is a great lecturer. Content is extremely valuable. Definitely worth your time to go to lecture. Section is also really helpful. Go to Justin Beeler's section.
This is a pretty easy class. It basically doesn't use any math so if you're interested in doing more economics research/going to grad school, take Ec1011b instead. It's also a minimum workload. Professor Foote is a good lecturer and really cares about making students understand the material.
It is a good class that will provide you with a lot of tools to be successful.
It was a good class, but don't expect an amazing class.  Foote is an awesome teacher, but beyond that the class is just another economics course.
Professor Foote is a wonderful lecturer, unlike 1010a professors. The material is very interesting. The tests are pretty fair and the problem sets are incredibly easy.
This course is much more lively compared to Ec1010a, and the lectures go by pretty quickly. The problem sets are really easy, but don't be fooled, the midterm and final tests are hard!! another warning, class is at 9am
The material in this class was really useful to know. I would strongly recommend this class for the sake of learning the material. The workload was quite small outside of studying for the exams, which were really difficult.
Do well on exams!
Even if you attend all lectures, all sections, do all of the required work, you might do badly on the test because the homework does not reflect the difficulty of the test questions. The homework is very easy, while test questions are things that haven't been practiced. Often, one test question relates to 5 others, so chances are, if you don't know one question, you're getting all 5 of them wrong as well. Also, don't expect your TFs and section to be of much help.
The problem sets were very manageable and the lectures were great, at least the ones that I could make it to. Great overview of Macro
there should be more than two levels to intermediate microeconomics, section should be taught to students, not AT students
Go to lecture.
GO TO LECTURE. Downloading the lecture slides is not enough because Professor Foote includes many examples and explanations that are extremely helpful that aren't on the lecture slides.
This class definitely teaches information that is useful for life. It's not as easy as you think, though. Go to lecture, do the readings, and study for the tests!
Overall a great class. The 9am time slot can sometimes be a problem, particularly for a great majority of Harvard students who are night owls. Exams can be tricky, sections are not really helpful, but the important thing is to always go to lecture!
I mean you have to take it, but its really hard and meets super early in the morning
This course is taught much better than 1010a. The lectures are engaging and the material is fascinating. However, make sure you know how to study for the tests because the questions can be extremely tricky.
I felt this course was pretty tough but it's a fascinating subject and the professor and TF's were great. On top of that, you get access to some really cool publications from the Fed which I found really interesting.
Professor Foote does a great job at explaining the material but exams are pretty hit or miss with only mult. choice problems and no partial credit
This class is very boring and its at 9 am Monday, Wednesday Friday. I had friends who didn't go to lecture and were doing better than me in the class. I can't say I learned that much from the class either. Unless you have to take this class for Econ Major, I wouldn't take it.
Foote's tests are incredibly frustrating. Multiple choice with little differentiation in answers, multiple parts you need to get correct for a point, etc.
Doing and reviewing section problems and past exams will be very helpful for preparing for the exams.
You have to take it if you're an Ec major. Professor Foote is great, exams are fair, but section wasn't really great. Expect pretty easy homeworks through Aplia, moderate midterms and a 3-hour final. The professor was really great though, and he made 9am lectures tolerable...
In order to succeed, you have to be highly self-motivated to go to classes and learn the material as it comes. Infrequent assessments are challenging and you don't have too many chances to do well.
The course was really good.  There's a lot to be learned and Professor Foote is a very engaging lecturer with tons of real world experience and stories.
9 am sucks. Foote is a great lecturer though.
This class is well taught and a good introduction to macroeconomics. Definitely one of the better economic courses offered at Harvard. If choosing between Ec 1010a and Ec 1010b, take Ec 1010b - it is SO much better.
You should have a good reason to take this class. It is a lot of material, and you learn a lot during the semester.
Even though the lectures are early, they are worth going to. Professor Foote is a great lecturer. I felt the exams required you to memorize a lot of random facts. The class isn't too difficult.
It's mandatory, but it's not that bad.
This class is amazing.  It's terrible that its at 9am but you should just suck it up and take it.  Wayyyy better than 1010a so if you are just getting a secondary please take this.  Foote is an amazing lecturer
Well-run class with a relatively good lecturer--however, often emphasizes models and equations at the cost of improving intuition broadly. I don't discourage taking it, but it will serve you better or worse, depending on your goals.
This is a good course. Foote does a great job of incorporating his work at the Fed and current events into lessons.
Professor Foote is a great lecturer. It is important to do the old exams and make sure you can do all the problems.
Go to lecture, even if it is a nine in the morning! Prof. Foote is a clear, organized speaker who makes the concepts click, and he'll often cover one or two ideas that don't show up anywhere else -- in the textbook, notes, or otherwise. I would suggest being careful about choosing your section leader. The teaching quality varies, so you'll be much better off with a TF who explains things well and hands out typed pset answers in section. The exam questions are tricky; make sure you have done the practice questions well ahead of the test dates, so that you can ask your TF or the professor for clarifications.
This class gives solid information about the many models and theories used in our economy today.
Go to lectures. Don't skip it. All of them.
This class was very interesting. Professor Foote is great! If you are an economics secondary, take EC1010b instead of 1010a!!! Pay close attention to the powerpoints and section problem sets.
Great course, Chris Foote is SO FUNNY, CHARMING, and YOU'LL LOVE HIM by the end of the class. Bad thing is that it's 9 A.M. :( And try your hardest to get JASON as your TF!!! He's the best, love him too.
Good class. Do your best to go to most/all of the lectures, mainly because Prof. Foote is a great lecturer, but also because the exams specifically test material that is only discussed in lecture.
Professor Foote is great. He works at the Fed, so it's a pretty unique experience to learn the material from him. The content of the course is super relevant and super interesting. The assignments are painless. Totally worth it. Take it.
Foote's great, section sucks, probably gonna get the same grade you got in Ec10
Professor Foote is fantastic. He will teach you a lot about economics that goes beyond the book. However, be ready to be super attentive in lectures. Tip- print lecture slides.
9am can be tough down the stretch of the semester when your other classes keep you up until 4am, but it actually pained me to miss lecture because Prof. Foote is great.  The slides are pretty thorough so you can keep up, but try to go to class.  Read the section pset articles - they tend to fall on exams. Try to get into Jason's section.  Overall, this is a great class and not too time consuming.
Very little work compared to 1010a.  Set up a lot more like a Gov class than an Ec class (very little math and economic intuition involved).  The David Johnson-Greg Mankiw "synthesis method" of learning from Ec10 is dropped in favor of much more rote memorization, which is unfortunate.  Most importantly, your success in this class depends upon your ability to take multiple choice tests better than the rest of the class.  This last point is the worst aspect of the class, since it does not routinely measure your ability to apply the theory to real-world problems.  Overall, pretty standard Ec class with a good lecturer.
Create a sheet for yourself to try to understand the assumptions made in the models presented.  It will be very useful for the midterms and the final.
This class is awesome! It really made me want to concentrate in Economics. The course load is not heavy but at the same time you learn so much. The professor is awesome.
This course is great! I learned a lot, and even though I am not very good at ec, I really enjoyed taking it. Professor Foote is a very engaging lecturer, and he makes having 9am section worth it. The material is also very interesting and relevant to what is going on in the world, so I highly recommend taking this class!
Great class for economic theory but tough and competitive too.
Everything is a joke until the exams. Those you have to study for. They can be pretty tricky.
Very interesting and challenging. Way too much material to cover for the final.
Pretty light workload and quite accessible. Chris Foote is fantastic
The only reason this class does not suck is that the professor is hilarious and great at explaining concepts that are actually not a good models for looking at the economy of engaging with the world. Nonetheless, its foundational work for future studies in economics and its well taught. The 9am aspect of this class is horrible though.
it gets you in touch with an economic perspective of how the world works
Exams might be tricky, prepare well.
Go to lecture and look at the lecture slides.
Professor Foote was an awesome professor. He is down to earth, funny, and explains things in a very intuitive manner. 9 AM lectures are kind of rough, but worth it. I learned a lot and am extremely happy that I took this course.
This class was better taught than EC1010a. Although people complain about the 9am lectures, they seem in general more satisfied with the class than 1010a. Make sure you don't fall behind in the readings or else lecture would not be too helpful. It is not necessary to read the entire textbook chapter thoroughly to get a perfect score on the Aplia problem sets.
This course was amazing. Professor Foote is a terrific lecturer, the material is fascinating (it goes into so much more depth than Ec10 does), and it helps you really understand macroeconomics at a much more advanced level. Take it!
9 AM classes are the biggest factor - you will be able to do well on midterms and finals without them but ONLY if you do lots of practice questions and keep up with notes and readings. Sections are hit or miss depending on the quality of the TF. Otherwise, Professor Foote is a great Professor and is very engaging for 9 AM, given the subject.
If you're interested in continuing your economics education past ec10, this is a really great way to do it. Professor Foote is fantastic, and even makes waking up for 9am lecture worth it. You'll learn a lot without too much work, and the material's really interesting.
Be sure to go to lectures. Professor Foote shares a lot of his personal work experience and talks about current events that are interesting to listen to. Also, some of this information shows up on exams.
Prereq. No need to take it for any reason if you don't have to
It is a good course, comfortably designed (except for the 9 AM lectures), with super helpful and self-explanatory lecture slides, and rather interesting material. The exams are bit tough and one really has to study for it. The best thing to do is to go through absolutely all the previous exams posted on the website: that guarantees a much better score.
It's a concentration requirement; you don't really have an option as to whether or not to take it if you're doing Econ. If you are going to take it, *attend lecture and section*. I did not do so, but doing so would have helped drastically. I know it's 9am, but make yourself get up for it. If you don't fall behind, I don't think it would be that difficult of a course.
Very straightforward and better-taught/more interesting than 1010a.
The tests are a bit nit-picky, but once you truly understand the material (if you reach that point), it's a ton of fun.
Lectures at 9 am are tough and tedious, but the material can be interesting.  Like every other econ course, there is a big curve
If you're an econ concentrator, then take it. But, the tests are hard and it is easy to fall behind if you miss a class or a section.
A fun way to learn economics. Changes the way one looks at the economy and the recession.
don't underestimate the course! attend all lectures if you can
Interesting lectures (if you get up for 9am class), Foote makes the class relevant to current events in the economics sphere
If you're not an econ major, don't bother. Ec10 is enough foundational knowledge for non-majors.
It's a really good class and the topics are very interesting. Foote has restored my faith in economics even though there's still a ton of (subtle) pro-unregulated free market propaganda. Aside from the psets, the assessments don't so much demonstrate your comprehension of the material as much as they just screw you over but if you're taking the course you are likely a concentrator and should already be used to that by now.
Exams count for the majority of your grade in this class, so be sure to spend plenty of time studying. The best way to study is to review old exams because many of the problems are similar.
Professor Foote is a great lecturer, try to attend class as often as you can. Problem sets are fairly painless, but exams are a bit trickier. Overall a pretty good course.
Definitely a course worth taking, especially for those wishing to continue with Macro-economics, as well as for the section on financial materials, which Prof. Foote renders in a most approachable manner.
Make sure you keep up with the material regularly or else your grade will suffer.  It seems like common sense but missing a few 9 AM lectures here and there can definitely add up.
This is a good class to get a better, intuitive understanding of Macroeconomics, and does not have a large time commitment.
The Aplia problem sets are really easy and the exams are pretty straightforward. It's a good class, the only drawback is that it's at 9am. If you attend lecture, the class isn't hard at all.
Interesting lectures. 9 am is hard to go to, though.
This course requires you to keep up with all required assignments. The problem sets, which are submitted weekly are not actually as indicative of how exams will be as they might originally seem. For this reason, I would definitely recommend that you go back through all of the section problem sets and take the time to understand how the solutions are achieved. Also, be sure to take advantage of the help from your teaching fellows and Professor Foote, who is more than helpful. The information is useful and the course is well-taught.
I personally regret not going to lectures although I did great on all exams; all the info you need is in the lecture notes. Foote is a great lecturer and I feel I would have gotten more out of the class if I actually attended- it is a 9am lecture though...
This course was better than I was expecting; Professor Foote keeps the lectures interesting by focusing on pertinent and interesting topics rather than solely those that are laid out in the text.  Still, it being a large, required Ec class, it is in no way revelatory.  Also, having taken the AP course junior year instead of Ec10, I felt seriously overwhelmed, and I know that many of my peers who were in the same position felt the same way, so be wary of taking this class if your previous education in economics has faded in any way.
Professor Foote is very nice and engaging but it is SO HARD to stay awake throughout class so prepared to sleep through classes sometimes...
It was fine, not too tough.  I wish I put more time into it.
This is a good intermediate econ class with a lot of interesting material.  However, its easy to disengage and skip lecture and section.  Go in knowing your tendencies as a student and try to avoid this.
Absolutely go to lecture. If you can't wake up at 9am, don't take this class.
This class is really awesome! The prof is really engaging and knowledgable. If you want to do a class on macroeconomics, this is the one because the prof (who works at the Boston Fed) is well-versed with all the current economic developments and so you become really enlightened about the world around you. And also, go to lectures - it's more time-effective than trying to piece everything together from his lecture notes later on
Not bad. The tests are hard, but the section problem sets are useful in preparing for them. Don't let the ease of the online problem sets give you a false sense of security.
Exams require thorough knowledge of course material. Attend lectures (I know the 9am time sucks) and read lecture slides before/after lectures.
The course is at 9 am and not videotaped.  Yikes.  Plus, lectures are generally boring, and the material is overall bland.  That said, Chris Foote is a nice guy and tries hard.  The TFs are generally good and have good office hours.  For an economics course, this gets a 5/5.  For a regular course, it gets a 2/5.  That's just econ pedagogy here.
I enjoyed this class mainly because of Professor Foote. He is very enthusiastic about the subject and a great lecturer.
It is much better than 1010a, but still mostly a repeat of the second half of Economics 10.
It is a very good intermediate macroeconomic course. Professor Foote is a very dynamic professor. Lectures are at 9 am and you will think while reading this that you will be able to consistently attend those lectures but because of dynamic consistency, pun intended, you will continue to snooze away... But in all seriousness, even though the lecture slides don't deviate from lectures, definitely be to sure attend the lectures and read the textbook to do well in this course.
The exams are far more difficult than the material on the weekly problem sets or in the book. Definitely do the section problem sets - they are much more helpful than the weekly Aplia.
The lectures are excellent, if you can get up at 9 am MWF for them. The graded problem sets are a piece of cake and are about as nutritious - if you really want to understand the material/prepare for the exams, you  need to do the (optional) problem sets. Unlike most people, I took the class as a total elective in order to get more of an understanding of macroeconomics (I'm majoring in government). It definitely did not revolutionize my level of macroeconomic understanding from Ec 10, but it did formalize it, add to it a bit, and help strengthen it.
It's far more interesting than EC10 (and probably a bit easier too, or at least it has less work). I wish I had just skipped Ec 10 and taken this instead.
solid class, repetitive from ec 10 early on. Professor Foote is a good lecturer and exams are fair but somewhat difficult
Its pretty good
Do the readings, do the psets, and go to lectures. It's too easy to fall behind this course, when in reality it isn't too difficult to handle if you're timely and on top of your work.
The tests are incredibly tricky, make sure you keep up with the readings because the lecture slides are not enough. Also set aside enough time so that you aren't rushing through the psets to make the sunday night due date because if you go through and understand the pset instead of ctr+f ing through the readings you will get more out of it. 9am lecture is really tough
Cool class.
Go to lecture!!! That was my mistake this semester, and I sincerely wished I could go back in time, even though it's at 9AM. Professor Foote is probably one of the greatest lecturers at Harvard, so definitely enjoy it. Exams can be tricky with the linked questions (if you get one wrong, you get a whole chain wrong), but it's a fair course.
Foote makes this class worth taking. Good overview of macroeconomics, good explanations of concepts.
Prof. Foote is a great lecturer, so if you can manage to wake up for it, go. 9AM is brutal though
Course content is interesting and relevant.
Course is super well organized, and lectures are interesting. Compared to 1010a, there is a lot less work, but as a result you also learn less.
Fairly straight up course - Professor Foote is great!
It is not much work but the exams are fairly difficult. The tests are all multiple choice, but can get confusing.
It's a good class, but most of all; "so much time for activities!". Foote is a great, and funny, lecturer and the topics covered are interesting. However, it's extremely basic and if you have learned any math since elementary school, strongly consider 1011b.
Interesting class where you'll learn a lot of relevant information that will help you understand economics in the real world. Difficult exams, but much better than 1010a and worth it!
Ever wondered what IS-LM means? Then take Ec 1010b! I'm not a concentrator, but I find that the concepts you learn in this class are readily applicable to current macroeconomic debates.
This class is really hard, even though exams are multiple choice they are still extremely difficult if you are looking for an easy class this is NOT it take another class.
You actually have to study really hard for the exams (go to office hours, do practice exams, look over lecture slides). I took this class as a freshman, but didn't have the work ethic / study habits to do well in this class, so beware of taking this class as a freshman. Foote is an amazing lecturer, but he goes really fast (he also talks fast in general). It's best to have read the chapter before class (though you really don't need to take notes from the book or during class, just look through the lecture slides before the exams). I learned so much this semester. This class really pushed me to work hard. Also, take advantage of being able to go to any section you want and shop around for a good TF (hint: Jason Beeler is amazing. I once asked him to tell me everything he knew about the Solow model and didn't get a single question wrong about it on the midterm). Finally, go to Foote's office hours!!
Ec 1010b is a great class! Professor Foote is a great lecturer and clearly enjoys his job as teacher. As someone who's not an Econ concentrator and was looking to improve my command of econ and better understand the financial crisis, this class was a perfect fit.
The class doesn't demand that you do much work weekly so it is easy to become very lax with yourself and to not study until very shortly before midterms. That is what I did and I screwed myself over.
Do the course readings
Despite the early hour of the lectures, it is important to attend them because they are informative and Professor Foote bases the midterm and final on the information covered in the lectures. A good class overall and an important introduction to more advanced concepts in macroeconomics.
Foote is a great lecturer, but the section aspect of the class can be a little lacking.
It was interesting, but more difficult than expected.  It was very different in structure than 1010b.
It's a great class!
its a great class, lots to learn. lectures aren't really necessary though--all you need is the book & practice tests!
The profesor is awesome! You need to engage with the material early on or else it piles up rather quickly. Also, a final worth 50% of your garde is not for the faint of heart.
Come to classes.
It's really not a very difficult class. You can get by with just cramming before the midterms.
This is a very good class that organizedly introduces various theories and models in macroeconomics. There also is an ample chance explore and learn about current issues.
Take ec10 and ec1010a first.
-Interesting course - exposes you to some of the important workings of the economy through a good lecturer who cares about his students. - harder than you think, though.-Go to section-Insist on smaller sections and better TFs; you're paying way too much for the poor quality of Spring 2012.-Study hard using previous exams.
The tests are not a good measure of actual knowledge of the material with the brutal time constraint and poorly formatted questions.
Take if you have to.
The course is led by an awesome professor who delivers interesting lectures. However, it is subject to so many of the problems that are true for most economics concentration requirements: huge classes, high stakes exams (tricky MCQs), little discussion of concepts.
Professor Foote is a great professor with a lot of outside knowledge and real world experience. If you put in the work for this class and go to lecture, you will get a lot out of it.
Keep up with the sections problem sets and go to office hours if you have any questions.
You just have to bear with it and do it. The homeworks are nothing like the exams, so really dont be misled by that.
Foote is an incredible teacher, and this class is amazingly relevant. Take it.
go to lecture!
Lectures not necessary, material often times interesting
Professor Foote is a really great, engaging and enthusiastic lecturer. Don't let the 9am time stop you. Got so much out of going to class every time. Great class!
Ec1010b is SO much better than 1010a.  Professor Foote is very engaging and funny and genuine (Lecture doesn't feel like a show, and yet it's entertaining).  The material is interesting and relevant and goes into greater depth than 10b.  I would still recommend taking 10b if you haven't ever taken macro before because they have different approaches and I got a lot out of each course in unique ways.  To succeed in this course:1) Go to lecture and pay attention.  Exam questions are taken from things you discuss that can't be found later on the slides or in the book.  Also, it's just important if you want to actually get something out of this course rather than just pretending.  It's up to you to make it worth your while.2) Pay attention to the section problem sets.  Exam questions come from them and they really help you uhderstand the topics more deeply.
Go to lecture.
If you're choosing between 1010a and 1010b for a secondary, take 1010b.
This course is really straightforward. You will get nearly 100% on the Aplia problem sets, which compose 10% of the grade. 20% for each midterm and 50% for the final. The exams are all graded on a bell curve, so just do better than your peers. In order to do well in the class, go to the optional sections and definitely do the optional problem sets. This class is easy, and requires very little out of you.
This course is much better than Ec10. It's taught in lecture format and then just reinforced in section. Professor Foote is a great professor!
Very difficult and unforgiving course
It's tough, but is well taught and interesting.
Although things aren't mandatory stay on top of readings and Psets
This is a good course, but be sure to develop checks to see where you stand along the way. Otherwise, the exams may catch you off-guard.
1010b is overall a pretty good class!  The workload during the week isn't too bad, as the Aplia problem sets are pretty manageable (you can generally find the answers in the relevant sections of the chapters, and they give you 3 chances to correctly answer each problem).  Section problem sets are also optional, although it is handy to skim them over before going to section because the TF will go over them there.  The exams are pretty tough - this year they were all multiple choice, not to mention the fact that some of the questions included answers like A & B & C, A & B but not C, or some other combination of aforementioned answers.  The main burden of the class, however, comes from lecture.  Foote is a great lecturer and does a great job of making the material approachable and easy to understand, but for some reason he is ADAMANT about keeping his lectures at 9am.  Thus I will plead you: GO TO LECTURE.  Even if you had to pull an all nighter to finish a problem set due the day before, do it.  Even on Friday, even if you got wasted on #ThirstyThursday, do it.  I cannot stress how important it is to go to lecture.  I slacked off on this during the middle of the course, thinking I could just read the slides/book and catch up, and I paid for it PAINFULLY on the midterms.  Some of the questions on the midterms cover things that are only found in lecture (not on the slides or book), thus highlighting the importance in going.  Overall, great class, but know that once you decide to take this class, you absolutely have to go to lecture.
A solid intermediate macroeconomics course. Builds on foundations laid in 10b. Unlike 1010a, section and section problem sets don't do as well preparing you for the exams.
This is a really good course. Professor Foote is very engaging and also great at teaching the material. It is not very difficult, especially if you feel good about you economics ability prior to going into the course. The workload is very doable. The only downside is 9am lecture, but you should definitely go because Professor Foote is great and they're not taped.
This course requires a great deal of work.
This is a difficult class but if you work hard you can succeed.
The fact that it's at 9 am isn't great even though it's that big of a class
You have to keep up with the workload or else the material will pile up.
This is easier than Ec1010a.
Great class to help you understand the macroeconomic relationships in the United States.
This course is good for those less comfortable with economics. The problems sets and syllabus holds your hand through the material so if you don't get it the first time, that's okay because you'll have two more opportunities to be tested on it. I liked the online problem sets but they count for so little of your grade that it made it seem worthless to even try. The final exam is 50% of your grade.
Lectures aren't that important, but if you don't go to lecture then read the textbook. Just doing the psets won't be enough. Material is great and Foote is a phenomenal lecturer. Highly recommend even as elective.
No way to avoid the Econ requirement -- but if you're a secondary and choosing between 1010a and 1010b, DEFINITELY take 1010B.
I really enjoyed this course, and Professor Foote was a great lecturer. I usually find it difficult to learn in a lecture format, but Professor Foote was always very clear and engaging- so definitely make sure that you can make it to class at 9am. Other than showing up, this course required very minimal work (the psets often only took one hour). Overall, it was both easy and interesting and I would definitely recommend it
This is a great class. Professor Foote truly cares about his students, and he makes that very clear! He is a wonderful lecturer and made class exciting even at 9am. Definitely do the section problem sets as they are assigned and try to read as much of the textbook as possible. I highly recommend this course.
You have to take it, so take it. The tests are very all-or-nothing. All multiple choice with question series that get screwed up if you get one wrong. And they are worth a total of 90% of your grade.
Ec1010b is a great class. Professor Foote is a wonderful lecturer, and some section leaders are really great and help a lot with exam preparation. Lectures are at 9am, which is a little early if you're not a morning person, but they're definitely worth going to because Foote really makes information understandable and interesting. I also enjoyed reading the textbook and recommend using it as a resource as well. The exams are definitely manageable if you do all the old practice tests.
You have no choice
Put 10 with Mankiw and 1010a with Miron behind you. This course is AMAZING and so much better than all of those. After two years in the Ec department, you will finally have a good class. Prof. Foote raises this class above all others with his deep knowledge, witty responses, engaging lectures, and thorough attention to the course. Don't miss his lectures--they're full of great stories, intuitive explanations of concepts, and some exam questions come only from the lectures. There are plenty of optional problem sets and past exams to use as prep for midterms, and Foote's office hours are great for answering questions. Amazing course. 10/10 (haha) would take again.
Great course and great teacher but be prepared to spend over $300 to purchase Aplia in order to take this course.
Professor Foote is amazing! He really cares for all of his students and his lectures are extremely helpful. Even though the lectures are super early, I would try to go to all of them because he includes a lot of extra material that aren't included in the powerpoints (and they usually show up on exams). Also, try to go to his office hours!
Week to week this class is not hard. I would suggest that you show up to lecture (even though it is early). Also, go to section because that is the time you can actually learn the material.
Interest in economics is key, and though it is a foundational class, it teaches you a lot about general macroeconomic behavior that is applicable outside the classroom
9 am lectures are tough, but the lecture slides are online. Overall kind of a boring class (Nothing that interesting) but you need to take it for econ concentration. Not too much work though so that's nice. The 50% final is rough.
All you need to do to do well in this course is to study past exams. Questions are predictable. This doesn't mean you won't learn in this class. Talking about policy options and economic growth has been one of my coolest educational experiences at Harvard.
This course is the reason why you shouldn't concentrate in Econ.
Be prepared to do more than just problem sets for Aplia to prepare for exams, and going to lecture is highly necessary as questions from exams ask specifically about things that were only covered in 9 AM lectures. If you can't make lectures, no matter how much you study, there will be questions that you can't answer.
Keep up with the material throughout the semester and you will do fine on the tests. This takes some personal effort to do because the sections and aplia assignments don't do this for you.
Good intermediate macro class. material is interesting, and relevant to understanding the complex global economy, interest rates, etc etc.... Light years better than Ec 1010a. Obviously the structure isn't very engaging (lectures are at 9 am, not mandatory, and section is optional), and you can just show up on test day if you want. But despite that, the material is actually very fair and interesting, no complaints.
Good class. Terrible time. Go to lecture
Make sure you do the section psets, because the Aplia psets really don't prepare you that well. And contrary to 1010a, you really need to go to lecture and section and take notes because this is a pretty tough class.
This is my favorite concentration requirement class because Prof. Foote not only teaches the material well but adds humor and a lot of real-world application to it. Wish he hosted midterm reviews and taped lecture.
Professor Foote is a boss; he does Macroeconomics justice. Lectures are well-taught (and GO TO THEM because Foote places great emphasis on them). Do the section problem sets - the exams will draw directly from them! Overall, really phenomenal class. One of the best in the Economics department.
Great class! Interesting material, cool lectures, psets and homework is fair. Just, the overall grading of the course kind of sucks- it's all multiple choice and the final is worth waaayyy too much of your grade in my opinion.
This class is super interesting!  It will clear up a lot of controversial macroeconomics topics and also introduce you to many more questions.  Professor Foote is an engaging and effective lecturer, so make sure you go to lecture.  The course is light on work and time.  Section problems are helpful for studying for midterms and tests.
Its one of those classes that you just have to power through. You need to take it even though its pretty hard. you end up coming away with a lot of useful knowledge. Prof. foote is great
DO THE SECTION PROBLEM SETS
Professor Foote is what makes this course great. He does a good job making the material relevant. If you attend lecture and do the readings, exams will be easy. Section and section psets aren't really necessary.
Prof Foote related his lectures often to real world phenomena that remind you why it's so important to learn economics. He's an amazing professor.
necessary, and professor foote makes lecture at least enjoyable.
Not academic advice: but get a breakfast buddy to meet with to make sure you actually make it to lecturelecture's more important than you think the exams are brutal - no partial credit
Professor Foote is a great lecturer and teacher. The tests are fair and reflect the material covered in class.
Great course. Liked it better than Ec 1010a.
When you have to incentivize students to attend lecture by basically giving away exam answers, you should probably rethink how you're running your class.
Even if you succeeded in AP Econ in high school, this class can be a struggle. I wouldn't recommend it unless you either feel very confident in your abilities or you took intro to econ here.
Professor Foote is amazing. Lectures are helpful, clear, and relevant. Exams are not bad if you study, and the curve is huge.
A good way to learn more about very relevant and engaging policy questions. Do not underestimate how brutal a 9am class can be, though.
Professor Foote is a great teacher, but this class starts at 9 a.m.!
Take this class - much better than 1010a and a great + engaged professor!
It's hard to learn all the material from a lecture format. Also the Aplia problem sets are easy but don't really prepare you for the midterms or final exam.
Here's the deal with this class: the people that did poorly went to about half of the lectures and never went to section. The people that did well went to most of the lectures and all of the sections. You're fate really is in your own hands - if you do the work, you WILL do well. There aren't any tricks, it's all in the reading and in section.
Take it is you're an economics concentrator. Otherwise I'm not sure it's worth it.
Make sure to read all the materials offered (go through the lecture slides, read all chapters in the and book and all optional readings as well).
Be prepared to study really hard for the midterms and not do as well as you hoped. Most of the questions on the midterms had 5 options: A, B, C, A and B but not C, B and C but not A. This format was frustrating, because it didn't reward comprehension as much as it did test-taking skills.
The only good part about 1010b is Professor Foote. He makes the material and the 9am lectures entertaining, while being very successful at sharing his deep knowledge of macro. The rest of the teaching staff is not as successful, however, and sections are not all that helpful. The weekly online psets are too easy, especially compared to the exams. I spent hours every week in office hours and actually reading the textbook and still could never manage to do well on the exams. If you are not great at exams (especially when the final is worth 50% of your grade) and you're just looking to take this class as an elective, like I was, it may not be worth it.
You will get so much more out of this course (not to mention a much better grade) if you make the effort to go to lecture. Professor Foote is an excellent at teaching the material and makes 9am lecture worth it. (He also puts a lot of specific examples from lecture on the exams, so even more reason to go!)
Not the most interesting (pretty much ec10b) but well-presented and relevant to current day economic situations
Be prepared to teach yourself a great deal of material
Professor Foote makes this class really great.
Foote is a great lecturer.  Exams are tricky.
The Aplia PSets are much easier than the exams, so make sure to do the past exams when studying the exams. Also, section attendance is not that crucial, but make sure you understand and complete the section problem sets before the exams.
Professor Foote is a great lecturer! He's very funny and engaging, and explains the material very well. The section component of the class needs to be fixed, but the section problem sets are very useful when you're studying for midterms and the final. The exams are definitely difficult and 9am class is hard to get up for, but the class is great, especially for a required class.
Go to lecture, prof explains lecture slides very well. Hard to grasp all the info by just reading his slides.
It is a relatively light work load however the tests are extremely difficult.
I loved this class! Not sure if this is because I had low expectations coming in from the fall, but Foote is absolutely amazing and it's obvious how much time he puts into the class (which is a lot). Not only that, Foote is always willing to help you as long as you reach out, whether that be in office hours or email. If you're feeling discouraged from the fall, don't worry: 1010b is much, much better.
Be prepared to work hard to identify a variety of effects on consumption, investment, interest and exchange rates based on a variety of models. The material is very interesting, but it takes time for the material to click.
stay on top of lectures
The class is eh. Pretty easy but boring. Foote's cool though.
If you keep up with the material, it is absolutely manageable.  I would definitely recommend going to lecture, since it is heavily tested on the exams.  That being said, if you have to miss some of them, definitely thoroughly go through the lecture slides before tests.  Great class, though, and Professor Foote is a very dynamic lecturer.
It's a hard class but if you attend lecture and go to section, you will do well.
The class is tough but extremely rewarding.  I may have struggled, but it was extremely interesting and really furthers you understanding of economics in a macro way.  Professor Foote is also an amazing professor.
solid coursebetter than 1010afoote is funny
Overall, it's a solid class -- it covers interesting and important material. It's much better in just about every way than Ec1010a.
Dr. Foote is a compelling lecturer and ties in real conditions to make the potentially dry material less so. I highly recommend going to all of the lectures, but I'll admit I rarely used my section. Keep up with the material, do the Psets, go to lecture, and you should be fine.
-
Good class, engaging lectures, pretty straightforward tests. Lectures at 9 can be a pain, but overall painless.
If you took 1010a and hated it (so everyone who took 1010a) don't be discouraged! Take 1010b its a good class and Foote does an awesome job making the subject matter interesting
Class is ok.  Hard to stay focused at the 9AM start time and too much of the grade is based on exams.  I actually took this class without taking Ec10 or a previous economics course, and the content was definitely learnable.  Foote is a good professor.  Once you know how to visualize the graphs, everything becomes really easy.  Make sure to prepare by doing that for each of the exams because they are worth a lot.
In order to earn a good grade, it is necessary to attend section or delve into the info on your own outside of class.
Unless you truly love hardcore mathematical modeling, just take 1010b. It's a solid intermediate macro class. The problem sets are easy, the lecture slides and textbook are very cogent, and the exams are fair, if a bit difficult.
Go to lecture and actually listen. You will gain a deeper sense of macroeconomic intuition.
Good class.
Great lecturer and interesting material.
Take this class only if you need to! Professor Foote is a great lecturer and the material is interesting but the exams can be tough and unforgiving. Find a good section TF early on because that can make ALL the difference. Study from practice exams and section psets and don't waste time on reading the textbook.
Go to lectures as much as you can. Professor Foote is really cool.
You have to take it if you're an econ concentrator. It's definitely better than Ec1010a.
Take this class. It is easy. It is 2 hours a week at max of reading and questions and then 3 tests. It is also interesting material that is applicable.
The material is very interesting but the exams are quite difficult. Foote is an amazing lecturer, so that makes it all worth it.
Just do all the old exams a couple days before a test, and you'll be fine.
It's a very passable class -- you can get by with minimal effort, as all the assignments are online, and all the tests are multiple choice. It won't challenge you, and I think the fact that Foote is a great professor is the course's one redeeming quality.
Do the section problem sets, and go to section.
You kind of have to take it if you're interested in concentrating in econ.
Understand the models and how to solve the problems through reading and practice.
This course is really what Ec 10 should be. Professor Foote is a much better (i.e. more engaging) lecturer. He also makes it very clear what is needed to do well in the course. Overall, if you put in the work, you'll do fine.
The homework and reading is not sufficient preparation for the exams.
This class was really useful for helping me understand our own world through the concepts we learned. There are a lot of fundamentals covered in this class and I would recommend it even for those who aren't concentrating in economics and just want to be more knowledgeable about what's going on with our economy.
very good course, foote knows and teaches the material incredibly well. Go to lecture and section when you can, it will pay off...Definitely recommend taking ec 10 first because you will understand the concepts more concretely before jumping into numerical examples
Do all of the section problem sets. They will help you tremendously when it comes to taking the exams.
chris foote is a legend
Hope they move the start time.
This class is similar to Ec10a in that involves a lot of drawing graphs but the professor is really interesting. It is definitely worth going to lecture even if the class is at 9 am. There isn't that much work for this class but the multiple choice tests aren't easy.
Better introductory economic class than Ec10; great option for learning fundamentals of economics if it's something you're interested in learning
Great class, great TFs, very challenging and tricky exams (especially the final). Professor Foote makes 9 am lectures almost bearable, as his lectures are clear, concise, and pretty funny (he throws a few jokes in Mankiw's direction, which I got a kick out of). That being said, MAKE SURE YOU GO TO LECTURE!! He throws in quite a few questions that were only mentioned in lecture, and are not on the presentation slides. Also, even though section is optional, it's a realllly good way to learn the material. TFs for this course are much better than the TFs for 1010a (which is one of the worst classes at Harvard IMO).
Make sure you stay on top of your work.
Prof Foote is scary during exams. Don't sit in the front rows.
If you're studying econ, you should take it... and you have to!
great class and lectures. 9am is doable and don't take 1011b just because of the time. this class is definitely more interesting
Go to lecture. No really. Just do it.It's unfortunate that Professor Foote's lectures are at 9 am, but you will not do well in the course unless you attend them. So make a commitment to getting up in the morning, and you will find it worth it. Professor Foote is an awesome instructor!Read the textbook materials and do the option psets regularly. Keep yourself on a strict work schedule as if these materials are required. The course is relatively hands-off and it is nice during the semester...until a test rolls around and you have 24-hours to cram all of the material you didn't learn or practice into your brain. Be an adult; long-term rewards over instant gratification.
1010b's great, but you should really try to stay on top of the material. Since the only weekly assignment is the Aplia, if you blow off al the work and review until the midterms/final it will be very stressful/semi=overwhelming
This is so much better than Ec10b! Professor Foote actually teaches the course, and makes the course interesting. It gets harder to go to this 9am class as the semester progresses (classes aren't recorded). Reading the book and reviewing past exams is your best bet for doing well in the class.
If you have any interest whatsoever in macroeconomics, this is the class to take.  Otherwise, give it a pass.
It's a good course with a reasonable workload. The class teaches the material well, and you will leave it with a much better understanding of macroeconomics. The only drawback is that the math in the class is pretty lowbrow.
Christopher Foote is a great lecturer and he makes the class. Definitely go to lecture.
This is a phenomenal class. Professor Foote is a very effective lecturer. He seamlessly connects theory to practice and has a wealth of real-world knowledge from his work at the Boston Fed. Words of advice: If the jump from AP ec to ec1010b is wished to be made, some additional work on international economic models should be done beforehand. Also, always go to lecture, because Professor Foote loves to put questions on the exams based on lecture. Definitely don't slack on studying for the final since it is worth so much. Lastly, enjoy the class. It's definitely one of the better required courses.
Do the section problem sets. They will help you way more than the Aplia problems.
honestly, this is a good intro to like stuff you need to know about financial markets. skip Ec10 and go straight to this.
This class is great. I recommend attending as many lectures as possible because Professor Foote is a great lecturer and the material is very interesting. The exams are fair.
This class is great! But spend time to learn stuff outside the psets, which were not super helpful.
If you were good at Ec10 multiple choice style questions you should be able to handle the exams (which make up 90% of the grade).
Availability of course resources online was excellent. This included lecture slides, section notes, and past exams. This eased the process of preparing for exams, which is of utmost importance.
Great course to take in college; very informative and interesting, Prof. Foote has also set up the class in a nice way...not too much busy work, great lecture slides, manageable problem sets, difficult exams but lots to practice form.
The only good part of the class is the Professor. The exams are freakishly hard in contrast to anything else demanded in the course. Generally even if you kill it on the homeworks or the section problems, you're still massively unprepared for the exams.
This class is not hard if you go to lecture. Yes 9am sucks but Foote is really funny and his lectures are very clear. If you go to lecture and section you will get an A. The material is not confusing if you put in the few hours that are required. I suggest doing the readings before lecture.
It's hard and the material is pretty dry.
An extremely useful class, taught by an enthusiastic professor.
Professor Foote is amazing, the course is great and not too challenging. The only downside is that showing up to 9am lecture gets hard, but it's definitely a class you can self-teach for the most part.
It's a very good course for a required one, especially compared to 1010a. Much more similar to the Ec10 style which I enjoyed.
Markedly better than 1010a. Go to lecture. Foote is the best part of the course. Generally really enjoyed the class.
This class is at 9 AM!! It's okay when you actually go, but hard to do well if you go half the time. Decent material, but I don't like the textbook or the online psets. Take it as a concentration requirement; the new models are worth learning about.
Excellent class! Play close attention in lecture because much of what is said will end up on exams. Also do the optional psets; the aplia psets are very basic overviews and the optional psets will serve you much better in strengthening concepts.
although i was not the best student in this course, I would wholeheartedly recommend this course and recommend that students go to class because it was very informative whenever I did go to lecture.
Professor Foote is a fantastic lecturer and he really generates energy and enthusiasm for the content of the class.
PROF. FOOTE IS THE BOMB!
The material is very interesting and expands on knowledge learned from Ec. 10. Additionally, Professor Foote is hilarious.
Awesome class on a very interesting subject. Prof. Foote is great! Does not take much time outside of class although the tests can be quite tricky at times.
Decent class. Foote is great, but it is all tested with multiple choice which makes it pretty unforgiving/arbitrary in grading.
This is not an easy course. The questions are tricky and reward both analytical ability and memorization. Each exam pulls quite a bit from lectures. Go to lectures. 9:00 am may be tough, but the knowledge in this course will give you power, so it is so worth it. I took this course without having taken Ec 10, so it is definitely doable for any freshmen worried about Ec 10 versus Ec 1010.
Despite its 9AM lectures, Prof. Foote is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard. The course material is difficult but engaging, and definitely stuff you should know to be a better citizen. Study for tests by doing all the practice tests provided, and don't push it off till the last minute. Go to lectures!
Just take 1011b. The exams are all multiple choice and end up just punishing you for stupid mistakes. Professor Foote is really nice and pretty good at explaining the concepts, but that's only if you can make it to 9am lecture...on Friday mornings...
Tests are really tough. This class isnt a joke.
Go to lecture, it will make your life a lot easier.
The content and lectures are great, but other aspects of the course lack. Make sure you find resources yourself pretty early on- a good TF or group of friends- or you will find yourself completely confused and without resources.
Tests are annoying and difficult (similar to Gilbert's SLS 20 exams)
This is a wonderful course. Professor Foote is great. Don't worry that it is at 9am, the lectures are worth it. He'll even throw in the occasional joke that is actually funny. The exams are very reasonable, and he wants you to succeed. Take this!!
Everyone, whether an Ec concentrator or not, should take this class to fully understand the world around them
Make sure you take practice tests before the midterms/finals! A lot of them!!
Really important, extremely relevant class to take.
If you're looking for an econ class that actually seems relevant to today's news, take this. Foote is incredible and super approachable as well!
This class is interesting but the exams are very difficult. Try to make it to lecture and section because the section problem sets that aren't required are by far the most help in learning the material. However, be ready for the exams to be hard and annoying as they are all multiple choice and often tricky in their wording.
Make sure you go to class and study a ton of the old tests and work on fully understanding money supply and fiscal policy
Ec 1010b is an interesting overview of macroeconomics and our situation today.
This is a good course, if economics is part of your degree plan. I would not take it for fun.
As long as you stay on top of your work, you will do fine in this course.
Know all content for the exams.
This course is extremely interesting. Professor Foote is a good lecturer and very helpful at office hours. He really makes you see the importance of what you are studying.
Tough it out and go to lectures.  You came to Harvard for the challenge, and view getting out of bed at 8 as one.  Foote is a funny guy, and he may be the one of the best teachers I have at Harvard.  The class overall is pretty simple....still that intuitive thinking that you find in 10b, but more sophisticated models and a bit more math.  The problem sets are a breeze. Take it!
This course was very great and very rewarding. Professor Foote is also such an engaging lecturer, who gives a very organized review of course material from the book. He has a great sense of humor and makes the class fun and interesting. You will come out of the course feeling like you learned so much about economics and also the world around you. Now I feel I could explain to someone what happened during the financial crisis, which is very important and beneficial!
This class is awesome and definitely worth your while!
The online problem sets are fun and easy- you can probably do them all in the first week of classes.
If you can get out of Ec10 and want a great Macro course, take this one. it is totally doable with basic macro from high school. Professor Foote is great, knows his stuff, and actually does this for
It's pretty interesting, and Prof Foote is great.
Professor Foote's personal anecdotes liven up the lectures and make the material much more easy comprehend. Sections are very well organized and really push you to think deeper about concepts addressed in lectures.
Be aware, this is a very fast-paced class. Professor Foote is a great lecturer but the aplia psets are tedious and the exams (consisting of solely multiple choice questions) are very tricky and requires memorization of material that is presented in lecture but not necessarily covered in the lecture slides. Section was not very helpful, look over the psets before the exams though and make sure that you go to lecture. 9am lecture three days a week is rough but attendance is necessary if you want to make sure getting a B/B-
This is an awesome course. It sparked my interest in macro. Professor Foote is amazing and knows his subject. Go to lecture! He tests on what he says in lecture.
This class is brutal for 2 reasons. For 1, it's taught at 9 am which for me, was very difficult to get up for. Second, if you don't attend lecture or section (which is optional), then you're at a severe disadvantage for the exams, which are incredibly nitpicky and ask questions about things talked about in lecture but not in the lecture notes or reading. Overall the info is really interesting and useful, but it could definitely be a better class.
It's a pretty enjoyable requirement.
I like this course because it provides you with a good grasp of macroeconomics that is helpful for higher level economics courses or even for every day life. However, problem sets are not at all indicative of exams. Make sure you go to lecture, as a lot of what you need to know is explained well by Professor Foote.
Take this class if you have the slightest interest in macroeconomics, with the focus on the conceptual, rather than the mathematical, approach. You learn a lot of applicable and important economic models that open your eyes to several real world applications and situations.
Great class! Definitely make an effort to attend lecture
The psets were a bit annoying (in terms of when they were due) but they are helpful to keep you at the right learning place.
It's much better than 1010a
Do not take it unless you have to.
If you just do the work then you will be fine.
Foote is an interesting lecturer and this course is important for understanding macroeconomics.
The problems sets were easy, but the midterms and finals were entirely multiple choice; it's creatively dead, and for me punished me due to format rather than my understanding of the material. I hope this changes in the future, but the structure is understandable given the class size. Also it's at 9AM.
Great lectures, great textbook, and great material. One of the best classes I have taken after two years. You will leave this class as a better informed citizen of the world. Professor Foote's passion for the subject is infectious. The workload is very reasonable.
Not quantitative. Good for policy. Moderately difficult.
This course is more interesting than Ec10 and the Aplia psets are interesting and manageable. However, the exams are extremely difficult and written to trick you.
Only take if if you absolutely have to.
If you're considering taking this class, you probably have to.
Exams can be very difficult even if you feel you have a good grasp of the material.
Good class even if you are not concentrating in econ.  Good if you just want to learn about the world of economics.
Go to section because the section problem sets are more useful than Aplia
It's pretty hard but take it if you want to concentrate in Economics.
Really not a hard course. The rote memorization right before midterm/finals is a bit annoying.
do the work and you will see the results
This class is great. Literally the only thing I'd do differently is have it taught at a reasonable time.
Professor Foote is a good lecturer, but be prepared to cover a lot of material in a short amount of time, and to be left sitting in your room wondering how you'll ever know what's on the test. Test questions are also unfair and strange in that you have to check off all the right boxes to get a point...The tests are great at evaluating total mastery, but not so great if you know most of it. it's terrible if you know, say 80% of the material, but find the marginal cost too high for the last 20 hours of finetuning. Be prepared to memorize EVERYTHING if you want to feel prepared.
If getting a secondary or concentrating in economics it is a must, other than that if passionate about economics take it, or wanting to learn about today's economy.
I mean.......it's required. So only take it if you need to. A lot of theory similar to Ec 10. Although the last few lectures on the Great Recession of 2008 are useful for life.
Professor Foote is an excellent teacher. His lectures are engaging and very interesting. The psets are nice and easy but the material can be challenging to grasp if you don't have some background in macroeconomics.
Class is relevant to real events, but much of the material on the exams about these real events is not covered in class.
This class has good lectures and is generally interesting. Professor Foote is great, and after the monstrosity that is 1010a, this class will seem like heaven. Caution: This class meets three times a week at 9am. Uncaution: this is a good class, you should take it.
If you like mathematics more, take 1011b. If you like a lot more real-life stuff that is conceptual, take this course.
If you are an Ec concentrator who hasn't taken multivariable, like myself, you have to take this course, so you might as well enjoy it. 1010b is relatively painless and the lectures, while being at 9 AM, are engaging. Just make sure to actually go to lecture and section-- if your section leader isn't helpful you can always go to another one. I made the mistake of oversleeping through lecture and skipping section this year and this did no wonders to my grade.
This course is a great course on macroeconomic theory with a strong application and study of real world events.
I could recommend this class to anyone looking to learn more about the macroeconomy. Especially the lectures on the financial system were fascinating and taught quite a bit, which anyone interested in current events and the political economy would enjoy. Wouldn't say it's the best class though...
The class is really interesting and Professor Foote is an incredible lecturer. The workload isn't too bad. But the tests are terrible and they will be the most frustrating and stressful ones you've taken so far in econ (which is saying something-- Ec10 and Ec1010a exams were no cakewalk).
The professor is awesome and generates interest in the things he is talking about which made the class interesting.
Take it, you learn so much!! Professor Foote is amazing at lecturing and gives lots of As.
it's necessary, not too bad, you have to take it if you're looking at this so why even worry?
The lectures, while informative, are not very interactive. Additionally, the section component of the class is optional and doesn't count for a grade, so there is not much incentive to attend. I feel like I would have learned more if section was a bigger part of the course.
For an introductory economics course, this one is actually pretty great comparatively. Professor Foote is not only a good lecturer and makes an effort to keep things interesting, the Aplia p-sets are also helpful in reinforcing the material. However, be wary of the exams as they are each worth a significant portion of your overall grade and are rather difficult! You really do have to put in the effort to study if you want to do well in the course.
Interesting course. It may seem easy but be careful with the exams, they are harder then they look.
Very clear lecture slides / readings will make this class straightforward and interesting. The material is applicable to the modern world, which is always a great plus!
Make sure to prepare thoroughly for exams by reviewing the practice tests. Concepts are recycled from year to year, and scoring format of exams is very tough.
Professor Foote is the best! Try to get to know him if you can.
Go to lecture, Prof Foote is a great lecturer and the info is interesting
This is a really interesting course and Professor Foote is a great teacher.  The class is almost no work and the exams are relatively easy if you study.
This was an amazing followup to Ec 10 and Ec 1010a -- the class was perfectly organized, the workload was not too heavy, the slides and lecture were very helpful, and as long as you studied the material on your own and went to section, you would do fine. Foote is great and applied everything we learned to real life matters.
The exams are very difficult and the class overall is not easy to do well in. Professor Foote is a good lecturer but going to section is definitely recommended because it is hard to make sense of all the material just from lecture.
Professor Foote is a great instructor. This class is easier than Ec10, but still very hard. You will spend a great deal of time trying to figure our a lot of things by yourself...
It's so hard. I took this class mostly as an elective just because I thought it would be valuable information and thinking that it would be on the easier side because that's what people say but it's not. I went to every lecture, went to optional section, and still didn't do well on the exams. Don't take it unless you have to.
Go to all the lectures!
This is a great course.  Uoi learn a bunch of useful info and Professor Foote is a great lecturer that really understands how to get points across to students.
Lecture: early, but really engaging because the professor is greatSection: useful for exams and covering more difficult conceptsReading: useful substitute for lecture for the most partExams: pretty formulaic and nice, though sometimes they can surprise youProblem Sets: super easy, but also helpful for concepts
This is a GREAT class. The fact that the lecture takes place at 9 am is unfortunate as some students do not attend lecture very often, but the lectures are excellent and you should definitely go. Foote is very clear, intelligent, and engaging, and he makes the material fun and also relevant. He often relates the material to the work he does in the Boston Fed, which is really cool. This class is much more interesting and exciting than 1010a. There is also very little work-  I rarely spent longer than an hour per week on this class. The low workload can be a problem, however, as it is easy to fall behind in material, and the midterms are not easy.
psets - easylectures- okay, most people skip themtests - annoyingly tricky and don't seem to be that good at testing understanding of the materialoverall - a fine class if you need it for some requirement, but wouldn't recommend otherwise
Solid class, but it's at 9 AM. Take 1011b if you have the math.
do section psets
Class is much more enjoyable than 1010a.
It is probably the most useful class a student could take at Harvard.
I took this class to satisfy one of my secondary requirements and thoroughly enjoyed it. Foote so far is the best Economics lecturer I've had on campus. Do be warned about 9am lectures though...
I loved this course. Professor Foote is fantastic and teaches the subject material in an interesting and easy-to-understand way. He connects the material to actual events, making the subject all the more fascinating and relevant. If you did not enjoy Ec 1010a--or even if you loved Ec 1010a--don't worry, you will love this course.
Only take this class if you are actually interested in macro or plan on concentrating or getting a secondary in Ec. The material is interesting, but the exams are a pain, and they count for almost all of your grade.
Only take if an Ec concentrator.
very little work. easy class. boring, but you can get away with not attending lecture ever (good lecture notes are posted online and the textbook is good)
study a LOT for the midterms and final
Even if you're not an Ec major, it's still pretty interesting to learn about the economy, especially what happened in the financial crisis. And if you're an Ec major, you'll enjoy this far more than Ec1010a. Time flies by in the 1 hr lecture.
There is NO partial credit on his exams which has a very high chance of tanking your exam grades. It's definitely a new exam format that I had never seen and was pretty unprepared for that in my study methods.
This is a great way to learn econ, but only so it if you can commit to coming to lecture, since you'll learn so much more that way.
This is a solid course. It teaches you what you need to know in a very efficient manner. Don't be put off by the 9am lecture times--you can survive the course even without attending them (though I would recommend that you go). The assignments and exams are easy. I took this as a fifth course and it worked out well.
Prof is great and funny, exams are neither
Would only recommend to concentrators or those pursuing a secondary in Economics.  If you enjoyed Ec10b, you will enjoy this class.
Do the work and you will be fine.
great class - take it
Ec 1010b is a great class. Professor Foote makes 9am lectures enjoyable and the material is really interesting. I recommend taking it even if you are not an ec concentrator- you learn important concepts about the general economy that every student should know before they graduate.
Take advantages of the TF's office hours and the abundant practice exams!
Study very hard for the tests
The tests are difficult even though they are multiple choice. DO the practice tests.
Chris Foote is an awesome and entertaining professor and will make the concepts more accessible and easier to learn.
This class is pretty interesting, especially relative to the other required economics classes (10a, 10b, 1010a). Professor Foote clearly cares about what he does and makes the lectures interesting for the students (9am lecture is very hard to make). The psets are extremely easy (online and basically everyone gets 95%+ on those). The class is very organized with all lecture nots online. The concepts are actually useful if you take the time to learn them. It is very easy to fall behind because lectures are very tempting to miss (9am). If you can stay on top of the material, this isn't a hard class.
As a Government concentrator, I'm very glad I took this course. You learn a great deal about monetary and fiscal policy, floating and fixed exchange rates, the IS/LM model, international development, and more. There is no calculus involved (or that you have to follow along with), and it is a minimal time commitment. Professor Foote is an excellent and committed lecturer.Overall, you learn a ton of critically important material with no busy work.
Points to remember (unless they change the class): No lecture videos, 9am lecture, and entirely multiple choice exams. Proceed with caution if not a morning person. But other than that, the class is decent. Not enough study aids though. Other than section problem sets and old exams (no explanations to the exams answers), there are no practice problems to work with.
9am is tough but the class is good
It is a good class, but be prepared well for it.
This is an awesome course if you're interested in intermediate macroeconomics
Be focused. There aren't that many assignments so it's easy to skip doing work until the exams.
did not like the test format
Foote is a great professor.  Very organized and on his game.
I mean. It's a concentration requirement.
If you're an economics concentrator, definitely take this class.  The professor is a great lecturer and keeps the material engaging.  Workload is not bad at all with the readings and psets taking less than 4 hours a week usually.
Make sure exams don't overlap with other classes. Do the practice exams. Memorize the random facts. Try to attend lecture, even if it's early in the morning because there are random facts from lecture that pop up on the test.
Foote is a great lecturer! He is knowledgable and passionate about the topic. The assignments are not too time consuming but helpful for learning the material. The tests are also a good format.
This is a very good class. Having taken Ec 1010a, I thought that this class would be pretty badly run as its equivalent in micro. However, the professor makes a difference, and since Foote is a very good teacher and always has interesting things to talk about, you will most likely enjoy taking this class as I did.
Much better than 1010a! Take it! Online p-sets, enough said.
This class was so much better than 1010a.  Foote is a much better lecturer and class was super intersting. The grading system on the exams can be tough, but I enjoyed the class.
This class is not fun.  Going to lecture is not necessary at all.  The aplia can be done with the control f function and the digital textbook.  The section problem sets and recent old exams are really the only things you need to prepare for the exams, most of the questions are directly from these two things.  Also go to section.
They will get so much out of it
I never thought exclusively multiple-choice tests were difficult...until now.
Only take this class if you are truly interested in the material or if you are an economics concentrator.
This class doesn't have much work during regular weeks, but the exams are very hard.
Foote is an incredible professor. This is not easy subject matter to teach, but he does it well.
Tough class but the information is interesting
The course material was very interesting, but lectures were at times less engaging and it was never completely clear where we should get our material for the course from.
very small workload outside of studying for tests, but tests are extremely difficult
Professor Foote is really amazing and actually very passionate. Amazing lecturer. Class is easy.
The lectures are great - Foote is funny and uses lots of real life examples. He can explain things well, but he goes very fast. The assignments are the worst part. 3 multiple choice tests make up 90% of your grade, and it's the kind of MC where the questions are innately difficult. Trick question type stuff, so you can feel good about material and still feel awful about the exam
Foote is an engaging lecturer. To that extent, do go to lecture and take good notes! You'll need it to study for the 2 midterms and final, which make up the vast majority of your grade - in fact, the final is worth 50%, so you basically need to ace the final to get an A in the course. Do as many practice exams as you can.
Don't take it if you aren't an ec concentrator.
The tests are extremely difficult, and many of the questions are designed to trick you. This course takes time and energy in order to do well.
Very interesting class, probably take pass/fail if as elective b/c tough. Foote is great, obviously knows a ton about econ. Keeps up with current events
Professor Foote is incredible and makes the subject matter enjoyable.
This is a very nice class. Professor Foote is a great lecturer and teaches the material well. Also not a lot of work which is nice.
I mean as an Ec concentrator (unless you're taking 1011) you have to take this.  Foote is great- definitely take advantage of his office hours and review sessions.  Actually go to lecture/watch his lectures online.  It's a tough course- the exams are AP exams on steroids.
I wouldn't take this class unless it is a concentration requirement. Somewhat interesting but personally found it too difficult to take as a non-requirement.
This course is a fun introduction to macroeconomics. To succeed, I would recommend focusing on optional problem set concepts.
Don't take this class if you are not an Econ concentrator.
Really solid course! Thoroughly goes over modern macroeconomic theory. Go to section, read the textbook, and do the section problem sets (they really are helpful in preparing for tests). Professor Foote is great  get to know him, too! Find a section leader that's good! Foote really makes the material applicable to the real world by constantly referencing diagrams/reports from Fed.
Take the class. Zero busy work, great material, you learn a ton about very relevant information, and Foote is a fantastic lecturer.
Professor Foote is a very good professor. His lectures are not mandatory but they are very interesting and allow you to actually get interested in the material. The online quizzes aren't too hard but the tests are tough. All multiple choice seems nice, but it can be very difficult. Curve is super helpful
This is a good class with a great professor, however the midterms can destroy you if you don't study ahead of time and don't do all the reading and section problem sets in a timely fashion.
I took this course without having taken ec10 or any other economics course before, and I was fine. I did understand some basic economics from reading The Economist since 10th grade, but the credit should go to Professor Foote, who is a phenomenal lecturer, capable of explaining complex concepts in very simple, clear language. I don't know about Ec1010a, but it is definitely possible to skip straight to Ec1010b. This is a fantastic course. The material is interesting and really useful!I do, however, have one warning to future students. This course does not require a lot from its students on a weekly basis, especially now that lectures are filmed. If you do not watch the lectures until the midterms and finals come around you, you will find yourself cramming a lot of material in a few days. It will be painful, and it will cost you. The exams are designed to trick you and test your knowledge to the fullest, so try to put a decent amount of work into the class on a weekly basis. Block out time in your schedule to watch the lectures, look at the problem sets, take the weekly quiz, and if you're ever confused, go to office hours. It's so simple, but so many students, myself included, did not do such basic things. If you follow this advice, you will do really well in this course.
Stay on top of section problem sets and quizzes
It is challenging but very interesting.
Lecture videos are great...if you keep up with them. 9 AM class may be less than ideal, and I often resorted to watching lectures later. It's very easy to fall behind especially with how fast the course moves and how close the midterms are together. Take thorough notes, read the chapters summaries from the textbook before you start the lecture of the chapter, and definitely do the section problem sets, even if they aren't required for a grade.
Very difficult!
I really loved the content of this class. professor Foote is an engaging lecturer and has plenty of cool life experience in economics to augment the concepts he is teaching. Be weary of the exams though. While they are all multiple choice, the exams are extremely challenging and require a lot of studying/mastery of the material. I didn't do the optional psets and I regret it. When Foote says to do them at the beginning of the year just listen to him. I didn't take Ec in high school, but I took Ec10, and I would say you probably should have a grasp of economic concepts before taking this class. Don't be scared if you haven't taken Ec 10 though.
It is a fun class! I know that 9 am lectures are not ideal, but attending them will help you do well in the course. All of the material that you will need is either in the slides or the section problem set answers. Make sure to start studying off these 2 sources early and take as many practice exams as possible.
It's a requirement, so not much to be said about whether to take it. Professor Foote does a good job with the course. I'd really recommend reading the book and attending lecture. While they do record it, it is very easy to fall behind, and the exams are difficult.
Keep up with section problem sets and you'll have a much easier time on the midterm.
This class is hard. All graded assignments are multiple choice, so if you don't test well or second guess yourself, it is hard to do well. Additionally, the exams are really hard.
Make sure you watch the lectures. Foote is great but tests can be somewhat frustrating.
It is not much work week to week but preparing for exams takes a lot of time and knowing how to respond to multiple choice questions are key, exam is all multiple choice
Professor Foote is awesome!! This is an actually fun ec course that really broadens your understanding of markets.
The class is enjoyable and Professor Foote is a great lecturer. However, the exams are quite difficult and may not directly align with what is emphasized in lecture or on the lecture slides.
The class is taught well, but ultimately the material is extremely boring. Don't take unless you are concentrating in economics.
Take this class! It's not easy, but it's so worth it. I learned a lot and feel much more informed about the economic implications of government policies, international events, or domestic changes. The class really isn't easy and some of the material isn't straightforward, so make sure you are keeping up with the material!
Dry course material, dry quizzes with no feedback other than a score, and decent psets. It's quite a boring class, but alas, it's a concentration requirement.
Only take this class if you have to. It's boring, the material can be hard to pick up on, and it's not particularly well taught. This class is almost no work most of the year but around exam times it is extremely stressful because you realize you learned almost nothing all year.
bad tests
Requirement or not, this was a really engaging and interesting course. Professor Foote made the material relatable, and the TF's synthesized the lessons in section in order to prepare us for the exams. As long as you attend lectures and sections, you will likely succeed in this class.
Take it because you have to. Thats about it
Way easier than ec1010A, more interesting than 10B
It is important to go to lecture or watch the videos so that you keep up with the material.
Foote is a great lecturer, so definitely try to show up to lectures (even though they're early). Overall, the amount of work is very reasonable, but be careful about slacking off until the exams because then it takes a lot to learn the material all at once.
1010b was a pretty great course, but you are definitely responsible for keeping up with the material. Foote is a great lecturer, and makes the 9am class worth it.
Lectures are filmed now!
this course is a requirement of ec concentrators so it is difficult to say that I would recommend it to anyone outside of the economics department. But i really enjoyed Chris Foote's teaching style (humorous, engaging, straight-forward). I would definitely give it a positive review when other Ec concentrators are asking.
Painless way to fill an Ec secondary requirement. I did very little work on a weekly basis and then crammed for the exams pretty standard for Ec
Really great class, if you don't like multiple-choice exams, however, you might want to steer clear
You'll get as much out of the course as you put in. If you never go to lecture or section, you'll struggle. If you go to those, and stay engaged with the material, you'll do well. Simple.
I'm an econ secondary who took this instead of Spring 1010a, and I was happy with my choice - I think it's more interesting, especially if you're a Gov, Hist, or humanities person into the policy/history side of econ. Foote's a good lecturer who makes the material relatively painless. Still, the final requires a LOT of preparation (you basically need to memorize the textbook) and the recorded lectures make it easy to fall behind. Try to stay on top of weekly work so you don't fall behind.
Foote is a great professor who really knows what he is doing and he cares a ton about his students! Make sure you meet him on a personal level because it is very easy to just be a number in the huge class.
Pretty poorly taught course and multiple choice doesn't test for knowledge just tricky and needs you to learn the style. Boring class, should've taken 1011 in retrospect. Don't take unless you want to be poorly taught and bored.
Fairly interesting course, but be careful - very little work is required of you (psets are optional and you only need to do weekly quizzes), which makes it VERY easy to fall behind on material and bomb the midterms/finals that constitute your entire grade. The exams are tough, so prepare well for them.
Do the readings and Psets. Watch all the lectures. Do not fall behind or you'll get crushed. Foote is great.
This is an important course to take if you are looking to gain a good understanding about the macroeconomic world. It is not necessarily easy to get a good grade, but the work load is very manageable. Professor Foote's lectures are also awesome.
This class is horrible.  The midterms are multiple choice and your grades are affectively random because of it.  It doesn't test how much you know at all. My friend got a 29/33 and guessed on most of them without knowing the material and I got a 25/33 having watched every lecture and prepping him.  Im not sure if it is offered at another time but if it is take it then and avoid this one with Foote.  (Great teacher thought)
Best of ec intro concentration requirements!
Just keep up with the work. It's incredibly easy to never read and never go to lecture (9am lectures certainly encourage skipping). You *can* get nearly perfect scores on all the quizzes without ever exposing yourself to the material. But it's a LOT of material, and you won't be able to catch up in a couple days before the exam.
This class is set apart from other economic theory classes by the fact that Professor Foote will teach the theory and the models and then use them to explain real economic data and phenomena that occur in the real world. I loved this class.
This class definitely does a much better job teaching you macroeconomics than Ec 10b does. However, beware that the midterms and especially final are much more difficult than the rest of the class. Really try to do the p-sets on your own before section (since they're not mandatory) or at least go through the p-sets with the answer key afterwards to work through some of the more complex concepts in review for the exams. Because this course whips through so much material so quickly, I'd definitely recommend keeping up with readings in the textbook to enforce the material covered in lecture and attending all sections. Make sure to review slides, computer quizzes, and p-sets before the exams and doing the previous years' exams by far is the most helpful way to prepare yourself, since some of the questions are similar or repeated across exams.
Lectures are very interesting
Foote is an incredible lecturer - he's extremely knowledgeable and very engaging. Stay on top of lectures - the class covers a lot of content and it is easy to fall behind if you try to cram at the end. The exams are entirely multiple choice which is tricky. Psets are optional but would recommend doing them.
This class is hard, but also rewarding. You do learn a lot and the way the class is structured makes it easier for you.
A fantastic course - a thorough and useful overview of macro. Chris Foote is wonderful, an exceptional lecturer!
It's a good class -- just prepare well for the exams (and attend/watch lectures) because the multiple choice tests are tricky
Students good at quantitative reasoning/mathematical manipulation are at less of a competitive advantage here, because all the exams are multiple-choice questions which contain a significant amount of qualitative or factual questions (i.e. you either know the fact or you don't), so don't expect to see the kind of exam structure that 1010A has. That being said, I suppose this is better for developing economic intuition.
This course is taught in a very different style than 1010a. Professor Foote is a very nice person and is interested in the subject matter, but the lectures are very dry overall, and the midterms and final exam are frustrating in that the multiple choice don't really allow you to prove what you know at times.
This class is based solely on three exams, two midterms and a final.  Make sure to take the practice tests and study for them, as they can be tricky.
Make sure to go to lecture and do the weekly psets. Then you'll do really well.
Exams are hard, prepare well in advance
Foote is a great lecturer. Class is really early so skip that bad boy and watch the lectures later. The quizzes are laughably easy, most of the answers from the textbook if you read it and they're usually in order. The exams are hard though. It's multiple choice but you still need to know what you're doing.
Great class, very interesting. Great connection to real world topics.
Foote is great.
Professor Foote is an engaging lecturer and tries to help students fundamentally understand content.  The added flexibility of recorded lectures makes it easy to stay caught-up.  Don't let yourself slide behind on the lectures or you will struggle to catch up for the midterms.
If you don't have to take it, don't take it.
An amazing lecturer, important topic, and a requirement for study of economics.
You have to be consistent and self-motivated to do well in this course. There is a lot of material to sift through, but if you are consistent you can do well.
do the readings and keep up with the lectures and you're set
Foote is a good lecturer, and make sure to attend review sessions. Not that bad in the end. Only multiple choice questions. 40% gets A's or A-'s.
Professor Foote is great and really funny. He explains everything really well. I heard it's much better than Ec1010a so if you only have to take one take this one. The weekly quizzes take less than an hour usually and besides that there are two midterms and a final. So on a weekly basis, the workload is not bad at all. This year they recorded the lectures, which was perfect for those unable to wake up early (aka me). But make sure you watch them; a lot of exam questions are based on them.
Foote is a great lecturer and he posts videos online if you don't want to wake up for the 9am! overall, I liked the material a lot, but the tests are difficult. Take his practice exams!!
It's not quite as bad as 1010a, but it's still not a great course. Go to section and try to stay on top of the psets. Alec is a really helpful TF so try to go to his section if possible.
Great, fun class with a fantastic professor.
This course overall isn't too difficult, except the fact that your entire grade is determined by three tests. Usually students underestimate the difficulty of the first test and end up playing catch up the rest of the semester which really sucks. All you have to do is watch the three lectures a week, take the online quiz seriously and then take all the practice exams. If you follow those three rules, you will be successful in this class. Most students end up not watching the lectures and they get lose out on the midterms.
The lectures/nexture slides give all the information you need to perform well in the class. The book can be helpful but isn't necessary for a solid A- in the class. The all multiple choice exams can be a little frustrating.
Make sure to keep up with the lectures and the class material. Read the textbook, complete the problem sets, and read through the lecture notes.
Foote is really good at making straightforward material interesting by relating it to the real world.
This is a great intermediate macro course.  Try to stay caught up with the material, even with non-mandatory sections/assignments.
The class is well taught. Foote is a good lecturer. However, the exams are all multiple choice and tricky.
Not as hard as ec 10b or 1010a. no psets, lectures are videoed. interesting material
Take it for Foote
Professor Foote gives excellent lectures, and he's also really good about providing office hours. If you put in the time to study the materials (do the practice exams before the tests) you'll do great. I was also able to complete the course without reading the textbook at all.
Professor Foote is an entertaining lecturer.
Hard class if you don't put in a lot of work; all multiple choice makes tests very tricky; use section as a valuable resource
It's a great class that gives you a deeper understanding of the economy in the United States and the world.
Attend section and read the textbook!
Stay on top of lectures and material. Do not get behind.
Professor Foote is incredibly engaging and knowledgeable. He knows the real world application of the theory that you will learn in class and that makes lecture both interesting and fun.
Go to class
Better than 1010A
Take this class. Super engaging.
Stay on top of your work
hard and reading a lot
Much less painful than I'd thought coming in - lectures are recorded (so nice), and Foote makes it more interesting. Not a fan of the multiple choice exams, but not much work week to week.
Only take this course if you have to because you're concentrating in economics.
You cannot "strategically" learn for this course and just learn enough to pass the tests - you need to learn the material deeply and thoroughly in order, quite simply, to pass.
Professor Foote is an incredibly knowledgeable professor with amazing background in Economics that really comes through in his lectures.His teaching style is much better than 1010a.The class consists of 3 exams, all multiple choice + weekly quizzes. It is entirely lecture based and the lectures are filmed.To do well in this class you HAVE TO watch the lectures, go to section and do the previous exams.
A lot of material is covered and explained very well. This prepares you well for the tests, but there are usually a few questions that are about facts he mentions briefly in lecture that are hard to catch and remember for the test. However, this year, the lectures were recorded. This significantly improved my experience with the course as it is very early in the morning. So, with the recorded lectures, I could watch it back at a later time instead.
Make sure you watch the lectures and read the slides and you will be good. The class builds on top of itself really nicely so just keep up with the work.
I liked Ec 1010b a lot. Professor Foote was a great lecturer who was always really prepared for class. The material was interesting and combined a nice review of some topics from Ec 10 in addition to building upon those topics and introducing many others. The problem sets are also very helpful.
Tests are convoluted, and definitely feel like they're made to trick you in some instances.
1010b is an AMAZING class; I cannot recommend it enough. Professor Foote is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard, and I wish he taught more courses in the department. He explains the material so well and talks a lot about how macro concepts apply to the real world. I feel like I learned so much in this class, and I know I will continue to use the material from 1010b for the rest of my life. The lectures were videotaped this year, so don't let the early time deter you, although it's worth it to go to class because Prof. Foote is a great lecturer. The section problem sets and the practice tests are great preparation for the exams.
You have to take it. It's not amazing.
Professor Foote is amazing- he does a great job of making perhaps some dry stuff very interesting to learn. He has a great sense of humor about him, and is overall a great person, which is very clear in his teaching style and his willingness to help students. He takes the time to answer questions before and during lectures, which is a big deal in big lectures, and he also does a great job of systematically explaining concepts. Especially in ec courses, there are usually a lot of steps that go into finding the final answer, and he is amazing at going through each of those steps logically to help you understand the material. It is very clear that he wants you to learn a lot in this course and do as well as possible.
1010b is a great way to familiarize oneself with the workings of the US economy
Take it if you have to or if you are very interested in economic policy!
must stay on track, don't get behind
Foote is incredible. He cracks such funny jokes. I am so glad that lecture was recorded. In fact, I concentrated more with the videos because I could pause and increase speed whenever I wanted. DEFINITELY DO THE PSETS. Go to section for sure.For the exams, you should know that the questions are divided by chapters, so to prepare, read the book, look at the slides, do the pset and then do all past exams for that chapter to figure out trends. Highly recmommend this course. Foote is great. Take him out to classroom to table or faculty dinner for sure.
Brilliantly taught; a great class that will give you a real appreciation for economics, Prof Foote is entertaining and always relates the topics to the real world. The exams are tough and the concepts challenging, but can be taken without Ec10a/b as all of the topics are reviewed from basics. Section is optional, but keeping up with the textbook is highly recommended and do not fall behind with the recorded lectures - the 9am is worth it
The content is extremely useful and important to understand.
9am lectures are brutal, and there are no graded problem sets, which is a blessing and a curse. Be prepared to do a lot of studying on your own, especially for the final.
only if majoring in econ
Look at the weekly PSETS before the exams. Do all of the practice tests because a lot of questions are repeated. Try to stay on top of your work as much as possible.
Professor Foote is a phenomenal lecturer. He made the material seem so easy to understand and he's always willing to help. It's a pretty large class so your score is often at the behest of the curve.
It accomplishes the concentration requirement and that is about it.
multiple choice is annoying but overall the course is very well run
Great course, and the material feels very useful.
Pretty boring and morning class isn't ideal, but it's something you have to go through if you are an Ec concentrator.
Better than 1010a. Easier than 1011b. Required for Ec concentrators.
Just study very hard for the exams!
Professor Foote is the only professor I've ever had at Harvard that I felt has genuinely cared about his students' intellectual development and personal enjoyment of the material. Harvard would be a much more engaging, instructive, and worthwhile institution is more professors had even half the teaching ability and charisma of Professor Foote. I have nothing but the utmost respect and admiration for this man.
Prof Foote is an extremely engaging lecture. GO TO LECTURE IT IS WORTH IT.
Foote will guide you through fascinating material and equip you with a new set of tools to consider issues of economics and public policy. Ec 1010b is a "fair" class: attend lectures, do your homework, and you'll do fine.
if you have to take it for ec, then it is what it is. but the course overall is challenging, but worth it in my opinion. you'll learn a lot and the modifications to ec10
Professor Foote is among the best lecturers you will come across in the Economics department. Be sure to attend lecture even though they are held at 9 AM, because some in-class material will be covered in the exams. The tests can be challenging so prepare well for them. Overall, Econ 1010b is a solid course for concentrators and students pursuing secondaries.
This class was a very good class; it was very straightforward and you really learn a lot. The coursework is manageable, and professor Foote was pretty engaging. I came into the class with reluctance but came out enjoying learning the material. Definitely better than 1010a.
This is one of the classes I've disliked the nost at Harvard, a nesrssary evil
Professor Foote does a great job of engaging students particularly at a 9 AM start time, as many reviews in past years have indicated. The start time can be difficult, and questions appear on exams that were only brought up in lectures, but forcing yourself to go to class can help your day be more productive as a whole. The only intimidating part of this class is that exams comprise 90% of the grade (20% on each of the two midterms, and 50% final), but there's also ample preparation for exams - Foote gives many past years' exams and section problem sets that when done together are excellent prep.
Macro enthusiasts, this course is for you.
So much better than ec 1010a, but still challenging
GO TO LECTURE. The textbook is helpful for basic concepts, but there is a lot of material covered/emphasized in lecture that you can't get from the textbook (and this is the material that will come up on exams).
do practice exams
This course is very well taught but you will have to put in the time yourself to really learn the material beyond the surface (the exams require you to have in depth knowledge of the material).
Stay up to date with material and try to take the quizzes closed book then go back and check answers.  Over-prepare for the tests, they were really tricky.
Go to lecture, do the PSETS, read the book. Obvious, but you really must do it.
Attend section, it will be extremely helpful for midterms and the final.
Great professor! Interesting content.
Get some coffee
Great course for econ students. Foote is a good professor and nice guy.
great class - foote is amazing. def go to lecture, cuz he will cover stuff that you won't be able to get just from reading the book. 9 am is brutal, but suck it up and go
it's solid
It's better than Ec10 but still kind of boring.
Amazing class with great info
This class is difficult mainly due to the fact that it takes place at 9AM M/W/F. The subject material is not that bad but it can be difficult to learn on your own. Assuming that you don't go to lecture, start preparing for exams early.
Professor Foote is a great lecturer. Definitely go to class. It's at 9 am which is a pain but try to go to lecture. You won't regret it. The exams and finals are very systematic, although this year's final was not easy. You won't be graded for your p-sets but going to section to go over it was very helpful. Make sure you get a good TF and if you did you can just attend another TF's section. If Elaine is still there go to her section. There are also weekly quizzes which aren't hard to do - they are just questions that can be found from the book and sometimes from lecture. Also don't waste money on purchasing the book - you can definitely find the pdf version online.
Foote is really great.
Foote is great!
Take if you want to major in Econ. Otherwise, it's not really worth it in you have already taken ec 10b
Similar to 10b, lack of turned in homework puts pressure on studying for exams, in a good way.
This class was astronomically better than Econ 1010a, and I actually like Professor Foote and his witty sense of humor. Class on MWF at 9 AM was tough, but you definitely need to go because the lecture slides do not provide all the information you need. Multiple choice exams are always very similar to their practice tests, so it's an easy class to study for (but tests are still tricky). I enjoyed it, and I love econ.
Do not take this class unless you are incredibly familiar with economics. The course goes very fast and the concepts are complicated in how they rely on each other and often skip around.
I have done very well in every other economics class I've taken at Harvard, but I found the tests in this class to be way too hard. They are entirely multiple choice, but don't really test you on what you know or how well you understand the material, but instead they try to trick you.
It is a difficult course and vital that you pay attention during lecture
Exam structure is pretty annoying and difficult. Material isn't too bad and is actually fairly interesting. Not much work outside of class.
Take this course
If you are not taking this class specifically for you Ec concentration requirements I would say proceed with caution. I did the ec series freshman year but am not an ec concentrator and decided on a whim that I would take this class for the sake of "learning" and for "fun" and with the possibility of getting an ed secondary in mind. Foote is a pretty good lecturer but if you don't think you will be able to wake up to take this class/ won't make it to lecture then think about if you should actually sign up for it. I also think a lot of the learning that took for place was crammed because there are not assignments (except for the computer quizzes which are not really representative of the types of questions that are asked on the exams and don't really require you to learn any information).
Good class; enjoyed Professor Foote's lectures. Workload isn't too heavy; there's a weekly quiz online and psets are done in section. Pretty much your entire grade is based on tests which is kind of scary. The exams were generally fair though sometimes minute details from lecture slides were on the tests. Some of the test questions were tricky too. I went to and paid attention in lecture and didn't even know the exam questions "As we discussed in class..."
Ec1010b is a very standard economics class.  Not extraordinary difficult or easy.  Foote is a good lecturer, and despite the early hour, attending is crucial if you want to do well!
Go to lecture whenever you can, as there is material covered in lecture that appears on the test and is not on the lecture slides. You can easily get away without going to section, but be sure to review the section problem sets before exams as the exam questions are a significant step up in difficulty from the weekly online quizzes.
The midterms are all multiple choice, but they are harder than you might think so don't take them lightly.
This course is well taught and there are no tricks to the assignments. If you put in the necessary work (completing online quizzes AND the problem sets), this course is manageable. However, if you do not complete the problem sets, studying for the exams becomes challenging.
recommend this class
Course that delves into theory and intuition, but at the same time remains grounded in the here and now.
Like the course, good for Ec concentrators, but would hesitate to recommend to non-concentrators.
This is a great course! Professor Foote's lectures are always engaging, and he consistently makes himself available outside of class in the event that a topic or theory is confusing to you. The workload is also very manageable. Weekly assignments include only a chapter of reading, a short open-book quiz and an optional problem set.
its a tough class but taught very well. Professor Foote is the best lecturer I have had in the Ec department up to this point.
Really interesting Economics course if you are at all interested in Macro or the economy in general.
This class is decent. Between the beginning of the class and the 2nd midterm, I probably went to half the lectures. And then after the second midterm, I stopped going. I think if you diligent in doing the section problems and reading, you can substitute lectures with self-study.
It's a great class, but go to lecture
The class was generally good.  You have to study a ton for the tests, but the class is good.
Don't start studying a week before the final. It can be done, but you will not have fun.Have fun!
Reasonable workload with great content!
Go to lecture, go to section, and take the practice midterms and finals. Professor Foote is a great lecturer and a great guy- worth waking up at 9 am for since lectures are informative, interesting, and likely to appear on the exams! Also, sections a great way to make sure you don't get too behind on the material.
if you're an econ concentrator, it's not a bad theory class. If you're not, I wouldn't take it.
Professor Foote is really good at teaching the material and makes it pretty easy to understand. That said, although lecture is at 9, definitely go because you actually learn a lot. Also the exams tend to have questions that bring up things discussed in lecture and can be a little more specific, but other than that, this was a pretty solid course.
go to lecture.
prepare yourselves
It's not an easy course, but you'll learn a lot! The material is very interesting, it'll make the work worth it. The lectures are great, Professor Foote makes them entertaining. Really, wake up for them, they're worth it. Moderate-easy workload.
It's a good class and if you're an ec concentrator you will probably take it anyway. Prof. Foote is a good lecturer.
This class is honestly really well-designed. Once you get past the fact that lecture is at 9 a.m., the class is great. I learned a lot and I would almost suggest taking this class even if you don't need to.
I took this course because I had to for a secondary, but I came to really enjoy it. Lectures were interesting, and a good way to start the day (even if it was at 9 am). The course is very topical and Prof. Foote is a very good lecturer with a great sense of humor. The course grading system is weird, with 90% of grade based on multiple choice midterms and final exam, but probably is fair. Section is optional and so are the weekly problem sets.
Foote is humorous and runs the class in a very nice format (just quizes and exams). The class is very easy overall and doesn't assume any background or math skills. Still be sure to look at lectures as particular points from them often show up on tests.
The class is a 9am. Beware.
This class made me strongly reconsider the value of Econ secondary: do YOU really need one?? 100% of the grade boils down to whether you can correctly answer multiple choice questions on the final (50%), the two midterms (40% in total), and the weekly online quizzes. It seemed like the goal of these exercises was to test our knowledge of very theoretical graphs from the Mankiw text and then introduce a series of trick questions. The timing of the class is brutal, which wouldn't be a problem if I felt the material inspiring enough to wake up at 9 am on a Friday -- too many thirsty Thursdays missed for too little benefit.
Chris Foote is a great lecturer
Do the readings, stay up to date with lecture slides and section problem sets, and you will easily be able to keep pace with the material. Waking up for 9AM class will be rewarded with Professor Foote's strong lectures.
A very interesting, but also very difficult course. You really do need to review the materials before class, go to sections, and read the textbook.
This class is great! Go to class and study for the midterms and you'll be fine!
Be sure to stay up to date on lectures, and don't miss them.
Time of the class sucks, but Foote is a wonderful professor! Super engaging and a refreshing sense of humor. Manageable workload, worth taking!
Difficult, but you learn a lot
Professor Foote should just record his lectures... Honestly, why wouldn't you record a 9AM 300 people lecture based class. There is minimal to no class interaction during lectures, so there is literally no purpose in not recording lectures. If there is no difference in me watching a lecture from a dorm room and going to lecture in person (because remember no interaction), than just get lectures recorded. Requires no work on Professor Foote's part! Most people already don't attend lecture, and most of the students who even do attend lecture don't pay attention at all.And instead of recording lectures, Professor Foote has the ego to constantly complain how students don't attend his class and punish his students by asking banal questions and very detail oriented questions from lectures that no one cares about.If he wants his students to learn, he should record lectures. Maybe he would argue that students should just attend his class. Well, 1- I did attend many lectures, but I typically got lost. It's hard to keep up with the readings for every single lecture and if you don't do a reading and go to lecture it can be hard to follow at times. 2- I was out on many different days this semester due to interviews, being sick ect. Having no way to make up the work of a lecture, I felt very behind. The exams were also very stupid and don't seem to test genuine understanding of the material. I crammed and did well on the exams, but I've retained nothing. Terrible course overall. Professor Foote is also unhelpful and unresponsive.
The class is great but the class is SO EARLY. Going to class is useful because he occasionally talks about things not in the slides.  The psets are great for understanding material and if you get a good TF it will be so much better.
Well organized class; not easy but you know what to expect at this point
This class was great. Granted, it takes some work to really grasp the models and the assumptions behind them, but take the time to do so and the exams will go much more smoothly. The material is really interesting, the workload very manageable, exams are fair, and the section component of this course is both optional and useful.
Do all the psets and practice. Go to section or office hours early - it's very helpful to go over the material every week with a TF.
You will be fed with knowledge of Fed.
If you're an econ concentrator, then this course if required so theres nothing you can do about that. BUT, this course offers a great amount of useful information that will be helpful in the real world.
Take it if you have to. If you don't have to, probably don't. Definitely a very complete and comprehensive coverage of macroeconomics and you'll learn a lot, but be prepared to take a ton of initiative in making sure you're keeping along with the material (optional problem sets, multiple choice quizzes that vary hugely from the exams) because the exams are all confusing multiple choice questions that compose nearly all of your grade.
Only take if you plan on majoring or minoring in ec. Better than ec 1010a
This is a great class. The material is relevant and well-conveyed, the professor is a great lecturer, and despite how it looks at first 9 AM is really not THAT bad. Honestly you could take this course without first having done Ec10--1010b teaches everything 10b does, and is a much better experience
The material in 1010b is useful and it is not a particularly hard class.  I feel like I now have a better understanding of the macroeconomy.
Prof. Chris Foote is the Steven Levitsky of Econ, and I woke up early in the mornings to hear his lectures. A wonderful, funny, individual, and a comparably wonderful class. I really recommend taking this if you're a secondary, because it will teach you how to really understand the economy. (Also a wonderful segway to 1420.) Beware of the exams, though! The first midterm comes at you fast, and coming back from a bad first midterm is difficult.
Professor Foote is an awesome professor. He was able to offer us an extremely invigorating and intellectual, yet fun perspective on the macroeconomic world. His love for the subject is apparent in the way he teaches.
It's a good class, but like, go to the 9am lecture, even though it's at 9am. Professor Foote is an engaging and informative lecturer, and I regret missing so many.
Fantastic class, professor Foote is amazing. If you do the work you will learn a lot of really cool stuff.
Macro is good to know. Take it if you have the slightest interest in what is going on in the world, business, finance, counsulting, NGOs, non-profits. Actually about anything except if you are thinking about grad shool in ec, then you should probably take 1011b.
Very difficult exams, all multiple choice
It's much much better than Ec 10b. Very low weekly time commitment but don't let that fool you - exams are worth a ridiculous percentage of the grade and are always much harder than you think. Section is hit or miss - I knew after my first one that my TF wasn't going to be helpful, so I just stopped going. I've heard others were really helpful though. Overall, do as many practice problems as you can, review often, and you'll be ok.
This class is a necessary evil.
I would only recommend if you are interested in macroeconomics.
Very good course with a professor who lectures very well.
Amazing course that will teach you a lot
Interesting class, very little work, exams are tricky and tend to ask a lot of lecture related questions
You don't have a choice if you're an economics concentrator. That being said, beware of Foote: he gets great satisfaction out of making tricky tests.
This class is necessary to understand what's going on in the news, whether it's articles on the Fed's interest rate hikes or about the strengthening of the dollar. Foote is an amazing lecturer and always ties in current events like the monthly labor market reports.
Here is the DOWN-low: This is not too difficult of a class and if you want to get though your empirical math Gen-Ed and actually hate math then this might be for you, i swear I did a derivative once. The exams are based so much on past tests and p-sets so it is very easy to learn how to go about these tests.
Probably the worst class I've taken at Harvard. I feel like I learned nothing even though I did well in the class. Exams (2 midterms and a final) are 90% of the grade in this course and they are exclusively multiple choice questions. The other 10% is a weekly computer quiz, also 100% compromised of multiple choice questions. This means that you basically need to be on your game for 3 days during the entire semester and learn a few models by heart so you can answer specific questions. If you need to take an intermediate ec theory class, this is an easy way to get rid of that requirement. If you're considering taking this as an elective, I'd recommend against it.
This class covers some very interesting topics, but it is very challenging, especially if you're not an ec concentration. Expect to invest a lot of time into this class.
This class is well-taught and reasonably paced, but the keys are all in the textbook--stay up to date on chapter readings.
Not a bad course, and Foote is pretty good at lecturing. Just be sure to prepare well for the exams, and you'll be fine.
The workload is close to none. Many kids don't go to lecture and most kids don't do the optional psets. Foote is a great professor though so lecture is often interesting.
I really enjoyed taking this class - the material covered was very interesting and the class was very manageable
Do not underestimate this class. I struggled a lot with the first midterm because it is very easy to get behind. Go to lectures and sections and always look at the problem sets. Prof Foote is a very funny guy and although sometimes his lectures were dry, he is an amazing person. The material itself is not too bad and is just memorization.
Solid content: blend of theory and models with real world applications and facts. Lots of fairly straightforward material, taught at a speedy pace. Great lectures by Professor Foote, but 9-10am time can conflict with sleep schedules. Lenient workload allows for great flexibility, but doing the optional problem sets is absolutely necessary to grasp all the material. Exam questions can get tricky, but curve is strong.
Loved this class!
Make sure to grind more than the day before the test.  Just stay on top of your stuff.
Take it for a requirement, not as an elective. Don't expect to get a good grade. That being said, Professor Foote is by far the best Ec professor I've had at Harvard.
This is a great course because Professor Foote is an extremely engaging lecturer. The course is taught at 9 am on Monday, Wednesday, and Fridays which is unfortunate but just deal with it because it is worth waking up early for his lectures. The only required weekly assignments are online multiple choice quizzes so you have to be proactive about reviewing the material
Do the readings
Professor Foote is a good lecturer. I know the lectures are early but if you go, you will get a lot out of them. Study well for the midterms and the final. They can be very tricky, but so long as you understand the main models and how the curves shift you should be okay.
Definitely go to lecture, Foote is great.
Interesting material. Foote is a pretty good lecturer, though sometimes goes through tough concepts too quickly.
sorry you have to take it too
Going to the class at 9 am is a problem (it definitely was, for me) but it can literally change the whole course experience for you. Super fair exams, a decent amount of work and a great lecturer. 6/10 without rice. 8/10 with rice.
Great class. Go to lecture even if its early. You can show up like 20 mins late since he repeats stuff but if you don't go at all the midterms and final will be very hard.
Ec1010b is a fantastic class - if you are planning to take one economics class at Harvard, let it be this one. The course goes over a great deal of macroeconomic models as well as banking and the financial crisis, topics that should be of interest to anyone with modest interest in politics and policy. In addition, Foote is a fantastic professor and a fun person to talk to - his main job is an economist at the Boston Federal Reserve, so he really knows what he is talking about. Foote is a funny guy and a phenomenal speaker as well. The course isn't too difficult compared to hard STEM classes (maybe 4-5hrs/week at most), although section may not be helpful to some people. A solid economics class that is definitely worth taking.
Econ 1010b teaches macroeconomics effectively while requiring little time commitment. It's a win/win.
Rigorous readings, great lectures
Make sure you go to lecture! Best way to keep up  + Foote's a great lecturer
Very manageable class if you spend just a little bit of time really understanding the equations.
Come to the lectures despite the early time! It really helps. Also, make sure to go over Problem Sets each week.
Best Econ professor up to sophomore year (not sure about the remaining two years!)
