Great class, definitely worth getting up early for.
Very exciting topics, good class dynamics.
Excellent if you are interested in racial and social issues.
I would tell students that this class will really open your eyes to the possibility of using theory to model interesting legal/social/political situations. I would also tell social science grad students with any interest in race/gender/inequality/etc to definitely take this class.
It's not the clearest presentation of material you'll ever see, but Roland is clearly passionate about the subject matter and has some interesting insights on the modeling process. Worth taking in my opinion.
The whole approach is great for would-be applied microeconomists, whatever the "field." Less useful for other simply interested social issues (even though Fryer's attitude might be refreshing after some sociological rambling).
Roland is great but he over-promises. Most of us did not get to meet him once every two weeks (as promised in the beginning of the term), no assignments were ever returned, he is hard to get a hold of and read your stuff.
There is a lot of reading.
Prepare for cold-calling during the class, so be sure to do the readings.  Especially towards the end of class, since everyone else starts to neglect the readings at that point.  But, the class is definitely worth it, since these are topics that are very important.  You definitely leave the class feeling like there are ways for your research to have a positive impact on the world.
Since there's no review section, forming a regular study group with other students to review the material from the class (namely, the models) can be very helpful.
It's at 8AM, and you need to be sharp. But it's totally worth it.
Roland seems to not care that much about the students on things that might be important to us (e.g., when assignments are due), but I did often find class entertaining and interesting
Easily among the best classes at Harvard.
Roland is great; course is disorganized.
It's a great course for those interested in applying economics to important social issues like education, discrimination, and crime.
You'll be spending more time studying integration than segregation, so you might want to brush up on your math. Seriously, though, it's a fun class and very good for stimulating creative thought.
