It's a rewarding course to take but only if you can commit to reviewing lecture notes after class and putting in the time to understand the concepts. This is not material that you can pick up just from going to class and half paying attention.
This is a fun class, and it will likely only get better over time.
This course is one of the best I've taken at Harvard. In some ways auctions permeate all of economics, they are a fundamental basis for market transactions, they tie in value and exchange. Great class (it might be reincarnated as a junior seminar)... however, I hope that your TF is more involved, the lack of section was awesome until the final exam when we realized it was missed.
It can be tough but its interesting and you learn a lot.
This class is interactive and it helps illuminate how theoretical concepts can be applied in practice.
A chance to study an interesting subject with an excellent professor.
I think students say they like this class because the workload is very manageable.  That is true, but I find that I didn't learn very much in this class.  The material is presented in a confusing and unorganized way - although it's clear that Professor Athey knows a lot about the material.
Prof. Athey is a rockstar. Take a class with her while you still have the opportunity
Interesting material. The class is designed in such a way that if you show up and put in the effort, you'll do well. Really good chance to take a small class in the economics department.
A really wonderful class to learn about the magic of market design, current issues, and ways economists go about tackling problems.
This is a great class to see how microeconomics is used in the real world. You will see how auction theory is applied into a lot of different situations. The concepts are hard at first, but it gets easier as the semester goes on. Professor Athey is amazing and she is really open to talk to you about your project ideas and help along the way.
Absolutely take this class. Stress-free and fun!
The material in the class is very interesting and presented well.  Don't be surprised if you start seeing markets or potential markets all around you.
Great class, take it if you can. The material is unique and exciting and you're learning from the best.
Prof. Athey is a giant in auction theory and economics as a whole. The class is well balanced between problem set work and theory, applications, classroom examples. The math can be complicated at times and is essential for the final; however, the final mirrors the problem set very closely. The expectations for the project were also very reasonable. I would DEFINITELY recommend this class for someone who wants an interesting, challenging at times, and rewarding class.
Take this class! Rarely do you have a chance to take a small Ec class at Harvard, especially with such a distinguished professor - so take advantage of this class. The material is fascinating and very relevant.
It was an enjoyable course and an opportunity to get to know a professor with a lot of real-world experience in an exciting and applicable field. Prof Athey's lectures are enjoyable and relaxed and she is quite funny. The class was not too difficult, and the final project was enjoyable. Market design is something many people should understand better - it is like economic engineering!
