Take this course to learn how the US government works.  It provides both the wide range of alternative policies for social and monetary policy and a pair of lecturers who truly care about teaching.  There are few courses I have taken at Harvard that compare.
Definitely a class worth taking if interested in better understanding the important issues facing the American economy.
Rather painless way to fulfill an ec. req.
Keep up with the readings; try to split them up with other students. Try not to fall asleep in class.
It is very interesting and deals with important, current topics. It definitely helps to understand American Economic Policy and the theoretical background.
The professors are unparalleled, but the feedback over the course of the semester leaves a lot to be desired.
It is one of the most useful and relevant classes I have taken at Harvard. Thanks to the concepts and frameworks I have learned in this class, I feel like I can now make sense of current events and make a coherent economic analysis on policy debates I read in the newspaper (e.g., management of the housing crisis, the effect of the Fed's setting low interest rate, the potnetial ways to improve health care, etc.) without relying blindly on the authority of the authors.
take it if marty is teaching it
It's rewarding, but boring. Big, impersonal. Good information, but not very dynamically given.
If you are interested in learning more about American government policy issues from a logical, calculating economist's perspective, this is the course to take. It will introduce you to all the issues, what the best solutions are, and why we still struggle to implement those solutions.
Important economics class. This is why you study economics. Professors and TFs are great.
Policy oriented, so take this class if you're interested in learning about policy implications
It is awesome, timely, and fun.
Inaccessable professors.
1420 is a light class with good readings and balanced discussion on economic issues that won't tax your schedule or your mind. Caveat emptor.
you have to go to class
A good easy and informative course but not intellectually challenging or engaging
One of the best classes at Harvard. If you are an economics major you must take this class. Feldstein and Liebman are superb exemplars of this institution and the Economics departments strength. This class will teach you more about economics, but more importantly it provides the necessary knowledge to be an informed American citizen.
I would encourage anyone interested in the intersection between economics and politics to take this class. The professors are outstanding, and the breadth of the material covered is such that you'll be able to make educated comments about almost any topic of importance in American policymaking.
The material is extremely relevant and will help you better understand the economy.
Graded harshly
The TFs are a joke. They don't help in office hours, don't give feedback on papers, and do not release solutions to practice final.
This is a great class taught by some of the pre-eminent scholars on economic policy. You will be taken on a whirlwind tour of all of the major economic policy topics: taxes, social security, health care etc. You'll hear from a balanced view, with Professor Feldstein providing more conservative viewpoints, while Professor Liebman espousing more liberal points. It's a fabulous course!
This is definitely good material to know, but you're going to need a study group.
All Ec concentrators should take this course. The subjects make up the fundamental things all Ec students should have a solid grasp of--social security, taxation, budgets, health care, welfare, etc.
I really enjoyed this class because of the professors.  Listening to the Feldstein-Summers-Leibman Question and Answer session was a truly memorable experience.  Take it because of the professors.
The lectures were extremely interesting as the professors are major players in the ec world.  The assignments and exams were fine.  You don't have to read a single article on the syllabus to do well.
dont take it unless you are smart
Take it if you want to hear good lectures.  Don't expect a good class with fair grading.
I would tell students to audit the course, because the lectures are interesting but dealing with the disorganization of the other aspects of the course isn't worth the trouble.
Probably the best Econ course at Harvard
Every college student should understand the material that is taught in this class.
Although Professor Feldstein is great, everything else about this course is subpar. The material is interesting, but it is not delivered in such a way, nor do the sections do a good job of tying their information in with the readings. The midterm was quite difficult and there is very little feedback given in this course.
A must for econ concentrators.
Learn whatever they tell you in section, regardless of how poorly it is taught.
This class is run so poorly. Its a shame the material is so good.
Go to section!! Though it's not mandatory, this is what you will be tested on. Lectures are immensely more useful than readings.
Take good notes otherwise there is no materials to prepare for the exams with, no lecture slides, no problem sets, no book. Exams very difficult and not reflective of the class.
It's harder than a lot of us thought it would be.
learn about important american economic issues from some of the most influential economists in the world!
Amazing class, but difficult tests.
It's awesome, take it!
Good class, learned a lot, but be ready for some disorganization. Also, doing the readings is, for the most part, unnecessary.
The course is interesting because it applies to economic issues that we read about in the news today.  The professors were very knowledgeable and it benefited the class to have professors with different views on the they policy should be.
Great class for anyone interested in public policy. The professors are wonderful and the material is fascinating and organized very well. Definitely take the class if you are an economics concentrator looking to learn something that is directly relevant to the real world and not just theory.
This course teaches you the core of what you should know about american economic policy if you wish to be literate about the problems facing our country. Additionally, it gives you the tools to really think about and reason with the underlying economic principles of decisions.
I learned so much from this class. Even though you have to put a lot of work in to get a lot out it is definitely worthwhile.
Try to get help on writing memos.  Follow the memo instructions strictly. The course material is very useful, applicable and interesting.
GREAT class. Take it. The most necessary econ class at Harvard.
This class is a just reward for all those late nights slogging through Economics 1010 problem sets. Rock-star professors, issues that affect the quality of life of hundreds of millions of people - you could not ask for anything more.
interesting course, but not cohesive/ well-taught
This class was very interesting but had major organizational fails, so it was often hard to tell what you needed to do well.
Great professors, will learn a lot about the factors shaping government policy - A must for economic concentrators in order to be aware of policy and the economics surrounding it.
Great class to learn about how to think about policy like an economist.  The material is very interesting, and the instructors have great insight into American public policy.  That said, it can sometimes be difficult to tell what you should be taking away from the lectures.  The evaluation process is not the best, so don't expect much feedback on the work you do.
You should know macroeconomics well before taking this class.  The class itself is not coherent at times, and you don't know what to go off of because notes are not provided.
Great course. You get to learn relevant policy issues from the best sources. Professors care about getting to know students as well. Policy briefs were a little arbitrary, but exams were fair.
A good relevant class that is challenging.
The way in which the course is run essentially ruins the incredibly exciting material the professors cover.  There is little to no feedback on the assignments you turn in and spend hours working on, and little guidance (and no rubrics) on how to approach the memos and exams that constitute the entirety of your grade.
This class is definitely worth taking because Professors Feldstein, Liebman, and Summers are all incredibly knowledgeable, have first hand experience from working in Washington, and give very interesting lectures about a whole range of topics relevant to current American policy issues.  They often differ in their opinions, so it is very interesting to get different viewpoints on the same issue--something very refreshing in a Harvard class.  However, if you do take this class be prepared to often be unclear about what you are supposed to know for the midterm and final.  Make sure to always go to lecture and take notes because Feldstein doesn't use any lecture notes and Liebman's slides are often pretty bare.  Also, make sure to go to section as well because what you learn in section is stuff that they will actually test you on.  Finally, you should definitely go to all the review sessions because it really clears up what kind of things you will be tested on.
Great lectures, low workload but super-disorganized
rarely a class as practical as this one. lectures require no prior knowledge... a little lacking in theoretical analytics... great for auditing but may be disappointing to the theory-hungry
You will learn a lot about American economic policy, straight from the very professors who have held great influence in shaping the policies.
you'll do most of your learning in section but the lectures are a great way to hear about policy issues from people who have first hand experience
Excellent class - interesting and important material.
Very practical economics course that illustrates the intersection between politics and economics - on all issues ranging from Social Security to healthcare. A must for all economics concentrators!
Start the memos early...
Good class as far as being relevant and interesting. There is a severe disconnect between the professors and the TFs, such that there seems to be a bit of confusion about what should be tested and what should be done on assignments.
The lectures are interesting, but it might be better to audit.
This class is a great overview of US economic policy and is taught by three professors who have had extensive experience in government. You will come out of the class with knowledge about current events, etc but make sure that you are familiar with the concepts from Ec 10 and 1010
Good class, not excellent.  Could definitely use lecture notes.
This is an outstanding course for people interested in economic policy.  Lectures are great and workload is reasonable.
very important material. any econ concentrator should know the information taught in this course. feldstein, summers, and liebman are good lecturers and sitting in their class is one of the perks of being at this school that students should really take advantage of. not the most well-organized course, and the TFs could definitely benefit from better communication, but overall it is definitely a course that anyone interested in america's economic situation shuold take.
A difficult but fascinating course
Definitely worth the challenge!
It's a great class that teaches things you should know, no matter what concentration you are.
Lectures are pretty helpful, so don't take the class if you tend to skip morning lectures.  Reading is only a little useful.
The lectures are interesting but the tests are BS
The best econ class I've taken at harvard. Very relevant material, very well organized and three enthusiastic professors. You will learn a lot!
This class is interesting and relevant although the assignments and test were difficult.
interesting subject matter, influential profs, too big and impersonal
The professors really great, and this class really is extremely relevant to current events and to understanding the news and world around us. Teaches you in a compelling way about all those things you ought to have learned about (social security, welfare, insurance, etc.) but that you were too lazy to before.
The lectures are very interesting, but the FEEDBACK IS HORRIBLE. The memos are not fun, and the midterm is hard, but the amount of feedback you get on these is ZERO, just a grade. No idea what you did well or poorly. If you don't mind this, it is a very interesting class in which you learn a lot about American Economic Policy.
Should be required of all econ concentrations, helps make connections between political realities and economic models (and how different assumptions can change results/beliefs).
The tests are poorly designed, so be aware that you will be severely time constrained while taking them, even if you know the material.
This course will teach you a lot about American economics and the current issues. Because it does cover a lot of ground, it can get very difficult.
This class was great - superstar teachers and reasonable work load!
Take this class! The lectures are the best part of the class so don't miss them. Also this class has almost no workload. Just study well for the exams (tend to be based on section notes) and you should do fine.
Although the day-to-day courseload of this class is extremely low (readings are "recommended" at best- you dont have to do them), the memos and exams should be taken seriously. Go to every section and take good notes, because the section material is what you'll be tested on. Go to lecture because it isn't taped, but it's not necessary to come away remembering every single point the professor makes. As long as you get main ideas from lecture, specifics from section, and allocate a good amount of time to do each memo and study for the midterm and final, this is an excellent class.
Good overview of key economic policies and their evaluation process. Big name professors. Good introduction to how policies are actually made.
I believe anyone concentrating in Ec should take this course. Fascinating! Great professors and assignments you actually learn from. Make sure to pay attention in section.
Amazing lecturers by the best minds in economics. Tons of reading every class, and the problems for exams are pretty difficult/not taught in lecture. The memos are a big pain to complete as well.But overall, definitely worth it to take because of the professors.
Best Ec class I've taken at Harvard. Great lectures by all professors and you really learn a lot about many different and timely topics. Not too time consuming throughout the course but memos and exams were somewhat diffiucult but generally fair.
Really interesting subject but the memo assignment grading is kind of arbitrary.
You will learn a lot. Marty Feldstein is one of the top economists in the world
Do all of the readings.
If you want to be taught by the leading and most influential economists in the U.S. and the world take this course.
the lectures were the most interesting things and i learned the most from them. it is a great opportunity to learn from really well-known economists, feldstein, liebman and summers, and hear their different opinions on important issues in the us economy. especially the feldstein vs liebman viewpoints were pretty illuminating and often comical- it went to show that economics, however grounded it is in data, is still very open to interpretation. policy is hard to do. looking back, i probably should have audited this course, because the assignments (two memos) were frustrating and the test was all the mechanics behind the qualitative ideas and i find that quite boring. but a cool class in general and one that you should take advantage of, especially if you are an economics concentrator.
Fantastic course if you're looking to get a good overview of the major areas macroeconomists are engaged in. If you want a lot of depth in any one area, take a different class as this one highlights the main issues in each area and moves on quickly as they cover A LOT of different topics.Also, make it a point to go to section. They cover a lot of the lecture material in more detail and help to provide a solid understanding in each major topic area.
Really good if you're looking to get into government. Readings are interesting, but definitely not necessary. Lectures from some of the best economists of today, one of those opportunities you only get at Harvard, even if lecturers can get a little boring sometimes.  Go to section, it will help with the tests wayyy more than lecture.
This is one of the most interesting economics courses that I have taken at Harvard.
This class can be as easy or as hard as you want it to be but overall is a good class.
This was the best economics class that I took in my time here.  It took the theories that we learned in intro and intermediate economics and applied them to the problems we face today.  The professors are incredible.  If you are an economic concentrator you have to take this class.
An interesting upper level Econ course, but it is difficult.
Take this class! This is one of the most practical courses at Harvard. It covers topics ranging from Social Security to tax reform to pollution reduction. Every college graduate should understand the concepts taught in this course.
Cool professors, especially Feldstein absolutely kills it. The two memos are a lot of work but that's the only work outside of attending class + midterm + final.
Great Class, fascinating Material, requires almost no weekly work, but tests are difficult
This class is great! Somehow, you don't put in much work for it but end up learning so much. There are a bunch of readings but I personally didn't do any of them and you can survive fine as long as you listen intently in class and in section. Professors are great but I was particularly struck by how wonderful the section TFs were. I attended both Jamie's and Nihar's sections and they're both great!
The class requires no work most of the time, but the assignments are graded pretty harshly.
Take it!
Solid class but lecture was a bit disconnected from the exams. Professor Feldstein also did not have slides so if you missed something he said, it was hard to keep up. Definitely take it if you want to understand a bit more about everything from tax policy to trade. It's not very technical but still gives you a good understanding.
This class is great! Feldstein is awesome and his lectures are really useful. I feel like I will use this class in the real world. My main complaint about the class was that it was deceptively difficult. Feldstein's lectures are essentially all concepts, but in section and on exams, you're expected to be able to do the math, as well as the concepts, which is surprisingly hard.It's definitely not an easy senior spring class, but I would recommend putting in the time because you really get a lot out of it.Only take this if you are willing to put in the time. Otherwise, you will not get a good grade, and it will not be worth it. That being said, I didn't do a lot of the readings, and I still learned A TON that will be applicable in my daily life.
If you are interested at all in economic policy in the U.S., this is the best course to take to learn a good deal about a vast array of policy topics. The readings are not all necessary, only have to focus on a few in general. Class offers differing economics perspectives from each professor, which makes it very relevant and useful. Overall a great course where you can learn a lot and form strong foundation in policy studies.
This is an AWESOME course. It isn't easy to get an A, but taking a class with such world-renowned professors is completely worth it. Try to remember when you're in lecture and reading some newspaper article on the internet, that this is a once in a lifetime opportunity.
Section is really helpful for the midterm/final
You will learn a ton about economic policy, and the consistent connection to the real-world economy feels like a breath of fresh air after the theory of 1010a/b. Some days will feel like you're watching the news (state of the economy, etc.), but with the added benefit that you can ask the experts anything you want. Other days you'll hear more about economic policy, and from professors who all have extensive backgrounds working on it. All in all, it's a great course and not too much work -- definitely take it if you're at all interested in policy.
This course touches a wide array of economic policies in America. 1420 also  identifies some of the sources for the conservative vs. liberal disagreements in economic politics. (see Feldstein vs. Liebman mpc debate).
This class is awesome!  All three professors are fantastic lecturers and you learn an enormous amount about important and interesting material.
Great class to get a general overview of relevant issues today.
I might have received a poor grade, but it does not matter. This class was the most applicable class that had everyone interested the entire semester. Best class I have taken here.
This class covers a lot of interesting topics, but the exams are tough. Make sure to keep up during lectures.
Newsflash for 1420 professors/TFs:  I'm sorry to say that impressive CVs and working for past US presidents do not make up for a poorly organized course with arbitrary grading on papers/exams.
It will prepare you well for your future if you plan on working in a financial field.
This class is phenomenal. It teaches all the most relevant and exciting topics in economics, and it will make you a better, more informed citizen!
Awesome lecturers! Feldstein and Leibman are amazing.
Be sure to have taken and done well on the prerequisites to do well in the class!
Summers is hilarious.
Go to lectures and pay attention to learn from these great professors. Readings are unnecessary unless you find them interesting and section is where you do all the learning.
This course has all-star faculty and gives an in-depth overview of all the relevant concepts in current American economic policy. The lectures are very narrative, so do not expect much modeling in class, and the concepts that are relevant for the exams are only taught in sections. Grading seems somewhat arbitrary. It is definitely possible to get a worse grade than expected, even for an otherwise A or A- student, only because the midterms have very tight expectations on the answers one can give.
This class is taught by world class professors and economists. The information is extremely relevant to your understanding of economic policy and how politics is involved. Marty Feldstein is the man and if you are an Econ concentrator I'd strongly recommend this class... for senior spring when your grades are all but set.
Great material taught by legendary professors. Take this class.
Extremely interesting and relevant class with great professors and section leaders! Very engaging and useful content!
Not a lot of work but the exams are hard. Materials taught in sections are tested in the exams (in some ways they are more important than sections if you want to score high). But the three professors are the highlight of the class. Listening to them think economics and talk economics is such a treat.
This course does not have a lot of work in it, but the assignments and tests are challenging and require a lot of time and work. But the material is very interesting and engaging.
The writing requirement is hard but rewarding.
You will learn a ton of stuff that is very good to know... but it is no gut. You have to put in the time if you want a good grade. Go to section!
This class is a little hectic with all of the different professors and topics. It was not the best econ class I had ever taken but the opportunity to listen to so many knowledgeable professors was fantastic. The section component was great! Honestly, although you should go to the lecture to listen to the professors, you could just go to section and do the recommended reading and do fantastically in the course.
Great opportunity to learn American economic policy from extremely authoritative professors who have a lot of real world experience in this field. Lectures are good at introducing the ideas and policy implications, and section adds the more mathy details (but overall minimal math). Very little work on a week to week basis except when you have to write the memos, which are reasonably challenging.
You need to stay on top of the workload, it is very difficult but interesting.
Really great professors. Very low time commitment and yet very interesting material
Absolutely go to section - lectures are great for enrichment and background information but section attendance necessary for success in the class
This is the best economics class I have taken at Harvard. It takes the concepts you learn in class and teaches how policy makers apply them in making decisions. Moreover you get to learn from three top minds in Economics & Economic policy.
It's such an honor to learn from prominent ec professors who've worked with the past presidents. Larry Summers is an awesome lecturer. His lecture slides are awesome because I don't need to worry about taking good notes. I can focus on listening to his lectures.
What made this course special was that the professors have all been there and done that when it comes to fiscal policy. It was really cool to learn about how decisions are actually made in Washington and hear about the policies they played a part in enacting. I've taken a lot of econ classes, but now I finally feel like I know what's going on in the actual U.S. economy. Now I understand CNN! Also, the professors vary in the political spectrum, so you do get both perspectives.
Legendary professors, a must take for Econ majors
The material is interesting and manageable, but don't take this course if you're looking for a life-changing academic experience because you surely will be disappointed.
This course is amazing. You really get an understanding of current American economic policy by understanding the underlying models and also the political implications of decisions surrounding these models. It really gave me knowledge that I feel will be important in real life conversations. It is kind of hard to not agree with everything Marty Feldstein presents because he is a great lecturer. There are tons of readings but you dont have to do them all. Study a lot for the exams because they are difficult and worth a lot of your final grade. Memos are really interesting.
Even though this is not a problem set class, you are required to be able to do problems on the midterm and final. Make sure you go to every section so you know how to do them.
This course covers a ton of material, so be sure to stay on top of it. Other than that, you do learn quite a bit and it is definitely worth it.
As long as you go to section, and take notes in class, you will learn SO much and be able to easily complete the assignments. The exams are very easy to study for as long as you have section notes, and you will learn so much. It is the most applicable and engaging class I have taken at Harvard. I did not have much background in economic policy, nor did I often read the WSJ. Now it does not take much effort at all to understand the denser material on current policy. It should be a required class for every ec concentrator, and a very popular gened!
Material-wise, this class is amazing. You will learn so much about recent and relevant economic policy and hear from the greatest economic minds of our time (including the people involved in making decisions in the past). You also get to hear opposing arguments, and it's great to learn about things from an economic perspective (rather than from a partisan, political perspective).Grade-wise, the curve is really painful, and it was very frustrating because it often feels like no matter how hard you try, you can't beat it. The memos are graded harshly and you don't know the level of expectation. The exams are graded on a rubric and if your answer doesn't match exactly, you don't get credit (and if your assumptions are wrong, you won't get any credit, even if you state them outright). That all being said, it was a great class and I learned a lot and gained a lot from it. I went to every lecture but didn't do any of the readings (except for the ones for section). Take this class, but take it pass-fail (the grading is too painful otherwise).
This is a great course if you are excited about understanding the intersection of economics and public policy. Every student should leave Harvard with this knowledge!
Gives you a solid knowledge of the American economy, issues, and solutions
It's a little too much like Ec 10.  Very good subject material though and it's a well run course.  Definitely one of the better Ec courses out there.
Great course. Good lecturers with experience in multiple presidential administrations. Covers a lot of relevant issues in economic policy.
This course is more than worth it for the quality of economics professor that you get to hear from in lecture on a daily basis. Professors Feldstein, Leibman, and Summers present such a wide variety and depth of first-hand experience in economic policy-making, that this is a can't-miss course for anyone interested in economic policy in America.
You learn about the important things going on in today's economy.
Great class but definitely not easy. A must for economics concentrators--acts as a great capstone to undergrad econ
Great class, but your grade depends on two memos and two exams.
Good class. If you want to hear famous economics talk about current events, without having to do a ton of actual work, this is definitely
It is very interesting to hear the conservative and liberal sides of economic policy.
You will learn more about economics as it relates to politics than you ever will. Feldstein is a leading scholar in the field, and taking this class is truly a privilege. As for the grade, just follow your section leader for learning the content.
You'll learn a ton about practical policy matters. The memos are fair and interesting. Go to lecture and even more important, go to section. The readings aren't that important because there are too many to fully go through each one.
Probably one of the best economics classes I've taken. Use the section study guides, they are helpful and provide good examples of questions for the exams. Take good notes in lecture and form a study group
The material in the class is very interesting and the professors are great to listen to. They are really at the top of their field. The one problems is that lectures often focus on different stuff than is on the exams, and the class is a bit disorganized, which makes it hard to study for exams, especially since there are not that many materials to learn from/study from. Section was pretty helpful though. I'm still really glad I took the class. I'm definitely much more informed now about econ policy. It just is a little poorly run at times.
This class is an amazing opportunity to learn about the most relevant topics in economics from some of the most well-respected professors in the field.
pretty boring class but important if you're into policy
This course gives you a solid overview of the theoretical, practical, and political aspects of economic reform and progress. As such it touches on everyone's life, and so is worth taking just so you can be more prepared and fluent when it comes to looking at economic issues in the world (or particularly America).
Feldstein is the man. Can't miss.
This is an excellent class, Prof. Feldstein and Liebman are definitely outstanding. I learnt so much from going to their lectures. I actually decided to write a thesis on health care reform after writing a memo on that topic, so this class was pretty influential on my college career here. The sections were much better taught compared to previous years, according to my TF and friends who took it before. If Mark Shepard is still teaching the section, try to go to his section. I also really enjoyed the assignments, which were two memos. Take this class if you can, I'm sure you will walk away with deeper knowledge about the major current public policies.
This is a great survey class of topics within American macroeconomics. You'll hear a lot of fascinating lectures by the nation's leading economists, and read some striking papers. Be warned, though: while there isn't much regular work in this class, stay up on the readings and prepare for the memos early. Do a lot of practice problems before the exams, too.
The class is an easy and interesting way to get an econ class done with some of the world's best economists. Work load is low, and the material is cool
go to all the lectures take notes..pay good attention in section...review the section study guides before section...you'll be all set for exams
Great lectures from all three professors. Section is pretty boring and not very well run, but I liked the class overall.
The lectures for this class are really interesting but taking it for a grade is a gamble.  75% of your grade is the midterm and final.  Even though past exams are made available, the style of the questions is really different each year so when you walk into the exams you don't really know what to expect.  If you're interested, audit the class.
This is a great class to take if you don't want to have a ton of work but still learn a lot of interesting economics policies with all-star professors.
go to every single lecture and section, and make sure to take notes!
You'll get a chance to apply the stuff you learned in Ec1010s and Ec10 here on a more practical setting. This guys have actually been involved in applying the kind of things you learned in these courses and it is great to see how these concepts work. You should definitely consider taking this course if you've taken the intermediate Econ courses or if you are looking for a class to fulfill for your concentration or secondary.
This is a very low key class. This is a good thing if you are looking for a class that requires little effort. But don't expect the teaching staff to put much effort into instruction or assignment feedback either.
The class is great for auditing as it provides up-to-date information about the most discussed topics. It is very informative. Take the class only if you really want to know about the related economic principles. Otherwise, I would say it is good enough to just audit the class. Overall, I enjoy the class very much. Both professors are great!
Take this class if you are interested in learning about the intricacies of American Policy. I find that I learned a lot about various U.S. policies.
Great for covering a broad variety of important topics.  Take 1410 if you're looking for depth though.
Go to all of the lectures and sections. You are sort of asking for a bad grade if you don't. The exams are only bad if you don't take good notes for lecture. Everything they'll test you on will be addressed in lecture, for the most part. Only do the readings that are discussed in section, unless you are legitimately interested in some of them, which there is no reason you shouldn't be. Papers are fine, but I feel like they sort of left us in the dark for the second one for the most part. Overall, good class. Feldstein, Liebman, and Summers are all brilliant.
One of my favorite classes I've taken. Professor Feldstein and Professor Liebman are both amazing lecturers. I really enjoyed going to class, and felt like I'd learned so much after each one. As an econ secondary, I felt a bit worried at first, but it was definitely doable! I was taking 1010b concurrently, which was useful. Overall, it's extremely interesting and not too much work. Just make sure you study plenty for the exams and do the memos carefully.
It is very interesting material, great professors, interesting papers. Study materials are limited
This course was an engaging and thorough introduction to a wide and well-selected range of issues in American economic policy. Anyone who wants to learn about these issues should take this course. It requires very little in the way of math skills and is very rewarding in relation to its difficulty.
Go to all lectures and go to Emily's section if possible.
The lectures in this class are very good, and the course material is relevant and interesting. However, the course throws a lot of different policy areas without any connecting theme or material. By the end of the semester, you feel like you've learned a lot of random things. Also, the memos are not easy, and the reading list is ridiculous.
You will love the course if you appreciate the great lecturers.  It's a very easy class, and the material is presented logically.  You will like this course if you want to know more about the economic issues the country is facing, but you won't like it if you're looking for complexity or mathematical rigor.
A class that moves past the more theoretical structure of most Econ courses at Harvard. Professors are great. The Midterm and Final were a bit tough, but this is a class that is very much worth it if you truly wish to learn more about the economy.
It is a great class. Make sure you go to lecture--not only because it will help you do well in the class it will also allow you to learn a lot. Martin Feldstein and Jeffrey Liebman are superstars.  It is a great opportunity to be able to hear these heavy-hitters talk about the most important issues facing the U.S.
interesting and relevant course.
When you go out in the real world and tell people that you are an economics major, they will expect you to know what this class teaches you. You will learn a wide breadth of frameworks in which to understand issues the federal government faces when it comes to economic policy. The professors are among the best the department has to offer, and the material is among the most interesting that this concentration can teach. I would HIGHLY RECOMMEND this course to any economics concentrator.Practical tips: Go to the exam reviews, since there's a relationship between them and the exam material. Don't do the readings. Go to lecture and take notes. Taking this class to fulfill the departmental writing requirement is possible but you'll need to be self-starting.
Occasionally hard, but interesting and worthwhile.
Its a good class for people interested in current events.
Everyone should take this course
You really have to attend class and take detailed notes of the lectures - if you're not the kind of person who goes to class, it'll be tough to do well since there's no text or way to review things you've missed. Otherwise it's really interesting and taught by world Economic leaders so I'd definitely recommend.
The course is great with its superstar professors who know so much about American policies (having had a lot of influence on them in the past). Definitely go to section - very useful for exams. Not a very time consuming course, but there is a lot to learn.
It is a broad survey class, going over major topics in economic policy. It might not be as interesting for students looking for a deeper dive into particular topics or high-level economics analysis. I enjoyed the class though, and I was glad that I could learn about these topics. Section is essential, and you learn a lot in section (more conceptual / model-based than lectures). Nihar is a great head TF, and the course is well-run.
Grading is unclear. The class has little to no structure. The lectures by Martin Feldstein and Larry Summers are great.
This class is great. The expertise and experience of the professors of this class is unparalleled. Highly recommend it for all ec concentrators, especially those that liked macroeconomics or interested in policy.
If you want to move beyond the theory of economics and into how policy is actually created, take this class.  You will learn from among the most brilliant economists in the world who will provide you with insights about the political arena of the economy that you'll never get anywhere else.
This course is a must-take for anyone interested in economics or government at Harvard.
The big-name professors might scare you now, but they're people just like you and me, and they want to share the extensive knowledge they've accrued over the years with you.  You really learn a lot in this class, and you learn it in a great environment.
An absolutely great class for anyone interested in any current economics.
Lecture: interesting to hear perspectives, but often moves too fast to keep up withSection: super helpful in terms of learning the actual material for the course and engage with key topics, formulas, etc.Memos: really intimidating at first, but doable, and TFs can be helpfulExams: fair, and easy to study for with section notes, but still challenging
This class gives provides a great experience to learn about the economic topics that are always on the news and being discussed in politics.
If you want to learn what on earth is going on in US economics, take this course. The lectures are interesting and done by some of the most knowledgeable people in the world on this subject. The readings are too, but you don't really have to read all of them. GO TO SECTION: it is borderline necessary to pass the exams. Don't worry about having a lot of econ background: Ec 1010b at minimum is needed, more (or 10b) would probably be helpful.
Take this class! The professors have an incredibly unique perspective, and the TFs run a very tight ship.
Great class, interesting and relevant topics. Not the easiest, but I liked that about the course.
A good and interesting class. The exams are challenging, so study hard.
Course is very disorganized. Lectures are interesting and about policy but the sections try to review different things from other econ classes.
Really interesting class, lectures sometimes boring though.
Fantastic course! Teaching staff is top-notch, and the topics covered are very relevant to current economics. Go to section!
It's a course that will talk about a lot of interesting things. It could be organizationally improved however, if the course shifted its aim to actually enabling students who might be disadvantaged (or anyone really) to learn and incorporate the material. Success or failure in this class is more determined by one's ability to wake up and attend rather than critical thought about the subject matter.
This class covers a wide variety of applicable topics in economics. The memo's are manageable and the exams require you to synthesize a great deal of relevant information.
This class gives a really great overview of the major issues in US economic policy. If you want to get a really deep understanding of some of the topics, you should look for another class because this class is more like a survey course - it covers a LOT of different topics, spending no more than a week on each one. The teaching staff is really knowledgeable and helpful. I really liked the memo assignments - they were unlike any assignment I'd had in other classes before, and I enjoyed working through it. The exams were difficult, especially since there isn't a lot of practice working with those types of questions. Section is very helpful.
go to lecture always. lecture slides do not do the lectures justice. you will miss out on a lot of important things if you do not go to lecture.
Incredibly interesting and useful class - probably the best Economics class I've taken. Workload is moderate, but sufficient time needs to be put in in order to learn the material and do well on the exams.
It was fantastic getting to learn from some of the most prominent economic thinkers alive today and really cool getting to hear their views on the economy. However, this course was so broad that sometimes I felt like we didn't really learn that much, just glossed the surface. There is just an incredible amount that is covered-social security, medicare, immigration, climate change, trade policy, the financial crisis etc it moves really fast. However, the workload is super light and the class is pretty easy.
I feel like this course is low workload and you think it's easy, but then the exams just aren't what you expect and harshly graded. I liked the course, but perhaps would not recommend it. Really needs some restructuring to be a more productive course.
Exams are hard.
It incredible learning from these esteemed professors.
Best class I've ever taken.
It is difficult but very important subject matter
Great class! You learn really interesting material from incredible professors, and there's barely any work each week. The reading list is overwhelming, but you definitely don't have to read any of them -- I think all the TFs realize this as well. Only do the readings that are covered in section. Only section material is covered on exams, but it's definitely worthwhile to go to lecture to actually understand the material.
It's laden with Marty Feldstein's slanted writings and lacks a textbook, lecture slides, or lecture videos, but the topics are so, so relevant to modern American (and global!) politics. Take it if you're interested -- it's not terribly difficult
I would not recommend this course-grading is arbitrary and the class does not offer the resources necessary to succeed.  I know it is highly recommended, but I have taken much stronger economics courses.
While I was most partial to Professor Feldstein and Liebman's lectures, this class was incredible because of the diverse individuals and topics we were exposed to. Very fascinating material, readings all very interesting.
Incredibly interesting. The material is exactly what people expect you to know if you are graduating with a degree from economics - lots of public policy and current affairs. Lectures are good overall, although some are rough. TF's and sections are phenomenal. Assignments are really annoying. Overall, content is superb, course execution is subpar - net is a course worth taking. Not too hard, either.
This course is really great! The professors and TF's are very enthusiastic and keep you engaged. They are also very knowledgeable and it's cool to hear from such famous economists. I loved that the course covered a variety of topics but this also had its cons - it never went into too much depth. The workload is fairly light and the exams are tough.
I would challenge people to try to avoid the pull of the economist "star power" in this course. Many take it just because of the professors. Yet, as a whole, while the material is interesting, the lectures were not. If you need a good lecturer to have a good course experience, take a different course.
This is a great class. Very interesting overview of American Economic policy, and I feel like I learned a ton. Can be hard to stay engaged during some of Feldstein's lectures, but the material is interesting enough to not bore you. Definitely recommend this course to anyone.
Great hands-on economics class. The readings are numerous, however, the exams will put more emphasis on the macroeconomic concepts studied in section and some real-world empirical evidence rather than the weekly articles to be read. A basic macroeconomic understanding is highly recommended when taking this class as this makes it easier to understand the more advanced concepts. The workload is fair and you get to practice memo writing. Everything is fair game on the final exam and it counts 50 percent of the grade, be aware of that! Professor Feldstein, Professor Summers and Professor Liebman are all excellent teachers and the material is very interesting - I highly recommend this class!
TAKE THIS COURSE! It can be challenging (read: the exams are hard) and the grading on the memos is pretty vague, but the course content is amazing. I learned so much from this course and it was one of my favorites at Harvard. You will be able to better engage with the world and current events after this class.
Great class! The lecturers are great and very knowledgable. Pay attention to section.
This class is a rare opportunity to hear from three of the foremost economists in the nation. The amount of information that you will cover is astounding; the memos can be tricky/tedious, but they help you develop a valuable life skill. Exams are tough. Scored according to some checklist that was unclear to me. But overall, one of the most memorable classes that I've taken at Harvard!
I am so glad I took this course because I learned so much about all different aspects of economic policy. The professors have varied views on most of the topics, so you gain a very well-rounded understanding of the pros and cons of different policies in a very balanced way. However, the course lacks structure in that there is no 'textbook' or reference material to strengthen your understanding of what is taught in lecture (the readings are not always the most relevant or helpful for this purpose), so you are basically going off of however much you can write down when the professors are speaking.
This course is interesting and the professors are world class. There are not than many assignments, but none are likely to be incredibly fascinating. A good course overall.
It's a very useful economics course. It will help you understand what's going on in American Economic Policy (deficit, crisis, social security, healthcare etc.). I took it without any prior economics background and I was fine.
This was one of the best most exciting classes I've taken at Harvard.
This is a good introduction to economic policy. A lot of subjects are covered however not very quantitatively. This course is also not very difficult and thus gives you time to actually study the material.
This class is one of the most useful one's I've taken at Harvard. Take it to be a more educated citizen.
This is the Gov 20 of economics; superstar professors, not too much depth, a lot of breadth, and just a really general overview on the stuff that's relevant to domestic/international macroeconomics. Workload isn't that much at all, but the memos and midterm/exams count significantly so make sure you put a lot of effort on those. Yeah, you probably can slack off and get by here, but this is a case where you really do get more if you put the effort into following the course. And why wouldn't you? The people who are teaching this class are great, and are quite important in their own rights. (Also, the topics are really understandable; you don't need a super heavy econ background to understand them. You'll come out understanding a lot of what's being said on the biz section of newspapers.)
A lot of information
This class is hard.  There is not much given to you in regards to what you need to now for the exams besides literally everything about American economics (compared to other econ courses).  But, the teaching staff is an all-star cast, the TFs were fantastic, and I learned a ton.  Despite a less than satisfactory grade I am very glad I took the class.
Super interesting material (for the most part) and taught very well. Summers lectures are slightly repetitive but Feldstein and Liebman are good.
Exams are difficult, and very little partial credit is ever awarded. Overall an interesting course, but not one to take lightly.
It's definitely a good course where you learn a lot about important topics in economic policy. I think the readings were not necessary for the course but probably would have been useful/interesting to read. Exams were a little hard but are fair. It's a good economics class.
It is amazing. You learn so much about everything that is happening in the economy and it's associated policies. It taught me so much about everything.
If you want to know what to think on the most contentious economic issues facing the United States today, take this course.
Best Ec class at Harvard. This class is taught by rockstar professors, has a very focused section component, and makes you very informed of the current status of American politics. Basically makes you the most informed voter you could be.
It is a difficult class but teaches useful information for anyone living in the US.
The lectures were interesting until we got into healthcare and social security.
If you are interested in Economics and have taken some foundational courses then you absolutely should take this class. It will give you an excellent foundation for a wide range of topics. The professors are all stars and do a really good job. The TF team was very well organized and effective as well.
You are learning from the same people who have talked to the past three presidents. When you can hear things like "when I designed the stimulus" you know you are in a crazy awesome class. Take it if you are a policy buff and news junky for sure. Woooooooooo learning economics yeah yeah rah rah  rah
It is absolutely essential to attend lecture. It is also pretty helpful to go to section, although I did not go to section that often due to conflicts and regret a lot. It is also important to keep in touch with the TFs and ask questions. In general, this course is amazing and I regret not putting enough time on it. You learn a lot of fascinating things and real world policies. The professors are the best in their field (which also means that you are a bit brainwashed during this course with some republican ideas.) It is really really good. The TFs (especially Nihar and Anna) are also really good and caring. Nihar is very very smart and he is generally available, although I think he can be sometimes rude without meaning it. I don't know how to explain it, but I think that this course could still improve in terms of communication between students and the TFs. Take this course. AND GO TO LECTURE.
Great class for any economics concentrator. Must take.
Great class. Lectures are really interesting and cover lots of relevant topics. Sections are great and really help you prepare for exams. Lots of reading but not really necessary, except for references in memos.
Really interesting class and great section but the exams are difficult
Great class, definitely a must for most ec concentrators as well as anyone interested in the general politics of the US
Be aware that the grading for this class is completely arbitrary-- the memos don't make any sense (two that seem exactly the same will receive dramatically different grades), and it is literally impossible to finish the exams.  That said, the lectures are fantastic and insightful, and the material covered is information that all students should know entering the real world.  It would just be nice if they could combine the amazing lectures with a better evaluation format.
Take this class if you are genuinely interested in current U.S. Economic policy and are willing to take the time and be intrinsically motivated to pay attention and take notes in lecture and do the readings. The memos and exams will not force you to actually do the readings and it is very easy to squeak by in this class with little work, but it will not be an enjoyable experience and you will regret taking this class if you just want to see the famous Larry Summers. This class is good for people who are self-motivating and will actually engage with the material because they care about it, not for anybody else. This class had an enrollment of like 200 people or something like that, and I suspect fewer than half would actually take this class if they were to go back to shopping week with what they know now.
Pros: Some of the most interesting material you'll ever see in an economics class here, if you're into macro and policy. You can get by without the readings and still learn everything in lecture and section. All-star group of professors and the TFs are excellent.Cons: It is very difficult to do get high grades on the assignments.
It's pretty much what you'd expect.
Easily my favorite class I have ever taken at Harvard. It finally puts economics into an applicable world. Professors are all All-Stars. Take this course.
Great class if you want to learn about economic policy issues that are in the news.  The professors are great and have looked at these issues in the real world.  An essential class for anyone that wants to work with politics in my opinion.  Would definitely recommend.
Ec 1420 is a gem; if you are an economics concentrator this class should be at the top of your list. You learn very interesting concepts that you hear about all the time, and you learn from three superstar professors. Sections are very helpful, the memos are fairly painless to write, and the exams are tough, but fair. I definitely walked out knowing a lot more than when I first came in!
Learn about the economy.
If you liked 1010b, this course is for you! Having a good section leader is vital.
Fantastic course to take
This is a great economics course, especially for non-concentrators.  Make sure you attend every lecture to get the most out of the course.  The best classes are when Liebman, Feldstein, and/or Summers get together for a panel.  Start the memos sooner than the night before they are do.  Overall, I'd recommend this class simply because of the big name professors who teach it.
FELDSTEIN IS THE SHIT. The exams for this class are impossible though. GO TO SECTION. Don't do any of the readings. You'll get a decent grade but not a good one.
I took this senior spring and was so glad I did. It was by far one of the most useful courses I took at Harvard in terms of learning information that was applicable and relevant in everyday conversations, and I enjoyed the opportunity to learn from four professors who are leaders in their fields. Going to lecture is necessary to do well, but you really only deprive yourself if you don't go. The reading list is overwhelming but the most relevant readings were pointed to and discussed in section which was helpful.
If you're into EC, best course you could ever take to understand present issues facing the US economy. You will feel a sense of deep interest just by hearing what experts like Feldstein Liebman and Summers have to say. They are so thorough and logical in all explanations. You will be ready to understand major developments/decision points in the American economy to come in the next 10 years. You will gain experience reading official Congressional budget reports.
Very interest class - content is fantastic and the professors and TFs are great. Work is very tough - exams are very hard.
This class covers some very important and interesting material about general American policy discussions. You come out of the course with a strong understanding of how economics plays into each of these policy debates. The lack of any slides, videos, or notes makes lectures hard to keep up with and exams tricky to study for. Sections are almost necessary to make up for this. Pascal gives the best section presentations I've ever had.
Took this in my senior spring. Probably in my top 3 favorite classes here. Just make sure you go to section (exams are 90% section material, and that's where you learn all of the analytical tools you'll need).
Good course. Interesting lectures and very good tfs. Section is very useful
A patently average economics department course. Lectures are interesting, but that's about it.
This class is very interesting and you learn a lot, but don't take it unless you want to put some time in to get a good grade.
Take the midterm seriously, memos are harder but definitely doable (second one is easier!)
This is one of the most useful Economics classes I have taken at Harvard. You get to learn about issues like healthcare, social security, taxation and balancing the budget, issues that are front page news on any given day in the U.S.. To top it all off, you're learning all of this from amazing faculty members like Reagan's chief economic adviser or former Secretary of the Treasury. This won't be the ec course that will feel like a waste of your time. Try to get Pascal as your TF!
it can be a little dry sometimes, but you learn a lot, and the professors are top-notch. To hear economic policy discussed by Obama's 2008 economic advisor, Reagan's economic advisor, and the former secretary of the treasury is pretty breath-taking. Also the classroom isn't too large -- the second floor of emerson, with maybe 100 students, so it feels relatively intimate. Lol don't change the room please.
This class is really interesting and the professors are really unbeatable, but definitely go to section. The midterm and final are pretty hard and the memo assignments are graded in a pretty arbitrary way, but the course is not a ton of work (the readings may seem overwhelming but are pretty unnecessary to succeeding in the class).
I really enjoyed this class. Definitely take it, because even if you haven't taken the prerequisites for it yet you can still do well.
This is one of the most rewarding courses that I have taken at Harvard. This is THE class to take at Harvard. The teaching staff (both Professors and TFs) are the best of the best at Harvard. It is difficult (particularly exams) but still is so interesting and exciting that grades don't matter. I've learned so much about economic policy through this. I feel like an informed citizen now.
Great class for those interested in public policy. Covers the main points of each major issue. Not too difficult. Light on Math
This class is great; lectures are interesting and the memo assignments are actually good.
This class was awesome.  The professors are incredible and teaching staff was organized and helpful.  Overall, one of my favorite classes at Harvard and extremely applicable.
If you're an ec concentrator, there's no excuse not to take this class. All-star professors, interesting and applicable course material, and not that work intensive for an ec class with the intermediate theory prereq. An overall great class.
Excellent class, superstar professors. You learn a lot about American economics.
Econ 1420 is definitely one of the best, if not the best course I have taken at Harvard thus far. It was a class in which I actually felt that I was learning something applicable and relevant every day. I would encourage students to put as much time into the class as they can such that they gain the most out of it. For example, it is not really necessary to do the readings, but I wish I had done more of them. Section is truly important as the concepts that are more abstractly/broadly covered in lecture are solidified- in that sense, section is actually a useful component of the class, unlike many other classes. If you are at all interested in Economics, you should definitely take this class.
This course is great for anyone! Covers basic policy topics that are good for everyone to have a basic understanding!
go to section!!
This is an incredible course for anyone interested in contemporary debates over the American economy and economic policy. This has implications that reach into both the political and economic spheres and this course gives you the tools to engage knowledgeably in any debate about American economic policy.
This class was taught by great professors with amazing experiences.  The material really made me feel like a more informed citizen and everything we learn is relevant in daily life.  The memos are great, and tests were hard but doable.
This course was a great overview of economic policies as it covers everything from Social Security and healthcare to the recent financial crisis. All the professors had their individual perspectives to contribute to the course, which were all interesting to hear about and compare/contrast. The course load was manageable but the exams were a bit more challenging. I would recommend with enthusiasm to anyone who is interesting in being more informed about current conditions in the US.
Grading for the memos are very harsh, very subjective. It's possible to do well on the class without going to lecture, but pay close attention at/go to all of the sections.
Great opportunity to listen to lectures from three very impressive professors
Good class, awesome professors, very interesting perspectives. This class is a tough-graded class however, and the curve is difficult for a non-economics student. The memos are interesting and the perspective you gain is invaluable.
MUST TAKE FOR EC CONCENTRATORS! It is rare to find an Ec class with such great professors, great TFs and is very organized. I have enjoyed every single lecture and section in this class and I felt like I have learnt a lot. I especially enjoyed Feldstein and Baicker's lectures - they are so knowledgeable. Nihar did a very good job coordinating the class. The class is very well structured and everything makes sense. Vijay was great too in section. Overall, I am very glad that I took this class!
This course is interesting but difficult.
This is probably the best economics class you will take at Harvard but do know, it is difficult.
GO TO SECTION, lecture can be a little much but section really helps you learn what is tested
This was an amazing course, everyone economics concentrator should try to take it some point in their college career. The professors are very knowledgeable about american politics, and it is interesting hearing their different view points on the same issues. The exams are challenging, so it is important to start preparing for them early.
Excellent class that will teach you about our country's policy.
Great class!
Go to lecture! And ask hard questions-- sometimes I wish that the doctrines of economics were questioned more here at Harvard. This class is so relevant- it's a great introduction to major policy questions in this country.
Take Ec1420. The greatest minds of economics will talk to you about the most pressing issues in economics in the present. Companies pay enormous amounts of money to have people like Larry Summers talk to them for even an hour - we have it "for free" here, don't miss out on it.
This is the best course at Harvard if you go to lecture. You learn to think about economics  in regards to how it is relevant to society. Feldstein is probably one of the brightest econ professors alive, learning from him will change the way you think and you will develop the skills necessary to process the economics behind the problems facing america today
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. You get to hear from some of the greatest minds in the field of economics and they certainly help to generate enthusiasm for the material. I didn't find grading to be difficult before the final, but wow, the final seemed pretty brutal and not all that representative of the types of problems I expected from past midterms/finals. I guess it's just hard to predict what the final will look like, but don't take this course for the grade (you can still get an A - don't worry too much). Take it for the experience.
It's an amazing class and the lectures are actually worth going to. However, the material is pretty difficult and the final was really tough. But an amazing class nonetheless and one everyone should take if they want to be able to take about American economics and politics/policy without sounding like an idiot.
The material covered in this course is definitely applicable to life in the "real world". You learn about retirement savings, medicare, and monetary policy. Will definitely help you understand what is going on in the Wall Street Journal. That being said, it can be hard to know what material you are responsible for- so definitely be prepared to take vigorous lecture notes.
This is a really great class if you want to understand the economic issues that are going on in politics. Things like social security, health care reform, tax reform, etc. are all constantly discussed, but before I took this class I never really understood what the tradeoffs were between different policies. Taking this class will make you a more educated citizen and is also very enjoyable!
Make sure you go to lecture - the professors have a lot of unique perspectives to offer, and it's fascinating to listen to them; but there are also no lecture notes or resources other than your section notes when you're studying.
Amazing class that grounds economics theory in present-day policy issues. This class is more broad with less depth (no complex mathematical models) in coverage, but it's a treat to have four professors all lecture on their areas of expertise. Would recommend to juniors and seniors -- you definitely get more out of the class after the foundational classes. Assigned readings are fascinating and range from papers to WSJ articles. Anna is the best section leader (highly highly recommend her section!).
The faculty is fantastic and you will gain a broad knowledge of American macroeconomics and public policy. In that sense it's valuable as a booster of general economic knowledge. The reservation I have is that the lectures are pretty dry.
Good overview of economic policymaking on a broad range of topics with some issues being treated more in depth (Social Security, the role of the Fed, etc.). The lack of homework to get feedback on over the course of the year is a bit unsettling. Be ready for a surprising amount of math on the exams.
Definitely learn about Economic Policy. But be careful because they don't really post lecture slides (besides a select few), and its MWF at 10 AM. So truthfully, I was hurt because I missed lectures. Makes you appreciate classes like Ec 1010b where slides are posted.
Great opportunity to hear and learn from some of the most influential economists at Harvard. Highly recommend.
Great class, not that hard but you'll learn a ton still
An overall enjoyable course to take with friends (aka other ec concentrators). 1420 is pretty tough with grading (probably because there's so few assignments -- midterm, 2 memos [or long paper for writing req], final), so be aware of that. Feldstein's great and I would definitely recommend talking to him more!
Econ1420 is a gem of an economics class.  You have the opportunity to be taught by some of the leading economists of their time, many of whom have even advised presidents (past and present) on economic issues.  The content is also quite interesting - unlike more theoretical courses, this class is much more focused on applications in policy, drawing examples from past practices, including from the professors' own experience.  The memos do a good job of putting you in the shoes of policy makers and understanding the various perspectives on different issues, from social insurance to response to financial crises.  Feldstein in particular is quite a gem - although at first his lectures may seem a bit dry (especially since he has a tendency to face the chalkboard a fair amount), but as the course progresses you can see he really is passionate about the material and is quite approachable after class.  Fair warning, although 10am lecture may seem a bit daunting, don't miss it!  Every so often one of the professors will drop a tidbit of knowledge during lecture that will likely show up on the exams.  Overall, a solid course for concentrators, secondaries, or just those interested in current events.
This is a very interesting class taught by four great professors. If you are looking for a comprehensive understanding of American economic policy, you should definitely take this class. Not too much work on a week to week basis.
Its interesting but not easy
Every lecture is relevant to current events, and we tackle a range of really important issues. Take this class if you want to be a more well-informed citizen and understand many sides of policy debates!
Reservations based on who I'm talking to. Great class for gov/law/policy people who don't have much ec. For ec majors, it's a very light elective that overlaps quite a bit with 1010b.
Very interesting materials, but the combination of it being a hotshot professor and it being in the econ department makes for a very poorly taught class. Lectures, especially from Summers, are dull. Marty Feldstein is a gem.
great to get a holistic understanding about economic policy -- you're not going to find a more star studded line up of professors
A great way to learn about American economic policy. Go to section- section is where the important learning for the exam happens.
The readings are very interesting. While you do not need to do them all for the exams, they do contribute significantly to the overall experience.
Get anna as your section leader
This course is one of the more difficult economics courses that I have taken at Harvard but is is hands down the most interesting and applicable. The trifecta of Summers, Feldstein, and Liebman is absolutely incredible.
Very interesting course from the authority figures in economic policy. You can get away with not doing the readings, but are missing out on some very interesting stuff. Start the memos further in advance than the night before and you will be fine. Definitely go to the Feldstein lectures as there are no lecture slides, and the material is more than often pretty interesting.
Attend lectures and sections. Very important.
One of the best econ courses I have taken at Harvard. The exams were hard, and they required you to be present at every lecture and every section. There are limited notes on the lectures available, so in order to do well you really do need to attend every class.
This is one of the best classes you can take in the economics department. It's taught by some of the most experienced economists and provides both conservative and liberal viewpoints. There's a lot of material that is broadly covered, but most people will leave feelings as though they understand american policy much better than when they entered. The course is updated slightly each year so the lectures and readings always feel very relevant. The memo assignments also give students a good introduction into writing policy recommendations professionally. If you take one economics elective while at Harvard, I highly recommend you consider this course.
Its hard, but not that bad and what we learned about was really useful knowledge and was so relatable to current events.
This was a very interesting class. Lectures are not super important to attend, but they are very engaging so you will enjoy attending. Sections are very important, as the exams are catered to the sections. The first memo assignment was graded harshly, but if you followed the feedback for the second assignment, you will do well.
During the year it's really interesting and not that tough but the final was ridiculously hard. Go to lecture. Don't need to do readings.
The memos are tough but fairly graded as are the exams. Not the easiest class by any means, but one that teaches information that every econ major should know and has obvious application beyond Harvard. The section heads are also the best in the department.
If you're interested in economic policy this course gives you a good introduction, however the assignments and exams were graded harshly.  Also there are no lecture slides when Feldstein lectures, which makes studying for this class extremely difficult.
This is a great course for seeing how economics plays into many area's of everyday life. The professors are really clear and the TFs run very efficient sections that give you practice problems for the exams.
Take this class!!!!!!!! If you've ever taken a class here and at the end of it thought 1) What did I really learn from this? or 2) That wasn't helpful for "real life" at all, then this is the class for you. You will learn so much information that's relevant for making decisions about your personal life, finances, politics, etc. I don't think I've ended a class at Harvard feeling as much more knowledgable about a subject as I felt after finishing this course. Also, the professors and TFs are amazing. Where else can you take a class where the professors are all superstars, and can drop lines like "When I was advising Obama" (or Nixon or Clinton or....) While the course can be confusing in that it's difficult to know exactly what information you should focus on learning, the TFs do a great job of synthesizing the relevant information for you. Go to section! (Especially if you have Nihar). Also if you have any interest in econ research, I found the research paper to be really fun and interesting. I was way more into my paper than any of my friends who took the memo route. If you're willing to put in more time, I'd recommend it. In conclusion, take this course at some point during your time here. I loved this class and was honestly so sad to watch Professor Felstein walk out the door on the last day.
This is a very interesting class if you want to learn about how policy works in this country. It is a pretty difficult class though, especially if you are not strong in economics. It was not overly mathy (other than the final). The memos are great assignments that seem very applicable, although they do take a lot of time and effort and are hard to get a good grade on.
This course gives you the chance to learn from policy legends. You will come out with a wealth of knowledge surrounding the most pressing economic policy questions today. However, the readings are extensive, exams can be difficult to study for, and the memos are graded harshly. Overall, it is a solid course with  excellent professors and TFs.
The most rewarding economics class I've taken thus far
This class touches on a wide range of issues that are very important for anyone interested in American economic policy and politics. The best part of this course were the weekly sections! Sometimes the lectures weren't quite helpful and they could be disjointed and confusing, but Anna's section is where I learned 90% of the course material. I feel much more knowledgable after taking this course in terms of stuff that every economics major should know about current event topics.
If Anna is still TFing next year, definitely try to be in her section - she's the best TF I've had in college. Really enjoyed this class and feel much more informed about a variety of important economic policies - it has informed my voting preferences as well.
If you have taken Econ courses and felt like screaming "when will I ever need to know this?!" Then you should take this course. It is extremely relevant to the recent history and foreseeable future of the American economy, whether you want to go into finance, government, or education
