Great class for anyone who is interested in learning more about the Middle East. Economic modeling wasn't a primary focus, but the economic arguments incorporated provided a new way of analyzing the region.
This is honestly one of the worst classes I have taken as an undergraduate. I would not recommend this course at all.
Very little week to week work
It's a great class for a general understanding of the underpinnings of the current economic situation in the Middle East.
The course may change, as this was the first time it was offered.  But this iteration was a fun and easy exploration of interesting and relevant topics in economics.
It's a joke economics writing course. Don't go to class, it's easy to learn at the end. But definitely not worth taking if you plan to learn anything.
Interesting, though Arabic vocab may be a challenge.
Take it if it is taught differently - better lecture slides and more engaging material.
This class applies economic theories to historical events.
Unless the structure of this class changes (as it well might given that this was the first year it was offered) be prepared to be disappointed by what you think you'll learn versus what you actually are exposed to.
The final paper takes much more time than you might expect, so plan accordingly.
You need to be interested in the Middle East. Since this is the first time the course has been offered, I think it will get better after this. It is pretty easy and there is almost no work besides the paper and exam at the end. So if you're looking for an easy way to get done with the Econ writing requirement this is a pretty good bet.
Unless major changes happen to this course, it should be put into the history department.
This course has the potential to be great - the subject matter is both interesting and relevant, the research in the field is fairly innovative, and Prof. Chaney clearly possesses expertise and passion in the field. However, I cannot recommend it unless there is a higher economics prerequisite that allows Prof. Chaney to fully expand the models he introduced in class. If no pre-requisite is added, then it should be re-designed as a Government class.
Even though the material is interesting, the lectures and readings are boring.
Great class! Could be exponentially harder if Ec1341 becomes a pre-req.
Interesting.  Not too difficult.
Interest in the Middle East is definitely necessary, but I think this was a great class to introduce students to the Middle East as we went through history, theories on why the Middle East went from a world leader to a group of developing nations, and many other cultural aspects as well.
It's easy but the lectures can be very boring.
Reasonably light workload and interesting for those who want to learn more about Islam or Middle Eastern history.
Very interesting topic. You will walk out of the classroom being more knowledgeable about Middle Eastern history and its economy.
There's no safety net in this course, because there isn't much work or feedback. You really need to be self-motivated to stay on top of your work in this class.
not much work
Excellent course on the economics of the region - emphasis on historical development of Arab economies is unique for a Harvard Middle East class
Professor Chaney is excellent, and quite passionate about the subject.
A good way to fulfill the writing requirement. Doesn't require much work, topics are fun. Lectures tend to get dry, but definitely take it if you're interested in the Middle East and its future..
It's a pretty light workload.  Interesting material but lectures can be boring.
In order gain a true understanding of the issues, you had to work outside the course framework. Lectures were interesting and Professor Chaney is a valueable resource, but there is no accountability.
You must really be interested in the Middle East
The class may seem somewhat confusing or disorganized at times, but the teaching staff tie it together nicely by the end.  It's helpful to take good notes at lectures, because lectures are fairly important for the exam, and lecture notes online are only an outline of what Prof. Chaney discusses in class.
It's a good course, but there's only a few grades, so you have to be prepared for the test and paper. Lectures are helpful, but sometimes are long and disoriented and section is extremely helpful.
Take Ec1010a, econometrics, and maybe have some background in the Middle East before taking this class.
The course material of this class is very interesting.  However, the structure still needs to be worked upon.  That said, as the class matures, the structure should improve and the class should be more enjoyable.
Great course, you learn a lot about the Middle East and how to view issues using economic arguments.
really fun
Not much work but not too interesting
I would say that if you're looking for a pure economics class, this isn't it.  The lectures are all about the history of the Middle Eastern empire over a span of 200 years.  If you're not particularly interested in the Middle East or history isn't your thing, then you probably shouldn't take this class.
Great course. Very interesting topic - nice to get a broad perspective on an economic issue.
Interesting topic but weak professor
