This is one of the best classes I've ever taken. Fryer made the classroom into a space where everyone could bring up their opinions and debate the issue we were discussing, even though everything we discussed had to do with race, which is generally a hard subject to discuss in large groups. He's also just hilarious and brilliant.
Professor Fryer is an amazing person and researcher, but this does not extend to his ability to teach. If you take this course, the lectures will be a highlight of your week, but this is more due to Professor Fryer's style of lecture which is infused with lots of humor and personal stories. He often glosses over important details in the lectures and is incredibly unstructured to a fault. The class will not follow the syllabus and you often won't know what is due for class until a few days before. Good luck actually getting time to speak with him outside of class. In his own words, the class he teaches is more about him than the students.
Best class I have ever taken at Harvard College; Roland Fryer is incredible, the material is moving, the workload is incredibly manageable. This is a class that you must take.
This class is awesome! It gives a refreshingly clear, data-driven perspective on education and race that I haven't seen anywhere else during my four years at Harvard. Taking this class pass-fail is the way to go! The quiz component unnecessarily weights a lot of the grade on very few questions about the readings. Pass-fail allows you to enjoy the material without the stress of the quizzes. But if you can't do pass-fail, don't let the grading scheme scare you away. It will be worth it. Take it!
This was one of the most eye-opening classes I've taken at Harvard. I highly recommend it to anyone who is interested in education policy, even if you have no econ background.  The course itself was a little disorganized, but it's not enough of a reason to not take the class.  Roland's lectures are so entertaining and the papers we read for the class were great.
This is basically a poorly organized version of Economics of Education Reform. If you have never taken a class with Fryer, definitely go for it, but if you have definitely skip out on this one.
I first saw Roland do a guest lecture in Ec10a my freshman fall. I waited until senior spring to take one of his courses because he was on paternity leave. I would have no regrets if this were the only course I ever took at Harvard, even paying full tuition. HE'S THAT GOOD. I'm a senior, and if he's teaching a course next year and I end up staying in Boston, I will literally sneak into his class just to hear him speak again. I have never been in a class for more than 10 minutes without wanting to check my phone or pull out my laptop and do other work. Roland somehow captivated all of us for 90 minutes, twice a week, the entire semester. He has the most charisma of any professor I've ever met at Harvard and cares more about his field (and the ART of being a good teacher) than anyone else. The course is mostly a survey of different papers relating to race in America (some published by Roland himself), and lectures are essentially TED-talk explanations of the papers punctuated by humorous/insightful/serious anecdotes from Roland. My one regret is not befriending Roland. He made a very conscious effort to personally learn people's names throughout the semester and he held special evening discussion sessions at his lab that were just informal pizza chats. The man just ... cares. His irreverence is a breath of fresh air. He follows the data.
Taking econometrics before this course will be helpful when reading through the methodological components of the paper. That being said, a strong desire to learn will get you through just fine.
I may have gotten a C in this class. But I loved it anyway. Roland is such a courageous man. He doesn't try to make you feel good about the world. And he doesn't try to make you feel angry about these abstract social constructions. He gives you data and shows how data analysis determines who lives and who dies. Who goes to college. And who gets pregnant at 16. This was a life changing class.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Fryer's lectures are the most incredible experience you will have at Harvard. The course was somewhat disorganized/ the readings were a bit all over the place, but it really didn't matterI learned so much just from listening to Fryer. If you want to see how economics applies to the most difficult questions of race/crime/education, you must take this course.
This class is easily my favorite class that I've taken at Harvard.  Roland Fryer is a god among men, and anyone who has a chance to interact with him is a better person for it.  This is especially true on issues of race and discrimination, issues he has had to encounter his entire life.  He has an amazing perspective on these issues, and anyone who wants to learn more about the economics of race in this country needs to take this class.
This is a must take. The best class I've taken at Harvard.
The material in this class is amazing, tests are reasonable. Fryer is an excellent lecturer. My only complaint is that the course is pretty disorganized, things are graded slowly, and readings are posted late. You definitely have to go with the flow but you will learn a lot about how to think about complex and important issues.
Take the time to meet the teaching staff and go to every lecture and really enjoy the material
This is an incredible lecture class because Professor Fryer has so much personal experience with the topic. His passion and humor and intelligence make this course one of a kind. However, note that the rest of the course is slightly more disorganized. There isn't a real syllabus, readings pop up randomly, TF doesn't really know what is going on. To me, the incredibleness of being taught by such a legend way overshadowed those things.
Fantastic class! I look forward to this class all week and Professor Fryer is extremely engaging and just a fantastic person to talk to. He really makes an effort (given how busy he is) to get to know his students, and this effort is manifest through his weekly discussion groups.
This class was the best class I have taken here at Harvard. Roland makes a tough topic very engaging and easy to understand. He really establishes the importance of data and numbers, while at the same time really highlighting important issues that this country faces. I really recommend doing the optional paper (you get out of the final!) because doing it is a great way to experience the research that the whole class is based off of. Doing the optional paper was the most rewarding thing that I have done at Harvard so far.
One of the best classes at Harvard, without a doubt. So enjoyable that I looked forward to going to class all the time-- one of the highlights of my week, every week. Incredibly interesting material taught by an unbelievably charismatic "rockstar" Professor. I already go around telling my friends to just come to even one lecture so they can see how amazing it is. TAKE THIS COURSE-- it will change the way you think about incredibly important issues in a way that is much for the better, and you will not regret it! If I were running Harvard, I'd make this class a graduation requirement. Take it. You will love it.
The course material was interesting, but it was extremely disorganized. There was only nominally a syllabus, we were assigned readings a day or two before they were due, and we got assignments that were mentioned in passing w/o details and then never graded. I also wish the lectures woudl have connected to each other more closely, rather than just going through specific studies.
Fryer is the most divine like figure I have ever met. I don't want to let his ego get to his head, but honestly, just such a hardworking person, fascinating stories, and enthusiastic lectures.
A thorough look at one of the most important and deeply entrenched problems
THIS CLASS IS AWESOME!! Roland is a great lecturer and you will learn so much about how economists are thinking of these types of problems. You'll learn how to read these types of papers with ease. The material is super relevant and interesting and the tests aren't too bad.
Prof. Fryer is one of the most engaging and inspiring lecturers you will ever encounter on this staid campus. He is extremely energetic and hilarious, and is able to break down difficult and complex topics. This course, in this current iteration because who knows when it may be offered next, covered a slew of important topics, such as education reform, intergenerational mobility, policing, jury sentencing, labor market discrimination, etc. through a social sciences lens. Fryer can be extraordinarily egotistical, but you gotta admit, he has good reason, and I think he actually (!) might care about teaching.
BEST CLASS EVER!
Professor Fryer is one of the best professors I've ever had. His teaching style is exceptional and the material is not only incredibly interesting, but also so important. Take this course!
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Professor Fryer is one of the most amazing professors. He is engaging, extremely smart, and a very fun guy. The course teaches you some amazing stuff about racial issues in the US. Even if you have no interest at all in that stuff, the way the researchers and Professor Fryer approach these issues is just eye-opening and thought-provoking. The results are also just amazing. DON'T BE AFRAID ABOUT THE QUIZZES. They were, in all honesty, not that tough if you've done the readings, and were not a lot.
Best economics class you've ever taken. Be prepared to cry in class. Applicable to the real world.
The class is really interesting and Fryer is a great lecturer. But the course is also really poorly designed and administered.
You rarely receive any feedback that I felt like I should have audited this class instead.
Pop quizzes are brutal
This was the best class I took at Harvard. For me, it was the perfect blend of rigorous, empirical economic research with real life experience on incredibly important issues - not only race but class, gender, and basic questions of opportunity. Professor Fryer is excellent!
TAKE THIS CLASS! I shopped it on a Tuesday and then managed to drag my friend (who was beyond reluctant) to shop it on Thursday. After grumbling about how he was "missing the opportunity to shop" all these other classes, 10 minutes into Professor Fryer's class, he turned to me and said "I'M TAKING THIS CLASS!" You'll gain so much more than an understanding of Race in America (though that's hugely important). You'll gain an appreciation for how economics can be applied to help solve (or at least help us understand) really important social issues and how to use economics to make the world a better place. Professor Fryer is a gripping lecturer. You'll never find yourself dozing off and you will actively look forward to the lectures (though perhaps not his pop quizzes). Just be sure to either come in with a strong foundation in econometrics or be ready to develop one very quickly.
Can be stressful week-to-week with quizzes. Three hours is a very long time to be in a class, although Fryer is an outstanding lecturer!
Best professor in ec department. Organize study groups to get through the reading.
do the reading. start the paper early.
It should be something you really want to learn about.
Best class I've taken at Harvard!
Take this class regardless of your race, but especially if you're white. It clarifies many controversial issues such as affirmative action so that you can tell when an argument sounds good but actually has no empirical backing.
be ready to work hard.
Felt like a waste of time.  Fryer subjects us to listen to his long stories which don't have to do with anything (and he repeats himself on these stories so much that it gets obnoxious).
Great way to learn about empirical analysis of social issues
Be very aware of the fact that full understanding of the readings requires a basic understanding of multivariable regression analysis.
Professor Fryer tends to develop "favorite" students in class, those students being the ones he calls on constantly, regardless of whether or not they actually raise their hands and volunteer to answer questions
there is a lot of reading and no mercy to those who can't remember the details
Fryer is a fun, engaging professor who makes class enjoyable.  The paper does tend to come out at you from nowhere though, so you have to be prepared to keep on top of things yourself.  Also, the quizzes are tough.
If you really want to learn economics, don't take this class.  It's more just debates about political issues framed with economic papers.
You'd be crazy not to take this course. There is nothing like it, and you still come away with the same feeling of satisfaction and understanding as you would with any more conventional course. Gets the job done, and much, much more.
Prof. Fryer is extremely entertaining, and living vicariously through him is great fun for a semester.  Will read a lot of economics, including several classic papers with really interesting conclusions and data.  Reading load is intense, but not unmanageable if you have the time to spare.
If you want to hang out, discuss some interesting ideas, and hear a Professor  name drop and praise himself, then take this class. Also i'm not sure if Professor Fryer realizes that we each spend $6,000 on this class. He did not teach us enough interesting ideas to make this class worthwhile. I would not take this class if i had to make the choice again.
great professor- fun, engaging
"Professor Fryer alone makes this class worth taking, though he can be difficult to get in touch with outside class, and the grading is somewhat haphazard since it depends only on weekly quizzes and the term paper"
fryer is the most arrogant professor I've ever encountered; at Harvard, that's an achievement. He also plays favorites and picks on students to make them look stupid so he can get a cheap laugh from the class and feel like "the man." He's generally a bad guy.
The course covers interesting material.  However, there is a lot of reading for the course.
Lecture is fun, professor is cool.... but the TF is easily overwhelmed and does not provide any useful help. Grading scheme (50%= pop-quiz grades, 50%=final paper) sounds good, but is TERRIBLE, it's like studying for a midterm every week and writing an economics paper without any experience in economic paper-writing. also "race" (as in the course  title "race in America") is misleading: in actuality it refers almost exclusively to the black-white discrimination.... other races are hardly represented.
Great topics, fantastic lectures, interestng material.
covers issues important to be an informed American citizen, in a fascinating, lively way
It gives you an opportunity to think about problems in more cerative ways.  Can give you a good sense of what it means to be an "economics" concentrator rather than a finance concentrator.
This was the best class I have taken at Harvard by far. If you are at all interested in education, then you have to take this class.
Brush up on your statistics.
This class is for students who are willing to work hard.  At the same time though, it has been the most rewarding class I have taken.  The lectures are also very stimulating; it's the only class at Harvard I have not fallen asleep in.
This is the hardest class you'll ever take. This is also the most incredible class you'll ever take. Know what you're getting yourself into and be passionate about the material, and it will be worth your while. If you don't care about race in America, econometrics, economics research, or general problem-solving, this is not the course for you. If you sincerely desire to solve the problems in the world by using economics, you'll love this course.
It's an amazing class and a great opportunity to learn, but you need to be comfortable with STATA. Problem sets would take us 6-7 hours each week to tackle, and it wasn't something that I could do alone. You also need to be very comfortable with taking initiative on everything, because there's no safety net.
I learned a lot from this class and am glad I took it from that perspective. The content of the class is absolutely fascinating and Roland is an incredible thinker and is undeniably enthusiastic about his research.  Unfortunately, I don't think he devotes nearly the same amount of time to his teaching. I find it incredibly ironic that a central thrust of his course is on improving education, yet he barely knows the names of his own students in his 10 person seminar. He is incredibly inaccessible outside of class, and it is extremely difficult to schedule time to meet with him, if at all (and I'm not sure whether he actually realizes this or not).
The problem sets would take between 10 and 20 hours on average.  They prepare you to be economists.  The problem sets are all applied econometrics.  It's frustrating when the problem is to take data and reconstruct a table that you already have.  Be prepared to put in a lot of work.  Probably my favorite class at Harvard because Roland is such a fun and passionate teacher, but it's by far the most work I've ever done for a class.
Be sure that you know Stata, have a passion for education, and are willing to work hard. Or at least two out of the three.
