awesome
This class is pretty hard-core. But if you work hard, you will learn lots of game theory. So it is a trade-off. Also, if you only have one problem set a month, don't wait till the last night to start.
This course changes from teacher to teacher, and Adam is visiting, so what I say here may be irrelevant. But I recommend the class to anyone wishing to learn a chunk of the game theory that has been developed in the last 20 years. I also recommend it to people who want to see rigorous game theory for the first time and are mathematically competent.
If you are interested in game theory and have a good mathematical background, this is a great course. If you aren't, you are unlikely to enjoy this course.
Economics 2052 is AWESOME.  But students taking it should be prepared to work.
Drew's class is excellent. I had a great time!
Get ready for a challenging journey through advanced game theory!
This is a very advanced class that moves very fast. Allocate sufficient time to read the papers and lecture notes carefully and also start your problem sets early. However in general the material is interesting and useful if you are interested in game theory.
If you can handle math, take this class; even if you don't want to be a theorist, it offers an excellent introduction to the extant literature, which is useful in many other fields. However, be aware that this class is intellectually challenging in a way that (e.g.) 2010a/b are not.
Do not skip this course if you want to do theory. It will give you a much deeper understanding than you can get anywhere else, and Drew is amazing. Also, be prepared to spend a lot of time on this one.
This is a fabulous course. Yes, it requires work, but if you want to micro, there is no substitute for this class.
This is a extremely hard to follow class. You should be prepared to put in a lot of time and work into it.
this course requires hard work if you want to truly understand the materials being taught.
Makes you work really hard, but it is indispensible if you're interested in theory.
Take it if you're a serious theory student, but also don't be afraid to take it. You'll get as much out of it as you put into it, and Drew is great.
An excellent course for students interested in theory, and a course that should be required for those who are sure they will become theorists.  However, connections to applied work are rare in this course (which is part of the point).  Requires a good deal of time commitment in order to get the most out of the readings and the problem sets.
The course was heavy on (mathy) reading.  The assignments were difficult, but rewarding.
This is a great class if you're interested in research in game theory. Be warned it is very intense and very theoretical.
Get ready to work. This is a very fast-paced class that is intended to bring you to the frontier of current game theory research in several topics. It is very good, but you have to be able to put in the time and struggle with the papers/problem sets. This year, we covered repeated games, high-frequency games, reputation, belief hierarchies, solution concepts with correlation, strategic experimentation, learning in games, and experiments. I especially enjoyed the lectures on learning in games.
A well-organized and rewarding course!! Make sure read papers before lectures especially if you know little about game theory... Psets are really really tough, but they also motivate you to reread the papers carefully!
Graduate Game Theory from one of the best game theorists worldwide
Take it if you are really interested in game theory. This class is very time consuming and is not for the faint of heart.
Drew is the most knowledgeable, passionate and devoted game theory teacher you will ever meet
A serious course, not to be taken 'just for interest'. The amount of work required, and the difficulty of lectures and assignments, mean that one should be seriously interested in the field to take the course.
This class takes a huge amount of time. You need to read the assigned papers to understand lecture.
