stein is a fantastic lecturer
Prof. Stein is one of the best teachers I have ever had, and the course material is great for spurring research ideas, although perhaps less so for providing technical skills.
On the difficult side for undergrads, but doable; Stein is an incredibly clear lecturer; second half of course might get a bit esoteric
If you are at all interested in financial economics, take this course. The lectures are superb, Prof. Stein is a brilliant teacher, and the readings are almost uniformly very interesting. The amount you get out of it, as with most classes, is proportional to how much you put in (Prof. Stein won't quiz you to see if you read papers or check your attending, but if you do the readings and attend lectures you will get a lot out of it). In short, take this class, work hard in it, and you will be happy you did both.
this course is a great overview of the current research in behavioral finance, and while only a handful of finance courses at harvard, please take caution with enrolling in this course, particularly if you are an undergrad. the course is VERY much geared toward PhD students--and there is a HUGE different in terms of the emphasis of a PhD class versus one intended for undergrads.
Great for students with an interest in financial markets or in a non-classical approach to studying markets in general
Stein is an amazing professor, and this course offers a very thorough and insightful introduction to behavioral finance.
The best lecturer ever!
Start thinking about your paper topic early. It's a great opportunity to have Jeremy Stein's undivided attention, so you should work really hard to give him an original and well-conceived idea.
Prof. Stein's class provides the students with a deep understanding of modern finance, both from a positive point of view (the way it works) and from a normative point of view (its shortcomings and could be done about that). It is very rare to have the chance to be taught by someone who has a comprehensive understanding of all the issues related to finance together.
Take this if you are genuinely interested in the topic. The lectures are the real attraction.
Don't worry: You will not fall asleep in lectures. There is so much to confuse and perplex that you will stay awake with wonder and fear.
Unless you are absolutely certain you have no interest in finance, you should do this course.  And even then, you should still think about it.
Jeremy is an outstanding person to listen to in lecture -- he definitely puts every other professor I have to shame when it comes to presentation and analysis of the material.
Owen has a great teaching style, edgy humor, and is a snazzy dresser.  Sometimes people are compelled to bring donuts to class.  It's a win-win.
Shleifer is a boss!
If you want a course that is very much left up to you, this is it. Jeremy and Andrei make themselves available outside of class to assist you, but they are not going to hold your hand through assignments. The referee reports are tough but rewarding.
Great insights, great in-class discussion. Easy workload. Anyone interested in finance, behavioral and even macro should take the class.
