Provides a good overview of what is considered human capital and how it is measured as well as the historical changes in the concept.
Only to those with a keen interested in the subject.
As I said, this is the best course I took during my first year.  Especially for people with applied interests, this is a fantastic course.
If you are interested in the topic I imagine that it is as good as any potential course on this topic could be.
Larry & Claudia are great professors; take it if you're interested in historical trends in economics; better for people who like working with data
Larry and Claudia are very knowledgeable on human capital and related issues. If the topic interests you, then I would think this is a must.
Excellent course! I really feel that after looking back, I can talk and think intelligently about the role of human capital in economic growth, and how human capital has shaped economic history. The readings were great-they helped supplement the lectures and introduced you to the current thinking of the field. And, having both Larry and Claudia teach the course (two excellent teachers), and seeing how they thought individually about certain topics, and the questions they still had, made the sum even greater than the individual parts. I'd highly recommend this course to anyone who wants a deep understanding the role of human capital in history.
Really great material and engaging lectures
The topics are really helpful in understanding the economic development process from a human capital perspective. The course materials are also excellent and provide the latest progress in this field.The professors are really helpful and knowledgeable.
Professors Goldin and Katz are entertaining and make the material enjoyable. I liked the readings, and the paper was a good way to get involved in research of my own and begin trying to deeply think about the topics in the class. Not too much work either, just for undergrads make sure you start on the paper early and effort into it so that you can get the best feedback possible and try and make an actual contribution
This is material all economists should know and that is sorely missing from the rest of the graduate curriculum.  Go.
A really unusual opportunity to think about connections among a broad array of topics in a way we don't often do in economics. Highly recommended.
Excellent and interesting survey course! The work piles up at the end, with the research paper and the exam, but the lectures are interesting and the professors helpful.
This class is a great overview of the field of human capital in the context of economic history. Solid lecture slides and great professors. Be aware that most learning outside of the classroom is autonomous - the TF made herself spectacularly unavailable.
Always keep note on your ideas and talk frequently with the professors. It might help your final research paper a great deal.
If you enjoy history and want to see it from an economic perspective, you might enjoy this class. Otherwise, you probably won't.
This is a good class for students willing to take initiative and pursue the subject without oversight or grade incentives.
This was an excellent course that deepened my understanding of the development of human capital and economic history. I very much enjoyed the way in which the course was structured, with an emphasis on the long-run perspective. It enabled me to truly understand the bigger picture and more easily identify the broader, more important questions in the literature.
