Very personalized to Professor Robisons theory, which is fantastic!! He is just a nice and intelligent guy and a great professor. Shop the course and you see what I mean. Workload is fair
Take this class if you don't want to be bothered with assignments during the semester, but be prepared to study a lot for the exams
All of the readings tie very well together with the lectures.
You should take this class if you like history, but not otherwise. It's sort of the same argument presented over and over again.
An excellent course for how the course of history changed economics.
Take it if you want an easy, but "unpersonal" class. It wasn't important at all to go to lectures (just look at the lecture slides) and there were no assignments. But because so much of the reading is on institutions and Professor Robinson's theories, be prepared to only hear one side of the argument. Additionally, it's important to have good time management and be disciplined about the readings, even when there are no assignments due. I did not do any of the reading until the weekend before the midterm and final and it was AWFUL to have to catch up on those readings in just 1 weekend...
Prof. Robinson's lectures are great in covering his ideas on the institutional approach for growth and virtuous and vicious cycles caused by inclusive and extractive economic and political institutions. If you really like studying about history of economic growth, then this class is a must-take, especially if you took Niall Ferguson's Western Ascendancy class in 2009. Ferguson took a more historian approach, while Robinson takes a much more economic and data-driven approach to actually analyzing the history comprehensively.
this class does not require a lot from you. go to class! the hour and a half lecture can get tedious to sit through, but the professor delivers the information well and it is an interesting topic - plus all of the examples mentioned during lecture are useful for the midterm and final. word of caution - the final section TF was completely awful. that part of the course was easily the worst hour of my week, so as long as they hire someone else, this is a fairly easy class to take for ec.
This class actually teaches a lot of good information, and while he can be kind of boring to listen to, he is really sharp and really enjoys this subject.
I would recommend this course to anyone interested in the subject matter. Lectures are a pleasure to attend and the workload is very manageable.
I really liked the material and I definitely learned a lot about the changing economic patterns all over the world that are still relevant today.
Very interesting, but very reading heavy.
Interesting question for the course.  Don't expect to come out of it with a solid answer.  Professor has his own views on the material(you read his book in this course).  Low workload and great lecture slides.  Take it.
very interesting material -- probably very relevant for everyone in ec and history as well as those interested in public policy. prof robinson is great
This class is a joke. The lectures are videotaped and there is no incentive to do any work besides studying for the midterm and the final. That said the essay questions on the midterm were very vague and nobody was allowed to dispute their grade. Stay away.
It's a great subject, but the administration is a joke. Prepare for randomly cancelled classes, awful sections, and a midterm and final consisting of the entire workload of the course. If you want a course you can skip and watch lecture videos of, this is probably the one.
The subject matter is interesting but the class will not keep you engaged and the course themes are repetitive. Low commitment class for some intellectual gain.
There is no hard work waiting for you.Just attend the lectures and keep track of what the course is about. Midterms might be tricky, as i found them pretty open-ended.I am sure you will find most of Prof Robinson's talks interesting and worthy of these 90 mins of yours.
make sure the TFs are normal people before you enroll, they were miserable
A lot of reading, but really interesting and fun, not super stressful
It will be extremely difficult to keep up with the materials in this course. It is often unclear what readings are actually necessary as Robinson picks and chooses what to discuss in lecture (and thus what is covered on the midterm and final). Although the material is extremely interesting, it will be very difficult to remember the level of detail necessary to get a good grade in the course for the exam portions. You will be asked to recall the names of authors of papers and obscure tribes they discuss; and as hard as you try to focus in lecture, it's nearly impossible to keep track of Robinson's lecturing style as he introduces tangential anecdotes and does not follow the slides.
Wonderful way to run about the underpinnings of modern economic growth! Prof. Robinson is a great lecturer and this class gives you a very good overview of where we are today and the reasons behind it.
I thought World Economic History was a very fascinating course. The material covered was quite interesting, even though much of the course focused on Robinson's book, Why Nations Fail (he does give people the heads up about this early on). Lectures this year were an hour and a half long, twice a week. Professor Robinson has an accent and does speak a bit quickly, so it might be difficult for some to follow along. However, he makes available his slides on the course website, which is very helpful when prepping for the midterm and final. Overall, very interesting class, in which you get to learn more about the interactions between the Dutch and Indonesians in the 1600s, or England with India, or about Somalia, the Mayans, the ancient Greeks, the Black Plague, serfdom, China, creative destruction, etc.
There is a lot of potential to improve the course's structure and it may be conceived as boring, but the content is very good, interesting and in my view of major importance for everyone's general education, no matter the concentration.
Terrible class and terrible TFs.
Provides great insight into history while still maintaining economic cause and effect (or correlation). Covers broad sector of topics and countries/regions. Robinson is great, goes on quite a few tangents, but writes great lecture slides. Very enjoyable, fair, history class with economic undertones.  Also Prof. Robinson says "llama" as "yama" which was beyond enjoyable.
The slides hold the answers
This class is perfect if you want a fairly relaxed class that is also very interesting. Even if you aren't an ec major, you would probably enjoy the class. It goes over basically how and why the world has developed the way it has economically.
While I am someone interested both in economics and history, and am a fan of Why Nations Fail, I felt that reading the book alone would have been a satisfactory experience, especially as many of the other readings are covered in other economics courses. I really respected Professor Robinson's effort as well as my TFs, but sections were generally silent and the lecture material was usually overly wordy and presented in a confusing order, such that the chronology and theme of the course were generally obstructed. Great idea for a class, but could be conducted in a much better way.
You can get away with doing none of the readings because section and exams are simply regurgitating information that was presented in class. The class is an expanded version of Professor Robinson's book. If you do decide to take the course, reading slides rather than going to class would be a better use of your time because Professor Robinson has a tendency to go on tangents. In short, if you need the credit, take the class, but, otherwise, take a class that actually makes you think and not simply repeat information.
If you are not interested in history, then you may want to shop for another ec class.
The readings are long and it would be beneficial to start a reading group early instead of rushing to start one before exams. You will learn a lot about the world and feel more educated coming out. I would take it if you are shaky on world economic events.
No weekly work which is great. Actually pretty cool subject matter to think about why some countries are poor and some rich and how some are outliers and were able to break the mold. Great Ec Elective
Economics 1340 gives you the knowledge to understand the causes of economic growth and the income inequality present throughout today's world.
So this class covers very interesting material, but is probably the least organized class I have taken at Harvard.  The Q guide last year warned me of this, but I thought the course heads would have seen those previous comments and adjusted accordingly.  Unfortunately they did not, so while this could be a very great class, the management of the course is extremely subpar, almost to the point of arrogance.  Nevertheless, the material and subject if fascinating.
You should wait until this course becomes a MOOC.  The lectures readings are worthwhile, the lectures not bad, and the discussion sections a waste of time.
Great class and getting to work with Robinson is amazing!
If you take this class, make sure to read "Why Nations Fail" and pay attention to the course slides, because they pretty much have everything you need to know for the exams. Just be ready to spend a lot of time trying to consolidate all of the information by the time the exams roll around.
It's an interesting class that seems to grade tougher than most. Fairly interesting from a comparative politics perspective, but I'm not entirely sure you couldn't gain most of the ideas by simply reading Robinson and Acemoglu's book (which is worth reading).
Topic is very interesting, can be repetitive, take only if interested in content.
If you are looking for an easy economics class to perhaps fill the elective requirements, this is a great choice. Lectures are recorded in case you can't come to class, slides that are provided are very informative, readings and material of the class is interesting. There is only one midterm and one final, making it a good candidate for pass/fail as well should you want to use that option to get economics concentration credit. However the class becomes very repetitive although Robinson's book Why Nations Fail is great. Professor Robinson is also not a great lecturer. If you are really interested in the material but might not need/want to take the class, read his book.
I never thought I'd be interested in development economics. But an otherwise weak set of economics classes this semester pushed me to take this class. And I'm really glad I did. Pretty interesting field, pretty low workload in the class in general. Robinson picks some amazing and interesting case studies as examples, and the material is very engaging. Sometimes lectures can get long-winded, but overall a great course.
IT's really painless and easy
Unfortunately, this is the last time the course is offered.
By far the best class I have taken at Harvard! Just take it!
kind of boring, but easy and painless
If you want to know what globalization is, take this class.
Go to lectures, go to sections, take a lot of notes. Be able to explain all the big picture ideas and apply models/examples.
lectures are confusing to follow - a lot of information thrown at you at once.
one of the attraction is williamson himself. Too bad he's retiring.
Extremely well taught and organized, also very interesting and relatively painless.
This is one of the best classes I've ever taken
Fun class at first, drags after a few weeks.  Light requirements are nice.
This is an amazing class that will entirely challenge many commonly held beliefs.
I would recommend this course wholeheartedly to any economics students or any student interested in the global forces that are shaping this world, especially for students that are more qualitative than quantitative in their thought processes.
Ec 1340 is a great course. Only take if you're interested in economic history, though.
Very interesting material.  Course is well-organized.  Lecture and section handouts are very helpful.
The paper is long and perhaps not as straightforward as the paper for East Asian Economic History, which offers more guidance.
Great material but pretty disorganized and lots of reading.
If you are okay with a course that isn't very personal, then take this course. Also, take this course if you have been meaning to read "Why Nations Fail"
There are a lot of readings. Doing them before lecture is really recommended.
The course really helps to build a very interesting background for social science students, especially to future economists. In a context where the exclusively mathy approach to economics in being increasingly questioned due to its lack of general applicability in real contexts, a good course of economic history - like this one - helps to match theory with reality.
Take it! Very interesting and fair workload.
This course requires a lot of self study
I took this pass/fail which made handling the readings and two exams much easier. Frankly, I got a lot out of it even though I didn't put that much in, so I learned quite a bit. Section really helps to tie everything together broadly.
This class will teach you a ton about the legacy of institutions and how they inform economic policy.
Nothing really positive or negative about the class. If you're into history and economics it's a good class to take. That and the books you read (including "Why Nations Fail") are actually quite entertaining.
Good class, lectures are interesting but long. Professor Robinson is a good lecturer. Light work load. Readings can be a lot.
This class had so much potential. Professor Robinson is clearly passionate about the subject and Adi is a very nice and knowledgable TF. Unfortunately, the class is incredibly disorganized. There were readings missing almost every week, the midterm is unbearably early in the semester and because there is almost zero accountability for the weekly readings and even the best amongst us could not find the motivation to finish them. Not to mention that for an Economic History class this focuses too much on one theory (that presented in Why Nations Fail) and a number of the readings had considerable number of either factual mistakes, or even omitted or paid no attention to very important historical events. I think one way this class could be improved is to have students contribute to a short weekly blog with their thoughts on the readings, as I believe that could make sections more interactive and interesting. Even though Adi did do the best he could every week and I really enjoyed the debates.
Grading is very subjective. Class is heavily midterm/final with no assignments.
This was a pretty interesting and broad overview of economic history - it covered a lot of events that I was not well-versed in so it was helpful to learn. However, it is a lot of information all at once so sometimes it is hard to filter through what to focus on. Going to section is very helpful in that regard.
Great material, but you could probably get just as much by reading Robinson's book.
Make sure you keep up with the readings for this class
This class is interesting and shows how important institutions are to historical and contemporary development. However, after a while, the material becomes repetitive, and the added value of the course over just reading the professor's book (Why Nations Fail - which is really good), is not really clear. Because you analyze different countries at a very, very high level of generality, it's hard to walk away from the class knowing a lot about the history of any single country well (except for the UK).
