If you are interested in doing research in decision theory, this course is your starting point. If you are interested in behavioral economics or experimental economics or other parts of microeconomic theory or even mathematical psychology, you should definitely at least attend this course.
Very interesting and thorough introduction to decision theory.
The course is really hard. To fully understand the course proficient math is required. So, if you are not good at math, then do not take the course. Some knowledge of topology would be helpful. Prepare to spend a lot of time on home assignments, and read through lecture notes and different papers for several time to understand at least something. Apart from being extremely difficult, the course is marvelous, and Tomasz is a great teacher, always helpful and always available for questions after class, and during the office hours.
Prof. Strzalecki is an awesome teacher and communicates energetically a nice survey of decision theory --  it is no small feat to make a 3 hour class period engaging. The problem sets are interesting and allow you to understand the material nicely. That said, they are rather difficult (even mathematically), particularly if you work mostly alone. Work follows a boom-bust cycle with psets and other wise just paper reading -- some problems are extremely time consuming and tricky.  All in all, I was very glad to have taken this class.
The course is heavily mathematical and you focus on axiomatizing models. If you take the course, put a lot of time into reading the book and reading the papers or you won't get a lot out of it.
Tomasz is a great teacher
This is a great course if you are interested in better understanding the foundational assumptions in economic models and/or studying economic theory that uses serious mathematics in deep ways.
Great class. Pace sped up rapidly toward the end but material was interesting and deep.
One of the most interesting classes I took this year. Tomasz is an excellent teacher, and makes it very interesting to participate and learn in this course. Do note that this most of the stuff might be a bit too complicated for most people with no suitable mathematical background (an undergrad in math is probably recommended to understand what's going on).
strong math background in Real analysis, familiarity with topology would be helpful
If you have the appropriate mathematical background, take this course immediately: it is great fun.
Must have familiarity with real analysis and topology.
