I truly enjoyed every hour of this class, it was such a unique experience. Prof. Chaney is amazing: he knows what he is doing, he is super brilliant, and makes sure that each student is getting something out of the class. Also, the choice of articles were fantastic.One warning: do not take it if you don't have a strong econometrics background, since all the materials in this class assumes that you do.
It's a fascinating tour through the last millennium of history in Europe and the Middle East - you gain different academic perspectives on the causes for the Islamic world's success and then relative decline.
This class does such a great job of using economics methodology to interrogate historical questions, occasionally political and sociological. Our discussions really got to the heart of why civilizations diverge over time, chicken-and-the-egg kinds of questions about political balances impacting economic outcomes. For any economic history lovers out there, this is a course like none other. It's also easy for people without much quant skills to contribute insightfully to discussions, which I'd imagine is rare for an Econ seminar. Moderate workload, definitely more readings than I was used to doing for a class, but much lighter than other seminars I considered taking. Also, what a unique topic! This is probably the best-run course about Middle Eastern history on campus, and certainly the only one about Middle Eastern economic history. It's probably the only course you'll find about medieval European economic history, as well.
I thoroughly enjoyed this seminar and got so much out of it. It was small, dynamic, engaging, and I always left the room with my head spinning at the end of the class. Professor Chaney's research interests are unique and fascinating, and this was a wonderful opportunity too take a course from someone working in such a specialized and important space. He was enthusiastic, fun, easygoing, and thoroughly dedicated to the class.
Coming from a humanities background, taking an economic approach to historical issues was new and interesting challenge.
I think this is a great class for upper-level economics concentrators who are interested in learning about economic history. In many ways, it felt reminiscent of my sophomore and junior tutorials, and provided an opportunity for a more intimate engagement with the text than the majority of ec classes. That being said, I think you need to be willing to learn a lot on your own, as it is a graduate level class, and there is more reading than most economic classes.
