It's not great but it isn't horrible. It's not a huge workload and very doable. It also enables you to take a lot of cool higher level ec classes. So if it's a requirement definitely take it and don't worry too much.
I have such mixed feelings about this class. I found the content difficult, the professor boring and uninterested, and the lectures convoluted and useless. I loved that problem sets were not graded because it allowed me to spend time on the class when I had time and ignore it when I did not. And for all of its faults, it could not have a better group of tfs. Eli and Nancy are wonderful teaching fellows, extremely dedicated to their students and willing to go above and beyond in order to help everyone achieve success.
go to section, go to office hours to better understand how problems are done
Pros: The Psets mirror the tests exactly, so you know exactly what you have to teach yourself to succeed in this course.
Cons: Everything you learn you have to teach yourself. The lectures and textbook are generally considered to be unhelpful.
Not fun.
Good course, not too much work, and the majority of learning can be done on your own time
If you are doing EC, it's either this or 1011a. My blockmate was in 1011a and it is a nightmare. Take this class, learn stuff, don't drown yourself in work.
If you want to study or do well on tests, you only have the problem sets to work with. Class and textbook are useless. Had a pretty bad experience with TF's. If you're a bad test taker, you might really struggle with this course. Do not recommend unless you really need to take it for Econ concentration.
Really try to do the psets in advance and definitely take advantage of section
It's really not that bad.  The instruction leaves something to be desired, but it's easy enough to get through thanks to the low workload and in-class exam questions taken directly from the p-sets.  And if you are genuinely interested in economics, you will learn a lot about how math and models can be applied to the discipline.  Granted, it's not everyone, but personally I liked learning about these things.
This class felt like an independent study. The problem sets were not too difficult and the structure allowed you to do the work when you deemed necessary. The freedom and hands off nature of this course however came at the cost of many being disengaged. I learned more about study habits from this test then the actual material. Solving these problems can actually be very fun, but from the first day the class was portrayed as being boring and taxing which had a negative effect on people's attitude about the course going into it.
If you like econ and you like calculus, then this is a good course. Lectures are kinda boring and long, but there is very little coursework. Tests are pretty easy
If this were an elective, I would not recommend it to anyone who is not genuinely interested in economics because it is very dry.
Much better than Ec 1011a, and more applicable. Learn more in my opinion.
I would tell other students that the course moves really fast, especially at the beginning even during shopping week, so it is important not to fall behind.
you have to take it, but they make it suck
You have to be willing to teach yourself with regards to the problem sets.
This class is a lot of self-learning, and Miron definitely does not want to be teaching. If you are to take this class, make sure to go to a TF's section that actually understands the material and is willing to explain the problem sets to you.
Lectures are not taught great but this class is necessary for economics concentrators. Section is definitely worth going to and problem sets are a must.
This semester there were 4 midterms (with 15/16 multiple choice questions on each midterm) and a final of 34 multiple choice questions. The midterms aren't too bad, make sure you go to section since they actually cover the test material, but the final was BRUTAL since it's a lot of material and there were several questions that were foreign to me. Make the final a priority!!! Pretty sure it's going to kick my grade in the butt :(
Optional problem sets and midterms with questions pulled straight from those problem sets sounds great, until you find yourself tripping over every question on the final. And the worst part is that I have no idea what any of us could have done to be better prepared, because they tested at a far higher level than they ever taught. Beyond that very negative ending point, the rest of the class is relatively straightforward, though definitely not what anyone would call fun or interesting or engaging. It's mainly a matter of trudging through the textbook and problem sets on your own. I took the class without any previous background in economics (possible, but takes a lot of time), and found that the lectures, though dry, did help with my understanding of the material.
Only take this is if you're thinking about concentrating in Economics. It's wildly boring and doesn't connect with relevant and interesting themes in Economics.
Professor Miron does not care about you or the course. He makes sloppy mistakes on his presentations and no effort to engage the students. Throughout the semester, explanations on pset answer keys become decreasingly helpful, let alone legible. That being said, the class is not hard if you keep up with the psets, and the grading is fair and straightforward. If you have to take it, it will be okay.
If you have a choice of getting dipped in caustic acid or taking this course, I implore you to choose the former. It is by far the worst class I've taken at Harvard. Miron clearly hates teaching it, and if the leader of the class hates it, then clearly the students will hate it as well. Don't think I'm alone in this opinion. I haven't heard a single good thing about this class from anyone. It needs serious revamping. I absolutely abhorred this class.
The class itself was not too difficult as long as you take full advantage of section and use the material provided for practice. The final exam was, however, surprisingly difficult compared to all of the psets and midterms we had. I did not feel sufficiently prepared for the final, but the curve was much more lenient than it was for the midterms so it was fine.
If your Econ and don't want to do 1011a you have to take it. Miron hates teaching it and nobody puts in any work but the material can be interesting.
This class is not too bad. Professor Miron doesn't inspire much interest in the subject. However, I do recommend finding a good TF and going to section weekly because that is where you will learn the most. Reading the textbook is not necessary other than for the formulas.
It's not a lot of work, but you still have to study for tests because the curve was pretty harsh given the MC format of all of the assessments.
The problem sets are not graded which means that you need to be prepared to keep yourself on track. The final exam was very difficult so don't take anything for granted!
Only take the class if you're an Economics concentrator. The lectures are terrible, but the workload isn't too bad, so while it shouldn't deter you from being an Econ concentrator, it has no added value to your life.
Take this course only if you absolutely need to.
Very poorly run
This class is awful, but you gotta do it for ec.
Attend section and learn how to do problems. You can attend lecture, too.
You really do not learn much from this class since the exams are just based on the psets. I wish the exams were harder and really tested your knowledge of econ rather than how well you simply memorize practice questions.
There are some courses here at Harvard that are absolutely fascinating and expand your understanding and interpretation of the world. This is not one of those courses.

This is not necessarily the fault of Professor Miron or the teaching staff. Though lectures could sometimes be uninteresting and go at too fast a pace, the teaching staff were nice and helpful. Rather, the problem lies in the material itself: conceptually, you learn the exact same things as in Ec10a and don't really go more in-depth with the concepts. The only thing that's different is that there's more math. Because of this fact, it's almost impossible for this course to actually be interesting. 

This isn't really a painful course in the sense that the material isn't too difficult and the exams, though too numerous (there's four midterms!) are largely fair. If you have to take this for the Ec concentration, don't worry too much; it's not a massive time commitment. If you don't have to take it, though, I probably wouldn't.
I wouldn't take this unless you need it for a concentration or secondary. Not because it is a bad class, but you can get all the same ideas from Ec 10. This class just applies those ideas to more complicated problems.
Basically self-study
Take this class if you don't want to go through the rigors that is 1011a. Don't take this class for fun, it is not. Take it if you want to concentrate in economics, but please don't base your concentration on this class solely.
The lectures are terrible, but if you get a good section leader it can be a good class.
Lectures are useless for the workbook, which is useless for the multi-choice, which (other than the copied problems) aren't too helpful for the exams
Unless you are required to take this, I would recommend that you don't take it. It is poorly structured  and unhelpful in learning microeconomics.
If you took AP Economics, not only will you already know everything this class teaches you, the problem sets and exams are still not doable because they are entirely multiple choice that test odd permutations of simple concepts. This class is the textbook taught three times- once read aloud (not kidding) during lecture, once assigned as reading, and once on the problem sets/exams. Also, the exams are consistently 40% the exact same problems from the psets so there's that. Generally lazy course all around.
This class is horrible. Take it only if you need it for a requirement. Really, don't take it.
do the pests
Do the problem sets on time, otherwise you'll be reviewing everything the night before the exam
Take it if you have to so long as Miron is teaching it.
Do the psets even if they aren't graded! If you can teach yourself well, read the textbook rather than attend lecture. This class is a stepping stone to many topics beyond - and intermediate economics will be dry before the fun stuff that follows!
This course was pretty painless and not nearly as boring as everyone makes it out to be. It certainly wasn't my favorite course, but manageable and helpful if you are continuing with Econ.
This course design is pretty unstructured so students considering to take this course will have to be prepared to do a substantial amount of self-studying for the class.
It's painful, but it's necessary. Don't go to lecture; it's a waste of your time because you learn everything from the optional p-sets.
You will have to take it as an ec concentrator, if you are not planning on taking ec1011, so might as well like it and make the most out of it.
Psets help with everything a ton, and the lectures help answer questions. The new test format really helped out and decreased time requirement.
Really did not like this class. It seemed like all the material was just copied from the publisher of the book. I really enjoy classes that teach us how to think and give us a broader concept of the subject material. For this class I was literally just memorizing equations.
It is not a lot of work, but you will also walk out not feeling like you learned anything new, apart from memorizing multiple choice questions and applying them on the exams.
The tests for this class are directly off the p-sets.
It's required, just do it.  Nothing is really necessary except the problem sets, which are highly correlated to the exams.  Not sure why people are saying the Psets are not the exams, they are literally the same questions a lot of the time.  All multiple choice, too.
You should take this class over Ec10 if you have any economics knowledge. I'm talking bare minimum. You'll learn the material if you go to section. Lecture? Now that's a different story. Lecture has nothing, and I mean nothing, to do with the PSET. It DOES help you see the practical application of microeconomics, but attending lecture won't give you an A. That being said, go to at least one. Miron is a interesting guy, so it's not like you'll be bored. Regarding section, GO TO IT LIKE YOUR LIFE DEPENDS ON IT. It is immensely key to your success. By success, I don't mean getting an A; you'll get that if you go, but you'll actually enjoy the learning process if you learn the material from a TA.
Class was really easy, but also really boring. Lectures are not mandatory or helpful for understanding the material. Section is also not mandatory but can be helpful if you don't understand the material.
Midterms were extremely easy if you look at the problem sets, but the final was extremely hard. You don't have to go to lecture, so I'd suggest doing the readings and going to section. Your whole grade is based on 96 multiple choice questions...
Take this course if you have to for economics concentration requirements.
There is rigidity in the structure of the course. Pay attention specifically to psets and lectures- textbook material seems less important to the grading of the course, and often is full of jargon.
Boring class. Lectures are useless. Book is useless. Only psets matter for exam material.
If they don't change the structure, it is an incredibly low workload class. Lectures are absolutely useless...I don't think anyone went to lecture after the first midterm. Literally sit down the night before the exam, do the three (8-10 questions each) problem sets for the exam, and you are set. Half of the exam is exactly copied from the problem sets (literally an exact copy), and the other half is pretty much the same. And I'm not even good at econ. Literally the class is a breeze, especially if you have taken Ec 10a. No one in the class has any respect for the class at all. The difference between this and 1011a is absolutely night and day. You have nothing to gain by stressing yourself out with 1011a. Do what's good for you, take this class, and focus your attention elsewhere.
I did well, but didn't really feel like I learned much. I skipped Ec 10, and had absolutely no trouble in the class. You basically just had to know how to do the practice problems, which were gone over in detail in section. There was no point in going to lecture.
This class teaches you very little beyond applying calculus to concepts you learned in ec 10. Unfortunately it is a requirement needed to take more advanced ec courses.
This class is not engaging on any level.  The lectures and sections were not helpful at all, and the readings were often confusing and more complicated than the exam material.
It actually blows my mind that some courses at Harvard can be so terrible. This is not a good class in any aspect, but it may be one you HAVE to take. Here is some useful advice if the course is anything like it was this year: don't buy the book, don't buy the workbook, don't go to lecture. The books are a waste of money and lecture a waste of time. If you have lecture go to the library and look up old lecture notes or google whatever the topic is for an hour and a half, you will be far ahead of any of your classmates. The topics could be interesting, but man does this course need some work.
As you can tell from past years, 1010a hasn't been the most well-liked course. I think this semester was an attempt to improve the course, but it definitely didn't work. The 4 midterms and final were all multiple choice, which I thought was sort of strange for Ec. Sections were completely pset solving sessions, which I found helpful, but again I thought that TFs didn't really know what was going on with the course other than that. Lecture wasn't very helpful -- I found myself reading the textbook most of the time, which even then was sometimes confusing. If you're an ec concentrator, you obviously have to take the course, but if you're only interested in taking an ec course at Harvard I probably wouldn't recommend taking this class with the expectation of learning anything particularly insightful.
I would tell students to prepare for very dry and un - stimulating lectures and a maths - centered economics class.
You can have two fives on the AP exams, do Ec10 and get A's but at the end of the day Ec1010a is what it is. . .a mess. I would NOT recommend this class to anyone I love or respect in any way. This was the most miserable experience. Bless my TF, he tried, but this class is just not salvageable. I mean if you're doing Ec, great, but if not, DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!
Take it because it is a necessity, but don't expect to do the bare minimum and learn.
This course was altogether very unfulfilling. The entire grade on the course was based on five multiple-choice exams. The first four midterms were 15 questions each, and the final had around 30 questions. This makes up your entire grade for the courses--which many students felt was a very poor assessment of their microeconomic knowledge. None of the problem sets are graded, because they were all multiple choice! There was no incentive to stay up-to-date with the course, and it felt like the teaching staff as very uninvested in the success of the students. Miron begins the course by saying that the class will be boring--well of course the class will be boring if it's the mindset going in. The textbook was actually quite interesting--it's entirely possible to make this class engaging. 1010a was not. If you can stomach the math, 1011a is recommended. 10a taught me so much more econ than this class did.
You have to take this class if you're an economics concentrator, but you might be better off taking it in the Spring if the class is better. This was honestly one of the least enjoyable classes I had at Harvard.
This course was the worst of my four this semester. The professor makes lecture so boring and disengaging that 60-70% of the class stopped showing up to lecture by the second week. Lecture topics are completely unrelated to the problem sets, which you MUST study for the four midterms. Make sure you get Nancy as your TF, because she is the only one who knows exactly what she is talking about. You need to get Nancy!
Don't take this class unless you need to. As of fall '14 with Miron, the testing in this class is awful thanks to a multiple-choice only format.
The reason I've passed this class is from Ec10a and Math 1a last year. I did not learn new material this semester and had to figure out how to apply the concepts on my own.
The reshaped version of this class is not bad at all. The problem sets are optional but useful as they are quite similar to the exams. The exams are multiple choice and quite straightforward. Lectures are boring and not necessary for success in the class. Section is optional and I did not find it particularly useful.
This class is not interesting and the material can be very heavy, especially the way that it is presented in lecture.  However, since it is a requirement more an economics concentrator, there is no way around it. The one positive thing that I can say about it is that sections were very helpful and I learned a great deal more in section than I did in lecture, so make sure you go to section.
Only take if you must.  As bad as you've heard.
Try and think about the material and invest, you get out of it what you put in. The course is better for someone with a mathematical tendency
I recommend taking this course if you have taken AP and gotten a 4 or 5. It is impossible to succeed or pass from just lecture, but if you go to section and try hard you should get an A or A-.
Professor Miron and the TFs are very knowledgeable so seek them out of you have questions.
Unless required, probably want to skip this one.
The material is quite interesting. However, the class is incredibly poorly run, section is awful, and lecture is quite boring. The textbook will be your best friend.
Don't let this course dissuade you of doing the Econ track! I know it's dry, I know you will not like the lectures, but the electives after this course should be really interesting!
Miron is a poor lecturer who does not want to teach the class. He generates almost no enthusiasm for the already dry material. You will learn about microeconomics, but it is likely you will teach yourself what you end up learning.
The lectures don't correspond to the tests at all.
The way this course is structured, your end grade really depends on the curve. With each test having half of the questions consistently drawn from your problem sets, the difference between a letter is only a question. It isn't that great and is one of the major drawbacks of the class for me. You may work really hard, but if you mess up one question on the midterm, your grade is dramatically different because of the curve.
This class is very frustrating because the p-sets are very math based and you aren't taught how to do them.  Go to Eli Satcher's section.  That's the only thing that saved me!  He actually explains everything.  Otherwise, you're going to have to teach yourself how to do the p-sets out of the blue.  The lectures are pretty much the same as what you learned in Ec10, so they don't help with the p-sets which are totally different and on a whole 'nother level.
The only reason it exists in the current format has to be that Miron is great at damage control and convincing people that the only reason Q scores are so low is because of the subject matter and not him or the format of the class. With that being said, as an economics concentrator, its either this or 1011.
This course made me switch my concentration from Ec to Gov. Even though it may seem simple because of its multiple choice exams and lenient lecture policy, it has no "cushion" and creates a very "sink or swim" environment. Although I found the material interesting and fun (especially when I understood it), lack of access to TFs (and lack of access to good TFs), unfair multiple choice exams (which encourage rote memorization over actual understanding of the material), and Professor Miron's own disinterest in the course really turned me off. What was the most frustrating was that everyone, even Miron, acknowledges that the system set up for 1010a simply doesn't work, but nobody really tries to improve it or help students who are struggling to succeed under its bullshit structure. This seems to be a common complaint about the Ec department in general, which is why I decided to get out of there. If you're an Ec concentrator and set on being one, you have no choice but to trudge through this course. Things will get better. However, if you become so frustrated with the course that you want to switch out of the department, know that you're not alone in this sentiment, and that it's completely okay.
Easy. because of the pset policy. Really, really boring though.
Do the pests, bro!
take it for the concentration. the class is very sink or swim, and if you don't have the head TF and are passive about getting help, you can be at a strong disadvantage. lectures are not critical and often just going through confusing derivations of equations (which you will never be tested on) with weird notations, so don't be stressed out if you didn't understand lecture. the course's tf staff needs to improve a lot as well. students often complain about section leaders not knowing how to do problems efficiently, digressing, etc. the exams and psets were relatively easy, almost deceptively though because the final turned out to be extremely difficult and tricky
This class has interesting material, but is not challenging or very interesting. Professor Miron does not lecture very well, and the problem sets and exams are not challenging, so I ended up not learning as much as I probably could have. If taking this class is a requirement, and you're deciding between this and Econ 1011a, then you just have to evaluate the tradeoff  take an easy but boring class or a hard and stimulating class.
Miron is an okay lecturer.. He is helpful, in that he spends a lot of time going over formulas step-by-step. Still, I think Ec 10 did a better job showing real-world examples, and getting us to grapple with the theories and develop intuition. This is why lecture was boring, besides the fact that it's an hour and a half long when it could easily be 1 hour.
Stay on top of coursework.
A very good, straightforward course that allows you to gain some intuition about some interesting toy problems in economics. Don't have to attend lecture, but if you choose not to definitely read the book carefully and do all the problem sets. No tricks in this course, which is good.
This class is a concentration requirement, so you'll have to take it.  I think it needs to undergo deep restructuring.  I do not think most kids in the class learned much, as shown with the final exam.  Due to the structure of the teaching, people simply memorize how to do the problem sets rather than learning what it actually means.  So, when the final exam had questions we were unfamiliar with, most people were unable to actually apply their knowledge to solve the problems.  Most students gave up on going to lecture by the end of the term because of its uselessness in teaching us.  One classmate actually found the lecture powerpoints on an external website.  There are no lecture notes posted online, and there are little resources for students to learn.  Since the psets are never due, students can't get any feedback on their work.  Also, since the exams (four midterms and one final) are all multiple choice, students who actually know how the material may end up getting the same grade as people who don't because there are so few questions that making small errors can leave you with the same grade as someone who randomly guesses on the exams.
This is a requirement for Econ concentrators. You have to take it. It's not interesting material, but it is necessary.
NA
Wouldn't recommend to anyone not an Ec major
It's required for Econ concentrators, and is an alternative to Ec1011 if you cannot do multivariable. Unfortunately, that's about it.
Fun
Do the psets. Get help on them. Know the concepts associated with them inside out.
It is a class you have to take, so you have to take it.
This isn't a good class, which is really disappointing because microeconomics can actually be really interesting. Lecture is dull and confusing and section is completely useless (if you even go), so you end up having to teach yourself all the material. The exams look nearly identical to the optional problem sets, so do the problem sets. Miron gets really excited when he talks about drug legalization, but otherwise lecture is monotonous. This class is also more like a math course than like an economics course: you don't learn any theory beyond what was already covered in Ec10a, but you do learn the math behind these models.
There is a lot of self teaching in this class. The way the class was set up with multiple choice psets and exams made it difficult for students to really learn the concepts because a MC problem set based class tends to have students understand how to solve certain questions but unable to think more critically beyond that
Unless this class changes, it is one of the worst classes you can take at Harvard.
It's terribly taught and structured, but it's not hard. Memorize the steps for answering all the pset questions and you're set. Lecture is incredibly boring but unfortunately not taped
This course is unfortunate, but it could be much worse.  Professor Miron was a very, very bad lecturer, but if you go to section and do the readings, you might actually find the material covered in this course to be relevant to other aspects of your life.  The 4 exam + 1 final format, without mandatory problem sets, was a bit bizarre, but it did help in that you could do very poorly on one exam without destroying your grade.  Also, there was nothing subjective about the grading system.  The assessments aren't very difficult, but the lack of weekly structure made this course demand a lot of individual effort compared to the multitude of assessments with Ec10.  Especially if you like microeconomics better than macro, go ahead and take this for your secondary, but don't expect to become much better versed in microeconomics theory than after Ec 10.  This essentially just added more math, which you don't generally need in daily life.
The material is interesting but can get pretty dry. Exams are tricky because they are all multiple choice.
Really terrible class. Don't expect to learn much. That said, you can put in a very low amount of work and do fine. If you have to take it, you will survive.
This is probably one of the worst classes I have taken at Harvard. I feel like I got a lot more out of ec10 in terms of economics knowledge.
This course will singlehandedly remove most of your desire to study economics. You'll probably do well enough and get an A range grade, but you'll feel all the excitement you found in Ec10 slip away into nothingness.
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE unless you absolutely have to for a concentration requirement. I hardly learned anything in this course and requires hardly any time throughout the semester. You may feel like you are very prepared for test but getting 2-3 multiple choice questions wrong can already be equivalent to a B/B+ because the exams are so easy, and you do not learn a lot which is really frustrating. Lectures are useless. This is the first class at Harvard that I have skipped lecture for. The only exam preparation given is the multiple choice psets. There is hardly any useful supplements to help you learn.
This is not a good representative course of the econ department. If you can do the psets then you will do well on the exams (15 MC). However, the course and the psets do not teach you anything applicable. Only take this class if you need to fulfill concentration requirements. Do not take it for fun!!
Lecture is not great so you really have to rely on yourself to learn the material and your grade based solely on 5 tests so be prepared for that component of the course.
The median grade for our exams were crazy high. We had an exam where you couldn't miss a question to make an A (re: perfect score). Also, the problem sets were optional, yet anywhere between 3-6 problem set questions were on every midterm...verbatim. This class is weird.
Just take the class. Not the best but useful and Miron is engaging and interesting.
Absolutely hated it. Microeconomics dont make any sense, Miron is just a very boring teacher.
You have no choice
Know the problem sets very well and the exams will be doable.
This course is not very exciting, but there are some interesting things to learn.
The format of this class makes it pretty hard to learn any concepts whatsoever. You have to put in a lot of individual work/study to learn anything or do well
The instructor is a good guy. The material is drudge work.
This class is necessary to take, but don't expect to learn much. It is very much problem based and not related to the economy as a whole. Lecture can be very boring. The material is dry, and this class made me really not like economics anymore.
Please do not waste your time with this class. You will not learn anything.
It's a class you need to take for economics, but you will end up going to 2 lectures and learning everything you can from the book
Stay on top of everything.  It is easy to neglect doing ec homework because the psets are easy, but do it for the tests.  Also, it is important to understand the math as you go along.  The math builds, so it is important to know how everything relates.
I love this class; I heavily disagree with all the negative q-guide comments about this course that I read when trying to decide whether to take this class. The material is interesting and relevant, Miron is a good lecturer, and the course is so painless (there is no busywork). This course was 100x better than Ec 10a
Just memorize how to do all the homework problems and you'll be fine. The conceptual stuff doesn't matter.
The material is interesting, but the presentation isn't the best. Take the class nonetheless because the material is useful and powerful.
This class is poorly run, but economics is interesting if you like economics. I probably wouldn't take it as an elective, but it's not as bad as everyone makes it out to be. They just grade kind of weirdly which is pretty annoying.
The only reason you should ever take this class if you're an Econ concentrator and absolutely have to. Lectures are extremely disengaging: not a single person pays attention, and by the end of September, not a single person even attends lecture, because they are extremely irrelevant and scattered. The course does not measure how much Econ you'll learn throughout the semester (which is unfortunately not much at all), but rather how good you are at memorizing problem set questions and trying to solve abstract and unfair test questions that do not measure how much you actually studied or how much you know. Overall, a very disengaging course that you should only suffer through if you're concentrating in Economics; otherwise -- I never thought I'd say this -- you're better off learning basic Econ in Ec10.
If the format remains multiple choice and the materials remain the same, I would tell them it was the most boring and uninspiring class I've ever taken.  It requires the least amount of work and is fundamentally flawed.
It's exactly as described: an intermediate microeconomics course. Very useful for understanding microeconomics. It's not terribly time-intensive, though the multiple-choice-ness of the course leaves no room for error, since there is no partial credit.
Its a great class; just focus on learning the Psets. That's the best way to study for the midterms and final; lecture is not useful.
Read the textbook. Go to section if you have a good TF. If not, find a good TF. 
Stay on top of your work. 

Miron is a dry lecturer. It's still helpful to hear the concepts over again from him, so sometimes lectures are useful. Sometimes not. 

I took this course without Ec 10a or b. (and my AP Economics class in high school was a joke). Ec1010a is definitely doable if you put the work into it.
This class deserves its reputation.  For many ec or applied math concentrators it is a required class and much more manageable than the alternative ec 1011.  However be prepared to be terribly bored and feel that the material and skills you are tested on are very disconnected from what is covered in lecture and the textbook.  Great sophomore fall class as it is possible to get by cramming for the midterms and putting very little effort into the class otherwise.  This class is not a gem by any means but in terms of workload is the best bad option.
The material for 1010a is interesting. Prof. Miron is pretty cool if you put effort into getting to know him outside of class. That said, you will have to find a way to keep yourself awake in lectures, and think consciously about how to get more out of the class than just equations that you need for the p-sets (which you will probably forget after the final anyway.
If you are not required to take this course, do not take it.  You will not enjoy the class or Professor Miron.  I made the mistake of taking it because I thought I had to for my Economics secondary.  I deeply regret taking this course.  I would rather have a lower grade in another Economics course that I enjoy and has a good professor than take this class again.
Unfortunately, for Ec concentrators, this class is a requirement.  The one thing I will say is that this course prepares you to think like an economist and forces you to use intuition because there is nothing (like, absolutely nothing, between abstruse textbooks and poorly-run lectures) that will support you through this. That said, the material isn't too difficult at all, and the gems of economic theory that you can scrape from the answers of the p-sets make the course bearable, at least somewhat.
Ec10 with math, everything you found interesting in Ec10 will just be repeated with math added so you probably won't find it interesting again.
Lecture is disorganized and hard to follow, but the midterms are fairly straightforward.
Take the class if it's a requirement.  The minimal amount of work makes it fairly painless, especially as lectures/sections/psets/everything is optional.  But don't expect to get anything out of it whatsoever.
If you really like economics or have a strong math background, definitely just take Econ 1011a, as that will probably be more rewarding for you. I liked the material, but the course itself is poorly set up. This course is not structured very well in terms of support for students and fostering a strong interest in the field of economics. It is sad to see that all tests are multiple choice, which made students memorize answers or figure out tricks on exams instead of learning the economics concepts. Also, I thought it was very counterproductive for students not to have access to lecture notes, and Prof. Miron's lectures were not very engaging or helpful for the material we were being tested on. Attendance dropped significantly after the first month. Also, having only multiple choice exams count towards our grade with no opportunities for partial credit for people that love economics and understand the concepts, but make some basic math errors was slightly unfair, particularly because many students do not take the time to understand the concepts and instead just memorize answers or guess.
This was probably the worst course I have taken. Professor Miron makes it clear from the first lecture that he is less interested in being there than the students. The exams test whether students make stupid errors rather than whether they understand the underlying economic concepts.
Unless someone wants an easy course to breeze through, I would not recommend this course. It will not give you a solid understanding of the material nor will it challenge you in any way to test your comprehension.
great
Consider knowing Ec10 very well before taking this class
You have to take it. Prepare yourself for pointless exams and no feedback given on any work you do. It is not a learning exercise, it is just jumping through hoops. Having said that Miron is actually pretty good.
This is a fine class if more advanced economics is what you are looking for.  The class grade is made up of 100% exams so take that as you will.  The lectures can at times be really interesting--however neither they nor the textbook will really prepare you the exams.  Except for the final though, the exams were easy and mostly consisted of logic questions and not so much complicated economics.  Your math ability does not need to be high to do just fine in 1010a.
The course is good if you want a better foundation in the principles of economics and want to learn how to apply univariate calculus to economic problems. The midterms are fairly straightforward, so much so that it is not uncommon for students to score perfect scores on them. This means you really have to be on top of the problem set questions and concepts, which the midterms are based off, in order to get a good grade. The final was terribly unfair and did not accurately represent what we had covered in class or in the problem sets. Make sure you really understand the concepts and the mathematical relationships of economic principles if you want to do well on the final. Overall, the class is good to better your economic foundation, but you're really going to have to strive for perfection (literally) in order to get an A.
take it only if you have to. Be prepared to not know much, be disengaged, and scramble to try and get as many  multiple choice questions right on every test. Not a great class.
If you took any Econ in high school, I would recommend taking Ec1010a instead of Ec10a. The extra math you use is not very hard (partial derivatives, which they teach in class and are kept pretty simple)and it saves you from repeating all the topics you did in Ec10 so you save a year.
That said, I have a bunch of reservations about this course. This year, and in years past, your whole grade is based on 90 multiple choice questions over the course of the semester. Lecture is not interesting and the professor didn't reinforce the material in a way that made students more engaged, so many people just read the textbook and did the problem sets. Most of my friends in the course really disliked it mostly because our professor seemed very detached and the structure of the course was pretty bad. But if you have to take it, take it. The material is important to learn if you want to concentrate in Econ.
The Professor does not enjoy teaching the class and it shows, lectures are extremely boring and do not even help for the tests since they are problem set based. You have to take this course as an economics concentrator, but it is my least favorite course so far at Harvard.
This is probably my least favorite class that I've taken at Harvard. I found it extremely unfulfilling and unenjoyable. It gave me a better understanding for how math is incorporated into economics and makes it more applied, but beyond that, I didn't find many positive aspects to this class (it was also pretty easy, so that was another positive). It seems like Professor Miron doesn't really want to teach it, which definitely makes lecture unenjoyable. Sections are alright in terms of preparing you for the exams, but could do a lot more to make the class actually worthwhile. Overall, I found myself unhappy and annoyed with this course.
Professor Miron changed the format of the course to get the Q score up. All P-sets, lectures, and sections were optional. Basically you could show up only for tests and you could still get an A. Tests were multiple choice with almost half of every test being composed of questions directly copied from the optional p-sets. Miron even thanked us one day for just showing up to lecture. Overall, it was a pretty easy class for a concentration requirement.
Unless you are taking this class for a concentration requirement, I really would not take this class.
Only take this course if you are an Economics concentrator. This course is terribly structured, the curve on exams is terrible, and Miron doesn't seem to care about what he is teaching. I don't think I actually learned anything in this course.
This course is much more difficult than past semesters. This is because there are now 4 exams consisting of 15-16 multiple choice questions. There is no partial credit to provide better acuity of mastery. The grading scales have generally been 15-16 for an A, so you pretty much have to be perfect to do well on exams. The final exam is much more difficult than all the exams because the 4 midterms do not provide an adequate measure of difficulty for the final exam. 

Go to section and find Nancy as your section leader because Professor Miron most likely still does not care for this course. Without her, it is hard to tell how well you can do in this class.
Ec 1010a will be painful during whichever semester you decide to take it. I found Melitz to be more bearable than Miron; however the exams were much more variable. The class is much smaller in the spring.
if you're considering this course for your secondary requirement, having taken both, i would definitely recommend it over 1010b
Great course and strongly recommend taking it with melitz.
Ec1010a can easily become a dry course. Only take it with Melitz who makes it engaging and enjoyable.
Great course on Micro. Take it in the spring with Professor Melitz! Material often boring, but necessary for future electives.
Professor Melitz genuinely cares about his students and wants them to succeed, even if the material is not the most exciting - take advantage of his office hours!
take this with Melitz in the spring, not in the fall
I think it is definitely better than econ1010a than in the fall because it involves a smaller class and is taught differently
The material in this class is very boring to me, as I prefer macroeconomics to microeconomics, but I really liked the fact that everything was very straightforward, the professor was really nice and helpful and he really cared about the student. The TFs lacked enthusiasm and passion and I don't feel like I learned a lot from them, but by going to professor Melitz's office hours I would get all my questions answered.
Professor Melitz is very engaging. The small class and section sizes are great.
Although I never took this version of the course during the Fall, don't be afraid to take it in the spring.  Professor Melitz and the teaching staff were very solid and wanted everyone to learn and do well.  Relatively low workload and difficulty as long as you do the ~5 hours/week of reading/problem sets necessary to get the material.
This class was one of the worst taught classes I have ever taken.  Expectations were out of control.  The class was terribly taught.  There was NO focus whatsoever.
This class is pretty good, I really enjoyed learning in the spring with a small class. It's a good class if you understand basic calculus principles because you can reason through material based on the math and then connect it to economic principles.
Professor Melitz is great! He really cares about his class and his students. He makes every effort to make the material enjoyable while presenting fair exams. However, the material is dry and repetitive if you've taken Ec 10a so be warned. I wouldn't really recommend as an elective, but for a concentration requirement, Professor Melitz really is great!
This class is fun and not as difficult as people seem to think.
This is a great course!
Its moderately difficult but easier to understand than ec1010a in the fall. Melitz is the man.
Between the two Ec1010a courses, choose this spring course: smaller class, more attention, better professor. Although, it is harder in the sense that the fall Ec1010a is all MC questions and spring is all open-ended.
Go to lectures! And section! It makes the class experience way better because the material can get dry when you're doing it by yourself.
Don't take this class unless you need it for a secondary/major. The material is very dry. However it is better with Melitz than the guy who teaches it in the fall.
If you have to take it you have to take it. If not, well, it has a light workload but isn't super interesting. Melitz does his best with the material, but it's pretty dry. Would definitely recommend him over Miron.
Take this course only if you have to.
This class is great; it really gives you a broad understanding of microeconomics. Professor Melitz is extremely helpful and cares a great deal about his students.
Good substitute for 1010a in the Fall - smaller class sizes enables better teaching. But exams are harder since theyre not MCQ.
