This class is much more difficult than the professors let on. There is a large amount of information and economics background that you are required to know. The policy memos take a long time and the midterm and final have an overwhelming amount of material on them. If you do take this class, be sure to form a study group.
Professor Lawrence and Summers are great lecturers with a lot of experience outside of the classroom in the fields they discuss, making for a great class. The simulations and guest lectures were also fantastic. Overall a great course.
Great class for econ and non-econ students alike. Be prepared for a little extra work if you're not an econ student though.
Take it for the professors, but know that it is a big class and the grading is not standardized well across the course. Your grade will be very much dependent on your buy-in and luck with who your TF turns out to be.
This course was fascinating and provided a unique opportunity to engage in debates about global issues with two incredible professors who have had long careers as policy makers. I would definitely recommend it.
An okay class, but wasn't a fan of the professors and material. Simulations were actually quite fun and a great way to tie the subject matter of the course to present day/to see how it actually affects policies
Great class overall, the lectures and assignments are awesome.The first simulation can sneak up with you so be prepared.
This class is interesting. Work comes in spurts with the simulations. Exams are not overly challenging.
It is a fairly straightforward course that is interesting. A good way for all to become acquainted with the key issues that presently dominate economics.
Seek help if necessary
Highly recommend -- lots of interesting and very relevant topics, unique teaching style/course format, cool professors and guest lecturers. You get out as much as you put in, and as long as you spend time thinking about the content thoroughly for the assignments and exams, you will do fine.
The readings are an important component for the examination and provide most of the material rather than the lectures and lecture slides.
It is a wonderful opportunity to hear lectures from Professor Summers and Professor Lawrence. The topics are all important and help you get a better grasp of key issues in the news. The simulations are intensive but very fun. A background knowledge of Ec10 is helpful but it is completely possible to do well in the course with very little Econ background.
This is an awesome class! Larry Summers and Robert Lawrence are both phenomenal professors, the teaching staff is amazing, and the course material is fascinating. The assignments are all very fair and definitely not too difficult. The special guests that they bring in are unbelievably cool. I loved this class and would highly recommend it to anyone interested in globalization or economics.
I would say that the lectures are great  and both professors are engaging and well-informed. Additionally, the line of guests is incredible - Timothy Geithner, etc. I would also say that the knowledge in this course is incredibly useful for anyone who wants to understand the world. That being said, the TFs are generally very under-prepared and the class is not well coordinated/disorganized. Furthermore, the grading is very subjective and untraditional - you should only take this course if you like participating in very fake, silly simulations.
Great if you haven't had too much ec experience, can be easy to the point of being boring if you've had more exposure to the topics covered. The discussions are quite surface level.
This class is deceptively difficult. Sections are frustrating in that they are too large and there's not really any time to discuss material. The simulations are tangentially related to the course material. The midterm/final tests certain concepts that can feel kind of glazed over in the lectures. The concepts/ideas are really broad and difficult to test. I felt kind of lost at times as a student who hadn't taken an economics course in two years.
You should definitely take this course taught by Larry Summers and Robert Lawrence who have a lot of wisdom and experience to pass on; it helps to understand a lot of what is going on in the world (trade policy, financial crises, globalization, climate change mitigation); substantial economic background is helpful but not required - I only took basic courses so far and was able to keep up with a little extra work. Econ concentrators could be a little under-challenged by the economic aspects but the course is very worthwhile taking for experts and beginners alike.
This class is a great introduction to economics on a global scale. I found the global governance angle provided by Professor Lawrence to be particularly interesting. I would be weary of taking this course if you have enrolled in other economics courses that discuss international trade, global health, global public goods etc. or if you are an ec concentrator with a government secondary, as there will likely be significant overlap.
Awesome class with great guest lectures from people like Tim Geithner and David Stern, very relevant material that is easily brought outside the classroom, simulations are great and allow you to really debate different topics
Objectively, I thought this was a great class. Innovative simulations, interesting policy memos, and fair exams. However, it's very much a survey class of a ton of different issues in economics so I don't feel like I really mastered anything. Great option for people looking for an intro to these topics without wanting to do too much work.
This course is taught by two of the most knowledgeable economists that are teaching today and you will absolutely learn something helpful about the world.
If you haven't taken Econ then this class will be more difficult for you. They assume that you know the basic ideas. If you don't then you can get by, but don't expect to do great without putting in a lot of work. Others with an Econ background will find this class easy while you may struggle.
This is a phenomenal class. You're learning from the best--Summers and Lawrence are top in their fields, and they don't short-sell you in their lectures. The course is wide-ranging (it really tries to fulfill the promise of its title) but still retains depth of understanding for each class. The guest speakers are incredible; you hear about issues from the people who make decisions each day that determine the future of those issues. One drawback is that sometimes the instructors and TFs ask for specific knowledge without stressing that knowledge in class, so it feels like you're being evaluated for a single brick when they've shown you the entire house. Overall, though, you can mostly get by on understanding the big ideas. Also, beware of the graduate student interlopers. We had a lot in our class, and they'd try to dominate the lecture conversations with personal anecdotes; there was definitely some tension between them and the undergraduates for whom the course is actually intended. Outside of those two issues, I'd recommend the class to everyone at the university.
This course is great, even if you have no prior experience in economics.
This was my favorite econ class I've ever taken (I'm an Ec concentrator), and one of my favorite classes of all time.   I feel so much more informed about global political and economic issues.  It's fast-paced and covers such a range of topics that it's constantly stimulating and engaging.  The simulations are so much fun - you get to examine each topic from every angle, which is refreshing.  For the most part, the professors present a very balanced approach to each issue.  They will say their opinions (and strongly enough), but they give credit to other perspectives.  I learned more about the world, international relations, macroeconomics, current events, and the history of global integration in this course than I ever thought I could or would!
Seeing Larry Summers, a former President of Harvard, and Robert Lawrence as co lecturers sit at the front of class and mock debate with each other on real topics and essentially just talk about what is happening in the world is a very fun experience.
This was my first econ class at Harvard, and I enjoyed it a lot. The class assumes a small amount of background, and some of the more intricate concepts are hard to grasp if you haven't taken Ec 10 or the equivalent, but I wouldn't call it a requirement. If you're planning on just taking one econ class, I think this is a great candidate. You'll hear from two amazing economic minds (Lawrence and Summers) plus several guest speakers, research and debate the specifics of major modern economic proposals, and get to do some model UN-like simulations in sections.
This is an amazing class if you're interested in international development and globalization. The class does a great job explaining global economic interactions. Additionally, it does a great job explaining economic concepts without being too heavy on models and equations.
Use this as a course to take junior or Senior year after taking Ec1010, then it will be pretty damn easy.
This is one of my favorite classes at Harvard. The professors were incredible, such an honor to be taught by them, and the material was extremely useful, it just makes you look and act like a much more worldly much more knowledgeable person.
It's a circle jerk between HKS students and the hoity toity professors. They "introduce" you to a lot of important (and sometimes even interesting) topics, but it all feels fake and theatrical because the HKS students are always stroking the professors' egos while the professors laud them on how much they're learning. Lectures are boring and the assignments are useless, arbitrary, and silly.
Take the class if you want to better understand international trade and much of the news that you read today about globalization and international economics. It's not a very Econ-y class and more of a Gov-y class in my opinion. Workload isn't too bad and the material is quite interesting if you're interested in the subject.
Great professor and good lecturers, but I never really got into the class and found myself bored for some reason that I can't place a finger on, and know that a lot of students are in the same boat
This is exactly the kind of class I wanted to take at Harvard. It focuses on the real world application of economics, and how it can be used to improve people's lives (and also how it can be abused). It's not dry economic theory (cough cough, Ec10/1010) and the methods of assessment encourage you to really engage with the topic. I got far too into Brazilian monetary policy with one of our policy memos.
The lectures are great, and some really cool guest speakers come! (e.g. Geithner, David Stern)
The grading is a bit tough, but this course offers very valuable knowledge that I'm glad I now have. The simulations were fun and brought students closer.
The simulations for this class are great. While writing a policy memo in the first few weeks of class may seem daunting and push you towards dropping the class, I'd suggest sticking with it. I'm not an economics concentrator, though the majority of people in my section were, but I still found the course an interesting, informative, and unique experience.  Writing memos does not require a rigorous economics background. It just requires research ability, which any Harvard student has.  Ultimately, consider this - how often will you get to take a course with Larry Summers? The guest speakers (Tim Geithner, Martin Wolf, and David Stern among others) were fantastic and brought a fresh perspective to the course material. Though preparing for the exams is dull (as to be expected), I would say that the course is definitely worth taking, especially if you can get gen-ed credit for it.
This is a great course, and perhaps one of the unique courses at Harvard where you'll be able to engage with the raw opinions + thoughts of two of the world's foremost economists. The simulations, in my opinion, were more a hassle than actually productive for our understanding of the course material, but they were a fun and informative way to use section time. I can't see very much that is different from Professor Frieden's International Political Economy class in the gov department, but from either one, you'll walk out with a deeper/renewed understanding of current global affairs.
This course provided an excellent overview of globalization and relevant current events. Although I am not an economics concentrator, nor have much econ experience other than a semester of Ec10b, I found this class very approachable yet engaging and stimulating enough. I learned an incredible amount of material spanning various topics, through both the lectures (including those with guest speakers) and simulations. I feel inspired to pursue these topics further in the future on my own, and feel more capable of putting forth an opinion towards a lot of key modern-day economic and political policies.
Very interesting material, and engaging lectures. Section component = unhelpful.
I loved this class!!! A lot of work when it comes to simulations but the material is extremely interesting and so relevant to what's going on in the world today. Also Professor Summers and Professor Lawrence are amazing lecturers!
It's a good primer for students not familiar with international economics. For econ concentrators, there are better courses to take - unless you have a Gen Ed requirement to fulfil.
Covers the important issues with moments of real insight. Assessments are all very manageable.
This class teaches you a lot about the world around you and is certainly a useful one. Lectures can be hit or miss, but tend to provide a good mix of theory and real examples (though the profs can go off on some tangents at times). Be sure to get the exam grading rubric to make sure you're covering all the baseseven if you get the concepts very well, it's possible to do poorly on the exam if you don't give them exactly what they want. I was able to get through the class without doing many of the readings, though I imagine it will help a ton.
Super interesting lectures and examples there, but the structure of the class isn't particularly engaging. Readings are okay, but not the best they could be.
pretty painless gen-ed. need to put in some work for the memos - everyone in my section was very well-prepared. the topics discussed in this class were very interesting and current events-y.
This is a great economics class that also discusses macroeconomic policy, but be aware of the professors' strong opinions on things and don;t be afraid to be critical of what they say. Also, keep up with readings because the essays really demand regurgitation of author names and article summaries.
Econ 1400 was really fun. Professor Lawrence and Professor Summers give awesome presentations and speak about amazing experiences. The guest lectures are truly awesome, possibly the best for any course that an undergrad at Harvard can have. Low workload, interesting, although I wished we had discussed the readings more as they don't really show up too much.
You will learn a lot, but it requires a lot of work. Only take it if you are prepared to have a lot of assignments and if you have a baseline understanding of economics.
A great course, can be reading heavy but still very interesting.
If you're an ec major and still need to take the class with a writing requirement, take this one. It's not difficult, the information is topical and the best part is that the assignments are engaging simulations that are productive, relevant and even kind of fun. There is only section about half the time, and they give you all the necessary review materials before the tests via powerpoint slides and lecture videos. Lots of people take the class for Larry Summers - spoiler alert: he's just famous and is not a great lecturer. Don't take the class for Summers; take it because it's interesting material and the topical information is relevant to the world around us.
Attend lectures and do the readings, even though you could get by without them. You will learn a lot and understand how problems are solved in the real world. That is, even though there might be an optimal strategy economically, it is not necessarily realistic politically.
This course is seriously hurt by its cross-registration with HKS. HKS students asked questions in lecture that contributed little but used up to 53 minutes of lecture at a time. HKS faculty lectured about a zombie apocalypse fantasy, using course materials that nobody had bothered to tailor to the course. HKS-style memos tested your ability to regurgitate course materials, but penalized strategic analysis/synthesis as "not demonstrating mastery of course materials." (I'm not just complaining about low grades here--I've worked in the public and private sector on globalization and this course's memos are wildly at odds with anything real-world.)Thankfully, the FAS component was great. Summers exemplifies the Harvard adage of "better 200 feet from a brilliant lecturer than 20 feet from a mediocre one," and the exams were very fair. The roster of guests were spectacular, and sections were unusually lively/well-executed. Probably worth taking for the sake of the FAS component, but its sad to know that this course could be so much better.
Take this class, you won't be sorry. It's interesting and fun and not too much work. Better have some econ background though. Also, it fulfills an Economics requirement and a Gen Ed course. Don't miss taking a class with Prof Summers. Get Spyros for your TF if possible.
Must take.
I really enjoyed this class.  It is not work intensive at all, except for the week you have a simulation memo due.  Doing the readings is not crucial.  Do not let the simulations deter you from taking this class.  They are really fun and teach you a lot about pressing issues in the world.  I would highly recommend taking this course, as it is a rather easy economics class that makes you very well-versed in relevant topics.
I really enjoyed the material presented in this course because it gave an amazing overview of a lot of aspects of globalization. I also had a great TF who made sections and simulations really enjoyable. The workload is really only heavy before the midterm and the two simulations, otherwise I had to do little to no work for the week.
This is a good survey course about the integration of world economies, but it touches upon a lot of different subjects and fields.  It feels more like a government class than an economics one.  Be aware that policy memos are worth a lot of your grade. Larry Summers also really makes the class a treat to come to and listen to.
The work comes in waves so be ready
awesome class, great content, GREAT professors & TFs
A super interesting class, and one of the few that relates to contemporary issues and really helps give you a better grasp of relevant global issues.
This course introduces you to the many fields and challenges present in the world today as a result of globalization and what the future holds for these challenges. In many cases there is no perfect answer or solution, but the course provides you with a foundation of understanding with which you can enter the conversation on these increasingly important questions for our integrated world.
You will learn a lot about the world, if you put in the time and effort!
Fantastic class. Professors Lawrence and Summers are amazing instructors who incorporate current events into lecture (and often engage in debate between each other, making for exciting lectures). Professor Summers offers office hour slots to meet with him individually! If you're interested in working in government later, this course will teach you a lot about how to make informed public policy decisions based on economics, the interests of stakeholders, and other factors. Workload is perfectly manageable. For anyone, I think it's useful to know about these current events -- and the history behind them -- before graduating and entering the real world.
Summers and Lawrence are both great lecturers, and the course is really interesting!
This course seems dope because of Larry, and it is but also has lots of annoying facets throughout. the readings are crazy long, section reinforces the same ideas, and the exams are graded beyond arbitrarily. Take P/F if you can!
be ready to do a lot of reading. You can't miss any lectures or any of the readings
I learned a lot from this class. Its not the greatest classroom experience, but if you are willing to put in some time into the readings and simulations, then you can gain a whole ton.
would recommend. there is definitely fear of getting behind, not being engaged, since lectures aren't mandatory. but that is one's personal fault, and the flexibility of the class is actually good. Honestly, it's unique, it's cool. assignments are difficult, but if you have any econ/ general finance background (in the sense of understanding financial crises, too big to fail, mora hazard, IS/LM) it will be easy to relate to other coursework.
The course isn't organized terribly well, but a learned an unbelievable amount of relevant knowledge that has made me a much more informed citizen.
The coursework is fairly light, the speakers are alright, Lawrence and Larry's dynamic is interesting, and the topics are thought-provoking if not often presented mind-numbingly slowly. This is a good course to take if you want to learn about some interesting topics from the most qualified people out there.
Very cool and interesting class. Make sure to do the readings
This is an extremely relevant class that touches on issues currently in the news (like TPP and climate change talks). The lectures are great- very clear and informative (especially Larry Summers') and the special guests make the material much more exciting. Simulations (especially the course-wide simulation) are fun, hands-on experiences that let you apply what you learn in a realistic, practical setting. Overall great gen-ed/econ elective that requires very little weekly work (beyond the 2 memos and midterm) and still provides a big reward in all you learn.
This class will challenge you to think in a unique way while providing a lot of fun and valuable simulations along the way. This is a class more focused on having you learn the material than burdening you with work.
The class's subject material is very interesting and the teaching team make great efforts to bring outstanding guest speakers to class. You should definitely take it if you are interested in public service or international trade, relations and diplomacy.
This was a good class and a great way to fulfill an Economics requirement; however, because it was open to all students, the pace of class was often inconsistent. So, sometimes, it was hard to determine exactly how much information you were expected to know and understand.
