It's a good class, and the assignments allow you to be a great deal more creative than they would in other economics classes. It will definitely allow you to improve your writing as well.
tremendously interesting class. the papers are hard to write but are interesting to write.
fun, interesting class with not too much work
the professor is AWESOME. just hope there are different TFs!
Interesting but not structured at all.
Do not take this course for any reason, unless the course requirements are restructured. The material is interesting but the frustration of the class is not worth it.
This course was full of interesting material, but was very disorganized. At first, assignments were unclear, and communication from the TFs was spotty. Hopefully this will improve, since this was the first year it was taught. This is a great opportunity to learn about a new conceptual framework within economics as it is being developed.
You don't need to know anything he lectures about - you could probably even get away with not going to class at all
Take it!
definitely worth taking. behavioral economics is well worth the lax structure of this class. The professor is at the least, thought provoking
You'll learn a lot, but you should be prepared to write a lot.
This course is an extremely interesting class, which includes the course material, the professor, and the TF.  I would highly recommend this class for anyone who wants to get a taste of the emerging field of behavioral economics and to learn from one of the key figures of the field.  This is a writing intensive course and the grading for the course is definitely confusing, so if you're someone that always wants a keen sense of how you are doing in class, you will need to cope with not knowing.  Nonetheless, this was a fantastic class and I learned quite a lot, and not just in behavioral economics.
There are few classes you'll remember later in life: this is one of them.
This is the best economics class that I've taken! The material is super interesting, Professor Mullainathan is amazing and hilarious, as is the TF, and even though there's a lot of writing involved, it really helps you apply the concepts learned in class to your everyday life. Also, the class only meets one day of the week, and it's one of the few small economics classes! I highly, highly recommend this class.
Don't worry if you haven't taken Psych, it isn't necessary for the class despite being listed as a prerequisite.  The course is engaging, interesting, and fresh...until a few section stars hijack the conversation and you spend two hours talking about how people do their laundry or when they wake up in the mornings.  If you can handle the diversions and don't mind writing (and writing, and writing....) without prompts, it is a great class to take with a fun professor and will change the way you think about poverty and scarcity.
Amazing class, amazing teacher and tf, and amazing subject matter. Definitely take this, no questions asked.
This class really changed the way I look at issues of poverty; it will change the way you think about social issues, and hopefully leave you inspired to do more. But to really get something out of it, you need to be willing to go above and beyond the 2 hour lecture and really delve deeply into the subject matter on your own. I was very inspired by the course - it will be the one course I remember from my time at Harvard in 10 years.
A fun economics requirement, though you should be prepared to write.
This course is very engaging and interesting. You will love this class if you love doing independent research with the help of the professor. The professor provides you thought-provoking ideas and it is up to you to complete the assignments. Help is provided when requested.
The material in this course is interesting, but I think the course could've been condensed to 2-3 lectures and I would've gotten pretty much the same things out of it. This class is more psychology than economics, and you'll do a lot of writing that easily veers into BS. On the other hand, the professor is a really cool guy and a great lecturer, so if you're really really really interested in the topic you might enjoy the class.
very fun and interesting class, but keep in mind that it is a writing-requirement fulfilling course; be ready to write!
The short answer: if you're interested in the material, take Econ 1030 (Psychology and Economics) and/or Psych 13 or 15 (Cognitive and Social, respectively) instead. The long answer: This class sounded interesting at first. It was one of the few behavioral economics classes offered at Harvard, and the professor is a good lecturer. At first, it sounds a lot like the popular psychology book "Blink", and in a sense it is very much like it. However, think about this class this way: would you want to learn "Blink" in a two-hour seminar format over the course of a semester, with a series of 5 and 10 page response papers scattered throughout? The material is interesting, but requires maybe one hour top to teach in its entirety; everything is common sense and does not require a class slot (especially not with this workload). It invokes almost no economics and almost deals with psychology as a pseudo-science (i.e. not seriously, even though almost everything taught has been studied extensively in psychology). The workload seemed light at first (no reading? no tests?), but then you realize that writing a total of 65 pages over the course of a semester on such simple material is painful, and the grading arbitrary. Nearly no guidance or helpful advice was given for any of the assignments; the problem with such a wide-reaching but non-scientific topic is that all the professor and TF can do is to keep asking you a series of potentially interesting questions for you to address in your paper, but the best you can do with these questions is to speculate and write a "fluffy" answer (since the class doesn't emphasize modeling, mathematical, or empirical investigations). If you completely do not care about your grade, have never seen psychology and economics, want a laid-back class, and like the level of academic rigor of Blink, then this might be for you. Otherwise, take a different economics or psychology class.
First off, Sendhil Mullainathan is a total baller. If you ever have the chance to take a class from this wickedly smart man, do so.This course consists of him talking through how people think and behave (i.e. how are we stupid, and why is that the case) in a very informal, engaging way for 2 hours once a week, accompanied by a light smattering of response essays. The class is very good, but not very time-consuming;  take it as a 5th or 6th class.
This is such an amazing class.  It was honestly my favorite class in the Economics Department.  The Professor is witty and really engaging, and he generates such enthusiasm for the course material.  The lectures are about things that students can relate to (procrastination, over-eating, stress).
It's lots of writing, but it's fun writing. One of the best classes I took at Harvard.
Start the papers early.
