Try to read all of the research papers even the methods parts which are difficult to understand because it will help you with the final exam. Try to make a study guide for all the papers so that you are not overwhelmed at the end with so many papers to review
This class is an interesting exploration in historical economics. The papers are interesting, and it is nice to explore so many different research projects and methodologies. The class can get a little repetitive and dull at times. That being said, try to attend all lectures and stay on top of your response papers and you will find that you have learned a lot.
This a very reasonable economics elective. The class is well balanced with a reasonable workload, but you get a very nice overview of cutting edge econometric focused literature.
very empirical class that pushes you to think about research ideas.
Take this if you are interested in entering academia (from an economics angle), or if you are interested in the methods behind economic research.
Professor Hornbeck is a knowledgeable teacher who assigns interesting readings and lectures competently. Lectures can be slow at times, and you will not likely be stimulated by every reading. That said, the course definitely offers a solid framework for approaching and evaluating econometric research, and offers an interesting economic lens on a breadth of historical events in the United States (many of which even interested scholars of U.S. history will only have encountered in passing).
The response papers can be tiresome but pay off in the long run. If you feel weak in empirical elements of economics, make sure more teaching will be geared towards those elements. Did not become important until the final.
Hornbeck is an incredible friendly, funny, and smart professor! So understanding and dedicated to teaching. Take this course if you want a fun and useful way to fulfill your Econ writing requirement. Be warned: there are 20 response papers.
Good course
Prof. Hornbeck is awesome and this is a great class for anyone intersted in growth or development economics. The class is well taught and gives good preparation on how to do research in economics (especially useful for grad school or thesis writers in economics). Research proposals weren't that easy to come up with so start early. Prof. Hornbeck and Sara (the TF) were very helpful in the process though so go to office hours or lunches with them to get feedback on ideas. It was also not too hard and very enjoyable reading.
This class gives a wonderful overview of how to causally assess impact in economic history.
It's a fun course that will teach you about development and methodological styles.
This is a great class, regardless of the strength or weakness of your econ background. You read a lot of papers on a variety of topics that really give you a good taste of economic writing. This class shows how economic concepts can be applied in real life.I recommend going to lecture! A lot of the important themes/takeaways are discussed in lecture - it is important to go.Overall, a great class. The 1-page assignments can feel a little fatiguing throughout the semester, but they help you stay on top of the material.
It's a really interesting course in research methods; all of the papers are genuinely fascinating, and Hornbeck is a great guy. Writing a response paper for each class is really draining and the class does get a bit repetitive by the end.
boring
This is one of the best classes at Harvard.  It will teach you new ways to think about economic history and research, and Professor Hornbeck does an excellent job of challenging students to be creative with their work.
This is a solid economics class made very good by the intimate contact with the professor. Don't be misled about the general thrust of the course - it is not a survey of development literature, but rather an introduction to research methods in economic history. Reading research papers provides a good starting point for understanding economic research, and then the classroom discussions, office hours, and research proposal work are where the real learning takes place. In conclusion, this class is excellent for social science students wanting to understand economic research.
This is a great course on economic history and development. But probably more valuably, this course teaches a lot about research techniques in economics, and how to think creatively about empirical studies.
Professor Hornbeck lacks charisma, and the course has virtually no structure. It is a basic introduction to the methodology of economic history, but is fantastically underwhelming as an intellectual experience.
i really liked hornbeck and class was relevant. the readings were interesting and it provided a broad survey of many different topics- industrialization, the great depression, institutions, the development of american economy. it went from more historical literature to more contemporary, which as interesting to see the changing approach of economic historians.
I'd definitely recommend this for anyone thinking about writing a thesis in economics.
For anyone interested in economic history, as either a historian or economist, this is a very useful course.  At least one other course, however, especially one that was a little less anglo-americocentric would be a very interesting complement to this one.
This is among the most interesting economics courses offered here at Harvard.
Only take this course if there are fewer than 20 students.  It is not taught as a lecture but rather as a seminar.  Hornbeck is great though and the readings are quite good.
You will learn more about the specifics of economic history research than anything about actually economic history, and trends/narratives of economic history.
If you enjoy history and economics, this is a wonderful course. It's intellectually stimulating and interesting, but also does not have a heavy workload.
This class was fantastic--Professor Hornbeck is engaging and class discussion is interactive. I learned a great deal about economic development, history, and the way academic research is tackling questions in these fields. Remember that research is the focus of this class, though the papers you read are still very interesting content-wise. Content and methodology do combine, but some papers are read mostly for methodology. Excellent class overall--highly recommend!! Also, our TF James was an incredible asset to the class--very helpful and knowledgeable.
I would consider having a familiar background in econometrics before considering this course.  If this course is still taught in the 'participatory lecture' setup, I would recommend this course with reservations, though I would definitely recommend this course if Prof. Hornbeck introduced sections.  That being said, definitely avail yourself of office hours, particularly for research proposals, especially since Prof. Hornbeck and James do such a fantastic job of making themselves available to students.
This class was a fairly painless ec elective. There are 2 response papers per week, but they actually aren't that bad and help keep you on top of the readings. Studying for the final was relatively easy because I was already so in tune with the readings. The two research proposals were pretty easy, and both the TF and Prof Hornbeck are more than happy to talk with you to help with them. I would definitely take this course again.
Take it!!! Professor Hornbeck is one of the up-and-coming economic historians and you will definitely learn a lot from him.
You'll learn some things, but they won't be very exciting.
Professor Hornbeck does a good job of describing overarching themes of the past two centuries in economics, using some very enjoyable and important articles. Through the teaching of these articles, topics such as IV regression and dif-in-dif are enforced. The two student proposals also give one the chance to investigate a topic of their choosing.
Overall, this course was very interesting and if you need an economics course and are not an economics concentrator, I would recommend this class.  However, lectures tended to be a little boring and repetitive.  This was evident based on the low attendance at lectures, which the professor made no attempt to ameliorate.  Many of the questions asked in the class were interesting and it was not too much work.  The paper proposals were a pretty original assignment and not too painful.  The TF was very helpful.
This is a really interesting course with interesting material, and is a great way to knock out an Ec requirement if you're not super mathy.  That said, the lectures pretty much repeated the reading material, so they could get a little boring.  Also, be prepared to write!
The schedule is a bit monotonous
If you've ever wondered about the difference between the economics and history departments' approach to economic history, taking this class will definitely show you the former's. The emphasis isn't so much on the history as it is on designing research methods that can be used to explore topics. You won't have to run them, but if you aren't interested in instrumental variables regressions, then this probably isn't the right class for you.
Great course - Professor Hornbeck is very knowledgeable in his subject field. Some of the subjects may appear to be dry, but if you put them in the context of the bigger themes of the class you will find them to be more rewarding.
Do the reading responses well.
Do take this course if you want to do your own research in economics, as it focuses on analyzing papers and seeing how these overcome technical problems. Taking econometrics before taking this course will help you get the most out of the readings and will allow you to write the best research proposals.
This class covers a ton of interesting material - you'll learn a lot. The  biweekly response papers are a little annoying though.
I loved this class.  Enjoy the readings, especially the early ones because they're worth reading and reading well.
This course is very good if you enjoy analyzing readings.
This class really changed from last year simply because the class went from a small section format to a large lecture format. It's really a great class to take if you're interested in writing a senior thesis and want to explore some ideas in detail by writing proposals. The class can be a lot of work since there's a response paper due every class and the two paper proposals take up some time, but it's definitely doable. Also, Professor Hornbeck and James, the TF, are both awesome and give great feedback. They are also available to answer any questions on your proposals. I really enjoyed the papers as well.
Only take this course if you are looking to fulfill an econ requirement. Lecture is bland, the readings are dense and the research proposals are annoying.
Make sure you have some background in econometrics if you are thinking of taking this class.
More of an econometrics course in which you focus on the methodology of papers about economic development.
This is not an economic history class; this is a class about designing research proposals to study past economic events. Unless you are really into econometrics and conducting empirical research on the most narrow questions imaginable---or if you are at all interested in forming a nuanced understanding of the history and economic conditions of the West as it industrialized---steer clear of this course.
its not a bad way to fulfill the writing requirement but gets somewhat repetitive after a few weeks and writing a response for every lecture was unpleasant
Reading responses are pretty tedious, but overall the course definitely made me a better economics student. I am much more confident reading and writing economics papers and this course even helped direct my thesis research.
Very interesting economics course. The readings are great.
I think EVERY econ student should take this course. This is one of the best economic classes I have taken, in part because you learn material which is  useful and relevant. It is essentially a history class with an economic lens. I think it is important to be exposed to and understand economic papers. Hornbeck was interesting, and the TF James was fantastic.  They were both very willing to meet up to go over paper topic ideas. Beware if you aren't an ec student- coming up with a viable research topic idea will be a larger challenge.
I learned a lot in this class, but it was probably one of the most time intensive classes I've taken here. The feedback I got was helpful, but didn't necessarily contribute to increased grades.
make sure you know the discussion questions require a lot of time, and ask for clear guidelines on research proposals
This class is one of the best academic decisions I've made. Take it. Especially if you're a junior thinking about a thesis. You will be thankful it it comes time to write that thesis proposal. The class really teaches you how to approach an economic topic, think about it in the context of the broader historical trends, critically assess the papers written on the topic, and then evaluate what additional work needs to be done. Professor Hornbeck is hilarious. Great at engaging the class, making us think, and getting us excited about economic topics. And don't let the workload scare you off. Yes, it's a lot of reading and a lot of writing, but in the end, it's totally worth it. Great class. Great TF and professor. Can't ask for anything more.
If you are looking for a rigorous and challenging course in Economics, this course is a great introduction!
