Too many requirements in terms of assignments due. Not a hard class though.
Great preparation for writing a thesis.  Solidifies your ability to apply econometrics.  Covers lots of interesting material for thesis topic generation.
It is a very interesting emerging field in economics
Highly recommended, painless, fun.
it's a fun and very instruction introduction to the intersections between economics and sociology. take it!
Running running, you gotta keep running away from this course.  Don't fall into the trap of thinking that it's a "cool and interesting" economics class.  There's no such thing; grow up.
It was interesting material, not too difficult.  What you get out of it is definately what you put into it.
take this class if you need to fulfill an economics writing requirement and you don't want to do too much work.
You will need to memorize 16-18 research papers per exam. And in the exam they will ask really vague questions.
This is a good economics class to get the writing requirement out of the way.  It requires very little work, and the tests are basically summaries of the readings.  The teaching staff is helpful and everyone involved with the class is very friendly.
It's one of the most bland courses you'll ever take unless you're really interested in the material
The teaching staff makes it hard to enjoy the course. Apart from Andrea, TF, teaching staff does not seem to put any effort into the course. The pp slides have grammar and spelling mistakes and are extremely incoherent. The papers we read are sometimes interesting, although many of them just state the obvious. It's the only course I took that will most probably not contribute to anything in the future.
very very easy, fulfills writing requirement. good for ec majors
Good economics course for elective, fairly interesting topics.
Exams are graded with a rubric that doesn't fairly assess your knowledge of the material. There are better options for an economics elective.
The course touches upon cultural variables that are often overlooked in analyzing economic and political preferences.  You'll have to read a lot of papers, and you should have a comfortable grasp on instrumental variables prior to taking the class.  Professor Alesina does a great job of spelling out the important parts of papers, which is what you'll need to know for exams.
Definitely take this class if you are interested in the intersection of culture and economics! It's a pretty easy class with lots of interesting material. Try to read the papers if possible because they will definitely enrich your understanding!
make sure you take great reading notes and understand every reading (even though there are hundreds of them).
The class basically just looks at a number of economic papers/essays and we are tested exactly on that. There isn't too much organization to the class. Some of the papers are extremely interesting and seem useful although there are a small number of papers that aren't great.
Professor Alesina and his TFs teach fairly well, but the accompanying resources (notes, problem sets, etc) are abysmal. The course felt as if it should have ended in half a semester. The workload is generally light, but prepare to spend some time before midterms/exams for revision.
The class is what you make of itif you're interested in the types of papers associated with this topic, this can be very cool stuff. However, Professor Alesina can be a bit dry at times, and the opacity of the grading until the end (when scores are averaged and scaled and curved) can cause some undue stress. But overall, for a high-level econ elective, this was fun and relatively painless. I did not write the paperinstead, I took an in-class final exam and thus was done with the course in the first week of December, which was a huge plus.
Interesting topics, dull lectures, some repetitive papers, and an overall easy course. Some of the findings discussed in class, like the effects of different religions on free markets, the different perceptions of economic prosperity (or lack thereof) and the effects of family ties on economics are quite fascinating and more relevant than you may think. On the other hand, lectures are incredibly difficult to pay attention to. Take it pass/fail and focus on the topics you like.
I really enjoyed the material this class covered. Reading the papers assigned wasn't too difficult because they were each very interesting. BUT the class gave very little feedback. Going into the midterm, it was unclear how meticulous the grading was going to be. Also, we only had two sample midterms/finals to prepare with. To do well in the class you have to read the papers; by the time you get to the midterms/final... it's a lot. I would suggest taking Pass/Fail.
Great way to satisfy the writing requirement  definitely write the paper
Flexibility defines this course. Culture and economics is a very broad subject, and you go into different areas of the ongoing research throughout the semester. At the end, you have the option to write your own research paper on any subject within cultural economics that you're interested in. For example, I chose relating culture to entrepreneurship around the world. The flexibility of the course is a great way for students, who have a big interest in culture, to make the best of the class. The professors and TFs are very flexible and supportive.
This course is very interesting. The material is truly fascinating. Professor Alesina is not very engaging and his slides are not well made and get really confusing really fast. However, Andrea, one of the TFs, is extremely helpful and always happy to answer any questions or doubts. His slides are very useful and organized. When studying for exams or psets, all you need to do is go through the slides. Only the psets require that you do the readings. If you have the econometric skills, I recommend you do the final paper over the final exam. Even if you don't know much about econometrics, Andrea is more than happy to help. Always go to office hours and his review sessions as well since they're very useful. Try to go to this course with a critical mind to get the most out of it. Overall, I really recommend this course.
I really liked the facts that I learned from this class. However, the class didn't really expand my horizons insofar as allowing me to think more deeply about the material. There was a lot of rote memorization, and the grading rubrics for the tests were confusing. Additionally, the assignments were not well explained and confusing. That said, the class was worth it for me because I really liked the new information that I learned about culture's effects on economics.
Stay on top of the readings because you can fly under the radar very easily and be in trouble for the midterm and final.
The course was difficult because what was required of you was very unclear. The grading was very subjective.
This class is interesting and easy. Definitely take it.
very interesting class that provides empirical data for many of the qualitative arguments you hear in sociology and government
Professor is very engaging. Topics on cultural economics are very interesting and the professor explains all of the concepts extremely well.
Grading is rather ambiguous in this class.
Perfectly interesting material, but the whole class has a sloppy feel to it, as if the professor and TF's spent about 15 minutes designing it.
This is a good course to take, especially after other economics courses, because it covers many topics you already know but presents them in a new fashion using the lens of culture. Cultural economics is a field that could continue to grow.
very interesting topics.
Even though the professor says an in depth knowledge of stata isn't needed, it is. The class revolves around that program.
This class is useful for anyone interested in cultural economics or in gaining exposure to a variety of empirical strategies used in economics papers.
It's easy, going to class is useless, but can be frustrating.
This is a great way to learn about a rapidly growing field of study within social sciences.
It is a straightforward class but I did not get much out of it because we did not have sections or a reason to go to class.
Love the fact that there's no participation grade!
The teacher changed much of the original information on the syllabus weeks into the class (when it would have been much more difficult to rework any students' schedule). Also, under the professor's orders, you cannot take it pass/fail if you want to use it to fulfill the writing requirement.
Do not bother with this course. It seems interesting at the outset, but this is not a very rigorous field of study, and it had not produced many interesting results. It is basically just statistics-heavy sociology, focusing on predicting "economic" outcomes. Also, the absurdly harsh grading on the midterms are likely to stress you out needlessly, particularly in light of the fact that once you finish the course, you won't need to know any of the things that the exams test you on. You DEFINITELY do not need to take Ec1010, or even SA10, before taking this class. Ec1123 will help, but an introductory course in statistics should be enough.
Not worth it...
Definitely make sure you attend lecture and pay attention.
I learned how important trust and happiness are in economic interactions, and how seemingly abstract concepts like these can go far in explaining differing economic outcomes of countries.
It answers many relevant and interesting questions; it will probably confirm many of your own theories. It's a great way to see how economics works outside of finance and theoretical models
Not much work but really need to work hard on the assignment and the exams to get a good grade
It gives an interesting look into a side of economics that isn't typically taught in other theory courses - and helps fill in some of those gaps that are sometimes noticeable. A little dry at times.
just go to class and you will be finnnne
Great material, if you are interested definitely take this class.
It is interesting and painless but the grading is unpredictable.
Content is very interesting, some papers are marvelous. However, lectures are generally not very exciting.
When preparing for the midterms/finals, just go over the lecture slides 2 or 3 times to make sure you know everything from that. then, summarize the important parts from the papers you'll be given to read.
Interesting topic but you have to find ways to remember all the regression results
I thoroughly disliked this class...do not take it for a grade...the grading is incredibly inconsistent and subjective. This class could easily be offered within the Sociology department and not the Economics department
A good class, but it seems more like a history/gov course than an econ one in many ways. Tests are pretty subjective, particularly considering that this is an economics course.
This class is pretty interesting but I would have learned just as much if I had just read the professor's readings in my spare time instead of taking the class.
Great way to complete the intermediate theory prerequisite
interesting course material
If you're interested in cultural economics or behavioral economics, this is a great way to be introduced to the topic since it's a very low-pressure, broad-based course. It was also the first time I've read a lot of economics research papers, so that and writing the final paper (we had a choice between taking a final and writing a 10-15pg paper) gave me a chance to experience economic research. You do definitely get the sense that only a handful of people in the course are doing any readings though. Professor Alesina is pretty awesome.
take it pass fail as the grading can be very arbitrary
This class is really easy and the topic is interesting. So many people take it pass/fail, so the curve is great. You don't have to do the readings, although some of them are pretty interesting, or go to lecture. This can be taken as an easy/blow-off class and you will be able to do well, or you can take it seriously and learn a lot about an interesting topic! Either way, good class.
This course looks at very interesting topics, but you should be prepared to wade through large amounts of data to reach your goal.
If you do the readings and go to lecture you'll be fine. The class isn't that much work and the material is pretty interesting.
Get prepared for a lot of reading, it's interesting though.
Bit repetitive. When you step away from the material a bit, it becomes more interesting. pretty good class for an elective. Writing part is good.
Only take this if you are genuinely interested in the material
As far as Economics courses go, this course requires much less work, but is also a bit less interesting. The applicability of culture to the field of economics is interesting in theory, but the lectures can be a bit dry.
Take this class if you don't want to do much work. But, don't expect that you will learn from the lectures, or that it will be an interesting class.
This is good class to fill a requirement, but I wouldn't recommend it as an elective.
know stata and econometrics
Possibly the most interesting topic taught in the most boring way
It's a very straightforward class. Go to every lecture; they are interesting and you won't have to do any readings because the only things you need to know for the exams are on the slides. Watch out for the stata pset though. It's tricky and there is little to no help from the tf.
Despite the UTTER disorganization of this course, the material is really interesting and the curve is fairly benevolent. I think the average grade was like an 80 and the average grade got an A/A-.
This is a good class to take if you're interested in cultural economics, but it can be a little unstructured at times. However, Professor Alesina covers a lot of research topics which can be useful if you're thinking of writing a senior thesis or conducting research in the field.
Enjoyed the content very much, but hard to know how well you will do in the class.
This class is interesting- just understand the reading and you will be fine.
Cultural Economics is a very new way of explaining human behaviors and it is very interesting to learn. You have no idea how much culture has shaped us and affected not only our personal lives, but society at large.
Easy exams, great opportunity to do own research, extremely accessible Professor and TAs.
It's just memorization of some 40 regression papers that are ALL about trust, social capital, and some sort of instrument, but the same 20 authors. it's very difficult to keep them all straight. No math, no econometrics necessary, except on the one Stata problem set. as long as you don't start on the night before it's due, you can follow the class's Stata tutorial and you're fine.
Get ready for a ton of reading that you actually have to do to do well in the course.
Self-motivated students will learn about a new field in economics research, develop skills in applied econometrics and have the opportunity to tackle a topic of their choosing in the final paper. Others will probably enjoy the fact that the class is easy.
Great professor, very interesting topics and readings.
take it pass/fail. trust the q on this. take it pass/fail. It was one of the most interesting classes I have ever taken. I will remember this material for years. However the grading is random.
