This class will be MUCH better after this first, experimental year... I can tell.  The concept is great, the format is interesting, the content is significant... but the class itself needs work.  The reading is way too heavy... it didn't reflect the priorities of the course. and it was impossible to tell what the professors thought was important... or if they were citing a reading.  The goals were a little fuzzy. This was clear when we had a final exam but had no idea what could possibly be on it.  It ended up being more conceptual... like a final paper... but without the benefit of time or resources to aid the writing.  Overall, though, as an English major I learned a lot about economics and the world, in general.  I will trust anything Professor Engell tells me.  And I was pleased that the college was approaching this kind of cross-departmental course.
This class has a ton of potential and I trust Engel and Friedman to make the necessary changes to make it a great class before it is offered again.
The professors are wonderful and the subject matter is very interesting. If they take the feedback that they receive - which will be that there were too many readings and not enough focus - this course will soon be one of the best at Harvard. It's a great survey course of modern issues as they pertain to different disciplines and modes of thought - definitely one of the most fulfilling classes at harvard - even if the structure wasn't as clear as it could have been.
Kind of a goofy course. Unorganized. Interesting topics and not too difficult. The lectures were very off the cuff and a lot of time wasted. The professors would switch off giving the main presentation. After the other professor would make comments, I didn't think these comments were particularly focused or thoughtful or useful.
This class provides very thorough coverage of a range of interdisciplinary issues that are extremely important today in the modern world. For the most part, the cohesion in the class is amazing and the lectures are high-quality; the evolution unit was rather poorly done this year, but I expect that to change in future iterations of the course. Expect this class to significantly change your thinking about modern issues and to become much more aware.
This class was more demanding than expected, but the topics were fascinating. I loved the combination of humanities and economics and the addition of the natural sciences professors for some topics (except for Pinker; he should be left out next time). I liked Engell's energy in lectures but disagreed with his views while Friedman was more objective and rational with his views (though I'm slightly biased as an economics concentrator). Ben, the TF, was a great section leader and did a fantastic job in encouraging participation and moderating debates. I just wish I got my assignments back in a more timely fashion.
This was a great course! While there were dry moments in lecture, the readings and the section/ lecture discussions were really terrific and made the class very enjoyable. The assignments are very fair and not too complicated, however, they do require that you do and understand the readings. Overall, this course does a great job of introducing new lenses into four key issue of our time and it's really terrific that we have a chance become so well-read across these moments of our time.
Readings are very interesting, but you have to complete them!
The professors in the course were engaging, and it was great that it was interdisciplinary. Many of the guest lecturers were interesting. The TFs did a good job of facilitating discussion in section. The readings and material, however, were sometimes difficult to engage with; the readings often felt irrelevant.
Fun and important topic.
This class is one of the best I've taken--just make sure to keep up with the syllabus and take notes on all the readings (it'll really help you for the final!)
This course is very interesting. The teaching staff (both professors and TFs) are brilliant and very caring. The course materials are also very interesting. Unfortunately, the course overall was a hodgepodge of different interesting topics without much continuity. I would make sure that this is fixed before taking this course.
Class attempts to merge economics with the humanities.  Good idea, poor execution.
There is a LOT of reading, but most of it is not that relevant.
Not a typical econ class - be warned. There's a lot of reading, and a lot of essay writing, so take it if you're into that. It's probaby great for humanities students.
This class was not as easy as I thought it would be. There were a lot of readings, four 4-6-pg papers, a take-home midterm, and a final. However, it was a very interesting class with a lot of cool guest speakers. It challenged the way I thought about economic growth, sustainability, inequality, etc.
The readings are good but the class is poorly organized and lecture is essentially useless
At the end of my last semester, I can say that this is the worst course I have taken at Harvard. Prof Friedman's lectures were fine, but Professor Engell's lectures at their best were wandering and uninformative. The issues this course raises are important and there are some very useful interdisciplinary perspectives that can be brought to bear on them, but this course only drew out the economic perspective effectively. Prof Engell was an ineffective advocate for Humanism. The guest lecturers were overwhelmingly older white men.
This class has the potential to be a great class.  Right now it's a very good class, but I would like to see it try to integrate the four parts of the class more clearly and more explicitly.
