This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard so far. Professor Boycko knows a lot about the topic and has many interesting anecdotes and insights. It's quite a small class, which ensures that everyone taking it is excited about the material, so every class produced an engaging discussion, which was great. Professor Boycko encourages you to really think critically about the material. The reading summaries may seem like a lot, but they actually ensure you do the readings properly, so they really help. I learnt a lot and really enjoyed the class.
Do not worry too much about prerequisite knowledge of the subject matter before enrolling in this course.  Admittedly, I knew very little about the Russian transition before taking Professor Boycko's class; however, by the end of the semester, I felt very informed and more analytical in my take on US-Russian relations today.
This class is significantly easier and less math-intensive than pretty much any other class in the economics department. That being said, this class is closer to a government class, both in terms of subject (more than half the classes were focused on political developments in Russia) and in terms of the amount of reading you'll have to do (at least 3 pages of response papers per class). Still, Boycko leads great discussions , and you'll learn a lot about Russia.
This class is fantastic. It's a decent amount of work, and you'll probably spend around three hours per class doing readings and writing summaries. However, the lack of a section makes up for that time a little bit. If you really commit to understanding the readings, you'll get a lot out of Professor Boycko's seminar-style classes. Get to know Professor Boycko outside of class, too.
The class quickly became one of my favorites. The readings and summaries aren't that bad and they get easier as class goes on. Because everyone does the readings the discussions are very interesting, and Prof. Boycko is an excellent professor
Great course overall, but don't underestimate the workload that comes with the reading summaries. However, come exam time, you will appreciate the summaries as they force you to engage with the material. A rare chance to take a course from a professor who was there and in the core of many of the events the course covers, suggest you take advantage of it while able to.
The readings and summaries take a significant amount of time and the seminar style format demands you participate but it is an effective way to learn.
This was my favorite class at Harvard! I love the small classroom vibe because it made the discussion of the materials, which in fact were EXTREMELY interesting, very engaging. It was also absolutely incredible to get to know Professor Boycko on a personal level. Throughout the semester the class becomes very close.
