Professor Avery is a great teacher who really cares about this course, and his students!
This is a great course, but you will get out what you put in. The problem sets are technically optional, but if you want to actually learn something, treat them as mandatory and graded.
I am very glad I took this course and learned a LOT. That said, having a limited math background, it was really hard and a ton of work.
Work on problem sets together, and start early since they take time.
Great class, great instructors, great TFs. Be prepared to put in lots of work, but there is lots of support.
Chris Avery really cares about class, and the sections are extremely helpful.  The class is hard but definitely expands your thinking.  Work through the problem sets with friends -- it will be a lot easier!
I would highly recommend this course as a rigorous introduction to microeconomic theory. It provides a solid foundation for further coursework and related research.
Just depending on their background in Econ.  Intermediate class may be a better fit for some.  Not a reflection on the teaching; very well taught and a lot of time and effort spent to explain difficult material.
fantastic course, would definitely recommend that you attend and make sure to go to lectures
In its current (F2014) iteration, this course is extremely effective at meeting the goals of most students. Students in the class are generally PhD students from Public Policy, Gov, and MIT Sloan School PhD students. Some students have strong backgrounds in micro theory, but some have almost none (myself included). Nonetheless, Prof. Kotowski is extremely clear as a lecturer, and made the key concepts very tangible. The assignments are difficult but Credit/No Credit. The exams are challenging but much partial credit is given for solutions that are on track. Overall, I would recommend this course to Public Policy / Gov PhD students who want to get a better handle on micro theory. MBA-type business school students may  be disappointed by how micro theory has relatively practical applications in actually running a business. Even so, the academic-track business PhD seems to enjoy the class and think it helpful, from my conversations with them.
This course is a good introduction to PhD-level microeconomic theory. It's not quite at the level of MWG but is still fairly mathematical. Lots of thought goes into exam and homework problems, which is great. The material is also builds on itself nicely.

You will leave the course with a good understanding of how economists traditionally use mathematics to understand human decision making.
Maciej is an excellent teacher, and if you are interested in microeconomics, I strongly recommend taking this class.
This is an informative and enjoyable course that I would highly recommend. But it is also a significant amount work, and it is very helpful to have a solid background in microeconomic theory.
Maciej is a fantastic professor. He and the TFs put a great deal of effort into teaching. I thoroughly enjoyed taking this class.
Good course -- worth pursuing.
Great professor, makes material interesting, problem sets time consuming but very good
The course requires a lot of work, but it is overall extremely rewarding.
Maciej is an excellent instructor. Seriously, take anything he's teaching. He is very good at explaining complicated things in a clear and understandable way. He is also very approachable.
If you have never taken intermediate microeconomic theory, you will find this class incredibly difficult. However, I doubt I have ever had a more supportive teaching team for any course I have taken in Harvard - you will have help whenever you need it, and the structure of the course could even be adjusted to meet the class needs (For example, sections were modified a bit in the latter half of the course to focus more on problem solving). What was most helpful for me? Solving as many problems as possible, over and over again.  If you decide to take this course, it will probably be hard and take a ton of time, but if you stick with it, you'll take so much with you!
This class is a lot of hard work but the syllabus is carefully constructed to help you learn. It's apparent that Professor Kotowski cares a lot about his teaching.
Maciej is really good at comprehensively teaching the core theory of microeconomics. If you have a lot of background in mathematics, the class is really not that hard. Some students struggled though who were less prepared for this sort of theoretical work.
Unlike other courses that resemble banging your head against the wall, this class will have returns proportional to the time invested to it. There are real benefits to mastering the material in terms of policy work. Macej is great!
If you really want a solid theoretical foundation in microeconomics at the graduate level in order to do rigorous economic research, then this is an excellent introductory course to familiarize yourself with underlying concepts, tools, and methods upon which more advanced research in the field is built. If you are more interested in applied microeconomics in a specific field, then this course will likely not be so interesting and I would recommend just purchasing the textbook as a reference and jumping directly into a subject-area course (you can likely teach yourself the concepts that will be relevant to you and spend less time working on things that you will likely never use again). Again, still a great course but really consider what your goals are in taking it.
I took this course as a requirement.  I'm not sure where it fits between a less rigorous course in "managerial" economics, and a full-on 4 semester theory sequence that Econ PhD students would take.  That said, Maciej is an engaging lecturer, and his enthusiasm for the subject is contagious.
Assuming I am talking to someone else in a PhD program, I would say this is a great class.
Great class. Good lectures. Clear as a bell.
Valuable opportunity to understand advanced microeconomic theory. Great lecturer and very enriching lecture
good course to get a thorough understanding of the basic concepts of microeconomics, unfortunately not advanced enough
It's pretty time-consuming for a course that isn't all that applicable to my research agenda or the agendas of most students in the course. That said, I'm pretty satisfied with the way Maciej organized the class. The TFs (Daria and Katherine) were outstanding. This course would be so much better if econ notation wasn't so cumbersome (and often counter-intuitive and inconsistent).
This class was great, although be prepared to have to put in quite a bit of work if this is your first advanced economics class. However, you can tell Maciej and the TF's really care about this course, and you should make sure to take advantage of all the sections and office hours, as they were awesome and super helpful, and made a difficult class doable.
You will get behind in the reading.
It's a good grounding in theory.
The course may not be useful immediately but you should take it if you want to do research related to economic theories. It involves a lot of math skills so a better preparation (or just psychologically) would be extremely helpful. Also intermediate micro foundation is much prefered. Courses themselves could be very enjoyable, but make sure you do a lot more extra work to feel the same in exams.
Spend time on those psets, and look at them after a few weeks after submitting them.
The professor would like to test something never covered in the class and homework. The most unpredictable exam I have ever taken.
Do the problem sets if you want to understand what is going on in class, and definitely go to the section reviews.
a good, well-paced class, but the material can be a little dry.
A must-take course for anyone who plans on continuing with economics. Rigorous, but not overly technical compared to the ECON 2010 sequence. A strong foundation in analysis is definitely helpful.
Do a thorough preparation in advanced maths before thinking about taking this course. Economics background is not necessary but MATHS is essential.
Good background in micro theory
Don't be surprised when the midterm exam questions require slightly less computation than the problem set questions, but always include a "twist" that you haven't seen before in lecture or on the problem sets.  Understanding the section notes (and the Nolan Miller notes for topics that you're having an extra hard time with) is probably the most efficient way to get a picture of what's going on and be comfortable on the homework and exams.
This class is an excellent introduction to graduate-level microeconomic theory.  It is accessible to students with a strong math background and relatively little economic background.
In this "new" version of the class, there's less computation involved but more tricky things to get you to think about intuition -- it can be frustrating but also helpful. I liked the course, but for the people who don't like the course but have to be here anyways, I think the teaching staff make it as painless as possible.
Be prepared for a lot of work and a lot of frustration.
This was a great balance between math and theory. I was a huge fan, not having taken an economics course.
Be prepared to dedicate a LOT of time to this class. You should expect to do a lot of work outside of class to be able to follow what is going on.
Chris Avery is an excellent lecturer with a special ability to reduce complex ideas to their most basic parts.  The class is more challenging if you haven't taken intermediate micro or multivariable calculus (though still doable).
The course is very difficult but you will learn a lot. The material is interesting and well-taught. Chris Avery is a very good professor, clear and humorous. However, the exams are very difficult and you will spend a lot of time studying for them and not necessarily do well despite that. It can be kind of discouraging to feel that you have learned the material but not have that reflected in your course grade.
A good class for applied non-economist researchers who would like a gentle introduction to some of the more math behind theories while keeping an emphasis on  intuition.
If you are a PhD student and think you may apply economic concepts in your research, take this course.  It is tailored to students like us, who otherwise would shy away from (more proof-based) economic courses.  At the end of this course, you might not feel like you are ready to go, but you will feel much more confident in applying basic economics for your PhD-level work, and more importantly you will more easily recognize questions you should be asking.
some questions on the exam seem to be out of left field spend time making sure you understand the concepts
The problem with this class is that it tries to be too many things.  It tries to introduce people who are unfamiliar with economics to micro, but it also tries to cover topics that are sophisticated and unfamiliar to people who may have a strong econ background.  As a result, no one's needs are ideally met.  Maybe it would be better as two classes?
Given that non-economics PhDs cannot do the flagship micro course this seems to be the best thing on offer and by a long distance is better than nothing. But in order to get to sufficient level to undertake research - as opposed to not feeling overwhelmed by papers including formal economic theory - this is not quite enough.
The material is good, but you will have to teach yourself much of it.
It is very challenging, but it pays off. I learned a lot.
This is a great class and is well taught by Chris Avery. Elon Kohlberg is an expert in game theory and very approachable, but is not as detail oriented as Avery, creating some confusion occasionally due to minor mistakes during lecture. For most students with some background this will be immediately obvious but to the neophyte economist this can cause trouble. Overall a very good course. Required about 10hr/wk commitment outside of class. Definitely read the Miller and Avery notes for a more fundamental understanding of the material.
A pretty rigorous intro to micro.  The exams are very challenging.
this course is extremely helpful for graduate students who conduct research in policy analysis. The teachers are very nice, especially for Avery.
Get ready for a semester of hard work, but high payoff once you come to understand the concepts covered in class.  The course is difficult, but the professor and teaching staff make the difficulties interesting and manageable.  Highly recommended course.
This course really lays the foundation for future study and work in economic theory.
It is hard to see the utility of the material at the start, but nice to have a 'from the ground up' understanding of microeconomics.
This is a very theory based class that requires a lot of calculus
This is a great course for anyone who would like to be able to read articles that rely on microeconomic theory. More broadly, I think it is very useful in terms of understanding the language of economics. The course is however, very difficult, so be prepared to devote a lot of time to exam studying.
Much harder than any of the gov courses, but you'll get a lot out of it.
It is not at the same (or close to the same) level as a PhD micro course.
It is a very interesting, engaging class, but students should be prepared to put in many, many hours for this very challenging course
i would recommend this course to anyone interested in quantitative analysis in any field; everyone loves econ jargon and formulations these days.
Solid class with great teaching. Good for future policy makers and students with a general interest in economics.
Tough class, but well worth it.
This is a tough class.  It's worthwhile, but only if you are willing to do a lot of self-teaching.  The lectures are not very useful. Sections are very useful.
Make time to go through practice problems on a weekly basis. Make sure to understand them and get questions clarified by TFs along the way
It's really boring, and filled with majors from all over the place. If you are an econ major, take 2010, otherwise you can probably find something better to give you the "economic thinking" that this course was supposed to provide.
Work with a group on the problem sets and you will learn a ton.  The teaching is good.  The material is helpful in understanding models of political economy.
Do all problem set questoins
This is a difficult (7-10+ hrs outside of class) but for the most part rewarding course. Take it if you want to understand microeconomic theory at an advanced level. It is taught well, although could be a bit better.
This is a challenging course and even moreso if you do not have the requisite math skills. Still, you learn a lot and your mathematics will improve in this course.  I would reccomend taking it.
If you are interested in developing a thorough understanding of microeconomics and, in particular, a strong intuition about economic models of behavior and economic implications of public policy, this course is key.
make sure you understand the problem sets
Spend a lot of time with the practice problems making sure you understand the mechanics of them.  The stronger your math (or maybe even logic) background, the better off you'll be.
If you have any micro background, the course is pretty easy.  It doesn't feel "graduate level". If you haven't had economics, you shouldn't take the course.
Take the practice problems seriously. They are an extremely important and valuable learning tool.
