A rather non-technical but really interesting course on interesting economic issues.
Good survey course of major themes in public economics.  Some big names teach the course and as a result they offer a lot of fascinating and unique perspectives.  The course is not particularly technical, so if you're looking to learn theory or methods of Public in any great depth, don't expect that to happen unless you plan on doing a lot of independent study on your own.
Raj Chetty is one of the best lecturers in the economics department, and Marty has a wealth of wisdom and experience to share. Take this class if you're interested in public policy, as the issues brought up here are widely applicable.
I think Raj Chetty is a remarkable instructor.  His teaching is clear and concise.
Liebman's lectures are good and give you a good sense of current issues in public econ, but in general the course is very poorly organized. Don't plan on learning very much about the public economics literature.
Best to take if you want to do public economics as a field. Provides a broad survey of public economics without much overlap with the first semester (at least when Raj taught it).
For Marty, focus on the handout chapters he assigns. Ed's handouts on models are very useful. Everything Jeff presents is great.
This class is so disorganized; each lecturer just talks about the topics he 'feels' is relevant without putting things together in the bigger picture.
The class helps present some possibly interesting areas of research in public economics.
Many people find that the material is not that exciting, but if you're interested in optimal taxation, insurance markets, or thinking about government policy and welfare analysis very seriously, you should definitely take this class.
Hendren is a good guy who seems to care, but there is little to no thought put in the assignments. Typos everywhere. Disorganized lecture notes.
Whereas Professor Chetty's fall course would be useful to anyone doing work in applied micro, this course is definitely more specialized for Public. So, I would certainly recommend it to anyone interested Public, as it covered a lot of interesting material, but it is definitely tailored to people with an interest in Public, not so much a general interest audience.
You kind of need to be a PF nerd. But if you are, it's pretty sweet.
The once-a-week format requires a little more self-studying during the week. The problem sets are challenging but really help you learn the material.
Hendren is a very good lecturer. Content is interesting and relevant.
This will get you into the really nitty-gritty parts of public economics, which can sometimes be a bit dull and mathematically-heavy. The problem sets will suck up a lot of time but might not feel like you're getting a lot out of them, because you end up bogged down in math and trying to understand what the problem is asking.
A very interesting and important class for those who care about public economics: covers what needs to be known before doing research in this area of economics and gives  useful hints as to what the frontier is in many domains.
Nathan is an enthusiastic lecturer, which is quite nice. He moves quickly though so keep up with the material.
