This course is well-organized and well-planned, but there is a LOT of material covered, which sometimes means trade-offs between breadth and depth. As with any class focused on history, there is a fair amount of memorization involved. Personally, I enjoyed the course a lot but did not necessarily feel as if I had been introduced to a ton of new concepts, but can now discussing a variety examples in history that might go to support or disprove an idea.The examples selected as evidence for discussion were always interesting, but somewhat sporadic. Response papers are not a freebie - they require critical thought and are met with thoughtful and thorough feedback from the TFs.
The subject material of this class is absolutely fascinating, following the development of the world as we know it today and questioning why it turned out like it did.
Interesting material but grading is very arbitrary.
Great class!! Definitely take it! The topics are very interesting and professor Dell is clearly an expert. What I really liked about this class, is how relevant it is to today's current events and it really does make you think about poverty. Can't think of anything bad to say.
This course was very good for someone who is interested in economics but less in the quantitative aspect of economics. It went over very interesting theories and the exams definitely tested what we learnt, and I felt that this course changed me a lot in terms of how I see the world.
This class is AWESOME! Prof. Dell is extremely intelligent and it was really cool to hear her lecture / read some of her own papers. This course is not too demanding in terms of workload but I really feel like I came out learning A LOT! The weekly response papers take some time but if you pay attention in lecture, are a great way to keep up with the material. The midterm and final were extremely fair and straightforward. Highly recommend this course!
One of the most interesting econ classes I've taken is this course. Not many other courses discuss economic history in this depth, and I felt it was very interesting material to study -- especially the earlier stuff about Neolithic Revolution.
Great subject matter executed not so well.
LOVED LOVED LOVED the content. This should arguably be a requirement for all economics concentrators. However, the lectures were sometimes rushed, trying to cram a lot of material into an hour and a half, and do not expect to get much out of the section component. If you're looking for a relatively easy and very interesting  economic history elective, this is a great class, but you might find the lack of organization (read: highly disorganized TFs) frustrating.
Disorganized class. Interesting course material, but unclear what should be taken forward. Themes v historical details v data validity.
This course was a really interesting intersection between economics and history! I took it for an economics requirement and liked it a lot more than I expected.
I loved this class! Melissa Dell is an angel and made it so interesting and exciting!
This class is one of the best I've taken in my four years at Harvard. The material ties together everything from CIA-backed coups to the Antonine Plague. Melissa is a leader in her field, and she presents so much of her fascinating research during the lectures. You really can't help but be disappointed when lectures come to a close. This is a must take course for anyone who cares about poverty, economics, climate change, health, history, human rights or government. Honestly, if you care about the world at all, TAKE THIS CLASS.
Great senior year course. I took P/F but you can definitely get an A if you try, etc... Really interesting material too... I definitely learned a lot.
This class is cool. If you are looking for a good class to fill in a requirement, this is your call. If you want a change from the esoteric bs of the 1010 or 1011 series, this is more ground in history and reality. The slides lecturing might get to you if you are not a morning person though.
If the syllabus for a course seems interesting, but the lecture style and TFs seem incredibly dry during shopping week, do yourself a favor and never take that class--things will only get worse, not better. That holds true for this class--the professor lacks interpersonal skills, reading off lecture slides that focus more on her own research than a broad array of topics, and the TFs proved more defensive than helpful in terms of covering information. The response papers seem helpful for learning material, but the frustration from unclear grading scores will stay with you more than what you are learning from writing them.
TAKE TAKE TAKE TAKE IT. Incredibly organzed. Prof. Dell is on top of her stuff, no kidding. And she is incredibly smart...like woooooooooaaawwww!
Just go to class and you'll be fine. Don't even bother buying the books unless you're genuinely interested in the material. Study big ideas for the tests, but the tests will look at specific examples that ultimately you won't remember unless you study for like 15 hours. Also in a class that talks about economic growth i feel like we didn't really talk about Africa, or what to do to start growth in areas where economies have stagnated.
This class has very interesting themes that cover the intersection of history and economics very well. The papers we read and studies we looked at were excellent examples of economists trying to tease out correlation versus causality, to show path dependence. It really forces you to look critically at development and why certain countries do better than others (if you are interested in international development you should definitely take this course!) The class does get repetitive (institutions are really important, we understand!) and could use better work tying together the main themes (which we were expected to do on the final).
It is a good class if you are able to attend all lectures. Going to section definitely helps you understand the material in greater depth.
This is a great Ec elective that is interesting, easy, and not too labor intensive in terms of work.  The slides are very comprehensive and allow you to follow along easily from home or in class.
I would recommend this course however make the following points. I enjoyed the course because I had a strong interest in economic development. With that said, the material at times was long and dry and too much focus was put on empirical methods behind models rather than the points they were making. Also, while the course did not require too much time, the midterms and finals were both challenging in a way that was not expected. With that said, this is the first version of the course so I expect it to improve. However if you have a strong interest in the field I would suggest taking it.
I really enjoyed this course. The questions that it tackles about growth, poverty, and governance are relevant to all of our lives. It has a fairly equal split between descriptive history and empirical research and covers the whole span of human history, giving some attention to each continent. It will probably be even better next time since this was the first offering. I would encourage anyone interested to take it!
It is a good course if you are interested in history.
The course material is really interesting! The response papers are a pain to do, but actually help in the long run. They were graded unnecessarily harshly, though. Also, this course tried to fit way too much material into one semester! Professor Dell and the TFs should make the effort to be concise. Instead, they just put tons and tons of information into the lecture slides and it was overwhelming. They did not make the effort to discern between what was important and what wasn't. Moreover, the review session by the TFs was 100% usefulness and did not at all relate to the final exam. Instead, it just led us to study the wrong things.
