Eoin is amazing!
Eoin is a smart and caring professor.  The class offers a lot of information about a very specific topic.  Make sure that you're actually interested in boxing and not taking it for the requirements it fulfills.  That being said, you're probably more interested in boxing than you think.  Throughout the class we saw how greatly the sport reflected and influenced other aspects of life.
This is a phenomenal Hist-Lit Seminar. Eoin is a terrific professor; he is well informed, well spoken, bright, and passionate about boxing and he is kind, helpful, and willing to listen to his students. The course was, for me, a home run. The readings - primary, secondary, fictional, and otherwise - were fascinating, informative, and fun; the movies and documentaries were equally enjoyable; and the guest speakers Eoin brought in were incredibly interesting. The course engages with interesting and important fighters and fights and uses these figures and events as a lens through which you explore the social, cultural, racial, and sexual history of contemporary America. It is an interesting, fun, challenging, but quite rewarding course.
This was hands down the best course I have ever taken at Harvard. I sincerely enjoyed coming to class every week. The readings were fantastic and centered around different themes each week. We took a class field trip to a local fight which was a real highlight. Eoin is super laid back and encourages great conversation.Also had a number of guest speakers come talk with us including a promoter and a New York Times journalist. JUST. AWESOME.
Honestly, this class made me declare Hist&Lit. Hands down, best class I've taken at Harvard up to this point. The material is incredibly interesting and forces you to examine the historical and social ramifications of huge boxing matches through the lens of literature. Professor Cannon is incredible at articulating everything you read into a very interesting discussion, that makes class time just breeze by. The readings are captivating. That paired with actually interesting paper topics makes the course work very manageable, if not enjoyable. You also learn a lot about renowned boxers, which is just a nice plus.
A fascinating course on a topic you don't commonly hear about or discuss with your friends, but that you will want to by Semester's end.  Loved this course because it does not stop at close reading / writing and in class discussion.  Field trips to the fine arts library, a real boxing match, and even visits from distinguished visitors all made this class a real treat.  I especially loved the creative freedom given to us on each assignment - this allowed me to really understand the material for myself in a unique way.  I really enjoyed each assignment.  Overall, this course provides an exciting window into a cultural treasure-trove of commentary, literature, life changing stories, music, and so much more... I am holding on to my books so I can revisit them moving forward!
The material's quite interesting, especially seeing how the same narratives go back to the very beginnings of boxing. If you're interested in the topic, it's fun and painless.
Awesome course! The way it explores the meaning surrounding the ring historically and culturally is phenomenal. I'd definitely recommend it.
If you have any interest on looking at American history through the lens of a subculture (and people in the class would argue a subculture that for a long time was an integral part of mainstream culture) this is the perfect class.  Great discussion format and pretty fun assignments.
A great class. Eoin is very kind, calm, and supportive. He runs a comfortable class and is super intellegent; moreover, he has a huge passion for the subject. Discussion is slow, the readings can be tedious, but I loved the course and I'm very glad I took it. Not too many places can you take a course on this subject; therefore, it has added value in that this is probably the only place you could become an expert in this subject.
Take this course if you have at all wondered about that most primitive and beloved of human pastimes: fighting.
It probably helps to know a little bit about boxing beforehand but not having prior knowledge doesn't take away from most of the readings.
Great class discussions! Eoin is a very supportive and accessible professor. The reading load is heavy, but, if that's a concern, know that it seemed to be easy to participate in class and complete assignment without doing much of it. It was interesting reading though, and well worth doing.
Incredible course. Highly recommend if you are interested in sports, american history or culture. Engaging reading, great discussion, all around a++
Great course, great materials, great professor
Eoin is really fantastic, a wealth of knowledge
If you are interested in athletics and how they affect wider culture, I highly recommend this class.  The discussions are extremely engaging, and the course material is incredibly interesting.
This course is an amazing way to explore the nuanced background of a subject that not many people know about. As a boxer, this course has allowed me to connect with the material in a way that was more in depth than I could imagine. Even if you have no boxing background whatsoever, you still end up with interesting views of a unique subject, along with the possibility of contributing to this relatively unsaturated field. Eoin is very knowledgeable and helpful, and I highly recommend this course.
This course is fantastic. It's a pretty heavy workload, but Cannon has chosen the texts carefully to complement one another and facilitate some really productive discussion. Boxing history provides a fascinating glimpse of the relationships between gender, race, class, literature, popular culture, performance, ritual, sports, public space, labor, law, and more. Highly, highly recommended.
This is the best writing class I have taken at Harvard so far. The class material is very interesting and I found myself enjoying writing the course essays. The course load is extremely fair. Dr. Cannon, the course instructor, also does an amazing job at engaging the class and keeping things moving. He also helps each student adopt an attitude to bring their own personal knowledge into discussion, which makes every class meeting something to look forward to. We also dealt with different forms of media to learn about boxing - 1930s videos, 1800s art, Progressive era literature - which really brings students into the mindset of researching a topic in the many different outlets available for that topic. Sometime, a piece of art reveals something a news article can't, and vice versa. I recommend this course with extreme enthusiasm.
