This is a lovely course. The reading material is fun and interesting, and you get to dive into topics like punk subculture that are outside most other courses. Reading load is very manageable, and the historical sources are fascinating.
Really good class. Tim is great and picks good books to read.
Great readings, interesting discussions
This is an excellent class and Tim is a great professor.  The class providse a fabulous and in-depth look at modern English history.  If you have a question about the exact instructions of an assignment, be sure to ask, Tim is great at giving guidance and feedback.
This course has a really interesting syllabus.  Quality of class discussion however is very dependent on your peers, perhaps more so than on the teacher.
This class is GREAT. It is definitely a class that covers a period in time you may not otherwise be exposed to--it's so recent in history that it sort of flies on the radar in other departments.  Regardless, it's a great way to an academic lens to some really cool things, such as subcultural movements (i.e. the punks and skinheads) and other specific events in times, such as the Windrush landing in the UK.  I took the class because I'm interested in racial issues, and this class does a really good job of addressing these things and other more broad issues within very specific events and pieces of literature.  There is definitely a fair bit of reading, but it's worth it.  The writing assignments are not too lengthy, which makes the class much less stressful (even though you will want to do all of the work.)
If you're at all interested in 20th century English history, this is a great class; I knew very little about this period of British history, so I got a lot out of the course. If you're already quite familiar with this, then the course might not add a whole lot to your bank of knowledge. That being said, it was a great opportunity to learn about punk, skinheads, and subcultures in Britain and to read the Satanic Verses in an academic setting.
A great class for covering modern England culture and history, which is a surprisingly rare topic in Harvard academia. I feel like I walked away with a really great understanding of post-WWII English culture
This class is great! Really great books (especially Rhys and Rushdie), great discussions, and Tim is awesome. He's a great discussion leader, very funny, and gives really helpful feedback on writing -- occasionally harsh, but ultimately very helpful.
Come to class ready to engage in the texts, write to challenge yourself. The professor is invested in the material and makes you feel invested as well. You get out of it what you put in.
