This class is fun, but is also able to teach you at the same time. It doesn't seem like the most academically rigorous course, but there is a large amount of learning that goes on in this class.
fav class @ harvard so far
This class is phenomenal! Wendy is one of the best teachers and is incredibly friendly. She gives great writing advice and is always open to be contacted. The readings are amazing and incredibly enjoyable. Section was one of the highlights of my week. Take this class!
This class has extremely interesting material that will inform you about everything from the origins of zombie voodoo in Haiti to the beginnings of DC Comics as a company. I loved the variety and being able to discuss the finer points with a group of other people who seemed interested in the topics.
This course is SO MUCH FUN. It takes an awesome topic and puts it into an intellectually stimulating setting. The reading is manageable and always fun to do. Wendy is great and definitely excels at generating great discussion. Take this course!
This is a rare opportunity to study these concepts in an academic environment. Although you may feel bad choosing this course on the basis of it not containing traditionally academic materials it is more than worth while, for in many ways these concepts are more influential in society and overlooked. The texts in the course highlight major tropes in literature and history and view them in a somewhat different light. The materials are fantastic and fantastical.
Take this course. By far my favorite class that I have ever taken here. The readings are superb. You rarely can go wrong in the hist. & lit. department, but this class stands head-and-shoulders above some of the other classes.
This course was the best one that I took my first semester at Harvard-and I loved all of my courses. It combined my love of the sci-fi/fantasy genres with a love of history and reading. I learned more about what zombie films and comic books "said" about society at the time they were created and began to think critically about different mediums of work (film, television, etcetera). Wendy is a fantastic teacher and brings a lot of enthusiasm to the course.
Make sure to begin homework assignments well in advance. There is no physically possible way to complete this class's assignments with less than several days' time.
It all really depends on the people who make up the seminar. The readings are great--comic books, movies, literary theory all included. But what you get out of the readings depends on where the students guide it, since there isn't really an established direction which the course will steer you...which can be good or bad, depending.
