The class was very good and I learned a lot. I already knew a lot about this time period, but I didn't know that much about what was going on in the European region. I'm really glad I learned about this. However, I think sometimes during the course assignments and due dates were a bit unclear and towards the end of the semester texts were often only available on the course website a day or two before the class, which made preparing for class difficult. I think if the class had been better organized I would have been able to push my participation in the class even further.
If you do the readings for this course and engage in discussions, you will learn a lot in this class, both in terms of history and it terms of figuring out your own position on questions of effective protest and legitimacy of authority. However, the narrow scope of this course means that sometimes the same conversations get rehashed over and over again. If you aren't willing to talk a lot about the topics I listed above, this course might not be for you.
There's a ton of reading but it all is interesting and applicable. The discussions changed my view of so many current issues. I wish I could take this class all over again.
The readings are difficult and confusing, and it's really hard to build any sort of excitement about the topic even if you are interested in it already.  You get very little guidance on any of the assignments, and it's a lot more about politics and philosophical theory than the actual protest movements.
This was by far my favorite course of the semester. Professor Gillett is a wonderful teacher and person, and she genuinely likes getting to know her students and helping them grapple with readings or think through assignments. The course's topic is also really interesting.
Be willing to discuss. There will be interesting conversations.
The class is challenging, but ultimately extremely rewarding. The format emphasizes discussion and critical thinking about protest in the 1960s, and the course materials have radically altered my perception of the implications of 1968. The class enables you to place 1968 in a larger context of protest and global historical events, to see connections between different movements at a particular historical moment, and to consider the aftereffects of 1968 on the world as a whole.
Very well balanced and engaging
I took this course hoping to get a taste of what it would be like to concentrate in history and literature, and I am extremely happy I did as I have now decided to be a Hist&Lit concentrator. Professor Gillett's extensive knowledge and passion for subject is very visible, and she is very accessible. The small size of course facilitates discussions in which everyone can take part, which is great change from larger history lectures in which the professor talks the entire time. Don't feel like you need to know anything at all about the topic going when starting the course. Between the engaging readings (which are truly relevant to the coursework; Prof. Gillett never had us read anything that we didn't discuss or wasn't of importance) and the contextualized information presented by Prof. to help us along, anyone could take this course and really enjoy it. With that being said, it would be helpful to have strong analytical skills and a level of comfortability working with sources to form a thesis.
Rachel's class is amazing. The course looks at youth protest in 1968 in Prague, Paris, and Berlin using a really cool variety of materials, including novels, films, memoirs, manifestos, songs, newspapers, and more. Discussions are always thought-provoking and fun. Rachel is interesting, approachable, always available to help when your have questions, and funny. She asks great questions and guides discussions, but never sticks to a strict agenda and sort of lets discussion happen naturally. I always wanted more time to discuss the materials for each week. This was definitely one of my favorite courses I have taken.
I loved the class, but I felt like the reading load was sometimes too much. Sometimes I didn't see how all the sources came together and explained the historical context of the time. I wish we did more of seeing the big picture and analyzing how our readings tied into that. The assignments were interesting (we had to write a manifesto for one of them) and I received a lot of help from Rachel. She is one of the most supportive teachers I've ever had.
Overall, I liked the class but was not a huge fan. Discussion often seemed awkward or contrived :(. The pros, however, made it pretty good:-interesting material and particularly relevant to students of our age-an area that many have not previously studied-an opportunity to get a better understanding of postwar europe-Great tying together of interdisciplinary approach to studies (art, posters, movies, historical sources, literature)-Creative assignments (you write your own manifesto!)
The readings were almost always fascinating, and Rachel is a sensitive and supportive discussion leader. The themes of the course also lead you to think differently about our society and its institutions.
If you are interested in 1968, it is still useful to take this course and do all the readings; that will teach you a lot about the time but otherwise, I did not think it was conducted well, so I would not recommend it.
Professor Gillett is incredibly knowledgable, and you should definitely take the opportunity to take a class with her if you can! The topic of this course is also really fascinating and you get to look at a lot of different types of texts. It's a very comprehensive and fun course.
This course is great for developing a new way of thinking about literature and the purpose of the arts, but you may not learn as many cold hard facts or larger concepts as you might like.
Your GPA will probably suffer, and you will get no sleep, but you'll learn a lot.
I would highly recommend this class.  You will learn a lot as long as you do the readings and arrive ready to discuss the topics presented in the weekly assignments.
Amazing course! There is a heavy reading load some weeks and there are quite a few written assignments throughout so be careful when planning, but otherwise, if you're at all interested in Hist & Lit or the topic, take it! I took this course to decide whether to concentrate in Hist & Lit and after taking it, I'm 99% sure I will. Rachel is awesome and really shapes the discussion around what we wanted to talk about, and the readings are all very well planned out/connected. The creative manifesto assignment is also great and not at all intimidating--just a great way to end the course!
Prof Gillett is a wonderful academic and human being with a great deal of insight into her field. She will identify your specific interests and work to facilitate them throughout the course. I wholeheartedly recommend taking this class - I have really loved it.
