This class is vital if you want to understand race in America. Professor McCarthy is a wonderful teacher; passionate, an expert, and a great facilitator of discussion. I also loved that I was able to read narratives from voices we rarely hear in the normal literary canon.
This is a fantastic course! Professor McCarthy is one of the best professors that I have ever had. He makes a real effort to connect with his students and genuinely cares about all of them. He also thinks about the issues raised in this course in a very deep way and fosters discussion that allows all of the students in the course to do the same.
McCarthy is amazing and so is this course. It's a ton of reading and a ton of discussion participation, and if you're not willing to engage with both fully you should not take this class, as you will not put into it what it deserves and get out of it what you can. This is by far the best class I've taken here, and it solidified my want to concentrate in hist and lit. Only a few weeks into the class I realized that though I've had great professors (lecturers, impressive resumes, big names) at Harvard, McCarthy is by far the best teacher that I've had here.
I had heard only incredible things about this class and had known that I wanted to take it for a long time. It did not disappoint. Tim McCarthy is an incredible teacher, scholar, historian, educator, professor, mentor, adviser, resource, and overall person. He reminds me what my Harvard education is all about and what it should be for every student. The topics we discussed from the readings were world-shaping, and the fellow classmates' contributions and networks of discussions made each and every class a rewarding and enriching experience.
Please take this class. It's essential to your education and to being a human in this world. This course should be required for everyone at Harvard-- it's essential to understand the history of slavery in this country, and Tim McCarthy is an absolutely incredible teacher.
It's a lot of reading and a lot of work, but I think you end up with a much better fundamental understanding of American racial history, both past and present. It will fundamentally challenge the way you think about objectivity.
If you are looking for an introduction to History and Literature, this seminar is an absolutely incredible choice.
This class can drastically change the way you think if you let it.
Though this class focuses on slave literature, many of the discussions focus on social justice and race in America more broadly. It's a fascinating ride, and the discussions are so worthwhile, but prospective students should know that they're signing up for a class that is more personal and perhaps more ideologically driven than the average class.
This class introduces you to a great deal of traditional slave narratives and foundational abolitionist texts, some of which you may have never heard of. The student-led discussions also allow pairs of students to set the agenda and have a chance to talk about their topics of interest.
This class is not to be missed, and I would know. I nearly opted for an easier and less demanding course but chose to go with my heart, and I am happy for that. Professor McCarthy is brilliant and an outstanding moderator of discussion. His moments of monologue, too, are second-to-none. The materials you engage with in class are necessary to have any understanding of early or current US history and literature. A lack of understanding for these materials means a lack of understanding of our place in space and time. I thoroughly recommend taking this class. It is demanding, but not as demanding as you have heard. The work you put in will absolutely be worth it.
If you're interested in this material and are willing to have your opinions of the world changed, this class will be one of the best you take at Harvard. Tim is unbelievable, the readings are long but beautiful, and the assignments will challenge the way you understand history and literature. All around one of my two or three favorite classes here.
I could not recommend this course enough. Hands down best course I have taken in my four years at Harvard. It will absolutely change your life. The material is so important and you will want to complete all the reading and prepare thoroughly for each week's seminar. I learned so much in this course and wish it could continue into the spring. You will not regret for a second taking this course.
Oh man, how do I list the strengths. Every component of it was extraordinary. The sections were incredible and the way TPM facilitated, stepped back, allowed us to really feel and connect with the texts - everything was phenomenal.
It was an amazing course! Stories of Slavery and Freedom truly exceeds any expectations I had about colonial literature. Not only do you leave the semester with a larger understanding of the colonial lit- af-american literary cannon, but you leave a more confident speaker, a more conscientious analytic and a more informed activists.
Best class I've taken at Harvard. The epitome of Hist and Lit and an incredible survey of American slavery. Prof. McCarthy and the design of the course are excellent
Easily one of the best courses I've ever taken at Harvard.  For the first time, I really felt as though I understood the importance of studying history to better understand today.  Tim is an incredible professor, and, don't get me wrong, he assigns quite a lot of reading, but I never once thought it wasn't worth it.  If you have the opportunity to take this course: TAKE IT.  You will not be sorry you did.
This course truly challenged my perceptions of slavery and race. Take it or another class with Professor McCarthy if you get the chance. Thoroughly reading sources really isn't necessary to class participation but they're good readings and you'll get a lot out of them - essentially read them because you should and because you'll want to, not because you'll have to.
This course is absolutely incredible, Tim is the best professor I've ever had and really is incredible, believe the hype!
This class is amazing!  Class discussions are engaging and thought-provoking.  Professor McCarthy is also one of the best professors I've had at Harvard and cares so much about his students.
This is, without question, the most life-changing class I have taken at Harvard. If you have the opportunity, take the class. It will challenge and change you. I have studied many works on this syllabus multiple times, but these texts still came to life and surprised me every class
Tim is an incredible class leader and scholar and really values the input of his students and encourages intellectually stimulating discussion. All the reading is so worth it!
This class is intense in the best way possible. It is important to be prepared for class but Tim generates such enthusiasm for the subject it is hard not to be excited. The class discussions were some of the most interesting discussions I have had at Harvard. This course is a must for anyone in America Hist and Lit.
This class is incredible. Professor McCarthy is one of the best professors at Harvard. I cannot recommend this class highly enough.
This is such an intellectually satisfying course.  Be prepared to bring your A game.  McCarthy is brilliant.  You should absolutely try to take this class!
This class is extremely interesting, mostly because of Professor McCarthy. He asks questions and raises issues with the texts that I never would have thought of on my own. I took something new away from every class and having people from all years created a great dynamic.
McCarthy is great, it always just depends on the group of 15 in the seminar
This is an absolutely fabulous course with rich material and a professor who is truly passionate about the subject and about interacting with students.
This is a great course and I highly recommend it to anyone interested in this subject matter. The discussions were always lively and the material was nearly always engaging.
This is a great introduction to Hist & Lit and to slave and abolitionist literature. You need to do the readings to enjoy this class, but if you do it will be a great experience. One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
The material is really interesting and Tim is great- he is super smart, funny, and encourages everyone to participate and engage with the material. It is a great class!
TAKE THIS COURSE! I'm currently a freshman and was a little worried about taking a class with so much reading and being the only freshman...in a course with hist and lit seniors and upperclassmen alike, but I'm telling you it was an EXCELLENT experience. Not only was the course incredible and manageable if you make it a priority, but you really get to experience Harvard at its best with incredible people who have been where you are. TAKE THIS COURSE. and expect to be brainwashed with the amazingness of hist and lit.
great course materials (in volume and quantity), actual seminar a bit disappointing considering rave reviews from past years.  if you enjoy classes led by fellow students, you'd like this. if you want a class led by the professor, maybe not.
This course is a wonderful exploration of a diverse selection of slave narratives that represent varied and complicated experienced with American slavery. It requires a lot of reading, but overall, it is worth the work. I think you will get a lot more out of it if you have taken history course that deal with the context for the subject matter.
If you are interested in the subject matter it is a great class.  There is not too much class time, but the reading can be overwhelming at times.
great discussion class, very interesting
This course was a great experience (introductory or not) to slavery and its history. Professor McCarthy has a deep knowledge of these topics and instills in his students the will to learn more about the incredible injustices being done both currently and throughout history.
Even if the course materials do not initially pique your interest, McCarthy's enthusiasm is contagious and you will quickly become immersed in the readings, excited to contribute to seminar. Discussion is never dull, and the views shared by your fellow students and the professor really help you better analyze the material (unlike many seminars, where the discussion doesn't progress your own thoughts much).
This class provides a wonderful introduction to the subject matter, but for in depth analysis another class might be better. Professor McCarthy is a true teacher, and makes his classroom the ideal safe space, which leads to great discussion.
The subject matter is really interesting, and so are most of the readings.  If you're interested in a strong introduction to Hist and Lit, this is a great class, especially because Prof. McCarthy is so dynamic.  Know that there is a lot of reading, but not very much written work.
Professor McCarthy is a phenomenal teacher, who truly cares about his students and the subject he teaches. Being with him in class was inspirational, both academically and as a person. If the subject material doesn't at first seem to interest you, I would recommend taking the class anyway: there couldn't be a better way to spend your semester than tracing the history of the American abolitionist movement with McCarthy as your teacher. Thank you Professor for an incredible class!
The reading is fantastic and the provocation style of learning is really engaging. Professor McCarthy is an amazing, amazing teacher; he's really passionate about what he does and always finds ways to push his students to think at a higher level. It's challenging, but very fulfilling. I highly recommend taking it! Especially if you want to get a feel for what Hist&Lit is like!
Timothy McCarthy is the most energetic person in the world. He's a fabulous teacher and he really generates enthusiasm.
This is absolutely the best choice you could make for the Colonial Lit requirement for the America field of History and Literature. Professor McCarthy will inspire you, and you will enjoy learning about a very long stretch of time in one class. The reading materials are interesting, and you will have some great and fruitful discussions.
Take this course.  Professor McCarthy is a fabulous professor, and this course enables you to think about slavery as a political, economic, and social institution.  There is a great variety of material to work with and a lot of freedom to design a final paper around a topic of one's choosing.
It's excellent.  Professor McCarthy is fantastic.
Several people who previously took this course recommended it to me with great enthusiasm, and I would definitely do the same for anyone.  This course requires a lot of close reading and relating different texts to each other, and the end product is a much greater knowledge of the experiences of slaves, the psychology behind slavery, and the ways that we still combat slavery and its effects today.  However, you can only fully unlock this knowledge if you read and participate as much as you can; none of the subject matter or knowledge is handed to you.  You will get from this course what you put into it.
Tim McCarthy is fantastic.  The course material is very interesting.
This class was amazing!  I loved coming to class each week and was so excited to talk about these books with my peers.  Even though the readings were long, I enjoyed engaging myself in such rich historical material.
A truly phenomenal class.
A lot of work, but really interesting and fun!
Tim is a truly amazing professor. The course will be very challenging but it will push you to develop your critical thinking skills, your writing and your speaking abilities. I would definitely recommend it but be warned that is a tough course and Tim expects a lot from you.
There is a lot of readings, and some weeks it was difficult to finish. But discussion and readings are worth it.
This is a rigorous and academically engaging class.  Discussion was robust, student participation was high, and Professor McCarthy skillfully facilitated and pushed us to think more critically.
This is the best class you could take to fulfill the dreaded colonial literature requirement. DO ITTTTT. Tim is an incredible Prof.
It was a good way to fulfill the colonial lit requirement for American hist and lit, and there aren't many ways to do so, but it wasn't my favorite class.
It is a lot of reading, but the class discussions are interesting and the papers topics are relevant.
This course is a great option for the American colonial history or literature requirement. The readings are great and Prof. McCarthy makes class enjoyable. He is knowledgeable and enthusiastic. You will not regret this decision.
This class requires a lot of work and dedication to the material.  However, if you put in the time for this class, you will get more out of it than perhaps any other intensive seminar and reading course at Harvard.
This course is fun, interesting, and engaging, both because of Tim's energy and the students that it tends to draw.
This class is great if needed for a requirement and if colonial/slavery studies are of interest.
IF TPM is teaching the class, RUN TO TAKE IT. if he isn't you should jog, but still take it. This was hands down my favorite class this semester and so far at Harvard (but that might not hold much, since im a freshman)
This course will open your eyes to world of slaves as seen and experienced by slaves and freed slaves.
If you enroll, definitely do the work!!! Lecture can be really boring if you haven't finished the readings.
Tim generates so much enthusiasm and heated debate about the readings which are all phenomenal. Though it takes a lot of work, you will get out of this course the time and energy you put in. It has been one of my best experiences at Harvard.
Tim is a fantastic instructor, and this class will really open your eyes to interesting aspects of slavery and history you have never learned about before.
