a seminar that i would recommend to literally everybody. fascinating readings, powerful and engaging discussions on asian migration histories, intersectional identity and the legacies of empire, and one of the most fantastic professors i have met in my time at Harvard.
Clutario is so down-to-earth and brilliant--would highly recommend taking this course if you're interested in cultural studies and understanding why the world is the way it is today from a historical vantage point.It was the first year of the course so some of the scheduling got a little hairy but in the end that was outweighed by the class discussions and great readings (that you won't find on most reading lists).
Hands-down, one of the best classes I have taken this semester. Professor Clutario is AMAZING and is basically the one who makes the class so awesome. She is always on-point and so insightful about everything discussed. Must take class if this is ever offered again. Convinced me to do History and Literature.
Seriously take any class that is being taught by Prof Clutario!!! She's real and so down for the cause it's inspiring!!
This class is amazing, and Professor Clutario is a fantastic teacher! You talk about real issues, happening both globally and on Harvard's campus, which makes the class feel really relevant. It's also a fascinating way of looking at how supposed colonial "histories" aren't just histories, but still very much affect Asian nations/immigrants and their identity formation today. I have absolutely nothing bad to say about this class, only that it was one of the best and most "real" classes I have taken at Harvard.
Professor Clutario is literally the best! She is so passionate about this area and the readings are amazing and spark great conversations.
This class was AMAZING! It was incredibly engaging and covered so many different topics in an integrative manner. Asian diasporas are not something that I knew a lot about before coming into the class, but especially since I have a tie to Asian culture, I found the material fascinating and quite personal. I really connected with what we learned and ALWAYS left class, my head spinning with all of the things we had talked about. I am so thankful to this class for teaching me about histories that don't receive enough attention in the average student's educational curriculum and for just giving me the opportunity to discuss topics of race, gender, etc... in a safe space.
