Being in a seminar with only 3 people was intense- it was very obvious when you hadn't done the reading.  But it was a very unique experience to be able to work so closely with such a brilliant professor and to get a lot of personal attention and support on writing assignments.  There is a lot of reading for this class and Erin is a fair but harsh grader so it is definitely difficult but worth it.
Not only is the class incredibly interesting, but it is obvious that the professor really cares about both the material and the success of the students.
Make sure to commit adequate time to the blog posts.
this was one of the best classes i have taken at harvard. it's quite a bit of reading, but is incredibly rewarding. discussions were rich and i enjoyed hearing what my classmates had to say. professor battat is an excellent professor and gives very productive feedback.
This was the best academic experience I have ever had. The subject matter is fascinating, engaging, and thought-provoking. Erin is a fountain of knowledge and clearly cares deeply about both topic of the class and the well-being of her students. She created a true community of learners where everyone (only five students!) contributed, worked hard, and learned from one another. I was challenged in a constructive way with regard to my writing, my close reading skills, and my boldness in my questions and class participation.
awesome class! Erin is wonderful. I have never been in such a dynamic, engaged classroom. this was a great first experience with Hist & Lit for me
I think if I had previously had some exposure to the literature from this historical time period I might have had a more knowledgable perspective to bring to the class, but no prior knowledge is t all necessary. I had some knowledge of and experience with jazz music, and I tried to bring this perspective to class when possible. My interdisciplinary approach to the class was always greeted with great enthusiasm from my professor and classmates, which was very exciting. On the flip side, I learned so much about the poetry of African American literature and culture of this time period. Visual, emotional, musical, political, and social ideas were all being rammed against each other and formed anew as migrants tried to discover who they wanted to be as individuals adjusting to new life in the North. The cultural contribution and product of this formation of new ideas is why I know I am so interested in this time period, and one of the reasons that makes jazz beautiful to me. I think all you need for this class is a strong interest in the subject matter and an excited incentive to take it! Professor Battat is amazing, you won't regret taking a class with her. She wrote a book "Ain't Got No Home" about the Great Migration period and the formation of the political left in an increasingly interracial world. I know she's been working on this book for a long time, and this class really struck at the heart of this subject matter. It was an honor to take a class where the professor is so invested and passionate about the material. I know it's rubbed off on all of us.
