This class was awesome. Angela is a great instructor who clearly cares about students and teaching. She reached out to all of us at one point to offer to talk with each of us individually about recent upheaval on college campuses if we wanted. Loved the readings, the discussions were interesting. As a Social Studies concentrator, I thought this class was a refreshing break from social science methodology, focusing more on literature and broad trends rather than "proving" anything, per se. Loved it!
the most interesting thing i took away from the class is how to read literary texts as economic ones (and vice versa). there are a lot of ways in which economic constructs and ideas adversely affect people's conceptions of life, meaning, relationships and the self. if you come in expecting a definitive primer on American capitalism and its history, you might be disappointed, but come in with an open mind and you might surprise yourself.
An interesting engagement with a great reading list. If you want a painless first look at Smith/Marx/Weber in the context of American history, this is a great way to do it (although this is really only the first part of the course). The reading load is heavy, but not unreasonable, and Professor Allan is a very thoughtful, understanding teacher (and grader).
Loved the class, but be willing to talk in class and engage!
If you are at all intrigued by the course description, and especially if you are considering concentrating in hist and lit, take the class! Be prepared to do a lot of reading and to actually work hard as you develop your arguments, but know that the payoff will be incredibly worth it!
The beginning few weeks of this class are much less engaging than the rest. As well, the class held during shopping week gives the incorrect illusion that you'll largely discuss the economy in current society. in fact, the readings are sometimes a bit pedantic re: the details of capitalism rather than how it works as a system. that said, i got a tremendous amount out of this course and it is rewarding if you're willing to put in the work
This is a great course. If you have any interest in American literature, history, or economics, you'll like this class. It's a good amount of reading, and you'll only really get anything out of it if you make the time to do the reading.
Prepare to read a lot (interesting readings), this should not be your first literature class
This class was a fun elective with a new kinds of lens with which to look at American history and culture. Angela is very enthusiastic, approachable, knowledgeable, and understanding (e.g. about paper submissions). Sometimes the class discussions were a bit boring or circular, but I think if Angela teaches the class again she'll be able to come up with some harder questions and framings to inspire better discussions. Great HL90 option!
