Hard but worth it
Sports and Empire makes one really rethink about the role of sports in society, and sheds light on how sports may not be as apolitical as they may seem. This course helped me critically analyze sports in both their historical and literary contexts, allowing me to have a better understanding of perhaps why a sport is the way that it is in certain societies and cultures today. Moreover, Daniel Loss is a fantastic professor who was extremely passionate and knowledgable about the subject matter. Previously I have never considered taking a class about sports at Harvard, but now I just want to take more!
I loved this class and it is easily the best class I've taken at Harvard. It was so much fun and interesting to see how sports play a key role in our society. The readings were easy reads due to how interesting they were and the section component of the course was engaging and fascinating. Would highly recommend for any person interested in sports. Danny is a great teacher and really cares about both the material and the students.
If you like sports and you like reading, this is the course for you. Beware that the readings are very heavy and that if you merely have a cursory interest in sports, this course is probably not for you. Danny is unbelievably knowledgeable about the topics, and brings in a few guest speakers with really interesting experiences and perspectives. It can be a great course, but only if you are passionate about sports (mainly British sports) and are willing to invest the time to do the readings.
It's exactly what you hoped it would be when you saw the title. Danny is great and the class is great. Highly recommend.
Take a hard look at who's taking the class with you. If it seems like a sizeable chunk of the class aren't going to do the readings, don't take the class. The discussions were painfully dull when I took it.
This is an amazing class! If you have the chance you should take it. Danny is a wonderful instructor. The course material is very interesting if you have any interest in the history of sports of the spread/domination of British and American cultures globally. The essays are manageable and really make you think deeply about the themes of the course.
If you like sports and are interested in their historical significance then this class if for you.
It is a fascinating class that will cause you to see both sports and empire in a new way. Danny has a relaxed and friendly demeanor and also leads discussion very effectively.
Super interesting way to study athletics in an academic context. The course focuses a lot on the English empire, but the final research paper allows you to explore basically any sports-related thing you want. A fair bit of reading/writing, but does a great job of introducing you to the History and Literature department.
This class provides an interesting perspective on sports and Professor Loss is a good guy. I would just say that there is maybe too much reading that you don't always get to discuss in class and a few smaller writing assignments in addition to the final paper, which may not be what you are looking for if you are taking this class as an elective.
Danny Loss is a great professor and person. He brought a dynamic passion to class each week and it was contagious among the students. The way Danny structured the curriculum, you really gain an even deeper appreciation for the class and for sports in general in the final few weeks, which view Sports and Empire from a more modern point of view. The class has a good mix between difficult assignments and easy-A type grades, so earning an A is neither easy nor impossible.
The class is an in-depth look at sports and its relation to imperialism and colonization with a unique focus on how sports functions as a societal institution and its effect on peoples of different cultures.
This is an unusually good course. I think courses with sexy-ish titles often end up being a bit of a drag, but for some reason (probably because the teacher is equally interested in empire and sports / isn't interested in hammering people who really take the class b/c the like sports / but also isn't going to pander entirely to that perspective / the syllabus is great) this was engaging and challenging and interesting. I came in with very little sports background (which I think, to be honest, was pretty unusual in the course - which is something to keep in mind) and was significantly more interested in the empire bit and it was still a really productive and engaging semester. Definitely recommend.
Really great class that I highly recommend to HIST-LIT concentrators with an interest in sport but also to anyone looking for an engaging elective. I looked forward to doing the readings for this class because they so well aligned with my passion for sport. Do be warned that this is not a class that you can skip readings and sit in the back, only take it if you are wiling to be engaged in it.
I really enjoyed the subject matter of this course, but be sure to review the readings extensively before enrolling to ensure that you will, too. Danny is a fantastic teacher, and be sure to take advantage of his guidance and help for additional readings based on your specific interests!
Getting to discuss pressing sports topics and the endurance of sports in the history of empires and imperialism made this the most interesting course I've taken at Harvard. The writing requirements were significant, but not overbearing, although the readings sometimes could be overbearing in terms of length. Overall, every one in the course is passionate about sports which makes for great discussions every week.
This was an amazing class!!! Take it if you love sports, but also take it if you don't.
Conversation quality comes and goes with students' interest and preparation, but as the medium  for one pursue writing about a few sport-specific interests -- with expert guidance from Danny -- it's great
