I would tell future students that this course really focuses on discussions so they need to be prepared to discuss their readings in class. Dichter does a good job of facilitating these discussions with questions but if they don't get involved then they aren't getting the full course experience.
Great class that teaches both a lot about the history of prisons and literary analysis!
This course is brilliant. Thomas constructs it very carefully and each of the texts is so informative and engaging and most of them I would not have encountered had it not been included. Each class makes you engage in very critical thought about the texts and the conversation produced is so worthwhile. I found myself incredibly engaged in the material and looking forward to doing my readings/ going to class. Thomas sets up a really friendly atmosphere and is supportive both in his classroom interactions but also in his written feedback. It strikes a good balance of workload and critical thought.
its a lot of reading but the writing assignments are easy and the grading is easy
Really interesting class, not too hard though it can be intimidating how brilliant everyone is, Thomas is very nice and a great discussion facilitator
Definitely take this course, especially if you're interested in prisons/criminal justice. This course takes you through the entire history of the American prison, and our country's national ideology regarding punishment. But that doesn't limit this course! It moves to incredibly important areas (like a fascinating week on Guantanamo). The workload is heavy -- a lot of reading and a lot of papers -- but it's definitely worth it. The readings are all fascinating and varied. The content is overall incredible. And Prof. Dichter is a compassionate and thoughtful guide through difficult and painful material.
This course was amazing. I feel like I really learned a lot about the prison system and the way our society functions. Examining the prison system also led to a lot of interesting insights about the relationships between the criminal justice system and racism and discrimination in our country. It is definitely worth the time. I personally took it as a fifth class, and therefore didn't have a ton of time to devote to the readings, but I still managed to get by just fine.
