This class is fantastic. The Civil War is so important to American history, and having a more thorough understanding of it is awesome. The books you read are great, and there's a lot of variety, which keeps things interesting. And Megan Kate Nelson is the most wonderful person ever.
Be sure to do the readings! They are, for the most part, really interesting and will help you grasp the major themes of the course. Definitely try to start your papers sooner rather than later in order to receive feedback from Professor Nelson on your thesis statement or structure.
Make sure you have time to do all the readings. It's not uncommon to have to read a 200-page book, along with 30 pages of first-hand accounts of the week's topic.
Important to have background knowledge and feel very passionately about the course material. 90% historical - 10% literary. Should be a history class.
Definitely an interesting class, and not just in the readings and discussions, but the well set up dialogue between History and Literature really makes this course stand out. It was definitely rewarding to read scholarly articles on the memory of the war, for example, and then watch Gone With the Wind and see the historian's arguments come to life those representations.As for homework, this course is definitely manageable, but prepare to do a fairly sizable amount of research for two research papers as well as an additional final paper. The workload is definitely manageable however, and Dr. Nelson is an incredibly enthusiastic professor.
An amazing class!  Colonel Nelson is such an awesome and knowledgeable professor.  The readings are always interesting (although there are a lot of them) and they always tie in wonderfully to the topic to be discussed in class.  I could not recommend this class more highly!
First of all, Megan is an outstanding instructor and a wonderful person. She is incredibly intelligent and asks tough questions during class--so come prepared with all of your reading done! Her comments on papers are very helpful and she is always available over email or in person to discuss anything. This class overall gives students a great understanding of the Civil War through a variety of primary and secondary sources as well as primary and contemporary literature. It allows students to be creative with the final project as well. I highly recommend this class to anyone with an interest in American history, Civil War history, or American literature.
This class is super great. If you've never thought about or studied the Civil War before, it is not something you should pass over. This is arguably the most important single event in our nation's history. It is also so relevant to today as well. This war changed what it meant to be an American and we should study it in knowing who we are. Dr. Nelson is great--enthusiastic, supportive and kind. It wasn't an easy class by far, but I also didn't put enough time into it. If you commit to it, you'll learn so much and teh readings will make it enjoyable. The readings are great, discussion could go on forever, adn Dr. Nelson is the best. Take the class!!!
This was a great course!  It delved deeply into many aspects of the war (literary, civilian, psychological, the way we remember it, etc.) without sacrificing the importance of military history.  Dr. Nelson is really fun and has great taste in the readings she selected, which were both entertaining and informative.  If you have always wanted to go research in Houghton but have never had the excuse, now's your chance.  We did a ton of work with primary sources, which were awesome.  You also get to watch two excellent movies--Cold Mountain and Gone With the Wind.  Dr. Nelson is also really helpful with the papers and is happy to give a lot of feedback throughout the process.
Unless you are a Civil War enthusiast, this class is avoidable. It has very interesting material but many of the students attracted to it are already well versed in the subject so its important to be particularly vigilant about the readings if you are a beginner in Civil War history.
If you're interested in the Civil War, this class is a blast. A great way to read and write about it, as well as learn about how historians do research.
This class probably falls more heavily on the "history" side of HisLit. One of its greatest strengths is its extensive use of Houghton Library-- all of the assignments center around interpretation of Houghton primary sources. I was in there so often that I started carrying quarters around in my bag for the lockers!
This course is not easy, but it's really interesting and well-taught.  If you want to move beyond your fifth grade history/AP US understanding of the American Civil War, this class is the one for you.  It makes you think about American history in general and about morality, war, and politics in new ways.
Dr. Nelson is great -- she's so knowledgeable and very enthusiastic about the subject. I really recommend this course!
