You will have so much fun in this class! You'll get to read great books and (hopefully) have really interesting discussions with your classmates (the small class size helps to create a cohesive atmosphere).
The heart of this course is not so much why Britain and France had different trajectories in the nineteenth century, but how. With wide-ranging primary sources, this class is an excellent foundation for anyone interested in nineteenth-century history and/or literature--especially beyond the confines of Britain or France themselves. Also an excellent taste of the History and Literature field of study. Oh, and you get to watch Les Miserables (2012) for "homework".
Even as someone who is not planning on concentrating in Hist and Lit, I really enjoyed this class. The readings are awesome, and Mo makes every class both intellectually rewarding and fun.
This is a good way to decide whether or not you would enjoy history and literature. However, you need to make sure that you are interested in the subject matter.
professor is a very hard grader
This was definitely my favorite course this semester. There will be a lot of reading but it's not too difficult and it is definitely doable if you manage your time. Without a doubt, take this class, Mo is an amazing professor and will facilitate such enlightening discussions.
Unless you really love Britain and France, you will find this class boring.
This course was fantastic!!!  The readings are fantastic, the discussions are wonderful, and Mo is amazing.  I never knew that the 19th century was so interesting!
This is a great introduction to history and literature, and just a really fun course in general. Would highly recommend!
A fascinating look at a fascinating piece of history through fascinating sources. The class is well-organized, intellectually stimulating, and had a great atmosphere of learning for learning's sake. ALSO, Mo is a fantastic professor. Even if you can't take this class, you should make sure to take another class with her.
If you're interesting in either the history or literature of France or England at this time, take this course.  If you're particularly interested in the intersection of history AND literature, sometimes the class deviates from this goal, but overall Mo is incredibly knowledgable about this subject, and is a great facilitator of conversation.  At the end of the day though, because the class is run in a discussion format, your experience is dependent on the other members of your seminar, so make sure you can stand sitting in a room listening to your peers ramble on and on for hours before taking this class.
