This is the epitome of a "Harvard" course. We discussed the material in an incredibly thoughtful way, challenged each other in our preconceived notions, and dealt with the subject in a respectful way as Steve always made us acutely aware of the harsh truths that were behind every piece of literature we discussed. This is an excellent course for anyone interested in literary analysis (since it is much more of a literature course than a history course), and especially interesting for people who are interested in film or other mediums.
Definitely reading/movie heavy but it's a great class and Steve is great at facilitating discussion.
Hands down the best course I have taken at Harvard. The readings and films are all considered "the best" of the Vietnam War, and finished the course proud of all I read and watched. It is a lot of work, for sure, but very rewarding, and truthfully not so bad to spend a few hours a week watching an Academy Award Winning movie. Section was great, and the two hours usually flew by with great discussion.
This was best course I have taken at Harvard. In it, you will address not only key details of how the war unfolded, but also important cultural questions. Integrating documentaries, memoirs, fictional novels, and films, this class will allow you to understand the war not only as an international conflict but also as an American cultural phenomenon. Take this class!
There will be a LOT of reading, but the knowledge gained is very much worth the effort.
This is how classes should be. They should teach you and encourage discussion. This class makes the GenEd system look like a joke because it demonstrates how you can take something that's but necessarily in your concentration and make it interesting, challenging, and worthwhile.
I would definitely recommend this class especially if you are considering Hist/Lit. Steve is a good person to know and is so open to talking about not only his class but your future plans. He genuinely wants to get to know his students so try to get to know him! The vast majority of materials are interesting and the class discussions are interesting. It's definitely one of those classes where you realize just how much you've learned when you go back to review for the final and see all the connections between the vast amount of materials you've read. Don't skimp on the assignments! It hurts you and the rest of the class since you won't be able to participate.
This class is amazing.  Steve is one of the best professors you could ever have--an amazing teacher and person.  You can tell he really cares about each of his students, and wants them to grow as learners.  Beyond that, he is really invested in what students think about not just the class material but also life--specifically life at Harvard--which is extremely refreshing.  The material in this class is amazing, and I looked forward to going to class every week.
If you are lucky enough to get into this course (or if Steve chooses to offer it again), I'd recommend you take it. A wonderful entry into the study of the Vietnam War. The syllabus is filled with phenomenal novels, provoking documentaries, and fun movies. I left the course with a tremendous amount of knowledge on the subject. On top of all of that, Steve's fabulous.
This is BY FAR the best discussion class I have taken at Harvard. I constantly felt like the dumbest person in the class, in the best way possible. I learned SO much from my peers, and our discussions were open and supportive, allowing me to feel comfortable sharing my own thoughts. It was truly an amazing experience and convinced me that History and Literature was the concentration for me.
Take this class. It will be one of the best classes you'll take at Harvard. No matter what your concentration, I think it is such a critically important subject matter that often gets kind of glossed over. Taking the time to explore the many ways in which the Vietnam War has affected this country, the world, etc. and the incredible ways in which the experience has been portrayed and expressed through film and text and autobiography... You don't want to miss out. Steve is also just awesome. Discussions are really fascinating - there's never a dull moment - while at the same time really easy-going. He gave me great feedback on my writing, and I loved getting a taste of the Hist & Lit department. Amazing - take it!
If you are interested in American History and Literature in the twentieth century, you should take this course.  But you should probably try to get into it if you are at all interested in being a Hist and Lit concentrator, because Steve and Jeanne are actually amazing.  They facilitate great discussions; actually argue with each other in class (they do not overpower student voices, but they do provide an example of how scholars debate various issues); and give such thorough, helpful, and prompt feedback on the writing assignments.  They are super to talk to during office hours, and can provide invaluable guidance about the course or about the Hist and Lit concentration.  Jeanne is the current director of studies in H&L, and Steve was her predecessor, so they both know the methods of Hist and Lit inside and out.  And finally, not only are they seasoned Hist and Lit scholars, but they are also interested in getting to know their students and their students's interests.  Amazingly, they will know everyone's name by the time you walk in the door for the class meeting immediately following the shopping week introduction.
This class is phenomenal--if you're interested in the Vietnam War or testing out Hist and Lit as a possible concentration, it's hard to imagine a better way of doing so. But don't try to take it with other heavy reading courses--300-600 pages of reading plus a movie each week just for this class, so putting too much more on top of it can start to get really exhausting.
This course is really interesting because it focuses on a period in American history that is largely glossed over in many survey history courses. We had incredibly charged and significant discussions about events in the past that can be seen as repeating now.
Jeanne and Steve are the perfect teaching pair; they care so much about their students and facilitate discussion so well.  This class is a lot of work and it's impossible to do well without keeping on top of readings and movies, but it's so worth it.  Not for the faint of heart.
It is a fantastic course to take whether or not you are interested in becoming a HIst and Lit major. Jeanne and Steve are some of the most approachable and nicest teacher I have had while at Harvard and the subject matter of this course is great. Although it is a lot of reading each week and the writing assignments are hard, it is worth all the effort!
Take it. Do it. Yes. Great class.
The course is excellently taught and organized, TAKE IT!
EXCELLENT. EXCELLENT. It is hard work (a movie and a good chunk of reading a week), but the discussions are superb. Jeanne and Steve are probably two of the best professors I've ever had. Take it if you are even moderately interested in the subject - everything is so engaging that you will soon be very interested!
If you're at all interested in the Vietnam War, take this course. You will be taken through its history, both cultural and political, by two of the best scholars at Harvard.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Jeanne and Steve are amazing (especially Steve). The are willing to help with everything. The sources are really intersting and the discussions are lively. The papers are a significant amount of work but Jeanne and Steve will help you with them. Honestly, if you are even considering being a Hist and Lit major take this class. I did, and now I am Hist and Lit.
This class is awesome. Jeanne and Steve are great, as are the readings, films, and class discussions. We even talked with a local Vietnam veteran and Oscar-winning director Peter Davis. You should take this class.
It is fascinating and incredibly well taught.
Great professors, great readings and great films made for a great time in a challenging class.
This course is a wonderful way to study an incredibly pivotal event in American history.  The texts are engaging and provide you with a variety of viewpoints concerning the war.  The professors are wonderful--always willing to provide advice or even just talk. I would recommend this to anyone even remotely interested in Hist and Lit.
I thoroughly loved this course. Steve and Jeanne are fabulous, and the class atmosphere they create is challenging and fun. This course's discussion and materials force you to look at an ugly and complicated chapter of American history. I found myself unsettled, disturbed, saddened, angered, and reassured over and over, a sign of a great class. Laughed a lot every week, got to know my classmates and teachers well, emerged with a really deep understanding. A lot of reading, but really worthwhile course. I will miss it.
An excellent study of the Vietnam War if you keep up with the readings and come to discussions prepared.
Take it! Wonderful teachers, wonderful readings, and great films...this class has it all!
Steve and Jeanne are fabulous instructors and they are clearly very passionate about the subject, so getting to take a class with them is a joy. They direct discussion well and the assignments they devise are both fun and interesting.  The class feels low-stress despite a fairly heavy syllabus and since it deals with a very recent time period, the topics discussed from week to week seem relevant.  The class is good for getting a taste of what Hist&Lit is like, but if you're looking for a class that will teach you concrete facts about the Vietnam War this is probably not the class for you --the learning is much more interpretive and literary than one would expect of a course that claims to be half history.
Steve and Jeanne are the two professors I've had at Harvard. They're always accessible, and they genuinely care about engaging with the students both inside and outside of class. I would take anything else they taught in a heartbeat.
This is a really enjoyable interesting class that I would recommend for anyone considering History and Literature. Steve and Jeanne are very accessible outside of class and facilitate great discussions.
This is an extremely fascinating and interesting class. Jean and Steve make a great team and do a wonderful job of choosing interesting texts and stimulating discussion about them. Be prepared to do the reading: there's a fair amount, but it's really worth it. Coming to a seminar unprepared is never fun, and participating is hard if you haven't done the reading. This class does require a lot of work, but the payoff is more than worth it. You learn a ton and read some great stuff and watch some amazing movies.
Take this course!!! Steve and Jeanne are the best professors, the course is incredibly interesting, and provides a multi-perspective understanding of a war that it's really important to understand.
