Steven and Lauren are AWESOME take this class just to talk to them.
Really awesome hist and lit seminar both for concentrators and perspective students.  Material is engaging and class discussions with Lauren and Steve are fun. Not much writing for a reading heavy class.
This is a fantastic class. You are not going to find better professors for an HL 90 and the syllabus is fantastic. It is a heavy workload, and it is therefore important that you are really interested in World War I, as you are going to be reading a lot about it.
Comprehensive introduction to WWI, definitely worth taking for the excellent literature and amazing class discussions.
These are the kindest teachers you will ever encounter... They are insanely nice and fun and cool. ON top of that, they are insanely smart. Take a class with them if you can. Tons of reading.. and some of it is repetitive and not canonical. Not a criticism at all... I think the syllabus is kind of perfect. Just something people should know before they take the class. Be prepared to read some sub-part WWI trench stuff along side superb WWI trench stuff. If you're prepared for that, you'll love it. Probably nothing specific needed in way of preparation. But keep in mind (if youre a non-concentrator especially), that the majority of people in the course were Hist/Lit concentrators or potential concentrators.
The most wonderful HL90 imaginable! Steve and Lauren are both pros at facilitating discussion, and their styles complement each other very well. The readings are fascinating and diverse. I looked forward to this class as much as I have to any other class I've taken at Harvard. A true gem.
If you are interested in World War I or the History and Literature discipline, take this class.  Lauren and Steve are both wonderful people and professors; incredibly knowledgeable, nurturing and just all around great.  The syllabus covers a lot of lesser known aspects of the Great War (Eastern Front, American experience, etc).  The weekly reading load is quite heavy (a book, chapter reading, documentary), but definitely read the books, they're very well selected.  Two papers and an exam.
This fascinating course allowed me to study World War One from a variety of perspectives (e.g., from the viewpoints of people from different countries, of different genders, from different class backgrounds). In addition, I enjoyed the opportunity to write a final research paper on a topic which I chose, love, and hope to pursue in future courses.
This class is interesting if you are interested in world war I, but it wasn't quite what I expected. It felt like it was too focused on history, and because of its heavy focus on soldier memoirs (which didn't vary much), it seemed a little repetitive in that the conclusion always seemed to be the inhumanity of war. I felt like there was room to explore this inhumanity in more complex ways, but I didn't feel like we got to do that in the class. The class was discussion based, but at times it felt like the class was going in circles.That said, Steven and Lauren are excellent, very supportive, laid back and enthusiastic about their students and what they have to say.
This class is absolutely fantastic. The readings are, for the most part, really interesting, and Steve and Lauren are awesome professors - so engaging and interesting, and really fun too. I came into the class knowing that I probably wasn't going to concentrate in Hist and Lit, but every day I walked out of class considering concentrating anyway just because the class was so awesome and it's a great introduction to the concentration. Take it!
Steve and Lauren are great! Also the materials are great and discussions engaging as a result. Really good HL90 if you think you might be interested in Hist and Lit.
