This is an excellent course with a very impressive and engaging syllabus. Class discussion is engaging, if a bit slow-moving at times, and you will definitely come away with a new understanding of not only Chile and Argentina specifically, but of dictatorships and memory politics more broadly.
Very interesting material, well taught.
Take this class! I couldn't recommend it more highly. It is a really important and fascinating study of events in history that aren't talked about enough. The beauty of this class is that it reminds you of the very real and very important relationship between human experiences and suffering and the academic work we do in college.
Understand that Hist-Lit is more lit focused.
Take this class. Anna is an amazing instructor, and you will learn a ton.
This is a course based almost entirely in literature, and mostly abstract poetry. If you want to learn what happened in Chile and Argentina, you're most likely going to have to do readings outside of class. That said the readings can be thought provoking, but can also be so avante-garde as to be inaccessible.
Anna Deeny is one of the most caring, understanding, and invested professors you will meet here at Harvard. She has the right priorities and places student learning and understanding above everything. She makes serious attempts to get to know each student personally and searches out how each students personal context affects their reading. She helped me through a personal dilemma without batting an eye and has always put an intense amount of investment into student work.
Anna is very flexible and relaxed, a great person overall and so fun to work with. The class isn't especially rigorous and some of the texts are barely covered in class (which is kind of frustrating given how difficult some of them are to get through). I think our group was especially tough because we were so large, yet the class was still run like a seminar. Discussions didn't flow naturally and Anna did a pretty good job of making sequences of ideas go somewhere, relatively productively to a point. There is quite a bit of poetry, so I'd suggest that students just examine the syllabus carefully and look into some of the materials to judge whether or not they'd be interested in this type of material (some of it is pretty avant-garde and out there). Class itself is enjoyable and low-key (Anna often brought snacks!), but was a bit frustrating in terms of covering the material in a satisfying way.
This class is consistently engaging and Anna is wonderful.
This is a fascinating course but it is entirely made so by students willingness to participate. It's essentially a discussion among students with Anna asking the occasional question to guide it so be prepared to do all the readings and participate.
Do the readings. They make the class meaningful
Anna's a great teacher, it's a great class. No regrets.
This class was easily the best class I've taken at Harvard. The material is difficult and the topic is incredibly challenging, but you learn to read differently and you learn to analyze in a way that isn't always taught in college.
This class is offers an interesting persepctive on the dictatorships of argentina and chile, through the lens of literature. The readings are all different forms and in general very good. a worthwhile seminar for those interested in latin america; it especially helps to have background in the southern cone and some knowledge of spanish.
This is a fantastic course! Anna is a wonderful teacher, and as the translator of many of the works that we read, she has unique insights into these works and on topics of language and translation generally. This course contains a great mix of history, film, documentary, prose, and poetry - I really gained a well-rounded understanding of a fascinating era in Argentine and Chilean history, and very much enjoyed class discussions.
This class is an incredible opportunity to read amazing materials with an incredible professor.  I can't recommend this course enough!
Anna is a wonderful instructor who is kind, encouraging, enthusiastic, and intelligent. The class is interesting, but grim. Not fun reading.
This class was great!  Professor Deeny puts in a lot of effort to make the class enjoyable and her really cares about the students and the material.
Anna is a goddess. She's just great. Take the course, go to her office hours, interact with her a ton, do all the reading, and come to class prepared. There will probably be grapes, and it will be awesome.
While this is a history and literature class, Anna definitely leans towards the literary side, and assigns a lot of avant garde material.  Check the syllabus to make sure you will be interested in the readings.  I would definitely recommend Anna as a professor -- she is one of the kindest and most accessible people I've had the fortune of working with at Harvard.  Ask her to the faculty dinner!
This class was shockingly informative about the events that occurred in Chile and Argentina. I was unaware of all the torture and dictatorships that took place. Reading about it from literally and historical points of views was an exciting way to learn,
Anna Deeny is one of the best professors you'll have the joy of interacting with during your time at Harvard. Don't miss out! Interested in learning more about Latin America (and yourself indirectly)? TAKE THIS CLASS.
Take it if you love literature and are interested in Latin America.
