This is a great class, but staying on top of your readings and your assignments is crucial. Tamara is a brilliant and tough, but don't be afraid to ask for help.
Professor Griggs is a challenging instructor, but she provides support to her students to help them succeed with their academic writing. When she lectures, giving the readings historical context (as with her Enlightenment lectures, or lecture on Crusoe), her knowledge is extremely illuminating. In general, she is a dedicated teacher, and I enjoyed the class for that reason.
You better like History and Literature if you plan on taking this course. As a sophomore already pretty set on concentrating in Hist and Lit, I tried not to let the deep, 'sophisticated', long discussions by the juniors and senior thesists intimidate me, but participation in this course can be quite intense. But Tamara is amazing - she clearly knows so much about this topic, (as Early Modern Europe is definitely her thing), but watch out - no BS statements will fly here. If you're not making sense in your discussion, she'll call you on it and make you clarify, dig deeper, explain exactly what you mean or ask you further questions. Really makes you think twice about talking just to hear yourself speak. Her feedback on papers can likewise be intense - but it will make you a better writer than you ever could have imagined. I became so conscious of specific mistakes or weakness in my essays that I now think twice about in whatever I write. I wish I had met with her more often, as while she won't provide an argument or thesis FOR you, she will push you and provide you more information to make sure you're actually forming a sophisticated, legitimate thesis and correctly analyzing primary sources. In general, the students were friendly and the occasional moments of laughter make it all worth it. Hist and Lit is tough! Get used to it, and you'll love it.
This course has more of a European focus than an American one, even though the title says that it is about America. If you are not a fan of European history, I would probably take a different course (especially if this is for an America requirement).
If you're very interested in the subject of Native Americans and early modern Europe, this is a class with very interesting material. You get to read a lot of cool stuff, and especially in the beginning of the class when everything is new, the material is especially interesting. After a while, the discussions began to feel repetitive and not that engaging, though, and some of the assignments felt fairly tedious.
This course has a very interesting reading list, but ultimately the discussions were lacking. The assignments were good, but pretty limited in terms of what you can write about.
It's interesting, though sometimes the themes of the course seem repetitive and limiting.
This class is a great chance to hone discussion and writing skills. I really enjoyed the diversity of the sources that we read, through drawing connections between sources can sometimes be difficult because the difference in experience is so vast.
