Take it! Hist and lit rocks, and for me this was a great introduction to hist and lit techniques for reading and thinking and writing. The readings for each week were usually great.
Juliet is an absolute pleasure to work with. She's passionate about her work and dedicated to her students. The material is well chosen and organized. I'd recommend it!
This is a very well-run and carefully designed HL90 that I felt really demonstrated the benefits of examining the past through both a historical and literary lens.
Really well-taught and pretty interesting exploration of an historical era I'd always found interesting.
Great class, well structured, good material, enlightening discussion
I have already recommended it with enthusiasm
Take it!!!
Juliet is one of the best teachers I have ever had and the course material is fantastic and really gives you a deep understanding of an integral time in modern European history. Take it!
Juliet is a spectacular teacher. Her comments on your essays will be some of the most thoughtful and constructive you will ever receive (or at least, that was my experience!). The materials you read and watch are fascinating, and the papers are engaging. Juliet is always available to discuss papers and topics with you, and the fact that we had more than the maximum 15 students allowed in the class is a testmanet to the quality of Juliet's teaching and to the materials on which we focused. I highly recommend this seminar!
I thought this was a really well-designed class.  The selection of material was really thoughtful and made a very coherent course.  But I also learned a lot about a period of history that I didn't know much about. The topic of memory is also really interesting and relevant to all studies of history, whether European or not.  Juliet does a fantastic job facilitating discussion -- she's incredibly knowledgeable about the topic, so she can offer insight when needed, but generally she lets the students direct the course of the discussion.
I loved this class. The reading was heavy at times, but every source was interesting and full of material to discuss. The writing assignments weren't too difficult (although they weren't easy), and they were very open in terms of topic, so we could always pick a thesis of particular interest to us. I didn't enter this class as a Hist & Lit concentrator, but I left it considering Hist & Lit as a concentration. I highly recommend the course.
This is a great class because the materials promote great discussions in class.
This was one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard.  Take it!
Do the reading
Make sure to do all the reading so that you can be prepared to talk because it is a small group. Also, have fun with the essays, since they are so open ended.
