This class was a joy to take. The small class size allows for a great deal of participation and engagement with the topics of the week. I loved watching all the films over the course and studying decades of our history that I had never learnt about before. I now have such appreciation for the Cold War and have much to take away about that period in not just American history, but world history.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Examining films as both pieces of history and of art contributed greatly to my understanding of the Cold War era. Paul is an incredible teacher and facilitator. I 100% recommend taking this class, regardless of your concentration, year, or experience with film or history. This is an awesome class.
Do yourself a favor and take this course. Whether you take it as an elective or for Hist and Lit credit, HL 90BY covers diverse, interesting, and important material; from watching powerful and engaging movies (some classics, some obscure gems) to reading primary sources (often declassified CIA documents, the kind you see in spy flicks) to discussing everything in a small seminar format, the experience could not have been better. The cherry on top is Professor Adler (or Paul, as he likes to be called), whose commitment to the students - marked by deadline flexibility, openness about course feedback, and availability in office hours - is matched only by his infectious enthusiasm for his subject matter; he makes the class environment fun, informative, and conducive to discussion. Even if I dont end up as a Hist and Lit concentrator, I will never regret taking HL 90BY.
This course is a great chance to watch a lot of amazing movies and also get a lot out of watching them because the reading is very helpful. The workload for this course is very fair and the movie screenings are fun. Unfortunately, the discussions were not always on the caliber I would have expected.
This is a great course. The movies are really engaging, and you'll learn a lot about both the history and how to analyze a movie. The workload is not too intense. If you love watching movies and talking about them, this is the course for you.
This is an incredible course that covers some of the most important films from the Cold War. Both from an American perspective and an international one, I felt I learned a lot about the time period and the far reaching, truly global effects of the Cold War. Always worth it to go to the movie screenings, far better than watching them alone, and class discussions flew by and never were dull. The final paper, if you put the time into it and have an interesting movie/topic, is a great way the course gets tied together. And Paul is awesome, always there to help you.
