This is a very strong HL90 seminar. The literature is engaging and interesting, and Dr. Brady is an excellent teacher who is committed to ensuring that her students improve. She facilitates in class discussion really well and has an articulate way of phrasing complicated concepts that make them seem much more clear. Be aware, however, that the workload in this class is exceedingly heavy. There are between 150 - 300 pages of reading a week, in addition to five total writing assignments. Grading is also very tough, and good written assignments require somewhere between 5 - 15 hours of work.
Take any class offered by Jenni Brady. She is absolutely dynamite. Best advisor, teacher, critic I have had at Harvard.
Even if this course doesn't fall squarely within your area of interest, Jenni renders material interesting and relevant.
Jenni's course was a fantastic HL90 course to fulfill the colonial literature requirements. Jenni is a marvelous teacher who is incredibly smart and passionate about the subject matter. She provides great feedback on papers that encourages us to think more critically and analytically about the course material. I feel really lucky to have had the opportunity to learn from her!
This class will improve you as a reader and as a writer; Jenni will ask a lot of you and get you there. She represents and creates the best of Hist&Lit: rigorous reading and writing, very personalized attention, and lively discussion.
Though it is reading heavy, and you will have writing to do every week as well, a really interesting and broad span of issues is covered in the seminar. We discussed everything from early American publishing to female reading to Native American literacy and urban studies in-depth, which was really refreshing.
This is a challenging HL90. The readings are diverse and interesting, and of course the discussion depends on the people in the class. But you should take this seminar because Jenni Brady is an absolutely incredible instructor. She will push you to write, think, and speak more effectively. She is always available to talk about ideas for your next paper or your thoughts on the week's readings, and you'll leave meetings with Jenni with the feeling that a professor genuinely cares about you and your intellectualism. That's a rare thing here. People like Jenni Brady are few and far between, and if you get the chance to take a class with a tutor as extraordinary as her, you should absolutely take it.
This is a great course to take if you're looking to have discussions with a lot of fellow Hist and Lit'ers.I found the discussion very stimulating and Jenni's knowledge of the time periods we discussed was very impressive.
You really will leave this class with a heightened awareness of how much meaning we assign as a culture to literacy / reading / certain kinds of reading and how those meanings shift over time. You will read some really interesting texts you otherwise are unlikely to have exposure to (e.g. letters written by Native Americans during colonial period, first American play, etc.)
this class will totally change your idea about what it means to read. Jenni is such a sweetie and a really fantastic lecturer and feedback-giver. She has constructed an ingenious syllabus full of really fascinating stuff with also really interesting assignments. Highly recommend.
Although a colonial literature course can seem boring or daunting, this class is actually relatable and insightful in many ways and engages with themes that extend beyond the colonial period. The primary sources can sometimes be hard to get through, but the secondary readings are really interesting. The assignments are flexible, definitely doable, and if you're interested in the material (and you probably will be, surprisingly) fun to write. Most of all, Jenni Brady is a great seminar leader who really helped bring some of these texts to life. I'd definitely recommend this class, especially if you're thinking Hist & Lit or trying to fulfill the colonial lit requirement for Hist & Lit.
This is a great class if you are ready to spend the time and get the most out of it. The instructor was great at guiding discussions and helping students develop writing. The assignments were manageable but still significant work.
Be prepared to do a lot of writing.  Also be prepared to become fascinated by topics that you might have otherwise thought of as banal or uninteresting.
The best HistLit course I've taken. Perhaps my favorite Harvard course. Jenni is intelligent, understanding, and demanding; the course themes are extremely relevant to understanding humanities in the context of early American History; and the assignments are both engaging and manageable given a typical Harvard course load. I recommend this course with enthusiasm.
I thoroughly enjoyed "We the Readers": from its engaging and varied syllabus to the thought-provoking assignments and to the stimulating course discussion fostered by course instructor, Jenni Brady.
This is a fantastic course! Jenni is so great at facilitating discussion and gives fantastic feedback on assignments. The course readings are so interesting. I would make sure to check out the syllabus, though, to make sure that you are interested. This course is less about literacy in an education context and more about how literacy functions with abolitionism and other specific contexts.
Amazing class. Professor Brady is an excellent teacher. Seminar is always engaging and you come out of it feeling like you've learned a lot. The readings are always interesting, and explore aspects of the cultural/historical/etc meaning of reading that you may not have before. The assignments are both reasonable and interesting, and prepare you well for the final project. Highly recommend taking this class, it's amazing!
