Based on the premise of the course, I expected the in-class discussions to be a lot more interesting. The readings varied from vaguely interesting to really cool, and the final paper and conference made the class worth it - just don't expect class discussions to be insightful.
One of the best Hist and Lit 90 seminars the College has to offer - sadly, it's offered only every other year. If you are considering Hist and Lit and the Medieval or Early Modern Europe field, you should not be allowed to graduate without having taken this course. Sean Gilsdorf is a medieval history celebrity in the Hist and Lit department, and a true character. He's a big personality, but don't let that scare you or weird you out - he is engaging, funny, personable, extremely knowledgeable, and will push you to support your claims constantly in class. He doesn't let BS opinions or wild claims fly - make sure you've done the reading if you're going to participate in class! - but he actively engages with you to make for a better, more worthwhile discussion all around. The readings are long (it's a Hist and Lit seminar, after all) but mostly worth it. The final conference at the end of the semester is also an awesome way to share your ideas to the rest of the class and present on a topic you've researched and are hopefully passionate about.
Truly a gem of a course. Sean is an awesome professor, and you'll be endlessly fascinated by the absolutely ridiculous/awe-inspiring medieval women discussed in the course. No knowledge, or particular interest, in medieval studies required. Totally reasonable amount of work, and the class discussion is always lively. Relevant to discussions on modern women in power and general religious studies. Can't stress how engaging and interesting this course is.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time and work on your final paper. Make sure you make it a good product. The seminar is worthy of your hard work. Also, I'd like to see more male students take the seminar in the future.
This class is certainly a valuable learning experience; writing a conference paper taught me a lot about academic writing in general, and the subject matter is a fascinating lens with which to explore the Middle Ages. It is not a very difficult class, though the conference paper does require quite a bit of research. Professor Gilsdorf's informal but academically rigorous style of teaching makes the class very enjoyable; at times, he isn't very accessible by email, but when you manage to contact him, he can be very helpful. If you are good at working with limited guidance on academic papers, you will not find the conference paper difficult, but otherwise, it may be tough; on the other hand, the fact that you have free rein to do anything you like with the paper ensures that you can really explore very fascinating topics. Overall, this is an interesting course that is a great way to deepen your knowledge of the Middle Ages.
Only take this class if you are interested in the material. The seminar can be painful if no one talks. There is little preparation for the final paper, and virtually no feedback from the professor.
tells you so much abt medieval history as a whole
If you are interested in Medieval Europe, gender issues, and theories about power, this would be a great class to take.  Sometimes the readings were a bit bulky but they were interesting, so manageable.  The discussions are very theoretical, so if you don't like theory this class might be harder. The conference at the end where everyone presents their term paper was really interesting and a nice way to finish off the semester.
