The topic of liberty is definitely interesting, but this course's structure seemed a little all over the place, so be careful! Other than that, Miron and Nelson are fantastic lecturers.
I was really worried about taking an ethical reasoning course, due to the fact that I have extremely limited interest in philosophy. That in mind, this class was great! I really enjoyed the topics and reading that we discussed in lectures and section, and the material was extremely well taught. I would definitely recommend this course to anyone who is reluctant to take an ER class.
WAY TOO MUCH READING. It was a new course this semester and it was just unmanageable. The lectures were also pretty frantic because there was so much information that the professors needed to get out. I wouldn't take it unless they really narrowed the scope of what was being taught.
This was a very well taught course that covered a lot of important material in intellectual history and applied it to political controversies today (like drug legalization, taxes, and the HHS mandate). The instructors have balanced the workload (it's not too bad at all), and the material is very interesting. I definitely recommend this course!
In theory this class could be fantastic, but it is not. It is not truly interdisciplinary, as 80 percent of lectures were done by Hankins. This class should be marketed as a political thought or political theory class and not as an interdisciplinary exploration of liberty. The texts are all focused on political theory, and while the last 2 lectures apply this theory to economics and modern issues, it is not the focus of the class. You are better off taking Justice than Liberty, unless you are looking for a political philosophy course that is extremely difficult.
Pretty good course. The readings and sections are rewarding, though lectures can sometimes be rather boring. But all in all, not a bad way to fulfill the ER requirement.
This is a course you need to take before you graduate. The material covered (mostly by famous philosophers) will knock plenty off your to-read-before-I-die list. The lectures are spellbinding but dense. The faculty of this course are awesome at their jobs and really know the material. It will challenge your views on liberty, politics, and human nature. You will understand contrary notions of freedom. Immense intellectual gratification. Positively recommend to everyone passing through Harvard.
This was the first year the course was offered and is likely to undergo many structural changes next year.
Liberty is a solid ethical reasoning course. The material is like any other ethical reasoning (Plato, Aristotle, Mill, Locke, Smith, etc) and the topics are interesting. Lectures can be a bit dry, but the professors are all the best in their field. Assignments/work load was reasonable, hopefully the course will be a bit more cohesive and engaging in the future (this was the first year). If you are a gov concentrator in need of an ER and political philosophy, this is definitely a good choice!
If you want to take a class on libertarianism with Professor Miron, take Ec 1017, NOT this class. If you want to take a class on the history of philosophy with Professor Hankins, take this class. Do not be fooled by the "justice"-esque title. This is not that kind of course. Would not recommend.
take it!
Eric Nelson is an amazing lecturer. Hankins is good, but not as good. DEFINITELY go to Nelson's lectures. Not only does he look like Joseph Gordon-Levitt, but he's also a fantastic and interesting speaker.
The concept of liberty is explained through the views of a variety of thinkers, which deepens one's understanding of Western political and intellectual history.
This course provides an in depth overview of what liberty is.
A new course that went through its growing pains this year. Once they cut down on the number of readings and improve the section component (as they did towards the end), this is an interesting sort of political philosophy class about the development of the idea of liberty that will get you thinking.
Solid overview of social theory.  Good political theory class for Gov concentrators!
This course will immerse you in a lot of fascinating material-- it will make you think about your own conceptions of liberty through ethics, politics, and philosophy.  Be open to learning from the opinions of your fellow classmates and TF, come to sections with the readings prepared, and you will come away with a really engaging and rewarding academic experience.
Interesting readings, a little more intensive than some other Gen Eds with 3 papers and a final and you pretty much have to do the readings. But if you have interest in the material, you can actually get some interesting political, historical and philosophical ideas out of it, which is more than a lot of other ER classes can say
It was a good class. There were some details that needed improvement, but since it was the first year that was to be expected. It should be a great course next year, particularly for someone interested in gov or history.
Very good class with reasonable workload and relatively stress-less essays. This might have been because it was the first year of the class, and may change in the future.
The class is fair all around and a must for those with an interest in "liberty" broadly defined in the Western tradition. It challenges most of your preconceptions ethically and morally and features a bunch of good reading. Though Prof. Hankins lectured most of the time this term, it should get better over the years.
Overall, I felt like this course gave us a very intriguing and well thought out introduction to liberty. I feel like I learned a great deal both in section and in lecture. The readings were helpful and thought provoking, though I feel that sometimes, there was too much information and the main point the professors were trying to get across got lost or was hard to easily pick up in the readings.
Focus on important readings, and maintain a study guide.
Liberty covers a lot of your basic ethical reasoning gen-ed material (Locke, Hobbes, Rousseau, Marx, etc.), but it pulled it all together in a coherent narrative of the theories of what it means to be free throughout history. I found everything very relevant and helpful in daily life. I was initially wary of the ethical reasoning gen-ed requirement but would highly recommend this course.
Fair
It's fine if you want to take as Gen Ed, but ir wouldn't be my first ER choice. However, that was just because I didn't love a lot of readings.
Some things were interesting, but most things especially in the middle of the semester with random philosophers, and Hankins' lectures, were kinda super boring. It's generally pretty easy and very well-structured in terms of giving you the Liberty (haha) to choose which topics you find the most interesting to write about, and the section component was moderately interesting. But yes, the class overall was quite boring.
I really enjoyed this class. It was hard at first to concentrate in lecture, mostly because the material was confusing and way different from what I was used to, but now I'm SUPER bummed about the lectures I missed and those I zoned out in. I really feel like I developed a much stronger appreciation for the material. My advice would be to pay good attention in lecture - these professors are cool, and it's not every day you get to listen to people like this.
This class is a decent way to knock out a Gen Ed requirement while fulfilling a History requirement.  The lectures can be dry, but if you force yourself to really listen and don't let your focus drift, they're super interesting.  It's also a great way to read a lot of the greats.
A great course that examines some really important issues in the context of great books.
This class is awesome! If you're interested in politics it will give you a much deeper idea of how different conceptions of liberty underlie the ways we think about government.
This class puts an interesting historical perspective on liberty, but the government and economics portions are where the class shines.  The readings are manageable and somewhat unnecessary, as the lectures often just explain them outright.  Overall, this is a fairly easy way to fulfill your ER requirement.
Find a different Gen Ed. This course needs to be improved.
This class still needs to figure a lot of things out. There was three times the amount of material covered than in comparable classes, and I felt as if I had very little guidance to understanding it all. The final exam was also very difficult (basically we were expected to go back and do all the readings again).
This course provides a decent overview of different concepts of liberty that have existed throughout history. However, the course was very poorly organized (changing syllabus, readings that were not provided) and Professor Hankins' lectures were some of the most boring I have sat through at Harvard.
Overall, this is a well taught and well organized course with a great section component. No background in political theory is necessary, but I found the course pretty easy as a junior Government concentrator.
assignments are really great and won't consume your time
So much material, but the workload isn't too bad, really.
If you're interested in the topic (history, ec, and gov), it is probably a great class. I thought there would be more discussion of modern day topics, but we only spent two weeks on that. If you're justing trying to find a class to fill the ER requirement, and you're not that interested in the topic, i wouldn't take this class.
This class will get better next year. This year, there was too much lecturing by Hankins and no class discussion. The Nelson and Miron lectures were great, and I know they will add more debate next year. The material in the class is very good and the questions are great for a Gen Ed.
Enjoyable gen ed if you never read any philosophical reading. One of the least painful ER to take. However the TFs make the course. I had a great TF so really enjoyed the course and the final exam was pretty easy because of him but I know others who TF were not as good.
The class will hopefully be restructured after this semester because it was extremely disjointed and difficult to follow. That being said, I found it to be a relatively easy and pain-free way to satisfy my Political Theory concentration requirement for Government.
If you really want to be able to talk about liberty and understand where our conceptions of liberty come from, this is a great course to take.
The material in this course is important to understanding pretty much every modern-day political debate, and it's also a great opportunity to learn from three professors who are experts in three different fields.  Seriously, take it.
Unless you are a gov or philosophy major, this is a horrible elective. Too much reading, lots of paper, lots of assumed knowledge...I visibly shake thinking about the horrors of this class as I have never read social theory in my life before this class and it wasn't a great place to start
I don't want to be mean about this course, because it was a good idea in theory, but it needs to be taught in a different format.
Take it if you want to get a real education at Harvard. It is a lot of work for an elective but worthwhile. Getting a glimpse into the genius minds of Hankins, Mirn, and Nelson is great.
For early students of political theory, this course is a great opportunity to integrate what you've read around the concept of liberty. I found it refreshing. Professors, I don't know your opinions on HarvardX, but I think this course would be an excellent as a massive open online course. The questions this course poses are fascinating, and your three-pronged approach to explicating liberty across centuries adds incredible value.
Understand this is mostly a philosophy class (80%) and can be very difficult to know what is  to be known. Work with TF to gain main differences between authors and foundations
It was an overall horrible class. The syllabus and shopping week lectures made it appear as though all three instructors would contribute to the course, but it evolved into a political philosophy history course. Don't take the class. It was a complete waste of a course that I wish I could have back.
Keep up on reading, worthwhile discussions in section. Lots of interesting topics covered in the class, some little parts should be motivating for anyone.
If you're interested in looking at the history and philosophy of liberty as a concept and a governing principle, this is it. I think both conservatives and liberals found themselves challenged at certain points of the class, and even as someone who appreciates the views of the professors, I was glad that the course challenged my viewpoints at times.
It is a great class at times, and at others it is very boring.
I really liked this class! The material is interesting and really extensive -- it gives you a great introduction to thinking about the concept of liberty from ancient times to the present. Lectures are mostly engaging, although a few are a bit boring. But overall, I felt like it was one of the best choices for ER. The readings are manageable, the paper topics are great, and the TFs were so nice.
Ethical Reasoning 34: Liberty is like no other class I have taken at Harvard. The course covers a lot of great material off the shelves of the classical liberal canon. It offers a thorough and interesting approach to questions of freedom and the conception of liberty that we don't often appreciate. The greatest strength of the course is that you have the chance to argue about the limits of freedom and debate in class. The course challenges you to think about the perspectives of the course materials and your own perspectives and consider benefits and costs from all sides. Overall, if you want a course with relatively little work outside of class, like reading interesting philosophical and economic writing, and want a chance to debate in class, ER 34 is for you.
Fairly easy to get an A, however don't think that means there is no effort involved. Lots of readings every week. However, just reading is always my easiest homework.
This is the most rewarding class I've taken at Harvard to date.
Great class - I'm a STEM concentrator who's scared of humanities courses, but this was well-taught and had applications to economics and the real world.
Very chill ER class. Debates are fun, though some of the history lectures can be kind of boring. Miron's economics lectures were very interesting though. If you think you may be libertarian, this class is right for you!
The lectures in the beginning are kind of boring and the readings are really long but having no final is awesome and the second half of the class is pretty awesome.
This course is surprisingly interesting.  I found Prof. Hankins had really interesting things to say and the course was overall quite a painless and educational  way to fulfill the gen-ed.
It may not be comprehensive, but it's a good place to start your thinking.
This class easily fulfills the ER requirement! It has one midterm, and during the second half of the course, there were weekly debates. You learn a lot and don't have a substantial amount of outside course work. I would definitely recommend this class!
