The class is incredibly easy and low workload. The readings are pretty much unnecessary and section is completely unrelated to lecture. The lectures are not nearly as thought-provoking as the professor believes them to be.
Great class and very important information for pre-meds; Professor Jones is a great lecturer. Would highly recommend!
The material presented in this course is genuinely very interesting. The lectures are engaging and useful, but the section component was barely helpful. This said, it is a good option for the ER requirement.
if you skim the readings and go to lecture, you'll be fine. low-key class
This class is well lectured but sectioned poorly. Additionally, there is very little connection between the material and the modern day world. Think about that when choosing this course.
This class is really great. Prof Jones is enthusiastic but honest and down to earth in his teaching. I appreciated his wit and the case studies that he presented. You could tell that he was engaged with the subject, which definitely created a good attitude in class. Office hours (with TF and Prof, too) were always helpful. I had taken a previous medical ethics-related seminar, so I thought this was decently easy, but either way its a good gen-ed-level commitment.
This class covers many controversial topics. Professor Jones is good at presenting many sides to the topics and asking questions that make you question what you thought you believed. If you're premed, it's a great class to get you thinking. If you just want to know about issues in the world, it's a great class for that too!
This is literally the best course you'll ever take. And I'm not a huge nerd who loves school. Take it.
This is an amazing course. Professor Jones is a great lecturer, and every single topic you cover is interesting. Even if you think you already know a lot about a topic (like abortion) you always come out of class having thought about the ideas in new ways and learning cool historical stuff also. The course is really well organized, the grading is transparent (and not terribly difficult), and the readings are so good that you will actually want to do them. I looked forward to lecture and wish I could keep taking this class next semester!
Would definitely warn about the final. I absolutely loved this class, but the final kind of ruined for me.
It's an okay gen-ed but there are more enjoyable ways to fill the ER requirement. Only take this class if you really are interested in Public Health issues or about the ethical issues a doctor will run into. If you're not super stoked about these subjects you won't really like the class.
It's an okay class. The material is interesting and the workload is very manageable.
Great class! Medical ethics is actually a really cool topic and Professor Jones is a good lecturer. Definitely one of the best ways to fill your ethical reasoning requirement or even great if you are taking the class as an elective.
It is a great Gen Ed!
It's a good intro, but too broad. Perhaps too easy to be a challenging/satisfying course.
What you get out of this class depends on how much effort you put into it. You don't have to do all the readings to do well, but you'll be surprised how much you'll learn from devoting just a few hours a week. This may be a gened, but if you're premed you'll surely encounter the ethical dilemmas presented in this course in the future. This was probably my favorite course of the semester for this reason. Aside from readings, workload was 2 papers (one 5 p and one 9 p), midterm, & final.
I think this course was excellent! Although there were very many readings, they were relevant to each lecture and gave good historical overviews, memorable narratives, and interesting philosophical arguments. Additionally, the professor's lectures were compelling, well-organized, and tied in the readings smoothly. Because each lecture was clear in its key points and the information provided on the slides covered the philosophical arguments and outlined the historical trajectory of each issue, I felt prepared going into each section discussion. 

Advice: do the readings- this is one of the courses in which they are essential. It's important to start the essays early because arguments based on philosophy and history require a lot of research in advance as well a lot of time to think about what you've researched. Take this class because the professor is extremely compelling and has many stories to tell.
This is an incredible course. Very good professor with a fascinating section. Incredibly educational and engaging, inspiring. The professor was INCREDIBLE in tying up the course, being clear, and motivating his students. Definitely take it.
Be careful about the range of students taking this calss, some are entry level many are premed, which is hard to learn with.
Amazing class, certainly one of the best ways to fulfill the ER requirement. There will likely be a lot of pre-meds in the class, but that should not deter you from taking it. Do the readings, you will get a lot out of them.
This course is a great way to fulfill your ethical reasoning requirement! The material is very relevant to real-world issues.
This class is fascinating and rewarding. It is very informative and pushes students to consider their opinions from many perspectives. It challenges students in their thinking, and offers real life ethical reasoning. I highly recommend this course to anyone interested in the field of medicine. Even if students aren't inclined to pursue medicine, the ethical questions raised in this class are universal and relevant.
I would not recommend this course because the readings feel like busy work, the papers are graded too harshly and the midterm is not graded fairly. I think the lecture topics were interesting, but I do not think the class was fun and I strongly disliked attending section.
This is a good course that allows students to learn about various ethical dilemmas in medicine and how they relate to other areas of interest.
This is a great gen-ed but just a warning David Jones does not know his audience. This isn't a bunch of juniors in history of science that know how to write papers and self-selected into this class because they are passionate about history and ethics. This is a group of students trying to fulfill one of Harvard's crappiest gen-ed requirements (in terms of interesting options). A good percentage of the class is freshmen and another good chunk is comprised of people that think this sounded like the least painful option. David Jones needs to provide supplementary notes with his lectures or more text. THERE IS NOTHING TO STUDY FROM but you can do OK just based on the readings. He goes way too fast in lecture to write it all down so if you are someone that is looking for a class with clear expectations of what you need to know this isn't it. That being said, I actually liked the class and it is likely by far one of the least painful ways to fulfill ethical reasoning. The topics were super interesting, David Jones is a great lecturer, and I feel like I learned how to think about medical ethics that will shape the way I think about some of these topics for the rest of my life. The two essays were straightforward and graded fairly. The midterm was straightforward to. I think the course gets a lot less organized during the second half of the course. Like I studied really hard for the final given what was available and a lot of it caught me off guard. Hopefully David Jones can be more transparent about what topics will be on it. The class didn't prepare me to write those essays on the spot but I'm sure they'll curve it since everyone struggled. In fact, I'm not sure how assigning one essay can all of a sudden make someone capable of constructing how and why something changed when they are reading it for the first time. Overall I'd say take this class. If you try you will get a good grade while learning a lot in the process. It's pretty chill if you are also looking to chill and just fulfill the ER requirement.
This course is very relaxed and extremely freshman-friendly while at the same time very interesting. As far as learning goes, you can sort of get away with not doing the readings and skipping lecture often and still get by, but it's really worth your while to engage in the class. The content is genuinely interesting and relevant to today's society.It was the kind of relaxed class I didn't stress/worry about (2 papers, a mid-term and a final, and light weekly reading), but still got a lot out of.
Really interesting class, not that demanding.
If you are really interested in thinking in a new way about everyday medical dilemmas, I highly recommend this course for not only pre-med students, but every student.
This is literally by and far the easiest class I have ever taken at Harvard. It's so easy that the class actually gets quite boring sometimes (probably because it seems to be designed for science concentrators who can't even write a coherent essay). The material in and of itself is interesting, but I feel as though it could be framed/presented in a much more complex and challenging fashion.
This class was extremely interesting. I was absolutely dreading the ER requirement, but this was actually a class I ended up enjoying a lot- I looked forward to going to lecture and section each week. Would recommend.
Great course to better understand ethical dilemmas in medicine.
Not really about present-day medical ethics so much as it was about the historical background of many ethical debates present in medicine today. I had been hoping for a bit more of a social justice-y approach to things, so I was a bit disappointed that the class was lacking in this area. Readings are long (and not the most interesting ever) but you should still do them or else the class is pretty much worthless. Exams are hard, papers were great because the prompts give you a lot of feedback and TFs are really willing to help with the brainstorming and researching process.
fantastic class, should absolutely take if you have any interest in the medical field
It's really interesting and relevant. If you're interested in medicine or health, this is a great class that gives you the tools to look at medical dilemmas from all different aspects.
I was dreading the ethical reasoning requirement, but this course completely changed my opinion. It was a fantastic introduction to some of the toughest dilemmas in medicine that certainly changed the way I think about doctors, medicine, and even just right and wrong. Professor Jones enhanced the already interesting material through well-tailored lectures and readings.
I really loved this course. The lectures were gripping, the paper assignments were unique and stimulating, and section was great. I did not, however, like the midterm, as the questions seemed random and the grading seemed harsh. I am now sitting here ambivalent about the final and how well it tested my knowledge of the course material. It is honestly hard to give a full evaluation without knowing how the subjective nature of the final will be handled, but overall I would recommend the course because that is a problem you will encounter across many courses.
This course was really interesting and the assignments were actually fun to do. This was the perfect way to satisfy Ethical Reasoning.
best way to fulfill ER
This was a great course. Except for the tedious and probably pedagogically ineffective final exam, the coursework was very effective at developing skills, and I really appreciated that. I felt that I deepened my understanding of ethics, and learned about it in a context that was very interesting and relevant given the various public health situations in the news (Ebola, obesity, etc.).
A wonderful way to learn about philosophical and historical approaches to very old and new medical dilemmas. The class presents a great toolkit to situate yourself in ethical choices.
DO NOT FALL BEHIND ON READINGS. They're actually pretty interesting anyway
If you want to hear Prof Jones ask a series a questions for an entire hour, this class is for you.
You can survive without the readings. But you need to know a basic understanding of them for the midterm and final, and they come in handy on the papers.
Extremely interesting. They require a ridiculous amount of participation. Definitely one of the more interesting classes I have ever taken here.
The topics covered are interesting but Professor Jones definitely seems to have bias towards certain ones. The exam was fair.
I highly recommend this class as a way to fill ER! Professor Jones is a great lecturer and makes lectures fun and engaging, and I thought the material was always interesting. It was easy for me to see how applicable and useful the material was to everyday life, which was very nice to realize as I was going through the course. The class is not too challenging and the work is certainly manageable. I am very happy I took this course!
I would tell students that Professor Jones is very knowledgeable about the topics, and the class covers such a wide range that students are bound to be very interested in at least one of the topics. I would also tell them to do all the readings because Professor Jones chooses fascinating/relevant texts to supplement what he goes over in lecture.
The class is great. You will learn how to form arguments and defend your positions. You will also learn a lot about the medical problems and the arguments that have been made to resolve them.
A great class -- the papers were a bit harder than I anticipated.
This class is so interesting and so relevant. It makes you stop and think about big issues and why you believe what you believe. Professor Jones does a great job of presenting both sides of every arguement equally, which is so nice. The work load is low. I would highly recumbent this class, especially for the ethical reasoning gen ed requirement.
I enjoyed this class very much. The information is fascinating, especially if you are at all interested in medicine or ethics. This was perhaps my favorite class of the semester. It's not that difficult and the readings are very interesting. Lecture attendance isn't necessary, which is nice if you can't go (I stopped going after a while because, well, other classes needed me...) 
Overall, take this class. Professor Jones is awesome and you really learn a lot.
It is definitely worth taking, even if you are not pre-med.
One of your best options for Ethical Reasoning. Just remember that you have to like doing historical analysis as well!
Really thought-provoking class and not too much work.  Doing all the readings is probably not necessary and may not translate directly onto any assignments, but it is worth it to do the reading if you can.  It is very interesting and there are a variety of genres of readings (journal articles, editorials etc.)While writing this, I have not yet taken the final, but my one concern is whether the class has actually prepared us for the the final (short answers and two essays)
This is a fabulous class.
It is a wonderful class! It is extremely interesting and engaging. The paper assignments allow you a lot of flexibility and office hours are very helpful if you are having any trouble.
Professor Jones's lectures will push you to think more deeply about ethical dilemmas in the medical field and will teach you how to apply philosophical tools around ethics to topics in medicine.
Professor Jones was very engaging. He also responded well to students who questioned some of the notions he presented in class. He was very good about saying when he was being objective versus giving his own opinion based on his own medical experience.
SUCH AN EXCELLENT CLASS! One of the best ways to fill ER for sure. I was engaged throughout every lecture and looked forward to section and learned so much about the relationship between history, ethics, and medicine. As a Hist and Lit student, I find ethical / philosophical text without context to be really frustratingly difficult to care about. Reading these theories in the context of history and medical dilemmas made them interesting, and helped me reexamine ALL of my opinions.
This is my favorite class I have taken at Harvard. Dr. Jones is an amazing lecturer and the course material is extremely interesting and very manageable. I thoroughly enjoyed every aspect of this course.
it's a good ER for science people or those afraid of ER.  You should probably take notes in lecture (and go) because the slides have very little info on them.  Very fair midterm and final, the papers aren't too bad if you start early.  Huge range in TFs so get a good one
Awesome class. Really makes you think about ethics is a relate able and practical way.
This is a fantastic course.  Great lectures, well structured, and very organized with clear expectations.  Lectures by Prof Jones are approached from a practical, real-world perspective which is refreshing for the Gen Ed world.  This has been by far the most useful and fulfilling Gen Ed class that I have taken in my 4 years at Harvard.
I really enjoyed this class a lot and would definitely recommend it. Dr. Jones was a great lecturer and very accessible, but my tf really brought down this class for me. The paper topics were interesting and I put a lot of work into them, but my tf gave little to no comments with rather subjective grading.
This class is a great way to explore ethical dilemmas that are present in the world. It will challenge your thinking and expose you to many different approaches and opinions of very important and sometimes emotional ideas.
DO NOT take this course unless you have some background in medical ethics. The paper assignments are super vague and graded harshly. The midterm was very fair though and the topics are relevant to current events and thus very interesting. Professor Jones gives decent lectures but is way too serious
This is a class that you really get what you put into it. If you read carefully and are prepared for section, you will likely learn a lot. Don't let yourself get behind on the readings. For a gen-ed it's pretty good.
a wonderful class; Prof. Jones is amazing and teaches extremely effectively; learned a lot; feel more prepared for med school
The material and lectures are amazing and thought-provoking. The grading portion brings the class down. Be prepared to ask a lot of questions about your TFs requirements and expectations.
This was a pretty interesting course that wasn't too difficult. The course goes for breath over depth and is pretty explicit about that, so I'd keep that in mind if you're looking for a course about advanced arguments in bioethics. The course brings in a pretty wide range of students (and a lot of premeds) so I'd also keep that in mind. Overall, the coursework and assignments require some effort before you actually start the paper (you probably won't do that well on papers if you wait until the day/night before they are due) but the course staff is incredibly supportive in that regard. As someone who is HistSci and has some basic exposure to philosophy, there were weeks where I felt like I didn't learn a lot that was really new to me, but that comes with the course. Overall, not a bad way to complete the ER gen ed, even if you aren't premed/interested in medicine or healthcare.
The course covered a wide variety of subjects, approaching them from many angles which allowed students to engage on a historical, medical, and philosophical level. The subject matter stayed interesting, as it differed from week to week, and brought forth many issues that are apparent in daily life.
The materials covered are great. I don't know any science or medical terms, and I'm not a pre-med, but I just really enjoyed thinking a lot about ethics.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Dr. Jones is a great lecturer, the topics and readings were so interesting, I stayed motivated to do the readings and pay attention in lecture the whole semester. Konstantin is also a great TF - his style (a lot of cold-calling) is very intimidating, but he is extremely knowledgeable and his section definitely enhanced understanding of the readings and lectures.
This class caused me to think about many issues on a deeper level than I have before. Although it is unlikely to change anyone's mind on issues, I was able to see the other side on a lot of issues that I have not been able to see before.
Very interesting class that makes you think very differently if you're a science student.
Doing the readings will make the class more rewarding and you'll be more prepared for the exams.  This is a good class to take to really get some background in the problems that have and still plague the medical system today.
You will learn a lot of important things about medical ethics and make you a more informed consumer of news.
I really enjoyed this class. It's probably one of the easiest and most engaging ways to fill your ER requirement.  Medical ethics is very relevant in this day and age, especially this year with health care debates and the ebola epidemic.  It's a great way to start thinking about the ethics behind many aspects of health care. Professor Jones is very knowledgable, and the sections were spent debating instead of sitting idly.  The assignments and exams seem to be easier than they were the first year.
Great way to get through ER requirement
Take this class! Prof. Jones is an absolutely amazing lecturer and thinker, and this class is accessible and applicable to absolutely everyone. It will make you think about health care, and your role in the health care system (regardless of whether or not you will be working in these fields - because we are all a part of it in one way or another, honestly) in a really different way. The best way to fulfill an ER - it's everything the Gen Ed program says it should do.
This is a good class that will give you a stronger foundation to tackle ethical dilemmas in medicine.
ER 33 was by far one of my favorite courses. I think Professor Jones is an excellent lecturer and covers a wide range of topics. This course really makes you think about your stance on several issues and strengthens your ability to develop an argument. This course discusses subjects that are relevant to any concerned citizen and does so through a historical context. Additionally, the readings in this course are manageable and very interesting. Overall, I would say this course would be a great way to balance your schedule without sacrificing relevancy. I feel at times students will take a course in any subject as long as it's easy, but there are courses like ER 33 where you can be engaged, not overwhelmed by the workload, and you can walk away feeling like you actually learned something that you will benefit from later in life.
This class is a great GenEd. It wasn't too hard, and I learned a lot of interesting material. Sometimes it wasn't the most fun, but I definitely learned a lot and am happy I took the class.
Great class
This class does a wonderful job of being an engaging ER, with assignments you can direct to your own interests, and outlining analytical skills I wish I'd had much earlier in my college career. I will say that it seemed TF's varied greatly, I loved mine but others had much stricter sections. It definitely changes people's experience of the course. It's in my top 4 classes taken at Harvard though, and perhaps the most directly applicable course I've taken--and is fairly easy if you pay attention. Readings were fascinating, and not too much, and assignments were doable and approachable.
Great lectures, interesting readings and amazing debates in section
This is wonderful course. Professor Jones is a phenominal.
This class is a great way to educate yourself on medical ethics. Though we are not told directly what is ethical or not, we are presented with the appropriate information to make arguments for an ethical dilemma that has either been a concern of the past or continues to be one.
The course material is very interesting! Prof. Jones is a good lecturer, although there will be times when you leave the lecture hall wondering what you were supposed to get out lecture that day. Nevertheless, he will make you think and bring up important arguments about various ethical issues in medicine. The readings are manageable (and not even necessary sometimes, although a lot are interesting). I hate writing but the essay assignments were manageable as well.
This was a really great class. It really was not that much work and the papers were interesting to write. The midterm and the final seemed daunting at first but were actually really doable. Professor Jones is a great lecturer and the course material is super interesting too. I really liked the class but I probably wouldn't classify it as a gem because there was a decent amount of work.
I highly recommend taking this course. It's an excellent introduction to ethics and philosophy. The topics are truly fascinating, and Professor Jones is an exceptional lecturer.
This class perfectly finds that balance between understanding that it's a Gen Ed where not everyone has the same background and not talking down to anyone in the class. Section was fantastic and lecture was always fun and informative.
This course was one of the most interesting courses I have ever taken at Harvard! Professor Jones is an incredible lecturer. This class makes you think of complex medical ethical dilemmas from a different perspective and makes you truly understand the issues at hand. Some interesting areas we discussed was a legalization for marijuana, abortion, and ethical research. I recommend that everyone take this class!
Painless gen ed with pretty easy essays. Huge discrepancy in TF grading though.
Great course and you learn a lot.
Take this class! If you want to be able to take on weighty, relevant ethical issues with logic and know-how, this is the class for you.
Be prepared to read a lottt.
This class is wonderful! The topics are really interesting, the readings are definitely manageable, the teaching staff is really helpful for preparing for essays and exams. Definitely a fun, easy way to fulfill the ER gen ed.
It's a tough class, but I would recommend it. There is a lot of reading, but it develops your critical thinking skills substantially.
This is an easy and straightforward gen ed.  Take the class.  You don't need any background information, it covers mostly topics that are still being debated.  Gets a little repetitive at times but Professor Jones keeps it interesting. Both papers are really easy, you get to write about whatever you want with no real guidelines.  Section discusses are interesting even if you're not much of a participator.  Try to get Carson as your TF, he's the bomb (and super cute).
This is a great way to fulfill your ER requirement, especially if you're interested in medicine or health at all! The two papers, midterm, and final are all pretty painless, and the class definitely provokes some interesting thinking. Austin is the best TF and is so, so helpful, and the course itself is well-organized.
If you are at all interested in medicine or health care policy, you have to take this class.
This course is an engaging introduction to many major debates in our society. It is truly relevant whether or not you have any interest in medicine. It provides great thinking questions and a useful framework in which to consider them. The readings are varied and interesting and the assignments can be tailored to your particular interests. However, for those with any experience in philosophy, this is definitely an introductory course that does not delve very deep into these arguments. It is almost exclusively focused on the U.S.
If you are at all interested in medicine or even just being a more informed citizen, this is a fabulous class and I highly recommend it! If you are looking for a rigorous treatment of philosophy, this might not be the class for you, and the same goes if you are hoping to read some foundational texts of philosophy. This is a really student friendly course with only two papers and a final exam, so it isn't difficult to keep up. Often times it is possible to keep up in section without having read every page since it's not really just about regurgitating from the text but engaging in critical thinking of your own.
Great professor, great teaching staff, interesting assignments.
GREAT class. Loved the topic and the professor, it does not get better than this for a ER class. However, it is a lot of reading and the final was kind of long
This is a great gen-ed. Very interesting, and pretty easy as well. The lectures were great, as were the readings, and I actually enjoyed writing the papers. The only disappointment were the sections- the discussions were usually pretty elementary and it was clear that most people didn't do the readings.
Please don't let this be the course you flake out on...
This class was very interesting however exams and assignments were lengthy.  I think this is probably one of the easiest and most interesting ways to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement.
This class is amazing! If you are pre-med definitely take it. It will help you as a future doctor and more short term with MMI interviews.
I'm really glad I decided to choose this class over the other infamously easy ER class (ER18). As someone who wants to go into medicine, this class really teaches you to approach certain medical issues with a much more informed and careful perspective. There are questions of morality and rightness that I never would have considered before taking this class. I highly recommend it - it's a great way to make you think in a way you would never think before.
This course will push you to think about things in a completely new way. You will continuously be linking the material to what you experience and come across in the news every day and will probably find your perspectives changing and clarifying throughout the term. This is good!
Professor Jones is a highly skilled lecturer. Of all the lecture classes I've taken at Harvard in my four years, I think this one had the highest attendance rate, and I'm not surprised. The ethical questions are all thought-provoking and there is very little brute memorization needed. This class will at the very least help you to understand some of the arguments for and against almost any ethical dilemma in medicine you can think of. I highly recommend it!
Easily the best class I've taken in my 4 years here. Prof Jones is a great lecturer, amazing at office hours, and very invested in students. The topics are varied and cover a huge area in healthcare, making us think about the obvious topics like euthanasia and abortion, but then less obviously ethically-charged topics like blame in healthcare, or rationing, etc
Take this course. Lecture's are awesome!
For the first year of this class - it was very well run. Lectures are engaging and the readings are are actually pretty fun. Movie nights add to the enjoyable atmosphere. My only reservations about this class are in regards to grading - which I think they will probably fix in subsequent years. The assignments were somewhat confusing in their expectations and seem to have a checklist method of grading. The midterm was also more difficult than people expected. Overall a good way to knock out the ethical reasoning gened though!
It's a really interesting topic. Make sure to take all the assignments seriously or else the final paper will be a really big chore.
i loved the class discussions, the readings, and the lectures. the midterm was awful- too long, but they know that and they're working on fixing it (i believe). The final paper was also way too long, in my opinion, since I don't think they had to require 5000-6000 words for you to fulfill the point of the assignment. however, the topic was interesting, great lectures, relatively low stress, and really interesting assignments! i had fun and would recommend it overall.
The TFs and professors were unclear about assignments.
This class was interesting and I learned a lot, but it was SO much work, especially for a gen-ed. Take it only if you are really interesting in the topic and am willing to work hard. Also, the mid-term was one of my most unpleasant test-taking experiences at Harvard and was needlessly unfair. The assignments are interesting but definitely A LOT of work, including research, analysis, and synthesis of several papers into a final product at the end of the term. I enjoyed it, but often felt that the midterm and assignments were unnecessarily burdensome and though interesting, they were also just a lot.
If you are genuinely interested in becoming a doctor and learning much more about nuanced situations that you may face, take this course.  It will cause you to question whether or not you want to really become a doctor especially when we talk about truth telling.  Further, even if you are not a pre-med, you should take this class as it addresses major health-related political and social debates that will undoubtedly affect us all. The course empowers you to engage in such debates in an educated way.  The history behind many of these topics is also extremely interesting and unexpected in many ways.  The workload in this course is not overwhelming at all, and although lecture attendance is not tracked, I went to lecture because of the great presentations.
Annoying class filled with over eager premeds.
Very interesting ER class, but the grading for assignments is a bit unclear and not uniform. But superb material.
Very interesting and easy! A practical and enjoyable course.
This is a very interesting course, but you should make an effort to attend all lectures, even though it is easy to not go after the midterm since the final lectures are not at all related to assignments.
This course was a very interesting and thought-provoking entry into the study of ethics. I highly recommend it to anyone in biology (even non-pre-meds! some of the topics deal with research ethics both historical and contemporary) needing to fulfill the requirement.
It is super interesting but the assignments are difficult and time consuming.
I think the class was the appropriate amount of work for a gen ed.  Though, I wish the lecture topics connected better to our out of class writing assignment.
if assignments remain the same for this course, be active in discussing ideas with a TF, especially is finding sources for a specific topic is sparse or difficult to find.
I said I would recommend this class with enthusiasm based on the assumption that the class will incorporate some changes in how the papers are structured after this first iteration. The paper assignments were not clear and were extremely demanding; I expect the clarity to improve, but I don't expect them to be graded more easily. Work hard on them and the final paper should be fairly straightforward, though. And there's no final exam, so you don't need to do the readings after the midterm (unless you want to - they are fascinating!).
Make sure you get a good TF. There is a huge disparity in TF quality. Some grade easily and spend a lot of time outside of class reading over drafts etc. some are very busy and don't have any time to spend on the class outside of section.
large class size, many essays, fast-paced exam
A good way to get rid of the ethics gen ed requirement, especially if you enjoy talking about the many ethical quandaries that arise in the medical profession.
Take this class! Dr. Jones is an excellent lecturer and a very cool guy, and sections are always interesting because you get to hear a huge variety of opinions you'd never heard of before about the issues that matter to people today. Don't worry about the readings at all; Dr. Jones points out what's important in lecture. Don't be afraid of the big paper at the end - it's just a compilation of the other three papers, and as long as you completed those, you'll have no problem putting it all together for a nice synthetic analysis at the end. I loved this class!!!
I loved this class. I learned so much about the history of contentious topics like abortion and euthanasia. We also talked about ethical dilemmas I've never considered before such as reserach ethics and insurance. The readings were fascinating, David Jones is a wonderful and witty lecturer, and the section leaders are all enthusiastic about generating conversation and debate.
It is very well organized and thought provoking.
While the material is interesting, i will not recommend this course unless the assignments are changed to reflect a more segmented approach.  Their cumulative nature made it so that instead of exploring multiple issues, we were left to rehash the same one through a combined 30 pages, most of it repetitive.
Pick a good topic for final paper.
Did not enjoy the assignments for this course--depending on the subject for the papers, it could be especially difficult to find primary sources.
Format of the class is great. Really interesting course that wasn't overly challenging.
Great class--hard but interesting and very relevant!
Fascinating class. You'll learn a ton and gain new perspectives on important ethical dilemmas that are surprisingly relevant to your life. The workload is manageable and most readings are actually interesting and enjoyable. Section component is standout. A few logistical problems, but I'm sure they will be worked out in the future since this fall was the first offering of the course.
If you take this class, be prepared to write about one topic for many pages.  Make sure you don't get bored after 20 pages.
This is a great way to fulfill your Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed. I found the readings really interesting and Professor Jones is a fantastic lecturer. The material is grounded in history, which brings in a new dimension to understanding these ethical dilemmas. Good class!
If you're interested in learning about the ethics behind crucial, yet everyday issues regarding health and medicine, issues that pertain to you or your family, or things you may come across at some point in your life, then take this class. This is not just for pre-meds, although its a fantastic class for those who will go on to practice medicine. The assignment is a great way for you to  explore a topic that interests you, and is a great way for you to apply the ethical theory you learn in lecture and section, so have fun with it. Also, get to know Prof. Jones, he's a great lecturer.
This is a useful class to provide you with an overview of issues within medical ethics. The structure and work you need to do for this class requires an overhaul, but I think they are working on that.
This class is a really great ER gen ed!  If you're at all interested in current issues in science and healthcare, then it's a great course, as you get to learn about the debates from an ethical and historical standpoint.  Nice blend of history, philosophy, and science.  Not much work at all on a weekly basis and lectures are very interesting and certainly worth going to.  The three short papers and final paper (which is based off the three shorter ones) are all unique and allow you to explore your own interests in medical ethics.  I usually hate papers, but these were pretty cool.  The midterm was terrible this time around, but it was a new course and the course staff and professor were very open to feedback, so if they fix the midterm, then absolutely take this class!
The midterm was very unfair/unrealistic and the assignments require more work than you'd expect.
This class is a pretty decent introduction to medical ethics and its change over time. It will also give you a really good grasp of one main ethical issue which will be the focus of your semester long project. However, beware, for this class is more work that you are expecting. The final project is tough and time consuming.
This is a really great class especially for the ethical reasoning requirement. The readings and lectures are really interesting, and you can basically pick and choose which reading you want to do. The cumulative assignment isn't bad at all. I'd say it's a painless, interesting way to fulfill ethical reasoning.
This course is wonderful, but to learn a lot you have to put in effort. It is possible, and easy, to coast through the class without attending lectures or doing the readings. Unfortunately that approach means you will complete the class and paper assignments but not have taken home much new information. Professor Jones does a great job of putting together lectures and always asks questions that make you think and evaluate your own opinions, so it's definitely worth it to go! I learned so much about medicine and now feel like I have a much better grasp of the medical system.
Way too much reading. Way more work than it should be for a Gen Ed. Interesting topics, but the reading and assignments prevent it from being as enjoyable as it should be. Don't be fooled, the final assignment is not just combining your prior 3 essays into a final work. It's about writing a new 20 page paper. If that's what you want in a Gen Ed you will enjoy. Granted it will push and challenge you, so there is something to be said for that.
The course is largely about _history_ of medical ethics, not about making ethical decisions; you'll spend much of the time hearing about how ethical attitudes have changed over time and what historical changes/events influenced those perspectives. I actually thought this was a good thing (as I've found ethical philosophy in a vacuum to be kind of dull in the past), but if you're looking for more of a "Justice-like" class where you have to take a stand on a moral issue and argue one side, know that that's not really the focus here.
If you are at all interested in medicine or issues related to medical ethics you should consider taking this class. It is extremely thought provoking and enjoyable!
Incredibly insightful introduction to philosophical and historical debates in medical ethics. Prof. Jones's lectures were fantastic, and most of the TFs had MDs; it was one of the best possible teaching staffs I have encountered, and extremely well-organized even for its first year. Pre-meds -- this will be extremely useful for ethical questions during med school interviews. One of my favorite classes at Harvard.
This class is really interesting especially if you're looking to be pre-med. I would recommend it, just be careful about the readings. Also really try to get a good TF. If Cara Fallon is still TFing, she's an amazing TF. From what I understand, your TF makes a world of difference in this course.
The lectures are really fascinating, and the class is really interesting! Assuming that they're going to revamp the paper schedule and method (considering this was the first year they taught the class, that's a safe assumption), definitely take this course!
Given that this was the first time this course has been offered, I think it is on the path to becoming an even more incredible learning experience. Professor Jones is incredible at discussing how history and historical events have shaped the development of ethical dilemmas within the realm of medicine. EVERY pre-med or science/research oriented person should take this course. You really think about ethics from another point of view and the range in course materials allows you to see both philosophical as well as personal experiences with many of the issues we see in the media even today.
It's a good class with lots of interesting debates.  I wish the papers focused more on the many debates in class, but the centralized paper is pretty good too.
This class is a must-take for pre-meds. It is a unique opportunity to learn about many controversial and interesting topics in the field of medicine in the context of medical history. Dr. Jones is a great lecturer and does a really great job with the course. Just be prepared to write a LOT more than you're used to writing, especially for a gen ed course.
Great course! Very interesting material.
Good class-- Jones is a good lecturer and the materials and readings are engaging. Some logistical issues (like a midterm that was way too long) but that's to be expected with a new course.
This is a great class! It's a great option for the ethical reasoning requirement if you're looking for something that's less philosophy heavy and more focused on ethical dilemmas. Professor Jones is an excellent lecturer, and is genuinely very approachable and engaged with the students.
I know this was the first time it was taught, but expectations need to more consistent and clearly outlined.
You learn about the issues you might face as a doctor.
Be warned that in taking this course you will not explore medical ethics in history, you will look instead at various issues in medical ethics. The lectures are interesting, but somewhat disjointed, and the grading is incredibly incredibly punitive for a gen ed. I would say there are other easier and more rewarding ways to fill your ethical reasoning requirement. Maybe take pass fail if you're interested in medical ethics, because you can learn a bit from the lectures.
Take it for the history of medicine and you'll probably like it. Take it for the ethics and you'll likely be disappointed, since it covers too much to have depth in that area. It's a worthwhile class, particularly for a Gen Ed, and Dr. Jones is an excellent lecturer. Look to learn about methods rather than topics -- that's what I took away from the course.
This was an interesting class that was well taught, but the final synthesis of the three papers we did during the semester was pretty tedious.
This course was very interesting, with very relevant material and interesting debates in lecture and section. Note that, as the writing assignments were this year, you end up writing 35-40 pages on one medical dilemma, which is a bit annoying and boring.
This class was a lot of work for a gen ed.  The midterm was very hard and you will write 35 pages--each of which will be graded very rigorously.  The material was interesting, especially if you already enjoy history of science (and perhaps do not enjoy philosophy...there's very little philosophy for an ethical reasoning class).  The readings are interesting and short.  It's a good course for people with a history background, just be prepared for a heavy workload.
I would definitely recommend this class, but there is a fair amount of work considering it's a Gen Ed. (That's the only reason I would recommend with reservations - it's a very good class).
Although some of the organization and assignments were not very well designed, this class is full of interesting material and Professor Jones is a great lecturer.
Its a relatively painless way to get the requirement done....
A good, new course with that will likely be even better as it is improved in the future. Prof. Jones is clearly very passionate and knowledgeable about the subject, and a range of very interesting, relevant topics are covered.
This is definitely the course to take if you want any exposure to what dilemmas healthcare providers face in real life. Material for the course made great topics of discourse for me and my floor tutor who is a resident.
This class is incredible. This was the first year that it was offered so I am sure that there will be some changes but I believe that it will still be a great class and possibly a better one when these changes are made. The material is incredibly interesting, lecture is great to sit through, and my section in particular was fantastic because I had a great TF. The work load is absolutely manageable.
I would say if the reading is cut down and the assignments are reworked, I would take this class.  The material is really interesting at the beginning, but gets random as the class goes on.
Lectures and material is great, assignments can be tough to do if you don't have relationships with doctors, midterm was kinda brutal but manageable if you prepared by learning a little about everything.
You will get more out of this course if you invest in it.
I think you will like this course and you will come away from it being a better thinker, especially in the field of ethics. You'll learn skills useful to more than just medical ethics. This class is very straightforward and as long as you do the readings, attend lecture and section, and write your paper well, it's not difficult to get a good grade. This is one of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard. You should take it.
This is definitely one of the most engaging and interested Ethical Reasoning classes available (of course I haven't taken any others, but most have pretty abysmal Q scores). It's a lecture, that's unavoidable often in GedEds, but it's not overwhelmingly big and section is run very well. The assignments are actually interesting and allow you to explore material we never covered in class, which makes the 4 paper assignments much more rewarding than those of many other classes.
If you have any general interest in medical ethics, I would strongly recommend this class.
This course is incredibly interesting, you should definitely take this to fulfill your ER gen ed. Medical ethics will affect you in your life, and this class is a good way of getting a dispassionate perspective on a wide variety of issued. Furthermore, the historical perspective is invaluable and really helps understand the public health problems and debates today. And professor Jones is an amazing lecturer, every class was amazing and thought provoking.
You can tell that Professor Jones is a doctor, he has a really inflated view of the moral stature and knowledge of physicians which I don't think reflects the real world.
This class is quite interesting and discusses important ethical questions.  It looks at medical ethics issues from many perspectives, not just the doctor's.  The readings are great, although you can definitely get by without doing them, and the lectures are engaging and generally well-thought out.  The class deals with a lot of different issues and therefore doesn't go too in-depth into any one of them, and it also has more of a practical, rather than deeply philosophical approach.  The final paper for the class is less daunting than it sounds, because assignments build up to it over the course of the semester.  Overall, this is a very good, solid, and interesting class, and a good way to fulfill ethical reasoning.
Great class - should be required for all pre-meds. You learn that being a doctor isn't just about slapping on a bandaid and sending them on their way. There are about 1,000 other factors that you haven't even thought about that could go wrong. It gives you a much more realistic view on the issues you will face as a doctor. Such a great course.
The course materials, lectures, and professor are great!  You really get a good foundation in medical ethics if you go to lecture and do the readings.  The papers for the course however were not very fun to write.  The first assignment basically locks the student into pursuing an ethical dilemma for the rest of the semester and because the first assignment is due rather early, it becomes a dilemma that is most easy to come across rather than most interesting to the student.  Also the other two assignments focus too much on finding particular types of sources and analyzing them.
So this was the first year they had it, and they need to work out the kinks.  Grading was a bit harsh, the midterm was a mess, and it was obvious that some organizational things needed to be fixed, but the teaching staff knows that, and I think this will be a great class in the future.  Hopefully the workload will be a little lighter.  But the topics covered were super interesting - great class for anyone trying to fulfill their ethics gen ed requirement without real philosophy.  It was much more history-based, which was awesome.
Chill work load but the material is VERY boring.
This class is on a very interesting topic, Professor Jones is a great lecturer, and the paper allows you time to delve into an intricate ethical question in medicine.
DO NOT TAKE- will ruin GPA and not improve your writing
The lectures are fantastic. Professor Jones is a great lecturer, and the subject matter is quite interesting. He does a good job engaging the class and presenting historical information. The assignments were not great, though. Midterm was awful, and the paper assignments only let you discuss one topic from the whole course.
Assignments were graded very hard. The midterm was not fun. The cumulative assignment provided a good opportunity to rewrite and produce a good product.
This is a great class that provides a basic understanding of general philosophical arguments in medical dilemmas, and addresses many of the medical dilemmas that are currently in the news, painting a much more descriptive picture of them.  While the readings are dense and long, the cumulative essay allows for freedom in choosing a topic and deciding how you want to go about writing the final paper.
I dreaded the Ethical Reasoning requirement, but this was a fascinating class that made it really interesting.
Great way to fulfill the dreaded Ethical reasoning Gen Ed requirement - especially if you are interested in medicine or health (you don't have to be a pre-med at all to enjoy this course). Make sure to get to know your TF as well!
Joelle is the best TF! She will challenge you and is a tough grader but if you want to get the most out of this class you want her to be your TF.
This class was amazing - I've never gotten better feedback on papers and I learned a LOT about medicine and ethical dilemmas through history. An awesome class to take as an elective or gen-ed if you're pre-med.
Good course to get you thinking about medical ethics
interesting class, not too time consuming and the final paper while long wasn't bad because it involved rewriting your previous work
Take this class once all of the kinks have been worked out - I took it the first time that it was offered
This course is SO interesting if you like the topic. If you don't, still take it. It's interesting, easy, and not too much work. You can make it as much or as little work as you want. Doing the readings for lecture helps make the class better, but you will not be lost if you don't do them. However you will be lost for section if you don't do them.
It is an interesting class but the assignment details were not very clear.
If you're just looking for an Ethical Reasoning gen ed, this is a great way to go. The material is important and engaging, you'll actually want to do the readings, and the assignments are interesting without being overwhelming.
Every single lecture in this class is interesting. I left every lecture feeling like I legitimately learned something useful and interesting. Furthermore, most of the readings were also interesting and straightforward, especially the cases.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard and far and away the best way to fulfill the ER requirement. Taking this course, however, felt in no way like meeting a requirement. Rather, it thoroughly enriched me in thought and understanding of many complex ethical issues we face as a society.
This course will teach you to interpret issues in medical ethics from a variety of perspectives. Make sure to write each of your three assignments with care, because you will be fleshing them out as part of a final assignment. The lectures for this course were very informative. You should attend them and give thought to the dilemmas presented in the course, rather than merely internalizing the professor's lecture
Excellent class, very interesting. Section component is great, just be warned that you might have to hand write a lot of reading notes because laptops are not allowed in section.
The material is very interesting, the professor is great, but the assignments (although not necessarily hard) were nebulous and frustrating.
Great class for students interested in pursuing careers in medicine / healthcare, as an opportunity to explore the ethical challenges we are all likely to face in our personal health as well as within society.
-engaging lectures, interesting topic, very informative both in terms of medical history and moral reasoning
This course is amazing, and Professor Jones is an excellent professor.  As long as they re-think the structure of the assignments and don't give such a long midterm with such a short amount of time (understandable downfalls since it's a new course), I highly recommend this course.
After the midterm (and even before really) you don't have to go to lecture to do well.  The midterm was absolutely ridiculously long.  On the whole, it's a fine way to do ER, but I wouldn't take it just for fun.
This course's syllabus makes it look so interesting and fun. if you want to discuss and debate ethical issues in medicine then this course is not for you and you're probably better off taking bioethics. This class mostly focused on the history and the historica trends behind these ethical debates which can be interesting but now what I thought an ethical reasoning course should be about.
the writing assignment gets monotonous, the lectures get boring
it was too difficult/much work for a student simply taking this to meet gen ed requirements
It's a lot more work than necessary for a gen-ed course.  the workload in reference to the essays and course readings is not worth the troubles.
I love the material and the lectures were interesting but overall a really frustrating experience, not worth the trouble in the end
Structure the first three papers so that they will help you to write the third. The midterm was terrible and extremely long when I took the course. Study so that you can provide arguments for and against questions the professor proposes, as quickly as possible.
Very interesting course material and sections added a lot to the course. Definitely take it!
Dr Jones is an interesting lecturer. This course is a good alternative to justice if you have a particular interest in medicine. The topics are very relevant. Be prepared to write a significant amount throughout the course.
I was dreading taking an ethical reasoning class, but this one was pretty interesting.
Even though this is an Ethical Reasoning class, there was less emphasis placed on philosophy and a lot more on history. This class did give a broad overview of the tough moral decisions doctors face, but if you are looking for a philosophy-ish class that makes you think critically about the actual ethical arguments (as I was), this course is probably not for you. All the assignments were about some sort of change over time - none of them centered around actually having to engage with any kind of moral reasoning.
Lectures were wonderful and the professor is absolutely amazing. The sections are less interesting (and mandatory) because you mostly just recap what the papers said. The feedback on papers can be less than wonderful, and it tends to be because TFs do not explain incredibly well why they are giving you the grade they gave you, and if they do it is in generalities that in no way help you with your next paper. This presumably, however, varies from TF to TF. Additionally, the 5 page papers can be limiting in terms of space given how much you are asked to do in that space, and you may often find that TFs will give you a poor grade but not wish you to take anything out of the paper, only wish you would add more even though you are already at the word/page limit, which can be frustrating (although again, presumably this varies). Overall, however, the professor makes this class worth it.
Study hard for the midterm. Readings and lectures are interesting, as is the final project.
This course is a GPA killer...AND it's supposed to be a gen ed.  I regret taking it because my grades on all the assignments were so low.  Despite the interest I have in the material, I don't think it's worth a C on my transcript.
In terms of Ethical Reasoning, this is one of the best options. Assuming there is still no final, there is basically no work aside from the essays after the midterm. Overall pretty painless and interesting assignment and discussions.tl;dr - one of the best ER geneds.
It's a good way to fulfill your ethical reasoning requirement. I liked it but didn't love it as the lectures were sometimes interesting and sometimes dry. The assignments are okay, not easy but not incredibly difficult. If you're interested in medicine, it's interesting to talk about these issues.
The course is interesting, but very disjointed from the assignments we were made to complete.
I think this is the best way to fulfill the Gen-Ed for ethical reasoning, especially if you are pre-med, but otherwise as well. The material is fascinating and crucial for any doctor to think about. Furthermore, it was extremely helpful for me on medical school interviews.
i was so scared of the ethical reasoning requirement that i considered studying abroad. even though i probably missed out on a european fling, i'm so glad i stayed & took this class because it was the BEST GEN ED EVER. david jones is such an interesting lecturer that i wish we had more lecture time. the assignments are reasonable & well-paced, so even though the final paper is long (15 pages), you've already done most of the work for it. it's an interesting mix of history, philosophy and real-world application, and i feel like i learned so much (i can now jump in at dinner conversations). whether you're hist of sci or pre-med or just trying to avoid justice, EVERYONE should take this class. the concepts aren't terribly difficult & no prior knowledge is assumed, so i found this class to be really manageable. the readings are interesting (although the coursepack is crazy expensive) & this was probably my favorite class this semester. TAKE THIS CLASS
Fantastic way to fulfill your ER requirement. Dr. Jones is a great lecturer, and my experiences with TFs were super-positive.  I wish I had been able to take this course sooner, I would happily have focused my degree around this field of study.
This class is great for those that have any interest in medicine -- it changes the way you look at many topics without trying to change your opinion.  You definitely have to do the readings each week because they are discussed in detail in section.  The papers are challenging but extremely interesting to write if you pick a topic that interests you.
Be prepared for lots of readings! However, this class will shape the way you think about medical dilemmas- it will probably introduce you to some dilemmas that you were not even aware of
Really cool subjects and the reading materials are all very interesting and enjoyable to read.
All the bad parts about this class will likely change.  But the final assignment was a magic trick more than an academic exercise--for the first and only time in your life, you have to write for a 4th time on a subject without reusing what you've already written.
I took this course in its pilot year. It's a great class, and the teaching staff really cares about the material and the students. Because the kinks are still being worked out, there were ambiguities in assignment instructions and an unreasonably stressful midterm exam (16 short answer questions in 53 minutes, go!). Professor Jones is committed to making this course great, so I'm sure this course's next year will be even better!
I hope they changes the assignments for you because writing 3 5 page papers and having a 15-20 page final paper was a lot. I also think that most students would have gotten more out of the class if there had been a final exam. I feel that most students, including myself, paid less attention and got less from the class after the midterm.
I thought this course was fantastic -- of course it's in its first year so there are definitely kinks to work out (midterm, third assignment, presentation of the final assignment) but it's great if you're at all interested in ethics or policy. Not much philosophy and the part that is there is very surface-level. Lots of ethics and thought provoking topics though!!
Prepare for the midterm. For a gen ed, that midterm was actually pretty hard. As for section, for some reasons, I was the only guy in there. And when the topic got to abortion, things got AWKWARD. They really should think about the gender distribution in section.
This course is really wonderful. You learn so much about all very relevant and interesting issues in medical ethics that it's pretty much impossible to not want to know more about. Lectures are really engaging, section is really fun as you get to actually voice your thoughts on these controversies, and there is also a large historical component to the course that provides a really interesting background on history of medicine to some extent (way more than I personally was expecting, but I really enjoyed it).
A great introduction to ethics in general. Applying ethical frameworks to medicine makes the class even more interesting. I really enjoyed this course, although the assignments are a little tough sometimes.
Taught well- Prof Jones and the TF's in this class are wonderful. However, the midterm was AWFUL (as in, way too long). As a pedagogical tool- it did absolutely nothing to refine our ethical reasoning. Instead it forced students to regurgitate sound bites to such issues as abortion and euthanasia. But Prof Jones said he would change the midterm in the next iteration of this class. BEWARE of this course if not! Even if only 10% of your grade..... SUPER demoralizing
This course was offered for the first time this year; although it did have some issues (like the length of the midterm and order of the assignments), I think that Professor Jones and his staff did a great first job! I actually think it was an excellent idea to take this instead of Justice, given my lack of philosophical knowledge.
Take this course if you're interested in medical ethics! This course covers a lot of great, relevant topics like abortion, euthanasia, and health care policy. It's great to learn about the background on these topics and form your own opinions on such subject matters. I highly recommend the course!
this is by far the best ethical reasoning class available! I am the type to sleep through lectures but I always wanted to get up to learn about the material. The material is useful to everyone, not just doctors. It made me rethink medical decisions and question my current opinions on the issues. I always continued discussing the issues after lecture or section because they were so interesting! Professor Jones is a fantastic speaker and Cara is the best TF!!!! I also do think they are going to take feedback seriously to improve the course as needed for next year.Form a study group for the readings though, because there are a lot. And be sure to pace yourself on the midterm, but the questions weren't hard to just keep your eye on the time and you'll be fine!
