This is an excellent class that will expose you to the great thinkers of Western Philosophy and give you a taste of Philosophy here on campus with out forcing you to take a full-on Philosophy course. It is a hard course, and quite unorganinized, but the reading list is quite worth it. By the end of the semester, you will be really glad you took it. It changed my life! For those looking for an easy Ethical Reasoning Course, do not take this class, be prepared to give this course as much time as your other classes. It is not easy.
This class is not for the faint-hearted. Professor Harris is great and easy to talk to, but if you're not interested, don't take it! There's too much work to only be semi-interested
Terrific readings, but not enough formal writing assignments to feel like you made any improvement over the course of the semester. Professor didn't include his office hours on the syllabus and didn't seem particularly interested in meeting with students. Lectures were fantastic. Definitely recommended. Unlike some GenEd courses, you should do as many of the readings as you can, simply because they're important books. Piazza question requirements were a great way to keep you thinking about the readings.
If you're looking for the philosophy class that you'll be proud to talk to your friends about, you've found it. All of the key philosophers in moral reasoning are well represented. Be prepared to work hard to keep up with the lectures and readings and always have questions on hand because the discussion is the bulk of the class, not the description of the philosophies. Also, the class is not mainly focused on discussing the merits or demerits of religion, so if that's what you were looking for you're out of luck.
As rewarding as it is time-consuming (i.e., tremendously)
Do the readings, watch the videos, and enjoy the in-class discussion. The material that the class covers is rather interesting and had somewhat of an impact on my personal thinking. Don't come in expecting to answer all the 'big questions' in life (you won't), but you can expect to be able to consider and critique arguments of moral reasoning in a new way.
This is a very challenging course.  The readings are long and convoluted, the workload is very heavy, and  expectations are high.  With that being said, these are the thinkers you read in order to become a better person, and these conversations are important to have.  It's a valuable course if you are very committed.
There is a lot of reading but it is SO WORTH IT.
This class is difficult, but the texts are worth reading. It isn't always well-administrated, but professor Harris is a good lecturer, and the material is stuff that every student should have to read.
This class is a challenge, but if you take it and work hard, it will be very rewarding! Jay Harris is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard, and he shines in this class.
This class has a lot of work because it has a lot of different types of assignments (readings, watching online lectures, discussion questions, journal entries, papers, section presentations). It felt like a lot.  But the topic is fascinating and will inform your own thinking about the place of theism and morality in your own life.
Professor Harris has a desire to really engage with students and fulfill the role of the professor as someone who not only teaches concepts but also teaches how to wrestle with those concepts. He's not really a character and  states he's not a giant, but that's okay: what's really shown through to me is his sincerity, from the way he sets up his class (any contextual information he has in separate, watch-on-your-own lectures before and after readings so he can engage in conversation with students in class) to the fact that he has somehow known my name this entire time without me ever having told him. I will not deny this class has a lot of work, but if you are serious and interested in learning about this particular topic, if you are here to learn about morality and God, this class will be fantastic for you.
Lots of work with fairly challenging material, but well worth it. Definitely not your average joke gen-ed.
There are easier ways to fill this GenEd. It can be difficult to get through all the readings, nonetheless understand them thoroughly. But Prof Harris is fantastic--if you do decide to take the course, he will be your savior.
Don't take on the class if you can't keep up with online lecture-watching!
This is an interesting course, but be prepared to engage with some heavy reading.
The syllabus is great, and if it were just the posted lectures, it would be amazing! But there's something about the class and the material that brings out every single section kid you can think of who will pause when he is called on to speak and go on some rant that ends with, "..and I find this philosopher deeply unsatisfactory." Furthermore, the sections usually end in discussion from the same few voices who seem very agitated.
Jay Harris is a great lecturer and the course material is interesting, definitely more so than most ethical reasoning Gen-Eds. It's really not that difficult (you can get by without doing most of the readings), but you can get a lot out of it if you actually read. Good Ethical Reasoning gen ed, don't expect this course to figure your life out for you.
This is one of the most intellectual classes on campus. Professor Harris is one of the best around, and if you feel concerned about taking an Ethical Reasoning class, you should definitely take one that he teaches. There is a lot of reading and you will often be confused, but realize that everyone else is and there is no "right" answer.
This is one of those courses that draws in people who have an incredibly overinflated opinion of themselves. The discussion is dominated by two or three people who believe that they know more than thousands of years of thinking. It becomes incredibly tedious after a while.
It's more work than I expected, but I'm really glad I read the works we did as part of my general education background in life.
I feel like I've learned a lot, though its hard to tell with this type of class. Ultimately its extremely thought provoking and a great impetus for discussion. However, its not just an easy gen ed, only take it if you really want to read the thinkers and learn.
This course is to be taken seriously. Michael is a very helpful TF, and unlike most, really does read every word of what you write (or at least gives you the illusion). Fascinating discussions; lectures were more like lively arguments between Prof. Harris playing a number of roles (as Hume, Kant, Nietzsche, etc) and us students.
This is certainly not a light gen ed. If you want to get away with taking an easy course, this isn't the one for you. But if you are at all interested in philosophy, this is really a great course! Yes, it is pretty difficult, there are lots of readings and the readings are challenging, but the class discussions are very interesting and section is incredible. Only 2 papers and a final, and the papers are very flexible. You will have to put in more work than other gen eds but the course is rewarding and, at the end of the semester, looking back at the stack of books you read, you will certainly feel smarter for it.
Take this class. Professor Harris and Michael are both amazing people who care deeply about the material and about their students. If you spend much of your free time discussing theology, morality, or the questions of religion with your friends anyways, take this class.
I'm guessing this is one of the better ER courses that are available. Prof. Harris is absolutely wonderful  a really engaging professor. I've never really enjoyed lectures more. He's also done this enough that the course is a well-oiled machine, at least in terms of topics and material. It's definitely harder than the other ERs, but it's also more satisfying, since it's not just someone standing up lecturing about how important justice is. I really really enjoyed it.
This course is not an "easy" gen-ed. It definitely required a lot of thought and there is a lot of reading. However, it is a really interesting course and I recommend taking it if you are at all interested in religion or philosophy. It gives you a good survey of some important thinkers that everyone should probably read.
Do the readings. DO THEM.
This class is an excellent Gen-Ed. It may require more reading than most other ER Gen-Eds, but all the works you read are worth reading, and besides the reading, there is not much work (two papers and a final). Prof. Harris really cares about the students' feedback and wishes for the class, and Michael was awesome; he really cared about his students and their personal journeys of wrestling with the questions of God and morality.
Questions of religion and spirituality affect so many peoples' lives and a course like this really prepares you to interact with people from a variety of backgrounds. This is an amazing course with a fantastic reading list that will teach you how to reason through questions of moral agency and decision-making. The TF, Michael, is absolutely amazing at helping you see the crux of these philosophers' arguments and giving you the tools to come to your own conclusions. Awesome experience, highly recommended.
This class can feel poorly organized at times, though you will certainly learn a considerable amount.
Michael is an awesome TF, and the class makes you have to think and focus in ways I did not have to before. There's a lot to read, but discussions are worthwhile and there aren't many assignments.
This course is a great in-depth introduction to moral philosophy. There are a lot of readings, but you'll be enriched by every one of them.
This class is not your everyday Gen Ed, although to his credit Prof. Harris is vocal about this and lets folks know what he expects from the get go. He expects the best work out of you and you have to do the readings AND really understand them to do well in the course.
Taking this class is a great way to get a feel for the schools of thought relating to morality and God. The class is also not dominated by a single religion or view on God, which makes for some very interesting discussions, and no one feeling singled out. Excellent course.
Definitely take it. It's often a lot of work, but certainly worth the time and effort.
An amazing opportunity to push yourself and your ethical thinking out of your comfort zone and into a much stronger more reflective territory.
I would recommend it as long as you're willing to think about the material. I  believe it is one of the harder ethical reasoning classes, since you read such a broad range of material. You can get by just reading half the material, but the whole point is to learn about these thinkers.
Be prepared to read a ton of dense (but very important) works. It is sometimes hard to understand the philosophy if you have no background going in. That said, you come out having read quite a few great authors, and I think this class furthered my previously limited understanding of moral philosophy. I learned how to categorize and articulate my own thoughts about religion and ideas of some Supreme Being. I gained a sort of vocabular to discuss with others and myself my opinions, and I think this is the most important thing one may take away from this course.
This class wasn't hard but the grading is very subjective. I would say that many of the readings are wide open for interpretation, and it isn't always clear whether the TF's will accept your interpretation for the papers. Also there's so much material that sometimes it's hard to take a narrow enough focus for the papers and even the final.
A fantastic course that challenged me with ideas and questions that I don't think I'll ever be able to ignore for the rest of my life.
If you're interested in God, take this class- but be forewarned!  The readings are interesting but lengthy, and often of the type that you need to alternate a page of reading with an hour of thinking to understand.  It doesn't present a comprehensive picture of God's role in ethical reasoning, but it does give a comprehensive overview (which might be nice if you think you like to study religion/philosophy but aren't sure).  It is graded fairly and the faculty is accessible.  However, you really do have to do the readings otherwise it is all he-said he-said and the course doesn't make much sense, since it is entirely reading based.
There is a good amount of reading, but the reading is worth it. It is a little difficult to grasp the concepts, but it is definitely a class worth taking.
There are very few Ethical Reasoning classes offered that were of interest to me, so this class was the best bet. Although I do not like philosophy in any way, the beginning of the course was good and you can survive the rest in order to fulfill a requirement. My advice, have at least some interest in philosophy before taking this course and prepare yourself for a somewhat boring series of readings.
There's a lot of reading and some of it is very hard. If you're willing to put the work in you could get a lot out of it but it's not for the person looking for a core that won't run them over.
The class is very interesting and informative, especially for someone who has a limited knowledge of philosophy or Christian/Western theology.
Take this class. You will understand so much about theistic and atheistic thought afterwards. It is necessary for understanding moral thinking.
This class is really fascinating, but it's a ton of work. I wouldn't recommend it to student-athletes who want to be able to have a little bit of free time.
If you're taking this for Ethical Reasoning, I'd recommend looking elsewhere. I liked the first few weeks, but things went downhill from there. I rarely have had this much difficulty focusing in lecture. I guess there isn't that much reading, but it definitely is lightest at the beginning, and some of it is just so difficult to read, which makes it feel a lot longer.
Professor Harris is amazing and you will love him. Regardless of your major, these are all works that everyone must read and con sider.
There is a lot of reading, but it is always explained really well in class. Don't be afraid if you don't understand something the first time. It will be explained.
Very interesting but take only if you're not bothered with lots of reading.
Professor Harris is really amazing. He gives a very engaging lecture that truly challenges accepted moral norms and ways of thinking about morality. This is a great course for anyone interested in theodicy and the ties between morality and theology.
Professor Harris is great at lecturing and acting. He at one point convinced me that he believed in Jesus's salvation, and later that he had embraced the death of God. Also, he really does expect you to do all the readings. Strange, no?
There's a lot of reading - it increases over the semester! If you are looking to fulfill your Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed but hate philosophy or philosophical discussions, don't take this course. I'm sure you can find others that are less heavy. However, if you're into philosophy then go for it. This course if a great overview of how theism informs moral thought.
There will be a substantial amount of reading in this class.
If you feel torn between theistic and atheistic worldviews/moral systems, this class is for you. Prof. Harris does justice to both sides/views all along the spectrum. While this class might not answer your questions for you, it will help you find answers for yourself. It is fairly easy (no midterm!) and it allows for exposure to a broad array of the most important moral philosophers in history. Overall, one of the most impactful courses I've taken at Harvard.
There was too much reading for me to ever catch up so I became perpetually behind and as a result didn't get much out of the course. If the readings were scaled back I think the class would be pretty interesting.
Be prepared for a lot of reading.
The lectures are engaging and the material is thought-provoking, but be ready to work hard for it.
If you've literally ever been interested in the connection between religion and morality take take take this class. You'll get a great overview of a bunch of thinkers but be ready to read a ton of difficult material. The essays aren't too difficult, the final is pretty hard just because we've read so much.
You get to read some interesting authors, though only briefly (lots of excerpts). This class is more depth than breadth.
Do you want a class that will change the way you look at the world concretely: this class is it! Religion and morality are issues we try to skirt because we are never really sure how to talk about it: this course will give you the tools to be an active moral agent in your life and be able to comprehend other people's moral systems and world views.
I have to say that the class was much harder than I anticipated, and that the readings were very time consuming.  Great subject though!
A really fascinating course- I thoroughly enjoyed the opportunity to develop a dynamic knowledge of ethical philosophy- by the end of the course, the feeling of having a good enough handle on the arguments of these thinkers to facilitate a discussion between them was very exciting. I feel that  the level of "fluency" with the course material mirrored what I like most about taking courses in physics, or mathematics- being able to work independently with the tools or frameworks that you have been taught. This course will give as much as you put into it.
As a pre med, who didn't know any of these thinkers before hand, I struggled with readings. Luckily, AJ was a really good TF who explained things very well. But the final is 10% just identifying authors based off titles which was difficult. But the workload is only 2 6-8 page essays and some discussion questions that you'll have to prepare a 250 word response for every 1-2 weeks, so workload isn't bad at all. Prof Harris also has recorded videos of him talking about the thinkers, which he repeats in class, since no one watches the lectures probably. And you don't have to do all the readings, but just get a sense of what the author was talking about. If there was more hmwk I probably wouldn't been a better and more motivated student for this class. Still interesting, got to learn a little bit about different major thinkers. ER is a tough gen ed to fulfill anyways so if you want to put in a little work and have motivation to be somewhat diligent with readings, take it. If not, shy away.
This is an incredibly enjoyable course and exactly what gen ed is designed for. The readings are great, Prof. Harris and the teaching staff are super helpful and meet you where you are, section and lectures are often almost entirely discussion even though the class is medium-sized. I could not have asked for a better ER, it was fun the entire semester and I came away with a lot of tools to examine myself and the world.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time reading and digesting the readings. They're not very straightforward.
Keep up and actually do the readings they will help you stay abreast of the course material and discussions.
This class is certainly more work than a typical gen ed, but you'll read a slew of the greatest western philosophers. For the sake of being cultured, this tour of great books is certainly worth it. You will get much more from the class if you watch the pre-reading lecture, do all the readings, and watch the post-reading lecture.
While this class is difficult, the classroom discussions are valuable, and Jay Harris is very good.  Plus, everyone should grapple with these thinkers at some point in their life. The question of God and morality is essential to answer before you die.
Yes, this is not a philosophy class though. Be aware of that
It is heavy, but it is very interesting!
It's more work than an average gen Ed but definitely worth it
This class is exactly what I hoped to find in an ethical reasoning gen ed, in that we spent our time literally reasoning about ethics. Carefully curated readings (full of some college "must-reads") and good in-class discussion with a great professor who works to get to know the students and hear their perspectives on the material.
This class has a lot of reading, but Professor Harris is an amazing lecturer and you will certainly learn a lot of philosophy even if you can't keep up with the readings.
Really great readings that every thoughtful student should read at some point
Please do the reading!
Great, relevant, fun ethical reasoning class. Both Professor Harris and the TFs (Aaron and Julia) were incredibly engaging, supportive, AND funny. You get to learn a great deal about what different religious and non-religious thinkers had to say about the origin and value of morality, inspiring a very interesting discussion around what is the best way to lead a moral life, as well as what the purpose of this quest is. Readings are long, but rewarding. The pre-reading and post-reading video lectures posted on the website were a great help to ground the readings, as well as for you to get the main takeaways from every reading in case you couldn't do all of them! ;)
If you want more low stakes introduction to philosophy, this class is a great way to be exposed to key philosophical texts. It's incredible rewarding to study all these thinkers and see how their theories interact and permeate through history. Big names like Kant, Nietzsche, Plato, and other major thinkers. The professor is amazing, he's vastly knowledgeable and makes the class very interactive and engaging! Highly recommend.
You should take this class. Regardless of your personal and academic background regarding religion, philosophy, theology... This course will teach you how to think more deeply. Just take it, you'll be a more independent and (hopefully) thoughtful individual because of it.
Interesting and engaging material without being overwhelming
