The lectures were interesting, but section and the assignments were terrible.  If I could redo my Ethical Reasoning GenEd requirement, I would definitely take a different class.
This class is so reasonable, and interesting. The assignments are few and fair.
The lectures and readings were incredibly interesting. Sections, while a good opportunity to discuss the material, often felt like forced feedback on works.
Unless they change this course, don't take it. Very poorly organized.
The class generally okay. I think the best thing about it was the unique agenda that it wanted to achieve. However, the execution needs some fine tuning to form a more cohesive topic.
THIS IS THE BEST WAY TO FULFILL YOUR ETHICAL REASONING REQUIREMENT. HANDS DOWN. PROF CHAPLIN IS THE BEST LECTURER EVER!! The material is engaging, minimal workload, interesting the whole time.
Consider taking this class! This was the first year it was offered, so things might change, but the readings and assignments were really accessible for a philosophy gen-ed, and Professor Chaplin is a great lecturer. Be prepared for a somewhat daunting final if you aren't really immersed in the readings and if you're trying to get an A, but otherwise I recommend with enthusiasm! So glad I took this course, I literally do not know what other ER gen-ed I would have taken and liked.
You need to do the readings and be very engaged in them to do well in this course.
This class is great if you are a humanities person but for those who are science concentrators the writing for this class isn't like papers you are used to writing and can be difficult to get the form of, and I think sometimes this class forgets it's a GenEd. That being said the lectures are interesting both to listen to and think about.
I took this class because the lectures sounded good, but I found out later that the section I was assigned to was really, really bad. Section was painfully awkward, and it was difficult to get clear feedback from my TF about how to improve. I would definitely not recommend taking this class, and I wish I either dropped it or at least switched to pass/fail.
A wonderful class for the Ethical Reasoning requirement!
prior knowledge of philoposophy, or heavy experience in the humanities is assumed. be careful. if you have this experience though the course is fairly easy.
I would say I don't recommend it, but it may be the best of bad options that fulfill the Ethics Gen Ed
This is a great class, you learn a lot, briefly, of important philosophical thinking and trends over time. It's not too hard and the material is engaging. However, the readings to not delve into the deeper meanings of the authors, so they seem kind of superficial and cursory.
good class for ethical reasoning. not too demanding and pretty painless
I was really excited about taking this class as the material was really interesting to me. I was engaged in lecture and in the readings, and thought that the work I did for the class was much better than the grades that I received for it.
You'll get through half way in the semester and say to yourself, "what is this class even about?" it was sometime difficult to know. I took it to satisfy my ER requirement and it is an okay class to take, hopefully they will get more organized later on.
A very interesting course that makes fulfilling your Ethical Reasoning requirement relatively painless. Professor Chaplin is an excellent lecturer, and her lectures are always very compelling and interesting. The material is never particularly challenging, and the course gives you the opportunity to think about some pretty important issues. Great class, would recommend.
If you have to take ethical reasoning (and you do,) this is a fairly interesting way to do it. You should know that this is NOT a science-minded course, nor is it a course where you will debate what is right and wrong. It is the history of philosophy on natural topics, taught by a history professor with a focus on the development of ideas. The section discussions are focused on understanding what various philosophers thought, and where those ideas came from. The essays aren't very long, but the prompts are difficult and the expectations were not extremely clear.
It was a pretty terrible class.
This is a fabulous course. Joyce Chaplin is a fantastic lecturer, and the class is organized very well in terms of the guiding questions for each week, the readings, and the overall trajectory of the course. The course does, however, presuppose that you have some sort of interest in linking humans with nature. If this kind of stuff doesn't bother you, then maybe this course won't be the most interesting for you.
This is a remarkably easy way to fulfill the er requirement.
The staff grades this class extremely unreasonably; they do not make their demands clear at all and then give you terrible grades when you don't include things / write in such a way that you had no idea you were supposed to do (don't even bother asking for a sample of good work, they won't give it to you).  Requests for further feedback on redone work were denied as unfair to other students.  The class material is disconnected and barely interesting; I learned nothing.  Fulfill your gen ed credit some other way.
I'll say that this class was not my favorite class of the semester, mostly because the lectures often seemed disjointed and like they jumped around a lot. That being said, however, this class might be the least painful way to fulfill the ethical reasoning gen ed requirement (we didn't have to read much dense philosophy).
This is a great class for ANYONE concerned with how human beings should regard the natural world. It is NOT all about how we see it today or how we SHOULD see it today--rather it is a history of how people have decided on what these "shoulds" should be and how they changed. It gives you perspective, not answers, but sets the foundation for these answers (answers regarding how we should approach nature, I mean). Take it. It's brilliantly done.
Definitely the best way to fulfill the E/R gen ed! Almost painless and picked up tons of useful info along the way.
This class is an excellent way to confront ethical questions related to the natural world and understand how to conceptualize approaches to these problems. This course is intellectually stimulating and provides exposure to a rich set of readings.
I believe this is the most painless way to fulfill Ethical Reasoning.  The class was very well organized (especially for a first year course), assignment topics were flexible, and materials were not too heavy.
A great way to fulfill your ethical reasoning requirement! I generally disliked all the ethical reasoning offerings, and this one was the only one I was willing to try. It ended up being a good class, and I feel like I actually learned a lot about different ethical traditions. The assignments were actually interesting, and they tried hard to make the class engaging.
This is probably the best ER out there. Professor Chaplin is amazing!
I would never recommend this class as it was conceived this year. Just to preface this, I did fine in the class - A on the film review, A- on second paper, B+ on the first paper. It was still terrible. I didn't understand what the class wanted us to learn for the first few months. The lectures are not connected to the sections or the assignments well. It is incredibly unclear what the assignments want. The feedback was among the worst I have ever received. The class pitches itself as examining the natural world and ethics. It isn't like that. It is studying "the history of ideas" of this which is not nearly as interesting. It is not going to be a not stressful or easy gen-ed. It will be stressful and it will annoy you how poorly conceived and developed the class is. I took with two senior friends who are among the smartest at Harvard (>3.9 GPA hard working too) and they said it was one of their least favorite classes ever. One stopped going entirely to lecture. The kid next to me in section is going to HLS next year and said it was also his worst class ever.Having said all this.. Professor Chaplin seems genuinely awesome and hopefully will change the course. She is a witty, brilliant lecturer. She clearly knows a lot. But, don't take it. It was a waste of a class at Harvard.
Nature is a great class! The lecture material is interesting, and the readings are fascinating. Plus, the readings take on average 2 hours per week to do very thoroughly, or 1 hour per week to do somewhat speedily. There are only two essays, and they're both fairly painless. A great course!
This course was fine for a gen ed, but I was somewhat disappointed in the end. I was hoping it would have been more closely linked to how these philosophies could help us think about nature and how to solve problems in the natural world, but often the lectures only seemed vaguely linked to nature, and we did little deep investigations of the philosophies themselves.
Professor Chaplin is nice, but the class is quite boring and I had a terrible TF which did not help matters.
If you're looking for a philosophy course, in which you debate the philosophical traditions associated with human relations with nature, this is NOT the course for you. This is a history course. It is not billed at such, or at least it wasn't this year, but it is history. Let that inform your decision.
Do the readings and be friends with the TF's
The lectures are some of the best you'll ever get at Harvard. It will challenge the way you think about the world and offers really interesting readings and subject matter. I loved it! Definitely take a class with Joyce Chaplin before you graduate.
The course was extremely interesting and thought-provoking. You cover a huge amount of the history of philosophy in one semester. Section was awesome - really interesting discussions every week. The workload is extremely fair - short reading assignments every week, 2 short essays, a very short film review, and a final exam. Great class overall.
ER 35 is an interesting course if you're interested in the history of philosophy, and less invested in particularly learning about how we have come to understand our relationship with nature today (we discuss that only in the very end of the course). Professor Chaplain is a pretty good lecturer and organized, although sometimes the lectures seemed to vary off topic and it was unclear how what we were learning had something to do with Nature (it got pretty history/philosophy based sometimes). I think this was just a function of the class being new. It's a pretty easy way to knock off a GenEd requirement.
Extraordinary. Professor Chaplin is a great lecturer, the section leaders are well prepared, and the assignments are challenging, but fair.
The course was an easy and interesting way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement. However, it is a bit random, jumbled, and disjointed.  The work load is light and the readings manageable.
Great course for science-oriented students who are less familiar with philosophy.
Great gen-ed.  Short readings make for genuinely interesting section conversations.  Cool lectures, cool class.
I can recommend this course only with significant reservations at best, and perhaps not at all.  Although it is a new and ostensibly topical entry to the lackluster Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed field, I would advise future students to take this class with caution.  Environmentalists beware!  This class advertises itself as one on the ethics of humanitys relationship with nature, but probably not in the sense you expect.  As an example, only a few minutes were spent all semester on the tragedy of the commons.  Philosophers too beware!  This class might seem ostensibly to be on philosophy (esp. given the readings), but again it is not.So what is this class then?  It is truly a class on the intellectual history of humans relationship with nature  but what is that?  Even now, I cannot answer the question, but I can suggest that intellectual history is a fairly nebulous and poorly-defined field (just Google what is intellectual history!).  I can, however, describe what ER35 involves:  close reading of key Western philosophers (Aristotle, Locke, Bacon, Kant, Bentham, Rousseau, Rawls, and Muir, to name a few); attempts to find similarities in thought patterns between disparate thinkers (e.g. Rawlsian ethics is an attempt to recover Kantian categorical imperatives from a utilitarian perspective); and unusual essay prompts that perplex and confound at first, third, and fifth reading (to paraphrase one:  Victor Frankenstein, the fictional mad scientist, and Aldo Leopold, a biologist and early environmentalist, are debating the ethical role of scientists.  What do they say?). Nature is defined broadly to include topics such as Aristotelian natural hierarchy of humans (some people are born inferior!); environmentalism is but one topic covered in a few weeks.  Philosophy is discussed, but only in a historical, almost taxonomic context; you get to watch it, but not actually do it.  I would enthusiastically write a polemic on how Singers argument for animal rights is itself hypocritical and speciesist  what about fruit fly rights?  but this is not the course for it.Some people might well want to take this class, and perhaps I would even have been intrigued by its neuroses.  But take this class  if you so dare  with no illusions, and with eyes wide open.
I'm really sad to say this was the single worst course I've taken at Harvard and it pains me that Harvard would allow such a course to exist in it's curriculum. I learned nothing, did no work, and did poorly on the assignments. There's a lot of false advertising so beware of the difference between what they say and what they do. Expectations are not clear and you get nothing out of the experience.
This class is great. Professor Chaplin is a great lecturer and really takes though through the history of human/nature relationships. At times things may seem a bit scattered because they don't follow an exact timeline but the readings were all relevant. You don't get a full understanding of some of the great philosophers because you do focus on passages devoted to nature BUT this class is interesting and a great gened because the work is manageable and there are only 2 papers and a final project or final exam.
This is an amazing way to fulfill the ER requirement. It is not only fascinating, but it also has a very manageable workload. This class would be great to all those outdoors fanatics.
If they figure out some new-course kinks, it has the potential to be a great class. Very engaging material, refreshingly manageable readings, and the final project was fun. Your paper grades could be arbitrary, depending on your TF.
This is a HISTORY class in which the professor only accepts HER WAY OF THINKING. Be wary of this, and be ready to appease a professor rather than be able to draw your own conclusions.
This course is really interesting. The material comes from a lot of different sources, so don't necessarily expect any particular transitions between different lectures, but do expect to read from a really wide variety of authors in different time periods. The lectures are also very stimulating and do encourage you to think about a lot of environmental and ethical issues that constantly come up.
This was a very well taught class. I was deeply impressed with Professor Chaplin's lectures and teaching ability in general.
You get what you put into this class.  Definitely take it if the topics seem interesting to you!
This grading for this class is pretty hard. So, unless you're a great writer be wary. I am a science concentrator so it was a very large leap for me to go into a class like this- it was interesting but I felt confused and like things were all over the place at times. Not a wonderful class but it wasn't terrible..
Didn't really understand the point of the class and was never quite sure where I stood.
This course was a decent option for the ER requirement. I wish it had more about inequality between human beings that has traditionally been justified as natural (by philosophers and others) but it doesn't so don't be fooled.
This class is easy because most of the readings are very small (like 20 pages a week of easy reading) and you'll have most likely come across these ideas unless you are a straight science person and have never taken a humanities or social science course. But the lectures are absolutely awful--not only do they give you such a bare bones description of ethical arguments that you would learn more from surfing around wikipedia in a quarter's worth of the total lecture time, but they also do a terrible job of convincing you that these ideas are connected to one another at all until the last quarter of the class when you get to environmentalism.
This class fell short of my expectations despite the best intentions of the professor and TFs. I am extremely interested in environmental philosophy and literature, but this course was more of a broad survey of the history of philosophy, with a slight focus on "nature"... however broadly one wants to define the term. I felt that the theme got lost a bit along the way, and that section did not help at all to bring it back into focus. That being said, among the reading material were some really classic works of philosophy and literature that I was happy to have read (skimmed). I think this class is very much what you put into it. If you want to delve deep into the readings and ideas presented in lecture, you might get more out of the class, but it's pretty easy to slide by on very little work or with very little investment. For an ethical reasoning, it's relatively painless.
There is very little work and the papers are short, so you'll want to make sure that what you write is what they're looking for, or your grade will suffer.
The material is very interesting and relevant, the lectures are generally very good if not sometimes a little hard to follow, assignments are relatively short, my TF was not great at facilitating section or giving feedback but I heard other TFs were better. Good way to fulfill ethical reasoning if you like nature or animals.
The class does force you to learn about some of histories important philosophers, which is good. But section was less than adequate, and grading on the assignments was very subjective.
Very good readings if you're interested in classics of world literature (Aristotle, Nietzsche, Marx, Locke, etc.)Interesting topics, though sometimes it can be difficult to see the connections from week to week and in the context of the larger picture.In terms of the papers, they're short, but can also be difficult to write because you're trying to squeeze in a lot of concepts. Depending on your TF, the papers might be graded more strictly or leniently.Overall not too difficult of a class if you do all the readings.
The title is incredibly appealing. At last, an Ethical Reasoning class that is fun! Well, it's a bit misleading. I yearned for a granola loving earthy class, but instead received the expected philosophical discourse that every other ER class assigns. I would recommend taking another class with easier graders that lacks a final exam. You'll get the same material, but not have to have the high hopes of learning more about our environment.
It's a good gen ed, but as this was the course's first year it had a lot of kinks to work out. The coolest part of the class is its engagement with a diversity of positions that we tend all to lump together under the term "environmentalism". Prof. Chaplin is extremely nice, but at least this year she had the habit of seeming to mock every author we read -- the tone of the lectures prevented them from being as compelling as they might have been, because the ideas studied are very interesting. I found the readings and assignments quite easy, but the grading was inconsistent.
Nature is a great way to fulfill your ER requirement! The material is interesting, Professor Chaplin is an incredible lecturer, and the readings are not too strenuous. If you're interested in Thoreau, environmental issues, Kant, Nietzsche...take this course!
Enjoyable way to fulfill the ER gen-ed requirement.
Great survey of western philosophy as it applies to the ethics of nature, Suitable for people who have little experience with philosophy (like me!).
The readings were fairly interesting and not too long and provided a good framework for understanding western philosophy. The human relationship with nature was examined from the neolithic era to present day.
Fine if you keep up with at least half the readings and have something mildly intelligent to say in section.
I did learn a lot in this course, however I have a few reservations.  I think it has the potential to be boring if you aren't interested in environmental ethics, and it can be very frustrating if you are interested in environmental ethics.  That being said, it is a good ethical reasoning to take and was fairly easy.
Nature is an alright course, but I'm not sure if I'd recommend it. Lectures tended to be rather vague and nebulous, and I don't feel as if I actually learned that much, other than the new readings I was exposed to. Expectations for essays were also different than those laid out in the prompt and I actually received my lowest essay grade ever in this course. The class has potential if they work to improve it in the future, and it's too bad that it wasn't a better course given how interesting the topic is.
Keep up with the readings so that when it comes time for the essays you know what you're doing, and don't have to spend tons of time trying to catch up!
This class employs a lot of historical methods and requires reading and synthesis of a number of pretty involved readings. I would not recommend if you are not decently well versed in either of those two things.
This course is not terribly difficult, but it is hard to know what's expected of you and the essay prompts are often unclear.
This is a fun and painless way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement. Prof. Chaplin is a very good lecturer, and the readings are manageable and important works. Students should spend a bit of time thinking about and asking TFs about the methods of the course (history of ideas) in order to do well on the assignments.
The lectures for this class are fantastic; I definitely regret not making it to all of them. On the other hand, although the assignments aren't too difficult (though the prompts were often really vague and unclear), the class expects too much of its students and acts more like a core class than a gen-ed. Some of the expectations for the work and participation in section are a bit ridiculous. Also the format for the final exam was not announced until about a week or two before the actual exam date. If I had known what it would be like, then I would have opted for the final paper instead. I took this class without any background in philosophy and did ok; I feel like it definitely would have helped if I had taken an intro philosophy class first, because they go through key figures and concepts pretty quickly.
MUCH harder than it originally seems. Low workload is misleading: you will have to do extremely well on the three assignments that compose 50% of your grade, follow the very strict rubric for section participation, and do well on the final to do well in the class (the final was not too bad, but you have to do all of the readings to do well). Readings were very deep and not discussed in section. Be prepared for more work at the tail end of the year and to dig into some HEAVY philosophy, which the teaching staff did not seem to emphasize at the beginning of the year during shopping week. Be wary of this class!
Great course!  Not too much work, but do the work that is assigned -- the readings are very interesting, and it is completely doable to do all the readings every week
This class is a pretty good Ethical Reasoning class, but the grading is often picky and unpredictable (and the instructions for assignments unclear).
