The course is pretty easy until writing papers. If you haven't been to class or read, papers will be difficult.
It's one of the coolest classes I've taken at Harvard. Go for it!
Justice is a great way to fulfill your genEd requirement.  The material is enlightening and the assignments are straightforward.
Take it if you are interested in the material, but beware that the class structure is not conducive to allowing you to take your time to understand what is expected of you.
Make sure you get a great tf who you are comfortable with... that can make or break this course!
It's definitely a signature Harvard experience. Sandel is a very interesting lecturer.
Sandel's lecturing is overrated, and the philosophical concepts taught could each be learned in an hour online. If you're interested in philosophy, there are better introductions. If you need an EMR, there are better ones.
It's great that you get to think about what you believe... but it's one of those classes that the wrong TF can ruin.
If you do the readings and engage, you can get a lot out of this course.
This is a must take class. Do not miss out on it.
This class was interesting, but lectures were boring for the most part. Sections are great if you have a TF (most are good), but make sure you check the other ethical reasoning classes before taking this.
This is a great class. It is a very superficial skim of the great philosophers throughout history, but it is the perfect dose of philosophy for someone who is not considering taking any other classes in this subject.
The course requires a lot of reading, but is hands down the most interesting class I've taken at Harvard. The lectures are incredible.
Very interesting discussion if you keep up with the readings. All you need is to skim it over for main ideas and some key quotes and you can gather everything from lecture and section discussion. A great way to get the ER Gen Ed.
It really is a great course, and definitely leads to interesting discussions and important things for you to think about. These philosophical theories will change the way you look at problems and help give you tools to analyze things more clearly and rationally. It is really amazing!
Seek the help of TF's.
An eye-opener of a course.
Focus a lot on your essays
Justice is the class I enjoyed most in my freshman fall semester. It is an exceptional course and Prof. Sandel is definitely one of the most incredible lecturers and professors at Harvard. Take this class! It is one of these courses that everyone should take before graduating and a course that will make you think twice before you act. It is not too easy or too difficult. It is more of a challenge to your judgement calls and morals. :)
It would be a shame for anyone to go through Harvard without taking Justice. Professor Sandel's lectures are at least as entertaining and inspirational as everyone suggests. It is incredible how he makes you feel as if you are the only person in the audience despite there being hundreds of other students. He efficiently teaches the relevant material for a small part of the lecture, then encourages interesting conversation for the last part. The course is an amazing introduction to moral philosophy and makes you think in ways you never have before. I honestly feel like a different person because of the class. Yes, the grading could be better, but it is not as bad as everyone says. Five, ten, or even twenty years from now no one will care about one individual grade, so it would be foolish to not take a life-changing class simply because of that.
Sandel is a great lecturer. His style was unique among all of my professors this semester. He makes heavy use of examples, which help to illuminate the often complex philosophical arguments discussed in the course readings. With that said, you don't necessarily have to complete all of the readings to do well in the course. I purchased the smaller, some would say dumbed-down, version of the course reader and did well ("Justice: What's the Right Thing to Do?). You can purchase both at the Coop, but I would certainly recommend the latter. It reads better than the passages contained in the larger book while still providing you with the necessary information for class.
This class never lived up to my expectations. Only take this class if you don't mind nearly 50 pages a week of dense readings by famous philosophers with obsolete philosophies. This class is essentially about learning about several different philosophers. I was expecting a class that focused on the issues and what the different opinions are. It wasn't for me.
It's a great class to take if you're thinking about philosophy, or just to satisfy the gen ed.
Don't take it.
This class has a well-known reputation for a reason - it is a strong survey course in learning some fundamentals in political philosophy and arguably increases your moral reasoning, even if only a little (for some). On the whole, it's something to at least give a chance.
Overall: Definitely take this course before you graduate. It is one of those "Harvard classes." You learn a lot and you come out of it actually feeling more educated and worldly, which is worth a lot.Lecture: Sandel is a brilliant lecturer. He had me hooked in the first lecture, and I hadn't even planned on taking Justice. You should always go to lecture. You won't be bored, and that's where you learn the most.Section: Like all other large classes, definitely hit or miss. I did not like my section leader, which is unfortunate because he graded all my papers and the final exam. He didn't really supplement lecture much though.Papers: Pretty straightforward, but they are graded pretty strictly, or maybe that was just my TF. It definitely differs across the class. Make sure you go to office hours or set up an appointment before the paper is due to discuss it with your TF and what he or she would like to see.Readings: Sometimes tedious and dense. Luckily most of them will be on Sparknotes. I'm convinced you do not need to do the readings to do well in this class, though they do help and are rather interesting.
Justice can be really interesting, but some students go in with over-the-top expectations. If you can work up the courage to speak during lecture it can be rewarding, or really embarrassing if you mess up. There are only two essays, and neither require research so the class is actually pretty easy besides the final.
A class that every Harvard undergraduate should take before graduation--not a ton of work but a great introduction to ethics and will revolutionize the way you think about the world!
Definitely worth taking. Excellent lectures and sections.
It isn't worth taking. I only took it because people said it was one of the course that every student should take and it didn't wow me at all. I was very unimpressed with the course as a whole.
I took this class as a last minute fill for my schedule, but it turned out to be one of my favorite of the semester. Sandel's lectures were often very interesting, and many of the moral dilemmas faced were though-provoking. The reading can often be difficult, and only some are engaging enough to want to read entirely. That being said, reading everything entirely is not necessary. Just be sure you have a clear understanding of what the author is trying to take. I do not think I realized how interesting this course, or philosophy, was until I studied for my final, but the stuff you learn is really cool. I recommend taking this class because it will teach you a lot about historical philosophy, but also how it can be applied to your everyday life. Also, it will make you sound really smart in conversation. Oh, and the essay topics are cool, which makes them fun and interesting to write.
Justice CAN be an interesting class but it isn't as fabulous as all the hype might make it seem.  It seems to be one of those courses where if you put in the time and stay focused and engaged it can be fun/interesting but if you tune out its probably not worth your time.
Every student in the world should have a chance to take this course, no matter his concentration or years in college. Being in Harvard is a privilege, so we need to make use of all these unique things that are offered for us. Just take it.
Ask questions if you don't understand anything.
a lot of reading, but very interesting
This is a good class with a nice, light workload.  The material is interesting and it's definitely something you should learn before you leave Harvard.
I think in general, the class is pretty overrated. I feel like you could probably glean the same information by just watching the lectures, and some of the philosophy readings are incredibly dense and boring. Sandel is a good lecturer, though, and he will definitely make you think about your philosophies as a person. But if you are easily swayed, like I am, then you will find your mind a mess a lot, haha.
If you're at all interested in philosophy or debating modern hot topics, then you should take this class. Professor Sandel has the teaching down to a science. It's a very interesting course and the coursework is light.
Not much graded work, so you will get out exactly what you put in. If you want to really learn, do the readings. Going to lecture makes a minimal difference.
Take this class. It's really interesting if you can get past the mountain of reading.
I think this class is great, and something every undergraduate should have a handle of. The philosophy aspect was difficult at times especially reading Kant and others but overall was a very interesting class.
Great class, harsh grading.  Very interesting, but putting more time into the class will not necessarily get you a higher grade.  Some experience in philosophy and political theory would definitely help.
It is over-hyped.
Fantastic overall class if you enjoy thinking about big philosophical questions. The reading are often quite dense, but lectures are usually great and section is enjoyable.
I feels very much like a freshmen course.
Great class. Michael Sandel does a nice job going through a number of different philosophies. These include philosophies you hear about all the time in the popular press, so it's nice to get a sense for what they actually say.
Justice will cause you to question parts of your own life philosophy and may even change your mind multiple times during the course of the semester.  With the exception of utilitarianism, each unit seems to present a compelling theory of morality, and Prof. Sandel takes a balanced approach in his evaluation of each philosopher.  Except for the papers, this class is not much of a burden, but the rewards are high.  Section is fun, and I highly recommend the class to anyone who is interested in moral philosophy but has never taken the time to study it.
The course material is interesting and well explored and gets you thinking about concrete real life situations
Papers are graded harshly. Material is more difficult than it seems.
Great class. Two essays. Easy to follow lectures. Final is managable. Bam. Done. Do it. Probably the best ethical reasoning gen-ed if that's what you're looking for.
I just didn't find it super interesting. I think as an E&R gen ed its pretty painless, i just wish i were more interested in political philosophy
The class is great and introduces you to a lot of questions of moral philosophy. I liked the variety and am proud to say that I understand Kant on a certain level. The course material did get a little boring with time though.
Take this class. It is one of Harvard's most popular classes for a reason, but only offered every other year so dont miss your chance. Sandel is incredible. He is an amazingly smart man, and tries to the best of his ability to lay out each of the principle arguments made by each philosopher as straight forward and concrete as possible. As you can imagine this is easier said than done when reading philosophers like Kant, and Aristotle, but Sandel is one of, if not the best at what he does.
Professor Sandel is an exceptional instructor and person. You'll be missing out in a big way if you don't take this class. It gives you a whole new perspective on both society and yourself. Also GO TO SANDEL'S OFFICE HOURS! The discussion there is outstanding. You'll get much more out of the course if you do.
This is a great class, especially if you're looking for the ER Gen Ed. The readings for the course are well worth it, if only to give you some familiarity with the major thinkers of moral philosophy. Sandel is charismatic and gives a great lecture, and he's also a very humble and down-to-earth guy when you go to office hours. Section was very enjoyable -- try to get into Josh's section, he was great. Also the workload is not bad at all.
If you have a background in philosophy it will be less exciting than it is for many students. Also, very little reading.
Interesting stuff - it's fascinating to apply the philosophers' theories to modern-day dilemmas. Not a lot of work. Be diligent about papers though and make sure to participate in section.
Be prepared to ration reading or not do it at all. I did well in the course without reading after the first essay assignment, but still go to lecture as much as possible and be active in section.
Honestly, it will be hard to get a good grade. I took a few risks with my papers that didn't really pay off because I wasn't sure what the expectation was for an A. Nevertheless, it is probably the best class I have taken at Harvard. Go to Sandel's office hours too - he's an amazing professor and really cares about the students. Seriously - don't leave Harvard without having taken this. And when you take it, take these things seriously and you'll enjoy the course. I haven't gotten my final grade yet, so this might not really help my GPA, but it was most definitely a class worth taking. Make sure you talk to your TFs about your papers before submitting them too if you can.
One of the best-taught classes at Harvard I've taken in 3 years. The reading list is interesting and totally manageable. Prof. Sandel is a great lecturer who makes concepts engaging and easy to understand. Section is priceless for delving into the theories and connecting ideas of different philosophers to each other. Great class.
It's a very average Harvard course despite its popularity.
Justice is a great course for anyone seeking to genuinely learn about modern philosophies.
This course is very good if you want a thorough introduction to political philosophy and would like to evaluate various arguments for popular philosophical debates.
Justice is a quintessential Harvard course. Sandel is a big name in his field; just read Friedman's NY Times article about how he was the most influential figure in Asia in 2012. But truly, the course, while challenging, gives you a solid background in moral philosophy, and will prod you to think about important questions. Plus, Sandel is an engaging lecturer.
Deciding whether or not to take this class depends on what you're looking for. Are you looking for a class that's not that hard and does not require a lot of time or effort, take this class! If you really want a class that is intellectually rewarding, this is not the class for you. Honestly, doing buying the book and doing the reading on your own and watching the recorded lecture on topics you're particularly interested in would be as fulfilling, with less time.
The reading in this class is not easy, but the way you view the world after this class is worth it.
It's a great class to get a background on important philosophers an learn to apply it to daily dicussions
A great deal of your success is determined by how much independent study you put in.
You'll get as much out of this course as you put in. You'll only learn something deep about yourself if you sit down and struggle with the issues. Figure out what you really think and why you think it. If you're lazy, this class won't mean much to you.
This class is over-rated and the lectures are almost unbearable because all of the same people seem to give their opinions.
The reading is good, lecture's aren't very useful.  My section was very good.  I could have only went to section and would have learned all I needed to.
I am really not one for philosophy or political theory, so I did not enjoy this class too much.  However, I think it is probably one of the best ways to fulfill the ethical reasoning gen. ed. and the political theory government requirement.
while the workload is manageable, grading is very difficult and can seem arbitrary
Not for the philosophy majors, but a great introduction to moral reasoning! Everyone should take this course (or an analogous one) at some point during their undergraduate career.
It's fa fantastic class to take if you're looking to be pushed outside of your comfort levels to decide what position you will take on very controversial, and often personal, moral dilemmas.  Don't expect a very exciting section.
It's a famous class at Harvard. And it deserves to be. Simple as that.
This was a good course in hindsight. However, it is fairly tedious if you do not like/ have never done a philosophy course. The assignments aren't too bad though
If one thinks of a Harvard class, one thinks of Justice. No course has made me think and question my own beliefs and presuppositions like Justice has. It opens your eyes to a much larger, much stranger world. And you won't come out of the class the same. Sandel is amazing. But you already know that.
If you are looking for an introductory philosophy course, take Justice.  If you have already taken philosophy at Harvard, this course is not required.
This is the perfect class to find out what it is that you believe in.
Section is the most important part of this course and do come in with an opinion to participate.
Definitely take this course. Sandel is an amazing lecturer. The course content is interesting, but dense, and Sandel is able to explain authors and philosphies very clearly. It makes you to think and reason in new ways. My section experience was not as great, but you only have it once a week - the lectures definitely overshadow this aspect of the course.
The readings are extremely difficult to get through!
Great thoughts bouncing around in discussion. Lecture is a bit tough though. The best part is definitely section.
Fun, interesting, section is great
Was not that interesting of a class
Definitely a good way to fulfill your ethical reasoning gen ed. The only time I put into this class was the few hours I spent on each paper and the time studying for the final. Lectures aren't necessary, section clarifies everything and more than you would have gotten from lecture. In addition, I just found it overall interesting.
This was really an excellent course in thinking about underlying moral values and questioning many assumptions which I took for granted. It is a good introduction to philosophy.
Definitely take this course if you are going to pursue chances to speak in Professor Sandel's lectures. You live the Socratic "elenkus" method experience for a few minutes, and he is absolutely great in that. The course makes so much more sense if you speak up in lectures. That seems like a part of the "telos" of the course, you will also get to understand what that means at a deeper level after this course, as well as many similar concepts.
Sandel is a great lecturer, the global classrooms are an incredible experience, and if you are lucky enough to get Gabe Katsh as a TF, you will really learn the material.  Final is incredibly difficult.
You will learn a lot about different ways to view the world, and how to keep an open mind to all of them.  Sandel is a great professor and the class discussions are enlightening.
It's interesting, but definitely not the life-changing, thought-provoking class its legacy would suggest it is. It's really just a class on the history of ethical thought.
Take it.  It will change you as a person.  Eye-opening.
Contribute during class discussions.
Go to your TF to make sure that your arguments work.  There may be logical pitfalls that you have not thought of ahead of time.
This class is an easy way to satisfy a gen-ed requirement. The subject matter is also very interesting, so even if you're not particularly interested in philosophy, you might take interest in the course material.
The lectures are theatrical as opposed to engaging, and while section has the potential to offer a more substantive portion of the class, whether or not this is the case is entirely dependent on your TF. As is your grade, by the way.
This class is good. Definitely a "must-take" at Harvard!
This class is definitely worth taking. Although the readings can be slow at times, the lectures and the sections are very engaging. Sandel does a tremendous job of displaying the different viewpoints on various moral questions and by questioning the students, he encourages people to debate about the issues he presents.
When I enrolled in this class, I didn't realize that I was entering into a class that should be called "the cult of Sandel." Each lecture was more about Sandel (and certain individuals) talking to hear themselves talk rather than to impart knowledge or really discuss moral issues. In papers, if you didn't argue for a point that Sandel would make, the TFs seem to come down harder on you. If you take this class in the future, when writing an essay ask yourself one question: "What would Sandel say" -- and then base your essay off the answers to that question.
Do take this class if you have the chance!! No matter what grade you will ultimately take, it is a must-take at Harvard!
The lecture portion of the class is really good, but section can be difficult depending on your TF.
Sandel is great, and you'll learn a lot about morality, rights, and justice.
Well, seeing as you have to take Ethical Reasoning, you might as well take the famous one that requires the least work, so that you can use your time to focus on all of the interesting classes and opportunities at Harvard.
Sometimes people hate on this class, and I'm not really sure why. It is a totally doable workload, the TFs are supportive and hold your hand as you walk through complicated works of philosophy. Also, it's a Harvard classic. There's something impressive about taking "Justice" in Sanders Theater.
This class is one of the less stressful ethical reasoning courses, and requires a lot less time commitment then some of the other ones. It is rewarding and the material is enjoyable.
I think everyone would benefit from taking an ethics course and Justice is a great way to learn about different philosophers. The teaching staff is wonderful and the lectures are engaging.
Definitely don't feel as though simply watching the lectures of Sandel replaces the experience of physically sitting in Sanders Theatre. It is an experience in itself!
It is an ok course. If you have never had any experience to discussions of justice, then i would reccomend it. It is one of the only classes that meets the ethical reasoning gen ed. I didn't enjoy the class but I also didnt hate it.
This class is just as advertised: compelling discussions, great interactive lectures and thought-provoking connections to your contemporary, everyday life. The readings are a little dense but the combination of lecture and section do a nice job of clarifying some complex philosophical text.
Justice is an absolutely fantastic course... one of those Harvard experiences you should have before graduation. You study famous philosophers, and it's rewarding to leave the class feeling like you can have a conversation about their major theories. The assignments and section discussion are really challenging and engaging. Sandel is also an unbelievable lecturer. Take this course -- it's not a walk in the park, and grading is tough, but you'll be glad you did it.
Justice is a cornerstone of Harvard. Sandel does an excellent job with the course and it does make you consider moral issues. However, the material is extreme dense and abstract. The course does a good job of working through the material, but if moral philosophy does not get you going, the density of material can limit the amount you feel you get out of it.
Learn lots about big thinkers and consider big issues yourself!
You can just watch the lectures online, they are literally the exact same.
so much boring reading. a few interesting readings, but overall VERY BORING
Not the best political philosophy class out there, but I'd still recommend it.
Expect to get a decent overview of some of the most influential thinkers in Western philosophy, especially is your section is good, which mine was. Lecture might sometimes be annoying because the wrong people will insist on speaking up. You probably won't have to do all the readings.
The course is a very good way to help you acquainted the range of basic competing moral philosophies that shape our contemporary society. The readings aren't much but are very dense. Make sure you know the main arguments of each of the writers the course covers in preparation for the exam.
Take the class! It isn't a crazy amount of work on a weekly basis and is very interesting. Loved it.
I liked the class! It's very opinion-based versus fact-based (though you probably should know what the major thinkers, well, thought), which is different from most of the classes I've taken at Harvard. I thought the lectures were fun to listen to, and the course has a very light workload (if you like that)
Amazing class. Minimal workload and great materials and topics discussed.
This class is a bit overrated. Not many assignments and papers were easy to write about. Grading is a bit harsh, hard to get a good write.
This class is very interesting and will explore deep philosophical topics that will follow you for your entire life.
Very interesting class that didn't have a large workload.  Assignments were very manageable.  Actually helps you look at the world differently. Reading Sandel's book before taking the class would be helpful, but definitely not necessary.
This is a great elective for anyone interested in philosophy. If you don't like philosophy, stay away.
Don't let yourself graduate without taking this class! Despite what others may tell you, you can't get the full experience through the lecture series or the book alone. Actually being engaged in the lectures will really make you think about these topics, and with he section component, you learn the idiosyncrasies of each philosopher and explore objections. Paper writing is actually exhilarating in this class because you get to explore what you believe and why. You will find yourself discussing ethical dilemmas with your roommates and friends. This class will make you a better citizen!
Very boring and unfulfilling in the beginning, likeable at the end. Participate in class! If you do not, you will always be miserable. Hope and pray that James is your TF.
This course is a Harvard staple, and Professor Sandel is wonderful. The course is brilliantly structured and lecture was always both accessible and open to challenge. The course is also frustrating in some ways, especially since there is such a diverse group of students taking it, and so many people are arriving from different opinions, background knowledge, and preexisting political opinions, making for discussions both frustrating and productive.
Definitely the best ethical reasoning class. Not a lot of work. Very good and engaging lectures and topics. Also, does a good job of covering all of the major philosophies that are relevant to current politics (world-wide and in America).
This was my best class at Harvard in 3 years
This course is one of those courses that you have to take in your time at Harvard. Lecture certainly made it so and section was interesting, but the evaluation was difficult. A majority of your grade rests in the final and two papers, the first of which is graded on a tough curve. It was difficult to do so much reading and not have your understanding reflected in your grades. However, Sandel's lectures and the new global classrooms definitely made taking the class worth it.
n/a
A great course that is extremely well taught. The topics raised are really interesting and Sandel does a great job in making them applicable. A true intellectual experience.
This is a good course to learn about basic philosophy.
This is a great overview of many of the most well-known and influential philosophers, and I feel that i am much more well-versed in the history of philosophy as a result of having taken this course.
A great course to take during freshman year! The perfect course to have the opportunity to change your mindset (looking for what you really want) for the next four years.
This course is everything it is hyped up to be.  The lectures are extremely engaging, and the readings are manageable.  Professor Sandel is an incredible lecturer, and the teaching staff is also very professional.  Assignments are graded tough, but there are only two papers.
Go to lecture: Sandel breaks down the information from the readings in a way that is engaging and honestly helped me to understand the philosophers and their ideas which can be difficult to comprehend on your own.
This course may be considered a "staple" at Harvard, but while Sandel is a great lecturer, be warned that the reading is very dense and not particularly enjoyable if you aren't interested in philosophy
This is a great class if you are looking to fulfill your Ethical Reasoning requirement and your Political Theory Gov. concentration requirement. I would not recommend it as an elective however. It is not quite the "1000 person must-take class at Harvard" that it used to be. The final now has multiple choice on it (not just three essays) which makes the class a tad harder. Go to lecture.
Sandel is one of the greatest lecturers and characters you can ever see at Harvard. That, combined with fantastic office hours every week, and an unbelievable survey of political and moral philosophy make this one of the best classes available today.
Like many things at Harvard, one's experience in a course this size can be very dependent on the TF. The material is pretty interesting and not ultimately too difficult, although it is somewhat difficult to access and on that account one's TF is very important. Worth taking but wish I had a better sense of what was going on regarding a holistic perspective of the course.
It's a good intro to philosophy course, but the classes get more boring after shopping week, and the section's usefulness really depends on your TF. The readings are difficult so either be prepared to spend some time on them or some time seriously cramming during reading period.
great lectures! Depends on what section you are in for grading, however.
A must take.
Make no mistake- this is still the quintessential Harvard course.  It really gives you the ability to critically evaluate claims about what is "right" with a sound philosophical basis.  Some may argue that Professor Sandel can be slow and repetitive in lectures, but I think he does this because he really wants to leave you fully understanding this material- despite how "intellectual" political philosophy can be, nobody brings the subject into a more relevant domain than Professor Sandel.  At the end of the course, you will not only be much better able to evaluate contemporary moral and political debates- you might even change your own beliefs.  Could not recommend the class more.
Take this class. Very interesting and not too much work.
Sandel is one of Harvard's rock-star professors- take this class. I had grown up seeing his name on bookshelves at my house, and it's always fantastic to hear a lecture conducted by a writer you know. Sections are fantastic, readings are always pertinent and interesting, but lectures can get tedious when he opens up the forum. I feel like that format would work in a smaller class, but in a class of hundreds, students sometimes have difficulties providing coherent arguments or aligning their argument with the student argument that came before.
This is a great class to fulfill a Gen Ed. It does not require a ton of work and it's pretty interesting. The lectures are really fun at first, but they get a bit dry after the first few weeks. Section was a great time to discuss concepts in a more intimate setting with your classmates. The topics we covered in this class were really fun to talk about with friends just over dinner. The course makes you reflect upon the things you believe to be true.
I had to take this course to fulfill a concentration requirement for political philosophy and it was among one of the least painful ways to go about doing that. I would definitely say that your section leader will determine your experience in the class so, while I agree that that is largely out of your control, do your best to get a good one.
Sandel is an amazing lecturer who really makes you think twice about your moral convictions.  He remains neutral while displaying various competing moral frameworks to students.  Section offers a great way to actively participate for students who don't feel comfortable speaking during lecture.  After taking the class, I think I have learned a new and more sophisticated way of examining moral dilemmas.  In general, the class builds critical thinking skills more than anything else.
This course will totally change your way of thinking about right and wrong.
Justice is definitely and interesting spectacle. Sandel is a good lecturer (although his slow speech and insistence on spending the first 10min in review do get to most) and hearing what others have to say in class can be really provocative or hilarious, depending on the student chosen. Justice definitely got me thinking critically about many of today's important issues, and I am glad to have a basic understanding of the main philosophers.
If you can find a more interesting course, go for it!
I didn't come into the course with high expectations but ended up really enjoying the course.  I had no background in philosophy at all and learned a lot.  Lectures are really interesting.
The class learns about a number of famous philosophers and their ideas of what is the best form of Justice or way of life. This is often juxtaposed with how government works as well. The professor and section instructor were very keen to try to get the students to come up with their own ideas about what Justice is.
Lecture are too interactive with the audience. You learn more about others opinions in class than you do of Professor Sandel.
this is an amazing class! i learned so much and the workload was minimal!
The material taught in justice is essential for a complete education, and the course is taught in an engaging and comprehensive fashion.
You get a good foundation and overview of all the major political philosophers and American political philosophy
I think that only those who feel as if they truly want to learn about different ways of approaching morality should take this course. It can really make you challenge some of your current beliefs.
Readings are interesting. Lectures are good. I would take it.
Every Harvard student should take this class! It brings up important issues and gives you the insight on how to form your own opinion.
Section consisted of a room full of people pretending they had done the reading, occasional movies, an opinionated and ill-equipped moderator, and a clock which never ticked fast enough. Section made me less interested and less well informed about readings. Lecture consisted of Sandel directing conversation where he pleased, and directing it away from a lot of valid points. Readings were snippets of brilliant texts that egregiously misrepresented whichever philosopher was being butchered that week.
Go to lecture!  Some kids skip because there are so many people in the class, but it's incredibly helpful (and interesting) to attend
This course is not what you think it is. You go in expecting to have heated debates and to learn a lot about contemporary issues, but ultimately, adding philosophy into the mix desensitizes you to the actual topics being discussed (and there aren't many of them). This is not a class about ethical reasoning or justice: it is an introduction to philosophy. The content is painfully simple, the workload is surprisingly light, but the grading is unfairly hard. Only take this class if you think you are going to love philosophy, not because you like writing or group discussion.
This class is a good introduction to moral and ethical reasoning, covering the major ideas of the most important moral philosophers.  Prof. Sandel is engaging.  If you are interested in morals and ethics, it's probably a good class to take.  If you're interested in the hard sciences, it's probably not a course you want to take; there's a lot of non-rigorous, apparently circular arguing that in essence just appeals to intuition.
If you do have a substantial background in philosophy, you may not find this course useful, but if you do not, it can be a good introduction.
I was skeptical at first, but the combination of a great section and more interesting material as we went along definitely made this class a must-take at Harvard.  Professor Sandel is incredibly knowledgeable and a great lecturer, and the teaching staff overall is very enthusiastic.  The papers are tough, but meeting with a TF to learn philosophical writing style makes them a lot easier.  Take the class!
this course will give you a good foundation of political philosophy that can be applied to many other classes at harvard
This is mainly a philosophy class. Don't expect to have a lot of discussions on current issues.
I enjoyed this class a lot. I think I enjoyed it more than the average person because I had previously taken a philosophy course, and so I was able to have a great time grappling with the philosophical concepts and play with them without falling into traps of logical fallacy. Unfortunately this course does not teach you in rigorous thinking, so many students do end up making logically fallacious arguments all over the place. It also helps to know how to write a philosophy paper properly, as it is different from many other disciplines. Try to figure this out if you've never written a philosophy paper before.I didn't have to do most of the readings, because the lectures cover the material very well (the readings go into much more depth than is needed to do well in the course, although it is interesting if you want to explore in more depth). Just pay attention during lectures and take good notes, and ensure you understand _everything_ that is said in lecture, and you won't need to do the reading.I really enjoyed this course because it took a very thematic approach to justice and moral philosophy. We covered several important philosophers in western philosophy at a high thematic level, and seeing how they respond to each other. Many new moral frameworks were developed to compensate for the deficiencies of past moral frameworks, and it was very cool to see how past flaws would be addressed, but that new flaws would always crop up. There is no perfect moral framework!It was also very exciting for me to see the various philosophical frameworks invoked in regular discussion. After this class, I could explain the full philosophy that resulted from exploring a particular sentiment, and show how its extension could lead to problems somewhere down the line. Basically, I felt like this class equipped me with good tools to analyze everyday discussions as well.
Two 6 Page papers, 2 short 1 page response papers, and a pretty tough final. I didn't read a page in the text and got b+ on both papers. This is a great easy gen ed that is also pretty interesting.
do the reading and save time to think about bigger ideas
Justice lives up to its reputation as a fun, engaging course on moral philosophy. This has been my favorite gen ed I have taken here.
The course can be frustrating at times. Lectures are very discussion based and I think that takes over a little bit too much of the lecture sometimes. I often leave lecture with questions unanswered.
It's incredible
The final exam is wayyyyy harder than it should be
good class. definitely possible to get by without going to all the lectures. sandel's teaching is very clear and interesting. i feel like i have a much better grasp of current political/social issues due to better understanding the opposing ideologies behind them now
The class really stimulates your mind, Sandel is a wonderful teacher. Just have to have the drive to do the readings and show up to class.
You won't read this because there are too many comments. You'll hate it or love it, I happened to love it. Taught me how to think about morality. Try to get Kerstin as a TF -- she's epic.
Justice was a terrific review of many of the major moral philosophers. I know the course has a reputation as being overcrowded and over-simplifying, but both accusations are completely wrong. Justice gives you a digestible amount of readings from each of the major philosophers - Kant, Aristotle, Locke, Rawls, etc, while weaving in a narrative that connects these distinct philosophies -- creating one of the best courses I have ever taken at Harvard.
Sandel is a brilliant lecturer. Coming up with strong opinions on the ideas presented and participating in discussion both in lecture and section is a very good way to get more out of this class.
If you don't mind listening to other students talk about their morals, and if you want to learn about how you think critically, this is a great class. However, if you just want an easy way to fulfill a requirement, this is not your class.
Great course with interesting, macro-level material. Lectures are okay, but you can watch them online and skip the pointless Q&A with students.
Justice has its ups and downs (coming from someone who was completely new to political philosophy, morality arguments, and justice debates) but it opens one's eyes to the way the world truly works. It's amazing and definitely helps one in forming his/her arguments about modern moral disputes.
TAKE THIS CLASS. I took this class trying to pick the least painful ethical reasoning because philosophy isn't really my thing, and it ended up being one of my all time favorite classes at Harvard. It is awesome, very interesting, and really makes you think about things in a new way. It helps you learn more about how your own mind works and helps you figure out what you believe and where you stand on certain issues. Overall, GREAT class.
its a painless class, but nothing special
Really interesting subject matter makes for great lectures and sections
This is a great class- it is one of Harvard's most famous courses. But beyond that the reason why I enjoyed this class is that it really got me thinking about moral dilemmas and morality in general. Justice was one of the most thought provoking courses that I took. A lot of my existing beliefs were challenged. This was because this class isn't just about the theory- you do get to read some of the best writings in social sciences, but then a good deal of this course is about getting you to apply different moral frameworks to real life dilemmas. I consider it a must-take.
Great class. Very thought provoking. I thoroughly enjoyed it and studying for the final was less of a chore and more fun. Plus, because it was an enjoyable class, the assignments were much easier.
A good introduction to philosophy that balances theory and practical examples well for those who haven't studied philosophy before.  Sandel is an excellent lecturer, and if you're interested in philosophy, this course shouldn't present any difficulty.
it's a must before you graduate.
good class, i don't think that it lived up to all of the hype about it though
Take this class if you want an interesting class with little required work. You can pretty much do as much or as little of the reading as you want, except for when one of the papers really requires it. One note about the papers though: When you get used to not having to do any work for this class, the papers can hit really hard and completely mess up your time schedule. Don't let this happen to you!
The readings for this course are difficult, and I don't think you really need to do them. You can spend hours reading the works and then realize in lecture the next day that you didn't actually understand anything you read. But the lectures themselves are great; I really enjoyed them. Good way to fulfill ER.
Take it! Great and interesting lectures, readings aren't bad, few assignments (but take your time and work with your tf) and good section.
Justice is one of those few classes that challenges you to rethink your values, beliefs and opinions. To an extent, what you get out of it is how much you put in, but even someone with a mild interest in the class will find themselves questioning a wide range of modern issues such as affirmative action and redistributive taxation. Professor Sandel is a wonderful lecturer, and the tf's are great too. What I specially loved was how we took contemporary issues and then understood them through a range of philosophers dating as far back as Aristotle. I highly recommend this course for anyone who has even the slightest interest in defining justice, or found themselves ever wondering about right and wrong. This has been the most meaningful class I have taken at Harvard.
The questions asked and problems put forth are important and titillating.
Be thoughtful and open-minded.
Take this class. It's a solid introduction to everyone you've ever wanted to read, and then some.
Take the reading seriously, get as much as you can out of office hours and section.
The best moral reasoning core requirement available. It exercises your intellect and challenges you. It's a quintessential Harvard course.
This class is an experience. the lectures are interesting and engaging, the readings are all applicable to everyday life, and the professor got a standing ovation at the end of the course; what more can i say? its a useful course and a great way to see all of the different opinions that harvard students have, and to see how some of the brightest students articulate their points.
This class was very interesting but the grading was extremely subjective.
It is a really interesting class except it is graded quite harshly.
Justice teaches you how to think about the world more critically. I will definitely always remember Professor Sandel's last message in the final lecture - that skepticism is a philosophy for wanderer's, not a resting place, but it is a necessary stage we must all pass through in looking critically at the world around us. Taking justice has definitely made me more skeptical about the world around me.
they are hard graders.
Justice is exactly what you think it would be. It was a big class with interesting lectures and entertaining, although often not intelligent, audience participation. I did no work except for the essays, as the reading is totally not needed for anything, especially with the loads of study guides available for a final that is also pretty simple. The only thing is that the essay are graded harder than you'd expect, so it isn't the easy A you'd think..but it is a super easy B+ and probably A- if you don't write your essays in like 4 hours the day they are due.
You will have the opportunity to read choice selections from key thinkers in our intellectual tradition and learn how to deconstruct and debate their arguments. A great way to fulfill your Moral / Ethical Reasoning requirement.
Go to lectures
This course is a good introduction to several philosophical schools of thought, including utilitarianism, libertarianism, communitarianism, and the theories of Locke, Kant, and Rawls.  As a political conservative, I noticed that the instructors tend to approach the material with a slight leftist bias.  However, the material itself is rich enough to be contemplated and enjoyed by those of all political leanings, and the class is certainly worth taking.
An amazing introduction to philosophy. You will get a basic understanding of major philosophical principles and philosophers. However, to get the most from this course you will have to push yourself to engage critically with the material. Keep up with the readings, speak up in class and in section, talk to friends about it and the whole time keep an open mind for new insights. Be warned though that the burden in the papers is quite high.
The course has been taught for 25 years.  It's great material, and of course, Sandel is a great lecturer.  If you've already read his book Justice or watched his PBS series, be aware the lectures will be pretty much identical.
Take it if you like philosophy.
Tough grading, especially if you get a bad section leader.
I would highly recommend this class.  There is a reason it is the biggest class at Harvard.  Professor Sandel is a great lecturer, and he does his best to make even the most boring of philosophers applicable to daily life.  This class has changed the way I think about questions of morality and justice.
Not amazing, but painless.
Especially if moral philosophy is not really your cup of tea, this is the perfect ethical and moral reasoning class for you.  You will learn about the philosophies of important thinkers in a dynamic setting, and will be given the opportunity to grapple with many of today's important moral issues.
Not that difficult or time-consuming, but it has all the issues of really big classes.
I didn't understand the course until maybe a week before the final, and only because of some amazing review sessions, like Chris Taggart's. Essays were graded quite hard, and it's easy to zone out and get lost in a dimly lit place like Sander's theater, when you're among hundreds and hundreds of students. I wish the course were structured better, and I wish tfs were more available in the one week period between when an essay is assigned and when it is due.
It's really a great class, and is very little work. Perfect to fulfill an ER requirement.
It's a great introduction to important philosophers.
It shouldn't be as hard as it is. The essays are graded and its hard to do well.
Take this course if you really want to learn about the philosophers views and are prepared for the assignments. Getting good grades is actually a challenge in this class -- don't take this thinking it will be an easy core. Otherwise, just watch the lectures online (abridged versions are on Youtube).
Do the readings... otherwise you will not get nearly as much out of the course.
Be sure to keep track of what each philosopher believes during the course, and make little review sheets. Focus on major themes and ideas.
Some of the philosophy is tough to get your head around but Professor Sandel and the TFs do a pretty good job of helping you understand it all. There's around 50 pages of reading a week which isn't bad. And lectures are always entertaining. I would strongly recommend this course, especially if you're looking to fill the Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed.
I thought this class was going to be incredible based on the fact that it is so well known. However, overall I was very disappointed in the course. It is overrated and Sandel puts too much emphasis on including the students in lecture. I would rather hear him teach.
Students should definitely take this course. It's like a classic movie that you have to watch. Not taking Justice while at Harvard is like saying you've never watched an original Star Wars movie or ready Harry Potter. Pray for a good TF and always go to lecture because that's the best part.
Take it and truly engage with the moral debates to get the most out of this great course.
Not worth the hype. There are way better classes at Harvard.
it won't change your life, but it will make you think
Be prepared to be challenged in how you think about justice and political associations. Through the fires of dialogue you will be strengthened just as the flames turn iron into steel.
Its a pretty awesome course with a light graded workload (2 papers and a final) but the readings take a while and are sometimes confusing.
That it is a very interesting an intriguing course. However, the grading can be rather tough.
be ready to rethink and readjust your belief systems
This class covers very interesting material but is incredibly cursory. Professor Sandel is great but it is hard for anyone to comprehensively cover this amount and depth of material well in such a short time.
An interesting class, although definitely do not take it if you're just looking to fulfill a GenEd requirement with an easy 'A'. There are plenty of better ways to do that, and in a class as big as Justice the grading can be quite arbitrary.
The grading is annoying.  It is a pretty fun class though and I learned a lot.
While at first I wasn't the biggest fan of the style of the class (Harvard students can say surprisingly stupid things sometimes), I felt like I learned a lot and that this is the kind of information that you should probably have a basic understanding of before graduating college. Definitely not too painful for a moral/ethical reasoning core. You probably don't really have to do the reading, although you will also probably get more out of the class if you do.
So much bullshit. Awful section and arbitrary grading.
Professor Sandel is interesting but the class is too big, and lecture is not fun because of the weird format. Also, everything is graded on a curve, so it kills your GPA unless you're a philosophy star. You can get all of the lecture videos online- do that instead.
It is a zoo that people only take because they feel it is an essential harvard course. It's a self fulfilling prophecy that left me disappointed. Take it if you like hearing people try to prove how smart they are.
Best MR out there, except maybe Chinese Philosophy.
Having a good section TF is critical. Readings are fun. Questions are engaging. Essay prompts weren't great, but overall it was a great way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement.
The writing style required for Justice may be a bit different from what you're used to.
Not enough reliance on written materials.
Make sure you keep up with all the readings and really spend time on the essays because they are a huge part of the class.
It's a really interesting class, especially if your not a philosophy or humanities concentrator. But be warned, it's tough to get A's on the papers, and this will not be a an automatic A class.
Good class
This is class is a complete and total waste of your time. If you have any real-world experience and haven't been sheltered and isolated from life-issues/situations like the majority of Harvard students then this class will make you want to pull your hair out. It sucks. Then again, if you're one of those pretentious bastards who thinks that staying in a 5 star hotel in India makes you "cultured" and gives you "perspective" then you'll probably love this class.
This class helped me learn about myself more than any other class I've taken.
This is a well-taught course. However, like any large class, it's easy to get lost in the masses and feel like you have nothing to contribute and/or that you don't have to contribute anything to get by in the class.
Take it! If you're not interested at all in moral philosophy or political theory, then it may not be for you. But if you are remotely interested, it's a wonderful class to take. Classes like this are the reason that we come to Harvard.
It's what you expect, a broad overview of "justice" - political/moral philosophy - but with a pretty tough TF squad. They grade harder than you think but I definitely recommend.
This class is FABULOUS - it completely changed the way I think about moral issues.  The classic example of a class that finds its way into your everyday life, your thoughts, and your decisions.  The reputation this course has is well-deserved - it is a Harvard classic and definitely worth taking!
This is a great course for a background of knowledge.
I went to a Jesuit high school and had taken a year of morality and a year of social justice.  For me, this class was a huge letdown.  Hearing people expound on issues they hadn't thought through frustrated me to no end.  Additionally, I really don't think I really progressed at all in my understanding of justice.  Despite all the raving reviews about it, if you've taken any sort of morality or social justice in high school, this course is not for you.  It will just disappoint.
Gabe Katsh is a great TF! If you're a freshman, a freshman section is the way to go!
shop TF's!
This class is one that should be required by all people to take. It definitely makes one question why they feel the way that they do, and  absolutely caused me to think differently about the world around me. However, one recommendation I have for this class, that you should strongly listen to: Do. Not. Read. Whatever you do. Sandel gives the philosophers important and main quotes in lecture, and none of the reading I once used in an essay. In fact, when I tried to quote them, my TF told me to veer away from the text. The book is useless, and is a waste of time to go through.
go to at least the first half of lecture
This is one of those classes that you should take at Harvard. You will appreciate it even more afterwards.
too big, you can get lost very easily.
Tough papers, make sure to read all along
A course with fascinating lectures, this course gives rise to a wide array of thought-provoking conversations than are invaluable in developing a personal philosophy.
This class doesn't live up to the hype.  Sandel is incredibly interesting and accomplished, but you can tell that he gives the same lectures every year.  The papers are pretty tough to write and section isn't all that enjoyable.
Be prepared to face relatively harsh grading.
Not the easiest class to get an A in, but a good class none-the-less. If you're going for an easy Gen Ed, this isn't necessarily the best one to take. That said, lectures and sections are great (if you get a good TF), and really thought-provoking. You'll leave them wanting to continue talking about the relevant material you had just been discussing. The work load isn't too intense, but doing the readings definitely helps.
Papers are graded much more "carefully" than other classes at Harvard.
This course is fantastic and is what a college course should be. Analyzing famous philosophers and applying them to real life. ONE MAJOR CAUTION: the section component can either make or break the class. I had a great section leader and thus a fantastic experience. However, many of my friends had over demanding section leaders or section leader who did not successfully facilitate open and engaging conversation. As such, they hated the course.
It's an interesting course, but it doesn't challenge you your thinking as much as you might expect from the first lecture.  It is also graded harshly, so write your papers carefully!
This course makes you think about deep ethical and moral issues and helps you see things from every angle and perspective.
This class requires a willingness to think about the philosophy and abstract into somewhat higher dimensions.
if your tf is bad, try to switch into a different one, actually do the readings and highlight/annotate it'll help when writing papers
This was a really interesting class not a lot of work involved, and it has a great professor,
I highly recommend Justice!  I definitely understand what people mean when they say it makes them look at the world differently - but just don't expect that to become clear after one week!  The course gets better and better as it goes on because you start to understand more about each thinker's perspectives, and you become more comfortable manipulating the different ideas we discuss in lecture.  The workload is incredibly manageable and if you want to get a lot out of this course you should definitely try to do the reading - just spending some time looking at it before lecture and section will prepare you to learn a ton from Professor Sandel and your TF, and you'll find yourself analyzing problems in new ways in other classes and other areas of your life.  I actually looked forward to section every week because my TF (Ron Davis) thought of interesting activities for each class - and I ended up making friends with most people in my section because the activities were very interactive.  Some of the readings were really eye-opening and interesting (like MacIntyre!), and I'm really glad I learned about some of the philosophers we studied.  Professor Sandel does a great job breaking down tough ideas in lecture so you can understand them really well, and because lecture is interactive with a lot of student participation it's never boring (often its very entertaining, too.)  Definitely try talking in lecture a few times!  I also enjoyed writing the papers because I was surprised at how well I could articulate my opinions in relation to the thinkers we read - it was exciting to be able to make convincing arguments about topics that were actually interesting, like same-sex marriage.  I really loved this course and appreciated how manageable the reading was, too - you should take it if you are interested in learning a bunch of new ways to see the world, engaging in a true "Harvard Experience" that a lot of your friends will have in common with you, and getting exposed to some important philosophers in a fun and pretty relaxed way.  It might help you reason through some things too!
Don't take this unless you are willing to do all the readings or are the kind of person who actively listens to lectures and can feel comfortable understanding concepts from them.  There isn't an overwhelming amount of reading, so it's doable, but if you're like most busy upperclassman looking for a painless way to fulfill a core/gen ed, I wouldn't recommend it.  That said, the ideas presented in the course are very interesting, and if you do take the time to engage with the material, you will emerge from it with a pretty clear understanding of a broad range of philosophies.
It is a class that everyone in college must take.  You learn to live as democratic citizens.  Engaging in public debate and discourse and conceptions of the good is what gives us practical wisdom which we need for the rest of our lives.
Do it. It'll change you.
This course was the only one that really stressed me out.  The fact of the matter is that you never really get down to the bottom of things.  If you want to expand your horizons on how little you know, while you struggle the entire way through the course, this is for you.
Its a lot of freshman telling you their life philosophy
It's a good class to take to gain a philosophical base but they grade the essay unecessarily difficult, so be prepared for that.
a good class that makes you aware of important topics that we deal with everyway. just like a philosophy course, Justice sharpens your senses and makes you more rigorous in regard to our opinions and values. Plus, the course will give you tools to better form new opinions and values.
i think it is a great class to get a basis on moral theory. The information that you learn makes you think about many decisions that you make in life.
This is a class where you do not exactly have to take it to learn the material, but could easily read the book instead and almost learn just as much. However, taking the class really helps to broaden your understanding of the philosophers.
I found the readings and general themes to be very interesting, but the class experience as a whole was not very enjoyable.  The atmosphere can be a little intense and to be fully engaged you need to be willing to spend a LOT of time.
It's so Harvard....
So I did this for a core, as I'm assuming most students did, and I heard justice was a relatively painless way to fulfill moral reasoning, and it is, but not without a price to pay with your grade. Their grading on papers is extremely brutal and arguably unfair. They don't curve anything.
Reading is not necessary unless you want to get an A. At times interesting and others boring. Can skip lectures and watch them online in bed if you choose to
The course started out very promising, but I sort of lost interest towards the end. I think it gives you an important grounding in the major philosophers, but it wasn't as amazing as I expected. Not too much work. The course allowed me to better understand my own personal values and how I approach moral issues.
I had my doubts about taking a class with 899 other people, but now I am so glad that I did. Sandel is without a doubt the best lecturer I have had at Harvard. The class moves at a good pace, each lesson building on the others. Even if philosophy is not your favorite subject you will probably find Justice really interesting because it builds a critical dialogue connecting the vague world of past philosophy with current issues and debates. You learn not only about what others think but you'll examine, change, and refine your own beliefs as well.
BEST LECTURES EVER.
This class is great.  Take it.
Don't take this class because you want an easy A (I don't know anyone who actually received an A) or because of the fact that it is Justice. Take it because you want to read and learn about the theory of these philosophers. Lectures are always great and really interesting- you actually enjoy it! Know when to read and when not to read. The sections really depend on your TF, some can be very structured and good while others can not relate what they are covering to the week's philosophers.
Take this class. Don't let people deter you with warnings of dense readings or sometimes boring lectures. I won't lie, this is a gen ed class where you are going to have to pay attention and do work to get a good grade. And, the lectures can be frustrating sometimes because everyone is so obdurate in their opinion sometimes and it can be so different from yours. But, that is part of the captivating part of this class. You can't possibly regret taking it. It should be the fourth requirement in addition to things like primal scream in order to graduate.
It is an extremely rewarding class and you will learn a great deal. It is very interesting and a fun class to take. However, the competition is high and there are only two papers to write.
The class was well-run, and I think that it's the best way to fill the Ethical Reasoning requirement. I definitely recommend this class.
It is an adventure that really makes you think about issues and assumptions you previously held unquestioningly. Afterwards skepticism is definitely not a permanent option.
Everyone will need to grapple with the question "what is the right thing to do?" at some point in their lives. This course gives you a starting set of tools with which to do so. It is a class that forces you to grow as a moral agent and as a person.
This class is very interesting and gives you many perspectives to look at justice and what is "right."
This is an excellent course that doesn't require insane amounts of work and gives you the  opportunity to find new ways to think about modern controversies of the world.  It provides for great discussion with classmates, teaching fellows or whoever else is willing to dispute.
get ready for harsh grading
The way lecture is set up can be tedious, as much of the time is dedicated to students repeating the same points over and over again, but if you can deal with that structure you can get a lot out of the class in the end.
one of the 'must take' courses at harvard!
You should take this class even just to have a basic understanding of some of the most influential moral and political philosophers of all time.  It's something that is bound to help you in many other courses you take at Harvard.
It is an enjoyable way to learn a lot about french writing and the vocabulary that accompanies it.
Great class.  Only detractor (at times) is size.
It's good stuff to know but pretty boring at times. Your grade depends on your papers, which are difficult to write and difficult to get a good grade on due to the curve.
It's a great class where you learn a LOT. And your beliefs are very much challenged. It's very enjoyable and Sandel's awesome. However, it is graded pretty hard. Even if you put in a significant amount of work into the class, be prepared to get a B or B+.
It's Justice. Take it because it's the quintessential Harvard class, but don't expect it to be especially intellectually stimulating. The section leader really makes the class.
The course was not a good use of my time and felt very arbitrarily graded.
Justice offers a great way to critically argue things philosophically, something I never was excited about. Also Professor Sandel is a baller.
This course is NOT for everyone. I ABSOLUTELY HATED IT! make sure you know what you are getting yourself into. And trust me... this class is not a "Harvard Must"
Really boring. Time consuming and not really rewarding. Just audit it if you want the Sandel experience. Grading is very random and depends on what TF you have.
There are so many TFs that there is little oversight or standardization of grading practices.  Take this class at your own risk.
Makes you think of things from another perspective.
Terrific class.  I've heard that section is make or break but I had an excellent TF and I thought the class was terrific!
Great class to take, especially to help to develop strong opinions about pertinent issues.
All of the lectures are available on iTunes.  The book is obviously available to anyone who wants to buy it.  You can take this course on your own outside of school if you want to, so I felt as though I was "wasting" a course because I could have learned Justice without actually taking Justice.
It makes you think about your decision making and morals in a way that makes you question why you act the way you do.
One of those Harvard classes you walk away from with a completely new perspective on all fields. Truly incredible.
It is a good class to take to understand the basis of Western ethical reasoning and to better understand moral dilemmas. However, the course is somewhat superficial in its explanations of the ethical arguments of several important philosophers. The grading is harsh.
Sandel is a fantastic lecturer, and the philosophical frameworks explored in Justice are fascinating.  However, the grading is quite arbitrary and often unfair as different TFs have widely disparate standards for papers, which is demoralizing.
Great class with great lectures and sections. If you haven't taken any philosophy class or are interested in getting a broad overview of the discussion around justice, then you have to at least try to get into the class when it's offered.
More trouble than it's worth.
Sandel is a compelling lecturer; however, if you stray too far from the path that he intends to take the lecture, he'll disregard your comments. This class provides for a great base in political and philosophical theory, but at times felt rather scripted.
This course is very interesting, but there are not too many assignments, so be sure to stay on top of the reading so that you are ready to go when it comes time to write your essays.
This class had the biggest impact on my life out of all the classes I've taken at Harvard. You will learn to think critically, to convincingly argue for things that you really believe, and to change your mind when a counter-argument makes more sense than what you had initially believed. You should DEFINITELY take this class. I cannot recommend it enough.
this class is SO overrated, do not buy into the hype... there are other ethical reasoning classes... don't do it
Tackles interesting questions and makes you think critically about your own views. However, Sandel's lectures and material are virtually identical to that of 2 years ago, and 2 years before that.
Only take it if you can stand comments from Harvard's most annoying freshmen in lecture.
If you enjoy debating a bunch of questions without answers, that ultimately don't really matter, then this is the course for you.
Some of the best lectures I have ever been to.
It's a good class if you haven't studied much philosophy. If you have, it still may be good depending on how your section leader teaches, but really, go with something in the phil department or gov department (e.g. Phil 176? Equality and Democracy by Scanlon).
Grading is difficult but lecture's are interesting and insightful.
best lectures at harvard
It's a great class, and I would happily take it again, but you either like it or you don't. I would skim through the book a bit before choosing it.
SANDEL IS A BOSS!
Not as interesting as everyone made it seem. Material can be learned online.
I would not take this course as an elective. It is an easy way to fulfill the ethical reasoning or government theory requirement.
There's a reason that Justice is one of Harvard's largest classes - I really enjoyed the content of the course, and the idea of hundreds of students gathering together in Sanders Theater to learn about philosophical thought was somehow appealing.
Take this class if you want to explore where your morals might come from; the course is good at compelling you to dissect modern issues and comprehend the philosophical arguments beneath them.  The papers aren't easy, and neither are the readings, but overall the course isn't too difficult and is interesting.
The material and discussions were very interesting, but it is easy to feel lost in the course due to the sheer size of the class.
It's justice, the material and lectures are interesting
Justice teaches you how to think as a citizen in the world - take it!
This class is the largest at Harvard for a reason. Even with almost 1000 students packed in Sanders theater, Sandel touches every student and makes his lectures feel like classroom discussions. The reading can be tough, and overall, the class can be a lot of work -- but it is definitely worth it.
This class has very interesting lectures without much work to do. The readings are incredibly dense and dry but I often relied on study guides to get me through. I didn't enjoy section because the other students could be very intimidating and I had very little debate experience. Interesting but I didn't particularly like philosophy and therefore didn't enjoy the readings or papers.
This class is the best option for Ethical Reasoning, but don't expect it to live up to the hype. That being said, you will be glad that you took one of the most classic Harvard courses out there at the moment with an extremely awesome lecturer.
This is one of the classes you must take at Harvard.  The lectures are really unique with participation, and very interesting.  It gives you a good background in philosophy that I think everyone should have before leaving college.
The class feels a bit rigidly structured, but is still really interesting.
This class is worth it. It's tough to wade through but if you know what you're getting into and want to have your eyes opened to a new way of thinking, it's worth it definitely. You have to be committed and have to have some friends to discuss stuff with because that makes it better.
Don't take it if you are expecting to get an A or have no work. The papers are hard and are graded really harshly too.
Most interesting course I took this semester; Causes a lot of critical thought; Significant readings/rough essays
Take it! I really enjoyed it, just make sure you get a good TF (and if you don't, try to switch). Sandel is great, but ultimately your TF determines your great, so you want to be able to talk to them and get good feedback from them.
This class makes you think.  Definitely happy that I took it because I had no base of political theory before I did.  I feel like it will add to other classes that I take in the future and that it has really made me question what I believe, which is something that you do not get in every class.
If you're going to take any class at Harvard, take Justice.  It teaches you the basics of political and moral philosophy in an easy to understand but fascinating and complex way, which will lead you towards a better understanding of our own philosophies and how our world works.
I felt like I was on some silly TV show ... which I was. And the assignments are bothersome.
good course to fulfill gened but not the most interesting
Take it -- it's everything it's chocked up to be.
Justice is a class everyone should take by the time they graduate from Harvard.
You don't need a philosophy background, but it would certainly help, at least with the writing.  History and English concentrators beware -- philosophy writing is VERY VERY different, and surprisingly much more like scientific writing.  A background in logic could also help.  This is a pretty serious overview of various moral philosophical ideas, not just a discussion of contemporary moral debates.
You can really learn a lot in the course. Sandel does a great job organizing the intellectual debates in the course.
Great class to learn about the very basics of political philosophy. Only drawback is the grading scheme: kind of arbitrary and really difficult to do well
It's big and you won't get a lot of individualized attention, but it's a good course to take to gain a general understanding of basic Western moral thinkers
keep ahead of the readings and use study guides as well as form study groups
This class will challenge your ethical thinking.  It will introduce you to a variety of interesting and compelling ways to view the world and will lead you to further question your previous assumptions.
i would say that there is alot to be learned from the class however it is not a class to expect to get a great grade in with no philosophy experience
The essays are difficult.  Be sure to write them in advance and use your T.F.'s office hours to refine thme.
It's a great way to become familiar with philosophies and philosophical discussion. Sandel is amazing!
Initially, I had planned not to take Justice because I didn't like what I had heard about the dynamic in lecture - students speaking with microphones, sometimes saying ridiculous things.  I decided to take Justice, however, because the topic seemed very interesting to me and Professor Sandel has a reputation for being a great teacher.  I loved the class overall and I was not actually disturbed by the format of the lectures.
If you don't read, you're screwed.
This course will make you question everything that you think you know.  It's incredible and thought-provoking.  Professor Sandel is an amazing lecturer.  Seriously, just take it.
This class is maybe the best way to begin dealing with political philosophy. It was great to see how the theories studied in class are constantly at stake in the debates we tackle in society everyday.
Sandel is great. The readings are interesting. The comments are occasionally inane. Overall, worth taking.
This is a legendary Harvard course...as far as doing well in the class a few suggestions 1) to ensure justice participation grade - do a blog post every week - only takes 20 min to write 2) get to know your TF early on in the class - they're all really cool people, and the class lends it so self to students getting to know them well if you put in the time - going to office hours, sending emails, asking them about their school and experience 3) go to sandell office hours or invite him to lunch to your house with after justice or make sure to ask him questions you may have after class - he's such a baller, I was surprised at how incredibly acessible he is and how eager he wants to talk to students - don't miss this oportunity 4) read the reader every week - if you can get in habit of reading book, will get more out of class...study guides are readily available from your friends, but you should read the book - only a few hrs of reading a week - you'll understand more, won't have to worry about making stuff up in section, and will peform better on assignments 5) start essays early and go over outlines and possibly drafts with your TFs - make sure to ground every claim you make....really have to think a lot in outlining process - remember "I have to ground all my claims"  6) after every unit - i.e. after Utilitarianism write a 1-2 pg review for yourself of how this theory is grounded, how it functions, what do is consider most important in developing a frmework of justice, what are it's main arguements, and counterarguements, how does it respond to counterarguements....this is come really in handy when thinking about papers and exams....won't have to do any more studying 7) for final take some timed practice exams under time conditions
You will be fooled by the fun, "talking in class" thing, but you will come to find those kids annoying.  You won't do the reading and your tf will be an annoying jerk.  You will get bad grades on your essays and be like, "wait, I though this was a GenEd, why am I expected to write like a Philosophy graduate student?"  And you will hate yourself for taking this.
Class participation in lecture can get annoying, but it is a painless way to fill the ethical reasoning requirement.
Sandel is great at maintaining lively discussions and relating ideas to real-world examples, but the class is not as based on ways to resolve contemporary issues as it could be. Expect to read classical theories that might not seem as relevant to you personally along with current examples that are interesting in themselves but somewhat forced with the given theorists. However, it's interesting to take a classic Harvard course with 800 other students and Sandel is clearly brilliant and really down to earth and approachable if you want to see him outside of class as well.
Excellent, but tough class. Sandel is an excellent professor whose lecturing style is very unique and engaging.  Both he and the section leaders really emphasize teaching the material to students, rather than leaving students afloat in a vast sea of dense philosophical writings.
I debated for a while about taking this class. I was skeptical about taking such a large class. But it was definitely worth it. You don't have to do any reading. Just go to lecture and meet with your tf about your paper ideas. You'll come away a better thinker.
This was the one class that I knew for sure I would take as an incoming freshman. However, that being said, I felt almost disappointed in this course - that it was overrated almost. I felt like I could have gained more knowledge in philosophy in another philosophy course.
It'll be really helpful if you're actually interested in philosophy because you'll spend a lot of time reading long, dense material. Otherwise, it's definitely an eye-opening course that has a decent workload but is also pretty rewarding.
Justice is a very interesting moral reasoning course that is much better than some people say it is and actually does teach you useful information that will affect your life.
Harvard classic.
If you think that this class can't live up to the hype, don't let that be your reason for not taking it. This really is an excellent course that serves as an awesome introduction to philosophical thinking about justice; from Bentham to Aristotle, these are folks to know and Justice gives you that chance. Sandel is great: if you're hesitant about taking a popular lecture course taught by a famous professor after taking LS20 with Steven Pinker, it's important to know that Sandel is a much better professor. He manages to make a large lecture into a seminar; it takes great genius to do that effectively. Also, Brad Hinshelwood is a great TF who ran our section really well and was helpful throughout the course with paper writing. Overall, a great course, one I probably wouldn't have taken if it wasn't a Core requirement, but I'm glad that I did.
TAKE IT! It's not the easiest way to fulfill GenEd, but it's not hard either. Most importantly, the class is phenomenal. Sandel's lectures are incredible, and you get a good exposure to some of the most influential thought in Western history. You really learn to break down your own ideas and analyze why you think the way you do. It's pretty cool.
This is a harmless way of meeting an ER gen ed. You should also, as a well-educated person, have engaged with the ideas presented in the course.  You'll probably come out the course confused about your own moral judgments, but unsettling you is one of the benefits of the class.  Use TF office hours for papers. Each has a particular mode of thinking about philosophy papers and adapt to what they want.
Do not take this class. Not worth your time
Keep up with the course.
Its a great class which everyone at Harvard should take!
The lectures were less interesting than expected.
It fulfils the reputation of being "one of the classes you have to take at Harvard", at any stage of your academic career.
It's exactly what you think it's going to be like.
A Harvard must.
Quality varies TF wise
Definitely a good and challenging overview of philosophical thought. Harder than it seems to be so make sure you want to take this course rather than another one don't take it because you think it's easy, it's not.
It is an interesting class. It really engages the students and you will learn a lot. At the end of the year the purpose of the class will be achieved. (Teaching you to have ethical reasoning, from practical and philosophical points of view.)
This class is a Harvard institution and I definitely recommend it.  Don't go into the course expecting for Sandel to radically change your views on ethical reasoning.  Instead, this class is a good opportunity to become familiar with different views people might have on morality.  Definitely a good class.
It's a really fun class and a good introduction to Western moral philosophy. I think people learned how to change their minds through open discussion and debate. I think every time a new philosopher came up in the book, I would completely agree, then change my mind after objections were posed in lecture, then change my mind again in section. Prof. Sandel does a great job of fostering thoughtful debate in a massive class. Don't be afraid to talk in class if you think you're right, but don't talk unless you're actually answering the question asked. Sometimes we would get derailed by people who really wanted to discuss their opinions, which is good in section, but not so much in a class of several hundred students and only so much time.
It really makes you think and brings up real-life situations.
This class was interesting, but I do not think it lives up to its reputation. I was disappointed in the class overall.
lectures are fun.
Take this class and do the reading.  It will make you think about your beliefs and your convictions and really examine them in ways that you likely have not before.  It also provides a great philosophical and historical groundwork for modern dilemmas and current events.
Take this class!  It is extremely fun and interesting, and Sandel is a wonderful lecturer.  Even if you have no intention of concentrating in anything remotely close to ethical reasoning, it is a very rewarding gen ed or elective.  It goes a lot better if you analyze all the concepts closely to find what seems valid, what invalid and the axioms and implications of the different moral frameworks.  Very light workload generally.
Justice is very interesting, and Michael Sandel is a great lecturer.  I enjoyed being in a class of 1,000 people; it was different, and a cool experience.
I truly enjoyed this class. By taking it, it has made me reconsider what I want to do with my life. Sandel poses questions that make you think about things in a totally different way.
The curve is really annoying.  Everything else is fantastic.
Attend lectures because they are entertaining and enjoyable, although in reality, attending section is more important. Most lectures can be summarized in a few sentences.
Does not live up to the hype, but it is still an incredible class. The first two weeks or so are really exciting, and so are the last two. The readings in the middle are incredibly dense and boring.
not as great as you think it will be
Just read his book. Not the reader, the book book. Or watch it all online. Or just "audit".There is no point in doing those papers, and section is meh.
Good philosophy class but take the time to do the readings
While Justice gives you a good grasp on several important philosophers, it is tough to get a good grade in this class because you are only graded on four things--your section participation, your two papers, and the final.  The papers are graded harshly.  On the bright side, Sandel is a fascinating lecturer and this class taught me to see many fundamental moral and political debates in a new light.
This is a great class because it's personal. You'll be presented with an array of thinkers, all with different opinions, and be forced to assess your opinion of them and test that opinion on contemporary issues. I found that I had no basis for a lot of my opinions, and was able to substantiate them through the course. I also found that some of my opinions were invalid. This is, of course, disconcerting, but it's eye-opening and, I think, important to engage in. As far as readings go, Justice is not so bad (approx. 40 pages per week), but it does take a while to get used to reading philosophy if you haven't, so some of the first readings can take a while. The physical workload is minimal (2 papers, 2 response papers, 1 final), but if you don't stay on top of the course as it's happening, you will regret it when the assignments roll around.
Work on your papers way ahead of time.
I would say the material is rather cryptic at first. It's difficult to all of a sudden begin reading ethical works when you're used to more watered down material. I would say do the readings to the best of your ability but do not get bogged down with all the details.
Everyone should take Justice. I was glad not to take it as a freshman, because having a year of college writing (and a few persuasive papers) under my belt made the assignments more pleasant than daunting.  You have to be prepared to internalize the material, because it is a very personal course and shook my own beliefs to the core by forcing me to defend everything.  Doing the readings isn't necessary for lecture, section, or even the papers...but you will get more out of the course if you do the reading.
Don't reference readings in your exams.
You will learn a lot about basic philosophies of justice and your own opinions on right and wrong. This course is stimulating and fruitful as long as you put work into it.
Interesting material and an excellent professor.
Interesting, but they grade very harshly on the first paper so that you "improve"
I would say that the class is definitely worth taking because it challenges different views respectfully and makes you think critically/analytically.
This course is very exciting and intriguing and will make you think about things that you have not thought about before. It is a lot of work, but it leaves you with necessary tools for making moral and just decisions, and also for debating about these issues, in the future.
No matter how hard you work, you will always be frustrated with your grades and the feedback you receive on your work.
Great discussions, good overview of philosophers.
Justice is a really good introduction to moral reasoning. It can be frustrating for some to be in such an enormous class (think 800-1000), with discussions dominated by the unrepresentative minority that would actually speak in front of so many people, but the subject matter is genuinely interesting.
This course is clearly one of the most popular at the college, but for good reason. Professor Sandel has to be one of the best lecturers at Harvard, and that makes the class worth it!
This class is not an easy A
Workload is not too bad.  The essays and class discussions really make you think in a way you never have before.
Sandell does an amazing job of explaining the material and facilitating discussion.  If you're interested in this topic, I would highly recommend it.
No; Because I put so much work into the class but did not get good feedback and had a terrible section leader
Justice is a great introduction to moral reasoning without being a terribly burdensome. You will leave knowing a little about the things you thought you were supposed to learn about in college.
If you often think about moral dilemmas and enjoy debates, you should definitely take this course.  It's also a great way to get to pick your own mind and to understand your own conscience more.  I really, really loved this course and gained a lot from it.  However, if you end up with a bad TF or if you just aren't interested in this stuff to begin with, I've heard that it can also be pretty miserable.
It's not perfect, but it will change the way you look at the world, especially if you've never really done ethics before.
This class will teach you how to think--if you care enough to put in the time and the effort. Depending on your TF, section can be really rewarding. The discussion during lecture was often fairly useless, but overall, the course was good. Just know that what you're really taking is an "Intro to Political Philosophy" course
This class is good, but not as amazing as the number of students enrolled may suggest. It's a fun class to take with a bunch of friends, and sections are extremely interesting. If you aren't interested in any other philosophy classes for the gen ed requirement, then Justice is a safe bet for an interesting and fairly easy class to take.
The readings are long, but the class is worth it!
This course has the potential to be very dry.  However, Professor Sandel really brings the subject matter to life and presents the material in a way that is interesting and thought-provoking.
If I could do it over again, I would not take this class. Do not buy into the Justice hype. It seems very interesting at the beginning with the first few lectures, but then it dives into philosophy which can be very difficult to read and understand with someone with little background. I am glad that I figured out from this class that I really dislike philosophy but upset that I had to suffer all semester. While it is very feasible to do decently on the papers, I found that it was hard to speak up during section when you had a very minimal understanding of the material. The TFs are helpful but I still disliked the class. The reading doesnt seem like a lot but the reader is actually very large and the material is quite dense in my opinion. I would advise you to do further research than simply sitting in during shopping week and hearing about how 900 kids are taking the class. I did like the freshman sections though--a lot less intimidating.
Take this class. It's relatively low-key but undeniably important and relevant.
Very thought-provoking course.
IT really makes you think about things in a new way. Super awesome.
The class is great. However, its size makes it a mixed bag of experiences.  Sandel is incredibly hard to reach outside of class.
Justice is a good class to take not because everyone takes it. It provides a great background to Western philosophy along the singular theme of justice. The material is well worth learning and the Professor and TFs are fantastic. The course staff, however, must be advised to not leave valuables, such as final exams, in plain sight of a locked car. Locked cars are very easily broken into, and if one wants to truly keep their valuables safe, they should be kept in the trunk. But, this was a fluke incident, and should not be a basis for judgment of the class. The class is well worth taking if you're willing to learn the material and put in the effort. Otherwise, you'll just be one of hundreds in the class and not get much out of it. This class is best defined by how you use it to define your own opinions and interpretations.
Reading are fairly dry, but Professor Sandel is amazing.  Take this class!
It is a broad introduction, so the class will cover a range of theories and will not dwell too deeply on any one. You'll get more out of it if you actually do the readings, because when else will most people take the time to read these texts?
Fun but not that hard and not life changing.
Great Gen. Ed. Philosophy course.
I would highly recommend this class! Although the material and essays can be difficult and the TFs tend to grade harshly, it is worth it. Professor Sandel is a great lecturer and this class really makes you think and challenges your beliefs and teaches how to articulate your opinion.
This course is amazing but requires a lot of reading. The reading is great just be sure that you set aside enough time to do it.
If you're a good writer, feel comfortable taking this course.
This class is definitely going to challenge your views and perspectives on certain issues such as affirmative action.  It is one of those classes that take you on a journey of self-discovery.
This is a class that I think everyone should take at some point. I truly hope that I can retain the way of thinking about the world that this class has given me, especially in my evaluation of government and justice in the world.
Just an OK class - We hear more opinions from freshmen then we do from Professor Sandel though. And we all know how annoying freshmen can be.
Read all of the passages assigned and mark everything you don't understand to bring it up in section.
Just go to class. No need to do the reading if you go to class. And try to get a good TF. I recommend Don or Kerstin.
Best way to fulfill ER/MR requirements. This class is a Harvard institution, the material is great, and the workload is incredibly light and interesting. Harvard categorical imperative: take Justice!
It requires a lot of reading, but besides the reading the work load is relatively light and the way that the course tests your thinking is amazing.
This class is too large to really benefit students. Sandel is an awesome lecturer, but it feels like section is the only part of the class where it actually matters.
It's a great class to take to fulfill your ethical reasoning requirement.
This is a very stimulating class that is worth taking just to hear Professor Sandel's lectures
Have an open mind to different ideas.
This is a pretty painless way to get rid of Moral Reasoning, and Sandel does a good job of making lecture engaging and tying the philosophies to modern-day moral issues. It's not a lot of work, but it's also graded very harshly, so don't expect to take home an easy A.
The most thought-provoking and rewarding class I've taken at Harvard
Make sure to pay attention in section!
This course is a serious contender for my all-time favorite at Harvard.  Professor Sandel completely knows what he's doing and is just a great lecturer. This class also gave me the best, most helpful TF I'll ever have, Merry.  The material gets you seriously thinking and your beliefs get really shaken up, which I think is awesome.
Justice is a great course, though the grading is arbitrary.
A good way to satisfy political theory requirements for government concentrators.
It is a kind of boring class.
If you want to think over some pretty interesting material, engage with an amazing professor, and challenge yourself, take Justice. Be forewarned that you should have at least some interest in philosophy and that this class will expect much from you. There are definitely easier ways to fulfill the Gened requirement, but sometimes harder classes are more rewarding.
It is interesting to read about the different stances of the philosophers. Be warned that the papers are tough to get great grades on.
Don't take it unless you actually want to do the reading. There isn't too much of it, but sometimes it gets convoluted and you don't get very much attention. Philosophers' theories are something you have to figure out how to wrap your head around on your own anwyay if you really want to get them.
This is a great course that gives you philosophical knowledge and ways to incorporate those ideals to current events.
This class is a really good class and allows you to consider topics like ethical reasoning that you would not regularly consider.  It is not an overly taxing course either because there is one final, two papers, and two response papers.  The thing that takes you the longest would be the reading, so get started asap.
Justice is a wonderful experience for those who want a good grounding in philosophy without too much depth into a particular philosopher, with a focus on major moral quandaries.
There's a lot of reading but the lectures are entertaining and it's worthwhile to get to see everyone's opinions on questions of justice.
This is a really interesting class that introduced me to political philosophy. I would recommend it to anyone, but caution: I thought this class would be a breeze and it was actually decently difficult! Anyone can do well, but you have to spend a lot of time on your papers. You only get a week to write them, and you really have to be heavily invested in the paper that week if you want to do well.
Great class, a good class to take as a freshman adjusting to college
It was interesting, but at times seemed elementary and trite.
The topics are interesting and thought-provoking, and you will definitely gain a better understanding of politics and your own beliefs. The essays, however, were difficult, and there was little preparation in how to actually approach them.
Lectures are boring and do not hold your attention. But, the readings are great, and if you have a good TF you will enjoy section.
Unless you like sitting in an extremely large lecture, where you hear the same people talk, and have the potential to be put in a section with someone who disregards your opinion and makes you feel stupid, then I do not recommend it.
Very interesting conversations. Engaging lectures. Paper topics are too broad.
Unless you are vehemently opposed to taking a huge class in Sanders Theater, take this to satisfy the Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed requirement.
Justice covers a lot of really interesting material in an interactive lecture format that is engaging.  The class is intended to puzzle you and make you evaluate what your beliefs truly are.
Justice is a Harvard staple, and you will by missing out if you don't take it. If you're thinking about not taking it because you don't like the idea of taking such a large class, you need to rethink that reasoning. My hesitancy to take Justice at the beginning of the semester has been entirely devoured by my enthusiasm for the course today.
This is not a forum to discuss those thorny issues of right and wrong that are so enthralling during 3 a.m. discussions with your roommates.  It is first and foremost a philosophy class, and you must have an interest in learning the theories of Mill, Kant, and Aristotle far more than discussing affirmative action or same-sex marriage.  I was drawn by the gimmick of passing a microphone around a room of 800 students, which is compelling at first but quickly grows tiresome if you are not interested in the material.
It is honestly not what it is advertised to be, beware and try to pick another course that covers the same basic topic in a smaller setting which should be better for the material.
It's a good class. I learned a lot, and found myself quoting the material outside of class (which I normally never do). The lectures are pretty clear and straightforward, but people's comments get annoying at times. The workload isn't too bad, but you still have to do readings.
If you need to fulfill your Ethical Reasoning requirement, this is an easy way to do it, although it is one of the most overrated classes at Harvard.
Make sure you keep up on the readings or go to all the lectures!
You don't need to do the readings, just go to lecture.
An integral part of the Harvard experience.  It's got its priorities right; you succeed if you actually put time in thinking about it.
it's not nearly as cool as it seems in the first couple lectures..
This is not an easy breezy class - but definitely worth it. You will come out of it with a different perspective on many issues - and a greater ability to argue any point you choose.
Overall, it is a interesting and stimulating class. That being said, there are some drawbacks to learning in an auditorium with 800 other people. If you like moral philosophy and debate, and can stand learning in the ultimate lecture hall setting, you likely should take this course.
I had a lot of fun in this class, and it was a painless way to finish the Moral Reasoning core. That said, it might be a little intimidating if you're very shy about speaking up in section, especially because people can get very committed to what their saying.
If you are interested in philosophy and want to learn new ways to look at ethical dilemmas this is a perfect class. Totally worth it and a great experience.
This class helped develop me as an intellectual and as an adult. To be able to look introspectively at one's own beliefs and question them in order to either reshape them or reassert them is one of the defining ongoing experiences of adulthood and Justice helped me do just that. For this experience, I am overwhelmingly grateful and I am very pleased with the ability of Michael Sandel, Kerstin Haase, and the rest of the Teaching Fellows to replicate such a redefining experience for so many other students and viewers nationwide.
Definitely worth taken
Watch out. What you think you know, you will soon realize that you don't. The world is a messed up place, and there are no clear answers to anything. If you are looking in this class to find the one true philosophy, I doubt you will be successful. That is what I wanted, and came up empty-handed. What I did come up with, however, was a good knowledge of different viewpoints and an understanding of the different philosophies underpinning a lot of what I already think.
It really is a great course that covers fantastic material, but you honestly will only get as much as you put in.  I feel like I appreciate it much more now, AFTER the final than I even realized I would throughout the term.
Makes philosophical theory interesting!
You've got to take a moral reasoning.  Justice isn't a bad choice, but the reading can get pretty dry at times.
Take this class if you love to debate and see issues from new perspectives!
Interesting and engaging, awakens the restlessness of reason
It's very interesting and intellectually stimulating. My one word of caution is that the grading on the essays (worth a combined 40% of the grade) can be quite tough and it's hard to get an A.
Very useful for academic thought
It's worth taking only if you have never taken any sort of epistemology course before.
I think you'll come away with a great sense of Western philosophy. The book has some great readings, but it may be difficult to get through sometimes. Nevertheless try to read what you can. Pay attention to lectures, they are pretty good. It might be worth going back to them later, because you'll have a much better idea of what's going on. Go to Sandel's office hours! He's very welcoming.
Painless way to fulfill a core. It'll make you think.
Be prepared to read some interesting yet dense material.  The class will have you thinking in ways you have not before, and you WILL find yourself talking about moral dilemmas presented in lecture/section with your parents and roommates.  If you are willing to put in the effort to get through the reading, the class will surely prove to be a reward.
Very interesting information and good section leaders and stellar lecturer, but make sure you know exactly what the TFs want on the papers.
This is a great class - it will be one of your favorites
This course is difficult, might sometimes seem boring, but if you want to get something out of it, you can get a lot out of it.
Do the readings, listen to lecture, and discuss.
You get out of it what you put into it.
It is a course that you will be excited about and you can actually learn a lot in the process.
Lectures are great when Sandel speaks, but be prepared to be sufficiently annoyed by classmates engaging in open discussion when they don't know what they're rambling on about. Plenty of people speaking just for the sake of hearing their own voice - not great in a room of 1000 people who are trying to understand a concept.
Justice is one of those courses that people either love or hate. If you like to listen to your fellow students talk about topics during lecture and like controversial subjects, then you will like this course. If you really want to be taught by Sandel and don't care about the other students' thoughts, then this might not be the course for you. The key to Justice is to get a good section leader because they make or break the course. If you have a good section leader like I did, then the course is much more engaging, otherwise it can be a bit of a slog I am told.
It feels great to get those readings under your belt, and to actually understand them. That being said, they can be boring, and it can be frustrating to hear your classmates talk all the time
It's that class that everyone ends up taking at Harvard. Easiest A I've gotten at this school
If you know how to write, you can do well in this class without really paying too much attention to the material.
I can't imagine there is a better way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement.
Maybe not as incredible as the hype suggests, but still certainly worthwhile. I learned a lot, and it definitely made me think in new ways. Grading is tough.
Justice is a wonderful class and gave me the tools to reflect on my own moral and political opinions. It was really thought-provoking and I would highly recommend it!
This class is only very rewarding if you actually do the reading and put in work. Be warned, though, that your grade may not accurately reflect how much work you put in, as the only major assessments other than the final exams are papers, and these papers are graded quite subjectively. Good class overall!
If a lot of your friends are taking it, you might as well take it too.
This is an amazing course that can teach you a lot about how we think about the moral issues of our day.
You need to know how to think.
Justice is one of the most well-run and reasonable courses I've ever taken at Harvard. There was plenty of time to write the papers, and there was no midterm, no paper over reading period, and no lecture on Friday. Despite these lax requirements, you actually learn things, such as how to identify and categorize different approaches to different moral questions, and what the strengths and weaknesses of those approaches are (skills which I've already found is helpful when reading editorials and news reports or debating with a friend). Overall a great choice for the Ethical Reasoning requirement.
Great way to have interesting conversations with your friends about ethical and political issues and, if you have little experience in this area, hopefully change the way you think about these issues while exposing you to many well known philosophers.
The long readings for this class can get tedious, but this class is not overrated. You'll realize this when you're actually a little sad during the last class, and you'll be really glad you took the course.
Whether you write the best paper of your life or you write it the night before you will most likely get a B. Don' take this class if you are looking for an easy A to fill a gen ed.  That being said the topics are very interesting and discussing them makes you really analyze the way you think.
This a great and challenging course.  I found the papers to be extremely hard, but I learned a lot about philosophy.
This was a fun course but don't take it if you can't stand reading philosophy...
Lively material. Engaging lectures.
It's hard not to recommend this course--it's more of an event, than a course, you have to just experience it.
This course is great, but you only get out of it what you put into it. It is pretty easy to do decently well with very little work, but if you put in the extra work it is definitely worth it.
The papers are graded harshly.
It's worth taking for the experience of Sandel's lectures, just beware of the frustratingly steep paper grading.
If you like arguing your opinion, you would enjoy this class.
This class is at the top of ,y list for students who need to fulfill an ethical reasoning requirement.  It is not too difficult and it is very engaging.
Despite the fact that the topic matter is fairly interesting, I found it difficult to understand what was expected of me on the essays, and this had an impact on my grade. There are plenty of better courses at Harvard.
The papers are graded annoying hard. there is not that much feedback. and, the lectures are only about the very basic core of the arguments, which to me makes it seem like reading through all of the nuanced points in the reading is a waste of time. however, the readings are pretty interesting and you get to learn all the basic arguments used in "moral debates". Further, I thought the concepts all converged very nicely and were tied together well at the end of the class. I would never never never take it unless for the gen ed tho.
It's a pretty cool class. But it's really big!
Sandel is the best lecturer I have had at Harvard-take this class.
This course is interesting, spurrs conversation, and is a low time requirement.
If you hadn't had a philosophy course before, this would be the perfect appetizer!
You could get by without going to lectures but they are the best part of the course so I would recommend attending them.  Also, get your hands on a study guide, they are very helpful.
This class is amazing. Sandel is the man. His lectures are amazing and I would definitely recommend going to all of them. You learn the most from section though, so hope you get a good TF. This class was one of my easiest coursework-wise, but it's also the class that I learned the most from. It really gets you comfortable with all the different theories and your critical thinking gets a lot better after taking this course.
It's definitely an intro level course and can be occasionally frustrating, but, in general, I'm very glad I took the course.
Excellent. Sandel has your attention from the moment he walks out on the Sander's Theater stage.
I do not care for the discipline of philosophy, as a rule. However, Justice provides a good introduction to the various schools of thought, and eases a novice student into the process of moral reasoning.  I would recommend this course for anyone who is hesitant about philosophy, and wants a thorough and broad reaching introduction.
The material in this course is not that difficult and there is not a lot of work.  However, it is difficult to get a good grade because the writing assignments are graded hard.
Makes you think.  I like thinking.  Do you?
The class is really not time-consuming at all (only 2 essays and a final), but it's difficult to get a good grade on your essays. The lectures get boring especially when we try to hold discussions with hundreds of people. But I thoroughly enjoyed section and I feel like most of the section leaders know what they're doing. The topics also might seem kind of all over the place in the beginning, but the class does do a nice job of getting you thinking about ways to reason out the morality behind certain decisions.
If you have the chance to take Justice, TAKE IT. It's one of those courses that's quintessentially Harvard: an amazing prof lecturing to a room full of bright minds. The idea of moral and political philosophy might sound dry at first glance, but trust me, it's worth it. The readings, lectures, debates, and discussions are more provocative than you'd imagine.
Please take this class. It's fun and makes you question and reinforce your beliefs with something more than gut reaction or upbringing.
A little repetitive, and definitely not an easy A
This class' lectures are nowhere near as stimulating as I was led to believe.  Too many facile announcements from the audience, not enough actual learning, and for a reason I can't quite put my finger on, I found it very hard to take Professor Sandel seriously--maybe it is his self-satisfied manner on the stage and deliberately quiet microphone setting.  He seems to spend more time pandering to the students for adoration that teaching.  I did not like this. Section was good, the readings were interesting in their on rights, but not worth the work.  This class is more difficult than you might expect, and not good enough to merit the time you need to spend to do well.
The lectures are fantastic, the assignments - less so.
The course material is interesting, especially if you like philosophy and intellectual history, and Sandel is a great lecturer, although you often have to listen to very opinionated/annoying students speak in lecture. You also have to be prepared to discuss the theories in section with these same students, which is discouraging sometimes since the TF gives them so much time. It is a great introduction to moral philosophy, but frustrating at times.
If you want to have your political and moral opinions challenged, defended, and challenged again, look no further. This class will elevate your thinking about the relationships between individual, community, and State. The papers are difficult but B+'s are a small price to pay.
Fun, big class. Definitely worth taking.
You should have an interest in philosophy if you are going to take this class.
the huge class aspect is something to take very seriously when considering whether this will be a worthwhile experience.
If you're at all interested in the arguments behind a lot of modern issues, like abortion rights, disability rights, affirmative action, etc., then you should definitely take it!
It's huge but it's a really great class. Michael Sandel can make any philosopher (even Kant!) make sense and the readings we do have a great impact on everyday life. Don't expect to hear anything thought-provoking from your fellow students during lecture but section was fun and informative. I really loved the Justice reader though - if you don't take the class at least read the book.
enjoy sandel's passion
A very good introduction to many moral philosophies. But the coverage of each philosopher is very basic (as expected), and may be unsatisfying to those who prefer depth over breadth. The best part were the engaging lectures.
A better course than I expected: people have varied opinions on Justice, but I really liked it. The readings were great, and lectures were awesome. My TF was good, so I guess that helps.
Your grade depends on your TF
Michael Sandel is most likely the best lecturer you will ever get to hear as an undergraduate.
Very good for gaining a good foundation of knowledge about Western political philosophy.  Also lectures were interesting, Sandell is very well-practiced and always has consistent delivery.  Assignments are not easy, and require a lot of work.  You will likely be challenged more than you expect.
Like any of Harvard's larger classes (this being the largest at 1000), people leave Justice with an infinite variety of impressions about the quality of the class.  I recommend that if you approach the class already familiar with names like Kant, Aristotle, Locke, etc. (as I was) you should skip Justice and take an introductory class in the philosophy department.  If, however, you have never even come close to a class in moral philosophy, Justice might be for you.  I think the most objectively true thing about courses with 20 different sections is that it's tough to standardize the Justice experience.  I happened to have a teaching fellow who knew his stuff, but was pretty boring and a tougher grader than lots of other TFs.  So you need to go into Justice understanding first that your TF will determine the overall quality of the class for you.  Also, if you go to lecture, you will spend 30 minutes hearing not Michael Sandel lecturing, but various students answering questions that they are not in any way shape or form qualified to answer.
I think a lot of your experience with the course is made by your section and TF.
Take it before you graduate! Especially economics majors.
The class is large, very large. As such, it is easy not to feel motivated to do the work.
This is not a fourth class. This is not "just another Gen-Ed." It requires work, and it is difficult. Not an easy A.
This is a very unique course at Harvard. I would ignore what people say about the course being impersonal. Those are the people who sat in the back of every lecture. If you are really engaged in the course material, the lectures feel incredibly personal. It helps that Sandel is super accessible, both after class and in office hours. Overall, I strongly recommend it! It may be a little too simple for hard philosophy concentrators, but for the 99% rest of us, its great!
Just be ready for a class where it is very difficult to get an A on a paper. But you will learn a lot of important things, and receive a great foundation. Sandel is great.
There is an extremely high standard for the papers so TAKE YOUR TIME ON THEM!!! Other than that, try to get involved during section because that is the one place where you will be able to actually discuss the philosophers and cases without the nonsense of the microphone hoggers in lecture.
If you are interested in the philosophy that will be covered, take the course.  But look at the syllabus first.  If you really don't want to learn this stuff, avoid course at all costs.
Pros: lectures are generally fantastic; section was strong with good discussion and the TF was supportiveCons: some lectures were definitely not as good as others; student discussion during lectures was not always that great; the essays are frustratingly difficult especially because little resources or expectations are given on how to write philosophy papersOverall: a good experience and not a bad way to fill a Gen Ed, but some find the class a bit disappointing.
If you like listening to people who are perhaps not the sharpest knives in the drawer talk about things they have thought little about, this course is for you. That being said, you do read some great philosophers, and if you are willing to bring the intellectual rigor on your own, this course can be salvaged.
make sure to do the readings...also go talk to your tf before the first paper to understand their expectations on writing style/ argument structure
This is probably going to be the most defining  class in your life. Meets perfectly the mission of harvard college as an institution that will teach you how to think and deal with life situations.
this class is a wonderful intro into current political thinking
You shouldn't graduate from Harvard without taking Justice.
Run. Just.... just run, run far away, and never look back.
This is a great way to fulfill Gov Political Theory requirements, or Ethical Reasoning requirements. However, as an elective, it is definitely overrated. You can get a similar level of knowledge from watching the past lecture videos (all of which are online), and from reading the Textbook (Justice: A Reader) and the Companion Book (Justice: What's the Right Thing to Do). However, the assignments (the two essays) will force you to think and write like a lawyer in a way that you can't learn on your own. So if that's what you want, take the course. If not, you don't need to.
I absolutely loved this class! It gave a great basic overview of a variety of philosophers and their ideas. Though it is a huge class, Professor Sandel engages the class in interactive and thought-provoking discussion. I really liked how it made me think about things from a more complex moral perspective.
Beware that grades are lower than you will expect, but the material is fun.  Section was fantastic.  I never attended lecture because I didn't participate and I found most of my peers' answers to be all over the place.
Great way to get a good handle on the basic concepts addressed by the theorists most often referenced.
Definitely a class you should take while at Harvard.
This course will have you look at the morality of your own personal decisions day to day. Be forewarned!
It wasn't exactly what I imagined it would be. However, if you set aside the preconceived notions you may have for this course, it can still be a very interesting class.
It's a very interesting course worth taking when it runs again
Don't bother. Never take a class with 1000 students.
Take it! Sandel is a great professor and you will learn a lot about essential philosophers.
Requires you to think about philosophical issues in a way some students might not be used to. That can be challenging, but I think it's a course worth taking. You deal with substantive issues and can likely get a better idea of what you believe and why you believe it.
The class overall is pretty interesting, but be ready for rather difficult grading on the papers.  Best thing is to be proactive and meet with your TF early before you start writing your paper.
I would warn anyone who cares about grades to not take this class. One of the TFs was forced to resign after he wouldn't systematically lower his students' paper grades. It is a pretty easy class to get a B or maybe a B+ in, but it is extremely hard to get an A- or A so you shouldn't go into the class expecting one. I have never gotten less than a flat A in any government department class and I am expecting a B+ in Justice. Also, listening to people speak in lecture actually makes you stupider.
Make sure you get a good tf.
Make sure you start on papers early and check in with your TF as often as possible on outlines and argument development. It is hard for students who have not studied philosophy before to write a good Justice paper.
The course is one of the few that really forces you to look at your beliefs and values critically. It will open your eyes to the world. Everyone should take this class.
This class is worth taking, even if you're not interested in philosophy or pre-law. The workload is totally doable. There is a fair amount of reading, but it's not totally necessary to understand it all perfectly, because lecture/section help a lot.
Take this your senior year. Don't be tempted freshman year.
It has been my favorite class ever!
dont take it unless you are interested in sitting thru 2 hours a week of other students telling you what they think.
Be weary of the paper assignments. However, I would recommend taking this class to hear Sandel lecture!
This is one of the easiest and dumbest classes I have taken. Any person with an ounce of logic and a tiny slot of memory open should be able to finish the final exam in like an hour and do the papers in about that time frame as well.However, it is also very dangerous, because it gives illogical people the opportunity to spout ridiculous nonsense and pretend to know what they are talking about. Let me give an example. Someone I know who took it a little while back is now a "Libertarian Kantian with a mix of Aristotle". THIS IS UTTER NONSENSE! And he is by far not the worst, OH NO... Idiocy was splattering all over the walls. Someone takes the microphone, and BOOM! a wave of stupidity almost invariably washes over the auditorium. Imagine a random drunk guy going up to a general and telling him what how he thinks armies should be run and strategies developed, and being really proud of himself. Yep...However, one cannot escape by just not going to class because SECTIONS ARE MANDATORY. And they're not much better. It is like being trapped in a room full of mudkipz saying "MUD KIP... MUD KIP" (to be fair this isn't the TFs fault since they usually try to make the best of it and some were alright, but this is a general impression). Now, of course it would be better to run this class without random audience input. But since it seems likely to continue being run this way, much can still be done to improve. The professor, in an effort to be "inclusive" and "teach" (giving him the benefit of every doubt) actually tries to engage with stubborness and stupidity rather than being like "nope, you're wrong, shut up". Also, it is not at all clear whether the professor has a deep understanding of what justice is either, but I have too little evidence to judge.In short, feel free to take this if you want a trivial class that will take no work. If you want to actually learn something important, read the classics and think about the inscriptions at Delphi: "Nothing in Excess" and "Know Thyself". Then go read Plato and Kant and engage in dialectic. That should get one started.
-very good class-after completion, you realize that the class has challenged your views of the world, and make you question your belief system-it will teach you more about yourself and your perceptions of different situations, and you will come out knowing a little bit more about who you are than when you entered
This is a great, solid introduction to philosophy and justice. The lectures can be pretty interesting and the course is comprehensive without being overwhelming.
Good class. Should take for experience. Can get most of the same things from the itunes u lectures.
The course is a great introduction to political philosophy, a background that is useful in many fields. It is easy to skip lecture and still do well, but you will not get as much out of the class.
It's certainly worth taking a class with Michael Sandel while you are at Harvard regardless of whether or not you think you are interested in Ethics or not. Despite being familiar with many of the ideas and thinkers, I still learned so much.
Great class. Not a lot of work either, only two papers and a final.
Take it. You'll learn a ton about how to pick through moral issues, and you'll have tons of awesome conversations sparked by the class.Chances are your moral foundations will collapse and then reform during your time in the course, which is awesome.
This class really gives a great introduction to the Western philosophers and philosophical thinking.
This is a hall-mark class of Harvard. Take it. The work is not too demanding, does not involve a major time comittment, and is the best way to fulfill the E-R requirement. If you go to lecture, listen, and go to section and participate, you will do fine and walk away feeling satisfied.
It will change your life. Honestly.
Lecture did not feel like lecture, but rather like a 1000 person section, which means that (1) you miss the benefits of actual lectures, and (2) you don't get the benefits of section, since most people do not speak up, and therefore you hear uninteresting ideas from the same handful of people at each lecture.Take a real lecture class instead.
If you enjoy being challenged and question, this is the course for you!
