That the course is great.  It may be frustrating at first, but it's completely worth it at the end of the course.
The professor is great and very helpful. He is always willing to help you out of class and office hours
This class is a great opportunity to develop your writing skills, engaging in great discussions, and learn about different existential dilemmas.
Stay on top of the reading.
Pay attention to Professor Moran's lecture notes. They really illuminate the texts: they are a joy to read.
The weekly readings often seem short - take that opportunity to not get behind, and read them over again for clarity.
I liked this class because I found the questions being raised to be quite interesting. That being said, I would be careful to stay on top of the readings, take thorough lecture notes, and attend section regularly. I got behind on my reading and this is not the type of reading you can skim a few days before the final! Don't be afraid to ask questions during section. The readings are short, but they require a double read because they are so dense.
R. Moran is an expert in this topic.  If you are interested in the topic, then definitely take it.  You read a lot of great works and become exposed to powerful ideas on how to view yourself in the context of the world.
It'll be a great course if you're sure you're interested in the material.  The quality of discussion will probably vary section by section; lectures will be good but better if you do the readings.
I loved this class! I'm a science/math kid who had never taken any philosophy before. I loved Professor Moran's lectures, the readings and section. Overall it was a fantastic introduction to philosophy classes in general, and further, existentialism. If you're on the fence about taking it--take it! The TF was also amazing and section was not boring but something to look forward every week.
A solid gen-ed course.  The readings can be tough (especially Sartre) but lectures, section, and the 20th century readings were all helpful in untangling the difficult philosophical concepts.  You'll learn about some cool ideas that really are applicable to daily life; in addition, you get an introduction to the vexing question of whether free will is compatible with determinism.
