Try to keep up with readings so that you can make the most of section.
Don't take it... if you do, don't say I didn't warn you.
It is so chill!  A very low-key way to take care of this requirement.
It's a relatively painless to get the ethical reasoning requirement done. It's quite disorganized and Prof. Wikler tends to ramble, but his rambles tend to be interesting, if you like thinking about ethics.
Save yourself, don't take this class!  Lectures are a mess and you never actually cover the material until section where we never get to it all so you're pretty much screwed for the 3 major assignments we have.
It was painful, but if you're not into philosophy then really they all are.  This one was doable and didn't require huge amounts of work, so take it if necessary.
Offers an interesting overview of the many bioethical issues. The first half of the course is very philosophical in nature, while the second half is much more applied. The lectures can become rambling at times, and if you don't enjoy discussion in a large lecture setting, they you might not appreciate the lectures. Overall, though, I learned a lot more about bioethics, and the reading and workload (1 10-12 pp. paper, 2 midterms) isn't bad at all.
RUN!
ER-24 is a fantastic course that provides a solid overview of the field. The readings are superb. The course head is amazing. The teaching fellows are brilliant and extremely helpful!
The most disorganized course I have taken so far. I learned mostly from reading materials, not from lectures.
You really need to keep up with the readings, because sometimes lectures do not cover everything, and the exams really test based on the reading
This class covers very useful and relevant topics in Bioethics and health policy. Lectures are useless, but its worth taking because the readings are intriguing.
it has potential
This class is incredibly poorly taught. Don't let the first couple of classes fool you.
This class has the potential to be really interesting and enjoyable.  However, there were too many readings and because of how disorganized the teaching staff was, we hardly ever talked about the majority of them.  In addition, considering the fact that this class is a GenEd that most people take without a background in ethical reasoning, I think that the teaching staff was somewhat harsh in their grading of exams and in their expectations for our term papers.
It's a great class and it only gets better more you get involved with the readings. You will get more out of it.
I was looking forward to getting into the debates of some bioethics topics I was familiar with, but the topics discussed are limited, and the discussions were sometimes hard to follow and very academic vs. real world based. The class isn't really "bioethics" but rather health policy ethics
It's worthwhile, just do the readings to get the most from it
This course made me hate philosophy. The issues are definitely intriguing (mind you, we talk about eugenics, stem cells, cloning for about one lecture because most of the course is global bioethics issues instead), but the professor and his style of teaching made it close to unbearable. He got off topic within the first 5 minutes of the 90 minute lecture for the majority of the lectures, making it really difficult for students to glean anything useful from lecture. You learn almost everything from the readings but section can be helpful if you have a good TF, like Johann. Wikler's socratic method of teaching was ineffective as the same talkative students always spoke and everyone who had no experience with philosophy wouldn't be able to create an argument that Wikler would be satisfied with. He seemed to enjoy tearing down people's ideas and never provided a straightforward answer (not because there may not be one, but because he always got distracted by less important ideas). The exams were okay though, but that's only if you do the readings since lecture is pointless. Beware, if you take this class there will be no motivation to learn and it is solely up to you to learn the material. Take any other ER course, for your own sake!
I do not recommend this class. The class is disorganized and the syllabus was quickly thrown out the window. There are only 3 assignments for 90% of your grade but there is very little practice leading up them. Be prepared for Prof. Wikler to go off on tangents and spend lots of time talking about politicians and policy makers he had worked with and conferences he has presented at. Ethical reasoning is difficult to find a good class for. This class has the potential to be great but fell disappointingly short
It's a great course, though a bit disorganized. I enjoyed the material and I often thought about it outside of class. I would like to take more courses in philosophy as a result of taking bioethics. It is difficultl, it is graded kind of arbitrarily, but it's good.
The course has really interesting material, but lecture is extremely boring.
Don't think that this is a premed-only class. There are a lot of premeds, but I am not at all pre-med and I absolutely loved it. If you like contemplating hard questions (or need to satisfy a moral reasoning requirement) and you are fascinated by science, healthcare, social justice then you should take this class! Even as an elective, you won't regret it!
Hard to get used to Wikler's lecture style.  Hard to know which readings are especially relevant to your course future/grade.  But got much more interesting as the course progressed!  Important issues discussed with foundational philosophical backing laid out.
This is by far the worst class I've taken at Harvard; I hated it with a passion. The professor, lectures, reading material, section, and essay were horrible. Wikler often spent the majority of lecture never moving beyond the first slide, going on and on about a topic which was only vaguely related to the matter at hand, before rushing through the rest of the slideshow in the last 5 minutes. He was always surprised he was short on time, and rearranged the schedule accordingly, resulting in us spending a lot of time on certain topics, and nearly no time on other topics but still getting tested on them. It was supremely frustrating and I ended up learning more by studying the readings than by attending lecture or section. Wikler's teaching style, besides his disregard for time management, was judgmental and rude. Some lectures were held according to the Socratic method and rather than disagreeing respectfully with students, he often resorted to patronizing, condescending quips, which resulted in the majority of the class refraining from participating in discussions. I took this GenEd because it sounded interesting and the assignments looked manageable. However, while the exams were surprisingly fair, the essay was poorly handled. It's worth 40% of our grade, yet my TF never mentioned that we had an essay, let alone bother to show us how to write a philosophy paper. Additionally, the coursepack is super expensive and doesn't include all of the readings, but does include optional readings, so I had to print out 200+ pages myself. Long story short: do not take this class.
As long as you are aware going in that this course isn't about the type of bioethics that we usually think about, it can be a very interesting class.
Poorly run but has interesting themes and ideas
The first lecture is deceptively interesting.  The rest of the lectures were hit or miss.  Wikler tends to ramble and go off on tangents often.  The way he teaches is not organized.  The guest lecturers were really engaging though, and there are some really interesting topics.Don't expect to spend more than one day on stem cells, eugenics, cloning, etc.  This class is more about the allocation of health and health resources.Do the readings, make study groups, and listen during section.(As much as I tend to rant and bash the course, it really has changed my view on a lot of aspects of health and health resource allocation.  I went in a complete maximizer and came out with a new perspective on health.  I don't regret taking this course, and I think this course should be required for all potential doctors.)
Take a look at the syllabus before enrolling in the class and see if you can manage the weekly readings into your schedule. The topics discussed in the class are very interesting so you won't be bored, but you have to be sure to grasp both the big picture and the minute details in the readings to do well in the midterms/essays.
The class is only two years old, so the professor and TFs are still figuring out the logistics. I fully believe that as they do so, the course will become very exciting and engaging. The information is really interesting, and the course makes you rethink a lot of your stances on public health. This course has a lot of potential.
Unless the instructor decides to change his teaching style then do NOT take this course.
Take this course only if you're willing to do a lot of readings. They are crucial. Also this class is about population level bioethics, not about what a doctor should do in a doctor patient relationship. It is about how to justly allocate resources, etc.
its a great class but organized terribly
I loved this course but am also very interested in public health and issues surrounding medicine. It would be a great course if those are alligned for you or you would like to learn more about the moral side of these spheres.
It is strange to say this, but I HIGHLY recommend this class even though the lectures are so disorganized. The ethical questions you're exposed to and think about through the class are, in my opinion, really the most important questions we face as a society today. If you're going into a health or medical field, the class is doubly relevant. Enjoy the rambling lectures, pay attention during the really great sections, do the readings or at least make sure you understand the concepts, and you will get a ton out of the class, despite all of its shortcomings.
This class can be frustrating because it sometimes seems disorganized, but of the ethical reasoning courses available, it was pretty interesting and required the appropriate amount of work for a gen-ed course.
do the reading, lecture is not too useful. there is A LOT of reading, but it's all you have to know for the course so it's reasonable
Do the readings, as they are critical to doing well on the tests. But honestly, if the lecture format doesn't change, there's not a whole bunch of point to showing up to lecture
The subject material was very interesting, but the class wasn't orchestrated very well. The reading was excessive, dense, and unclear. Professor Wikler seems very knowledgeable and has some really cool stories to tell, but be prepared to have to put a lot of time and work in to teach yourself the material.
This class is about population bioethics, like how to decide who to treat, NOT about modern issues like stem cell research and cloning (though there is a class on these topics).  It begins with some ethical theory in order to form a basis to talk about other stuff.  Lectures were mostly useless, as long as you do the readings and show up to section it's a fairly painless course.
God-awful class. Awful professor, incompetent, went off on tangents, full of himself, just awful. The only person who knew what was going on was the head TF (Chris) who is leaving. The only plus of this class is that it's super easy.
Interesting material and people, teaching is not the best.
It's a relatively low workload week-to-week, but it catches up with you for the midterm and scary final paper!
If you must take this class, do the readings well, because lecture will not help you understand them at all.  Otherwise, don't take this class! Wikler is very boring and does not care at all about teaching undergraduates.  While I am more aware of issues in bioethics from taking this course by mere exposure to the readings, coverage of the issues was poor and lecture was a waste of time.
The course is based around a series of long but interesting readings that are supplemented by lecture and discussed in section. Minimal work if you do the readings weekly.
The lectures are boring and irrelevant. The class is very philosophical, and it does not have to do with doctor patient relationships. While they warn you about this at the beginning, I had no idea how philosophy based it actually was. Tests and papers are graded very strictly.
Lectures are disorganized and go off on tangents.The class attempts to utilize the Socratic method to drum up discussion, but with such a large class in Sci Ctr C, it didn't work well at all. Nonetheless, the readings are the most important part of the class, as knowledge of the readings is primarily what you are tested on. Go to office hours and ask a lot of questions if you want to satisfactorily understand the readings.
Great way to fulfill Health Policy and core/Gen Ed requirement, but know that the lectures are sometimes hard to follow, repetitive, and unclear. The material is great though, and relevant to many other fields (economics, medicine, law)
Keep up with the readings. There are a lot of readings and many different concepts covered, and it's important to keep all of them organized. It's also important to know all the authors and the papers that they write, because so much of the class is dependent on few assignments that carry large weight. Other than keeping up with the reading, what you get out of the class is what you put into it. It is very interesting and very enlightening if you take the reading slowly and enjoy it; if you force yourself to do all the readings a couple nights before the exams, it will be too much material and will not be as enjoyable. In addition, a lot of the class is dependent on critical thinking and even though there is no right or wrong answer, it definitely helps to sit around and just think about the concepts-- there are many important and interesting questions proposed throughout the course, and I found myself discussing the material with a lot of people and friends, even those not in the class.
This was my least favorite class at Harvard so far by a long shot.  Take Justice instead to fulfill your Core/GenEd requirement.  Not worth the frustration.  Disorganized, lectures are nothing more than a handful of the same students arguing with the professor.
The material is interesting by the teaching is a little unorganized.
Wikler was a terrible lecturer.
Really cool class.  Not much work till the exams/paper.  Learned a lot of neat philosophy.  Not much feedback but that goes with not much work.  Lots of reading sucks, but you just have to cram for that.
This is a good class if you enjoy ethical questions in the field of medicine and biology.  Professor Wikler has a unique style of lecturing (he never goes through the slides), which can be a good or abd thing depending on your tastes.  He tries to generate a discussion in the lecture hall, sometimes that is less than ideal.  The workload is manageable, and the midterm and final are easy if you come prepared.
You need to be a philosophical person/deep thinker to enjoy this class. Be prepared to have to form an opinion about an argument and get shot down when the professor doesn't agree wth you. This class is almost COMPLETELY reading based
Lecture is not very engaging, and the lack of feedback on assignments makes it pretty hard to feel like you're learning much in this class. Still, possibly a good alternative to a lot of the other ethical reasoning classes out there.
Great class
It covers interesting material, but you'll only probably discover this the week before the midterm and then rediscover this the week before the final when you read your study guide for the class. Few do work outside of these times; while this sounds great, it makes the class really underwhelming.
The lectures are a little off topic, but the material is interesting. The readings are dense, but these are important for the midterm and final. Start work early on the research paper because that is worth the most.
This is a great class to learn about population-level bioethics if you are interested in health or medical issues, but be aware that the class is less lecture and much more discussion.
The class could be very good for someone who is genuinely interested in philosophy, ethics, and medical ethics.  Students who are unprepared for the nature of the readings (which can often be very long and somewhat tedious) and who do not have a strong philosophical background might experience reservations as the course progresses.
not too hard, but can be boring. lectures have little to no structure and definitely do not cover the slides. don't need to go to class to be successful.
Where do I start.  The material, the teaching, the lack of lectures that are cohesive and make sense, the lack of purpose, and the apathy of everyone involved make this the biggest joke of my college career (and I'm graduating).  If I were to take every class at Harvard, I doubt I could find something worse.  They should have paid me to take this class.
This was the most disorganized class I have taken at Harvard. It's a shame because the material could have been interesting if it were taught in a more helpful way. Unless you feel like bioethics is something you want to pursue, don't take this as your ER, there are courses out there that are more worth your time.
This is a great way for science concentrators to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement. However, this class definitely focuses on global ethical issues at the population rather than the individual level. This is not the right course if you are interest in primarily discussing issues like stem-cell research or eugenics.
I often disagreed with some of the conclusions reached in this course, but I do not feel that my opinion was considered valid.
Unless they make some major changes to this course, I would not recommend it.  Prof Wikler is obviously very knowledgeable, but he is a horrible lecturer.  Lecturers are empty, pointless ramblings.  It's really unfortunate; I had high hopes for this class.
If you can stomach philosophy, this is probably one of the easier ways to get the ER requirement out of the way.
The paper was actually really fun to write. Lectures were a bit frustrating when none of the powerpoint was actually used. I found it hard to take notes in lecture because of the way the information was presented. Sections were AWESOME. Make sure to get Johann. He really cares and presents the material in a way that everyone can understand.
It is very interesting if you take advantage of the readings and the lectures. Or you can just glide through, but that will make you bored and you won't learn many interesting things.
Many of the most interesting topics in bioethics are too black/white to be covered. Some parts are very esoteric (like whether activists and philosophers agree about human rights), but other parts are interesting and the professor is a good lecturer.
The lectures are too long and disorganized, and are just hard to follow.
It's more about learning what the standard arguments are rather than coming up with them on your own. In that sense, it's a little high-schoolish - you are not really made to think so much for yourself.
-reasonable amount of work-lectures are hard to stomach, though (90 minutes is a long time, and Professor Wikler strayed off topic a lot)
It does not have many assignments that are graded, so you have to do well on them.  Stay on top of the difficult readings and go to office hours.  You will be glad you did after the exams! The teaching staff is really helpful and open to questions and comments. They really want the course to be the best it can be.
This is one of the most important classes I've taken at Harvard. I almost wish it were a requirement. We are completely oblivious to so many of the problems this course forces you to think about. Everyone should have the opportunity to learn about them.
Take it!
Interesting class!
The class is interesting but can be challenging because it requires you to master a different kind of reasoning than what you've previously encountered. While the workload is reasonable, sometimes you can get bogged down in the reading because is dense and sometimes hard to get through.
Lots of reading and fairly boring lectures. Pretty interesting material though
Because it was a new course this year it was a little rough around the edges.  Provided the syllabus is revised (so it doesn't change every week) and the weekly readings are cut down a bit, I think the course has excellent potential.  I really enjoyed the subject material.
This class had all the problems consistent with the first time it was being offered, by a professor who does not understand how undergraduate courses, particularly gen ed courses, are approached. I would give it a few more years to mature.
great, a way to complete gen ed/core and actually enjoy it, from what i hear from other people moral reasoning/ethical reasoning classes are often very boring and focus way to much on theory rather than real world application
This is a painless way to fulfill moral reasoning, and Professor Wikler is one of the best lecturers. It's so worthwhile!
Be prepared to read a lot of material for each class if you wish to do well.
Keep up with the readings!
it's a great intro to bioethics- the professor is great and the material can be pretty interesting. The workload is fair as well
An easy and interesting class. You don't need to do most of the reading to do well in this class, just pay attention in lecture and do a little reading before the exams.
This is a really interesting class, and a great choice for satisfying an Ethical/Moral Reasoning requirement. Professor Wikler is a funny and effective lecturer, and the subject material is really relevant and makes you think. Exams are very fair and the workload is reasonable.
Course is good if you go to lectures.
This first trial run of the course was a bit rough but it will get a lot better in future years.
Has both good and bad parts. Touches upon important issues, although sometimes get stuck in abstract theory.
Be prepared to explore concepts and ideas that are sure to leave you wondering and contemplating. There have been countless number of times when leaving lecture, a group of classmates would head to lunch still pondering some of the topics and quandaries that were brought up during class. Workload isn't too hard in terms of week by week, but do keep up with your readings, you will be very happy when the midterm and final come around that you did! The organization of the course was at times not too good, but you learn to be flexible.
disorganized lectures/professor
This class is awesome! It made me want to get a secondary in heath policy.  The lectures are intriguing and you will never want to miss one!
Don't fall behind on the readings; you'll need them to contribute to the section discussions.
It was an amazing introductory course that does not emphasize a huge amount of basic philosophy. It is great for those students who prefer real world examples to hypothetical situations, and those students who do not want to be mired in classical philosophy.
This class has little work. The material is interesting, but the organization of the class can be improved.
I was dreading the ethical reasoning gen ed, but listening to Wikler tell stories about being White House philosopher (see, kids, there are real jobs in philosophy!) made it an enjoyable experience.
Take it if you're interested in ethics and philosophical discussions.
The lectures are kind of disorganized and a large component of the class deals with philosophy instead of really digging into the bioethics issues, but it seems like one of the best ways to get ethical reasoning done if you are not interested at all in philosophy. The teaching staff is devoted and very easily accessible.
This is THE best ethical reasoning class. Take this class!! The teaching and the material are incredibly interesting.
Moral reasonings are all rough, but this is passable as it gets. The lectures are interesting and there is not a lot of work, but that can come back to get you because then you realize you don't really know how to write an ethics paper.
Do all assigned readings: this course is cumulative and, if you do not know the main principles of ethics and bioethics exposed at the onset of the course, you will have trouble making sense of what is read. Secondly and, even more important, SUMMARIZE the readings. This is crucial!
No matter what field you end up going into, I would strongly recommend taking this course. The topics it covers are vital to learn about given the increasing prominence of global health issues today and the type of ethical reasoning it makes you engage in is very valuable.
Great topics, lots of reading, so if you don't want to do it, don't take the class.
a lot of reading, variability between sections
Prof. Wikler is very knowledgeable on the subject and seems to care a lot about teaching undergrads. Relatively painless way to fulfill a moral reasoning core.
If you are more math/science inclined this is the MR to take.
Look at the syllabus, and then decide if you can manage the reading into your schedule.
This course will only improve as it's taught another year.  I think it was unorganized and will benefit from another evaluation of the syllabus.
If you can fulfill your Ethical Reasoning requirement in another class, do so.
This is an interesting course, but will require you to actually do the readings and attend lecture, since they aren't recorded.
The teaching fellows have very different teaching/grading styles and regulations. The professor is aloof.
Class is very engaging and forces you to develop your own answers to important questions in the bioethics field
I would recommend Wikler's bioethics class over Sandel's bioethics class if you are interested in the public health side of bioehtics and if you are interested in learning basic ethical reasoning theory.
It is an interesting course.  Take it for fun!
It is an intellectually stimulating class.
I honestly think this was one of the most interesting moral/ethical reasoning courses I could take. I have shopped a bunch in the past. But, I was still far form loving the course and found it generally disorganized and poorly structured.
Professor Wikler is a great lecturer, a Socratic professor, and the material is really interesting.  My roommate and I often discussed issues from lecture far outside of class, and I found myself really interested in each topic area.
pretty interested class to take if you are even a little interested in health-related dilemmas
Very interesting, unique perspective on bioethics, great if interested in global health
The material is very interesting, yet it is easy to fall behind with all of the dense readings due every class
It's very interesting, and the more you put into it the more you'll get out of it.
Take the class for the interesting subject material but be wary of the loads of readings!
Lecture isn't great, but section can be awesome, and the topic is really relevant and interesting.
The material is terrific! The final term paper is fun too. Grading is ambiguous though.
This is a great course: great lectures, manageable workload, and very interesting subject matter. Just be aware of the scope of the course - it's more about population-level bioethics and global health than it is about individual ethical concerns.
This course is great in theory, but as it was a new course this year it needs some of the kinks ironed out. If you are into biotechnology issues you may be disappointed, as I was, because most of the focus is on global health. The syllabus was quite disorganized and feedback is minimal, plus there were too few TF's so outside help was minimal, but if they fix these problems it could be a great class.
This is a good class to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement because it's not terribly difficult and only has a moderate amount of work and thought involved. I hope that lectures will be more engaging in the future.
It should be understandable, due to the fact that this is a new course and there are many other established core classes, that it would be difficult for recommend it enthusiastically. However, if the syllabus is streamlined, this course has great potential, as the topic is definitely interesting.
I'm not interested in bioethics or medicine as a lifetime career.  Even so, I found myself getting really excited about this course.  It's challenging at times, but in exciting ways- good for learning how to make a strong argument.  Professor Wikler should not be missed during your time at Harvard.
a great class, and i'm sure it will get even better as the years progress
This is a great way to meet a Core/GenEd requirement.  This class has the double advantage of being both theoretically interesting AND relevant to the real world.  That's a rare combination at Harvard.
Wikler is a great teacher - very funny and he's really the man who has had to grapple with these topics in the real world.
If you're not good at burning through reading or philosophy, don't bother. If you don't share the general political opinion of the class, i.e. extremely liberal, don't bother either.
Professor Wikler is extremely knowledgeable and an invaluable resource. Though he sometimes goes on tangents in his lectures, even his tangents are always fascinating.
Take. This. Class. There is absolutely no reason for you to not take this class. Right now. The professor is an amazingly eccentric and wonderful lecturer and you will learn so many great things. Section is no worse, and in some aspects the effect of the smaller group discussion with your TF surpasses even the lectures, which is a true feat. Don't let the absolutely monstrous reading list scare you away, just believe that Prof. Wikler is a very reasonable man. AND he shows clips from The Onion in class.
It's a lot of work and they grade harshly
It's not that structured, so you have to rely on yourself rather than the teaching staff to navigate the course.
Great new course, fulfills the GEN ED
Professor Wikley is very enthusiastic and interesting.  The topics covered in the lectures are very interesting and this course made me consider more global ethical issues that had not really crossed my mind before.  The wide variety of guest lecturers are also a benefit of this class, though Dan Wikley is an outstanding lecturer.
Don't take this class for another couple of years. Right now, it's a complete mess.
Good class to take if you are interested in health.
This class was fairly general which allowed it to cover many topics to keep every class interesting.
It's interesting but disorganized, might be better in future
I am so glad I took this class because of the very interesting material, my fabulous tf, and it was a great way to fulfill moral reasoning. However, if you're looking for an outstanding lecturer, this is not the class for you.
Since this was the first year of the class, I'm sure the course will be better organized next year. Make a study group to cover all the readings which can pile up. Start your term paper as far ahead as possible as the philosophical reasoning needed for it may make you bang your head in frustration. Lectures were kind of disorganized and I felt not as necessary as readings for success in course.
If you are not a great writer, just like all of the other non-science CORES you will not be able to get an A.  I hate this about all CORE/GenEd at Harvard.  If it requires so much less time than my concentration courses, why is it that I can never get an A?
The topics are amazing once you get past the few first lectures
The readings are all primary sources, so they are very dense.  However, you can still get a B without doing a single reading.
I think it's a great introduction to the distinct type of thinking that is required in philosophy but with very practical applications. This is stuff that affects all of us, but that most of us don't stop and think about. It's a harmless course in terms of work level and great educational rewards.
Course is useful only if conducted in the small classroom discussion format. Very engaging professor and material. Professor willing to go out of his way to help you understand.
This is a great class with awesome readings and great discussions. Professor Wikler is extremely dedicated to his students and really wants you to push your limits. However, since most of the class revolves around discussions and lacks some concrete material, I did not feel well equipped to take the exams or write the final paper.
Section is helpful in understanding the ethical issues. The exams are only based on the readings (unless the professor changes this.)
Class needs a lot more structure and to give students practice for what they are looking for in papers and exams
Course material can be interesting at times, very dull at others. Readings are often incomprehensible, and instructors need to do a lot more to delineate the important points. Crucial points that are important to know are often not clear. Course was a little disorganized in terms of assignments and discussions. There is very little to grasp onto because the material is presented in a highly conceptual way. Grading on exams arbitrary, they need to specify where the points come from.
GenEd classes are suppose to be easy which this class was, but the course work becomes super demanding at the end of the semester when all your other classes are too! The disorganization really bothered me because I felt like the faculty was demanding more work from me and these efforts weren't matched by them. You can bullshit most of it though and the class was like ~9 people so everyone pitched in and made a good study guide. I literally read 2 assigned articles all semester and did fine. Probably the worst class I've taken at Harvard because the professor is super biased which makes it frightening to voice your personal opinion - literally every time I was in class, I wanted Harvard to refund me my tuition for this totally unsatisfying class! Ugh.
This is by far the best class I have taken at Harvard. Only take it if you really want to engage with the issues that are on the syllabus - if you actually care about what you're learning, Professor Wikler has some incredible insights and is so willing to work with you. Don't just sit through class on facebook - you'd really be missing out.
Great class. Tests were not explained so clearly and graded arbitrarily but probably one of the better Ethical Reasoning classes and Professor cares about teaching and students.
This class is extremely disorganized. Unfortunately, it is one of the worst classes I've taken at Harvard.
Very disorganized.  That's my main complaint; expectations were not clear and a lot of time was wasted in class on things like voting on how to grade the midterm, and the lectures seemed to go around and around the same topic and say the same things over and over for several periods in a row.  There isn't much homework during most of the semester besides keeping up with readings, but it ended with a final exam, paper, and project, which was a little too much for one class.  The name is also slightly misleading; if you thought it was about things like cloning and stem cells and genetic engineering, it's really more about ethics and public health policy.
Wikler can be a little intimidating as a professor, but the class is not a bad one. I think Ethical Reasoning is probably one of the most difficult gen eds, as it is probably the farthest from most people's fields of study. This is a good way to get it done.
This class is extremely interesting and the professor is very well-informed.  While the organization of the class isn't the best, I nonetheless still say that this is a good candidate to fulfill your ER requirement or for an elective.
Professor Wikler is very knowledgeable and can answer any question you throw at him convincingly. The thing is that he tends to talk a lot and not much gets done in class besides that. Just make sure to know that the format of the class doesn't really allow for open discussion. That seems to be more for section meetings. Also, the readings could get laborious, so be aware.
