This class will change the way you look at the world. It is very difficult to describe what Lessig and Bill English do in  just a blurb but I can confidently say that no one will ever regret taking this class.
This class is a very interesting and painless way to fulfill the ethical reasoning gen ed, I'd recommend it if you still need to fulfill the gen ed or want to hear Lessig's extremely interesting lectures.
This class is an absolute must if you want to leave Harvard haven taken those most meaningful, transformative classes. No matter what your background is, Lessig will absolutely change the way you see the world. His discussion of institutional corruption is such a useful concept that it's changed my perspective on so many aspects of my current pursuits and how I look at what I want to do in the future. A must take class with a truly remarkable professor, and in no way a tedious or work-overloaded class! One of the best course decisions you could make at Harvard if you're even vaguely interested in normative politics, policy, or making institutions go back to the 'right' track.
If you're interested in the topic, take it. We were the guinea pigs the first year so I'm sure they will work hard to improve. Professor Lessig is the best part of the course by far.
This was the first year that Institutional Corruption was taught, so it may well change in years to come. Like most people, I took it for a combination of Gen Ed credit, a subject that seemed relevant, and the opportunity to have Professor Lessig as a teacher. It is a solid and relatively easy way to get your Gen Ed requirement. The material is interesting but gets tired after a while - some lectures and reading seem completely unnecessary. Lessig is a fantastic lecturer and was more available to his students than I expected. However, many lectures are adaptations from his public talks and speeches, so it can feel like you could've watched the whole course online. If the material interests you, definitely shop it. In addition, Bill English is great and incredibly approachable, he was definitely an integral part of the class.
Everyone at Harvard should be required to take this class. You will learn so much and actually become a better person. The professors are amazing.
This class epitomizes the idea of general education at Harvard. The issue of institutional corruption is fascinating for people from any background, concentration, or set of interests, and I would 100% recommend this class to any student at this school. It sets a framework for looking at institutions and identifies a very real, yet hidden, problem that appears in important ways all over our society.
the best!
Don't forget about blog posts
This is one of those classes that doesn't bog you down with theories; instead, it strikes you with the sometimes sad reality that our institutions rely on. You will explore a variety of case studies each week, and each one of them is relevant to the lives that we lead.If you care about the corruption embedded in the institutions you belong to, take this class. If you couldn't care less, take this class; it'll force you to care.
Hopefully they'll have figured this out by next year but the overall organization and structure/material was quite disorganized this year. Overall good class, fairly painless and interesting way to fulfill an ER.
Professor Lessig is an excellent lecturer. It's cool to study issues that are very relevant to the world today. Taking this class will give you a cool opportunity to think about how you want to interact as a part of or outside of the dominating structures that guide our society.
Everyone should take this class!
Absolutely take it, great combination of lecturers and topics
This was the best class I've taken in the four years I've been at Harvard. Guaranteed to change the way you think and inspire you to action.
brings to light some of the big issues in today's world that need to be solved before we can truly improve society any further
This course deals with fascinating topics, and Professor Lessig has a few extraordinary lectures up his sleeves. Guest lectures were solid, readings were interesting, and the course is very relevant to our everyday lives. The course didn't really turn out to be what I thought it would, however, and the sections were fairly pointless. Still, I'm giving this course a solid 4. With improved section, more varied forms of evaluation, and more incentives to actually attend lecture, I think this course could become a 5.
Will be one of the more rewarding classes you take. Incredible professors and you will learn a new way to view your surroundings wherever you might end up. You'll only wish you could do more work for this class.
This is a great class! Lessig is a force of nature and Bill English gives very effective lectures as well. The material is super interesting and it stands out as a cool ER gened among a sea of bad ones.
This class dives into the most relevant philosophical question of our time in assessing how institutions and people within them are lead to corrupt behavior.  Lessig and English are leaders in this new field and it was a fantastic experience learning from them first hand in an effective, relaxed academic environment.  Institutional corruption is the root of many more serious problems experienced in our world.
It didn't require much outside work, but wouldn't say it was necessarily the easiest and most insightful gen ed I have taken. Graded kind of hard.
This course will really make you think about what corruption is and the ways it can infiltrate entire institutions.
This is a super interesting class! The professors are fantastic; they're quite charismatic and make every lecture engaging. Lectures are really interactive, as well; the professors often pose questions, take polls on opinions about certain subjects, and generally try to be as engaging as possible. If you want a class that analyzes corruption in areas ranging from the NCAA to the medical field to economic and that will hold your interest constantly, take this class! There were weekly readings but they were usually not too long, especially compared to a lot of other classes. Other than the readings, there were only two essays that were not too long or difficult, as well as a final project that was a lot of fun to make.
Lessig is an incredible professor with groundbreaking ideas and amazing lectures.
Institutional Corruption was perhaps the best class that I've taken at college. The material is fascinating and incredibly relevant to our daily lives. It's also just cool to talk about corruption in the NCAA. You'll probably (almost definitely) leave the class looking at the world in a different light. Professors Lessig and English are incredible, and, though Law School professors, seem to really enjoy teaching undergrads. The workload is completely manageable, and you'll find yourselves wanting to do the readings. The class may start off a little slow (with more theory than anything else), but it quickly picks up. Professor Lessig received a standing ovation on the last day of class - when really he deserved one after every single lecture.
This course is really interesting and the lectures are great.  There isn't too much work until the essays, which will require an all-nighter if you don't start early.
Great class, but a bit scattered in theme and purpose. Beats the same topic down for a bit too long. Took it senior spring. Bill English needs to be more engaging if he co-teaches the course again.
This course is INCREDIBLE. Not only are Lessig and English amazing teachers, but the material itself is also so moving and really changes the way you think about how well our country runs.  I am not politically minded at all but this class MADE me want to be a more active citizen and even convinced me to maybe do more independent research on the subjects. I am a HUGE fan that EVERYONE SHOULD TAKE THIS CLASS!
If you're looking for a gen ed that's not much work, this is it. I found the essays to be easy and we were never tested on the readings, so it was easy to let them slip by. However, there were also large parts of the course that were unsatisfying. Some of the guest speakers were a bit dull, for example, and the way that information was presented in slide lectures was not very attention-grabbing. In addition, I found section to be very frustrating. It was too large and a couple of guys ended up totally dominating the conversation. The TF did not do a good job of leading the conversation or playing devil's advocate to push people's opinions.
Probably more interesting than most other Ethical Reasoning courses. The class is interesting, if a bit preachy.
This course is a good and mostly painless way to fulfill ER; the series of case studies of institutional corruption in particular fields (many presented by guest speakers) were the best part of the course.  If you're looking for an interesting elective and don't care about the Gen Ed credit, though, be warned that the level of rigor here is on par with that of most Gen Ed courses, viz. not very high, and you may find the curriculum to progress a bit slowly in the beginning.
If Lessig is teaching, you need to take this class. He is so engaging, so enthusiastic, you can't help but be invested in his class. Lessig is one of those professors that you WANT to take a class with; he's the perfect combination of crazy and brilliant and you can't help but learn from him. Dr. English is also a sweetheart, always willing to stay after class and help. I personally never got a chance to speak with Dr. English one-on-one, but I always see him in Boylston after class engaging with his students on their papers, on the course, and just giving out advice.
Amazing lecturers who use many different teaching styles to get you involved. It can be easy to get distracted in lecture, so stay focused! The material is worth it.
Though this class is in the Gen Ed department, it really is a great class on its own. If it's offered again, take it! The teaching staff is exceptionally smart, and the grading is fair. The content is engaging, and Lessig is unparalleled as a lecturer.
Lectures are interesting and the workload is low. This class made gave me a new perspective on institutions I take for granted, and the discussion of corruption in the financial sector is particularly good.
The class provides a fantastic lens into politics, business, and some psychology. Lessig is the best lecturer I've had. His lectures and Banaji's lecture were like TED talks with the benefit of substance provided over time. English was also very effective and did fantastic simulations. As an elective, this class was very interesting and fun, and as a Gen-Ed, this class is off the charts.
A must take class if this is offered again. Lessig is a legend, and the subject matter is both fascinating and relevant to everyone's lives. Bill English is also awesome. One of my favorite classes at Harvard.
Very useful class!
This course's topic seems interesting at first, but gets repetitive. Although Lessig and English are both fantastic people and fantastic lecturers--Lessig's devotion to this topic is obvious, and it's an honor to learn from him. With a bit of restructuring, this could be a great course.
Great class. Very enjoyable.
It is interesting and good for a Gen Ed.
Take it before Lessig leaves or Harvard turns into a Justice-style lecture series
The best possible ER. Readings are great, topic is so relevant, lots of prizes and snacks and surprises throughout the semester. Take it!
This class is well taught and cover a bunch of interesting topics, many of which are then demonstrated by real world case studies. You'll take away a good amount from the class, regardless of your intended concentration or  interests.
Take this class because of Larry Lessig and for no other reason. ER 36's unorganized muddle is not worth the hassle if you're not interested in being around such genius.
It is worth taking this class simply to experience Lessig's presentations.
This was a really interesting course. Lessig and English were both great lecturers (Lessig more so, though). Their presentations were really interesting, as was the content. Section was not bad at all. Writing one blog post per week with three papers is not a lot of work, and I didn't mind doing it.
This was my favorite class I've taken at Harvard. I think it was most meaningful to me because it was a topic I've never studied before in any of my other classes. So if you no nothing about institutions such as banking and government, take this course. Lessig is legendary.
The content of this class is interesting and eye opening. Professor Lessig is a phenomenal lecturer and professor but perhaps because this class is still in its infancy, the overall ideas and structure of the class are still not entirely organized and the sections are not the best.
You learn a lot and are asked to grapple with some really tough questions.
The first few lectures of ER36 are reasonably interesting. Both prof. English and prof. Lessig are able to give excellent lectures. However, this is a guise, and it ends immediately after the add/drop deadline. The class quickly becomes incredibly dull, and often features poor guest lectures. Though the workload is maybe less substantial than other ER classes, this is NOT a pain free way to fulfill the ER requirement.
Lessig is amazing, one of the best lecturers of all time (google his TED talks) and if this is your one chance to take a class with him, then you absolutely must take it. Bill English is much less charismatic, but also tries very hard to make the class interesting.
I think every student at Harvard would be a better and more inspired person if she took this course.
Check out Professor Lessig's TED talk.  If you liked it, take the class.  He is an amazing presence and one of the best professors I have had the pleasure of learning from.  Beware that many lectures and assignments do not meet the standard Lessig sets.
Take the class even somewhat seriously and you will leave after each lecture a lot less ignorant about the corruption that constantly surrounds us.  You'll also begin to think about your own complicity in all of this.  It's a really refreshing reminder that we're at Harvard to think about solutions to some really pressing problems.
This course is phenomenal and will change the way you see the world, if not motivate you to change the world. The lectures are excellent and engaging. The brilliant people that give lectures as guest speakers only add to the benefits of the course. The readings are hardly ever dull, and unlike most courses, you not only learn a lot about the subject, but you also learn how to engage with the subject practically outside of an academic setting.
phenomenal course. DEFINITELY take!
This is an incredible class. If Lessig teaches it again, you have to take it. He is by far the best lecturer I've had in my time at Harvard. He is so engaging and the topics the course covers are very relevant to everyday life. The connection to everyday life makes it much easier to feel invested in and enjoy the material. I legitimately enjoyed this class. Plus the workload is not that bad. Couple readings a class, couple papers, final project? For an ER? That's great. So happy I took this class and strongly recommend you consider taking it too.
Take this class. Take it! It's fascinating, and the culture it creates is phenomenal -- you'll want to go to every lecture because they're all so interesting and well done.
I liked this course a lot because it focuses more on the implementation of ethical principles than the ethics themselves. I find that a section of students talking abut ethics degenerates into knee-jerk reactions to thought experiments based on each individual's value judgments, but there's not much room for debate. In this course I felt that the students were working collaboratively to come up with novel solutions to pressing problems. Also, Lessig and English are great lecturers, and the readings were awesome. I recommend it.
This is an incredible class that changes the way you think about institutions, individual responsibility, and the society we live in. The lectures were fantastic and the reading is not strenuous. The assignments are fun.
A good way to look at some of the major issues in our society. Lessig's lectures are interesting, if a little one-sided, and English is a decent lecturer as well. Coursework is manageable, although it's almost all writing so be prepared for that
ER36 is a great way to complete the Ethical Reasoning requirements. It is extremely interesting and the section component is great and engaging.
It changed how I look at society.
A great course with some rough patches that I expect will be sanded away next year. You will learn to see Institutional Corruption Everywhere.
This is one of the few courses that actually truly does what an Ethical Reasoning Gen-Ed should do. It will open up your eyes to many of the subconscious ways that good will can be twisted to subvert the underlying purpose of an institution. At first, it might seem like the ramblings of a nay-sayers, until you actually look closely at the evidence and realize what the problems truly were. Although it is hard to solve these problems, having awareness is the first step!
Amazing analysis of an interesting and relevant topic: institutional corruption.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Lessig and Williams really teach you a great framework to think through institutional problems. The course has a variety of examples throughout the course to make it applicable to anyone.
This is a must take course at Harvard, in my opinion. It gives you great independence and ability to think for yourself on very relevant and troubling issues of corruption. Professor Lessig is incredible and unique, very cool guest lectures as well. Professor English is easy-going, funny and brilliant as well. The class is very interactive you can find every lecture stimulating. Great for knocking out Gen. Ed. and learning something important to your life outside of school
This is a great class, a wonderful way to do Ethical Reasoning.  Really interesting and exciting, but it does feel a bit one-sided at times.
Lawrence Lessig is an academic and intellectual celebrity--and he seems to know it. His lectures are interesting and brilliant and much like TED talks, but he doesn't lecture every class. His assistant professor Bill English actually does much of the lecturing, and those classes are often tedious. The case study format is a refreshing way to examine this area of research. If you're interested, take it, but don't expect a life-changing course. The workload is definitely manageable.
Definitely take this course, the best gen ed I've ever taken. Professor Lessig is great, and the lectures are interesting. The assignments are very manageable.
-Its very very broad but appealing because of Lessig's charisma and knowledge and the timeliness of many of the readings.-There's a lot of repetition and relative boredom interspersed with the more kinetic portions of the course.
I enjoyed learning about institutional corruption in cases that I never though of before but beyond that I was not enthusiastic about the class
THIS IS THE OTHER ETHICAL REASONING COURSE YOU'LL WANT TO TAKE. Because it is not extremely difficult and you will learn quite a bit, even though what you learn may be quite a bit depressing, or even contrary to your point of view of the world. Lessig is a wonderful lecturer and sections are fantastic. The guest lecturers are also very engaging. All lectures are also recorded. My favorite part of the course is learning about how every part of the system has its flaws, though if you want to actually solve these problems, do take note that this class is more about the analysis than the hypothesizing of how to problem solve, at least until the very end of the course when you either write your paper or make your video presentation.
I think this email, sent to everyone after the last day of formal lecture, says it best: "Thanks to everyone who took today's pop quiz. As those who attended the lecture in person know, the quiz had a specific pedagogical function. It set up a discussion about how informal norms come to be established within institutions and how such norms are often more of a guidepost for behavior than explicit rules and incentives. We also explored how the violation of informal norms can be thought of as a betrayal of trust and lead to moral licensing or institutional sabotage. One lesson was that the shaping of informal norms can be a powerful tool for remedying problems of institutional corruption. Another lesson was that attempts to change behavior can cause problems if they involve disrespecting individuals, violating trust, or upsetting existing norms, even if the methods are entirely legitimate. Although our syllabus explicitly states: "Note that you are expected to attend the lectures as well as the discussion sections. We reserve the right to give pop quizzes if attendance or participation show signs of decline." In practice, we had not developed a norm of quizzing (perhaps we should have if we wanted to ensure higher rates of reading preparation- many of you did quite poorly). Moreover, giving a quiz of this sort on the final day of lecture is insensitive to the end of the semester demands on students' time. The quiz worked very well for illustrating our theoretical point and for spurring discussion about informal norms and formal rules. However, as was explained in class, the quiz will not actually "count" towards anyone's grade.A final note about next Tuesday and Thursday [NB: the latter's during reading period]: We will be screening videos and making some concluding remarks, so attendance is very important. If for any reason you can't attend either day next week, please confirm your excused absence with your TF. We look forward to a strong end to a great semester!Best,ER36 Staff"
This class is excellent, fun, and very relaxed. The teaching staff are amazing.
Harvard badly needed another decent ETH-R gen ed, and this more than fills that slot. The subject of institutional corruption turns out to be a fascinating and useful way of thinking about problems in our society and how to solve them. Both Lessig and English gave really engaging lectures. Section discussions with Tori were fairly unstructured and really enjoyable. Papers were pretty easy without being boring, and the weekly blog posts required almost no effort but were a good lead-in to the section discussions. In sum: this course is definitely worth taking, particularly if Justice or that Chinese philosophy course didn't sound especially interesting to you.
Lawrence Lessig is a BRILLIANT lecturer.
This class was really interesting and thought-provoking. It is a great class for students to take, especially because we will all go on to be involved in institutions in some way, possibly even in leadership positions, and it is important to know about the threat of institutional corruption and how to respond to it. Lessig and English are great teachers, and we had a lot of really interesting lecturers. Minimal amount of work and reading with a big project at the end which was actually pretty fun to do.
This class is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard because it constantly pushes you to rethink how institutions work.
