The workload is very manageable and it's a great way to learn some philosophy without being too complex or hard.
This course provided an excellent introduction to philosophy via a more defined topic than many other ethical reasoning courses.qthe focus was to engage critically a few important potential groundings of human rights rather than to memorize an idea or two from many thinkers. Lectures and the overall course narrative were constructed in a simple way that helps students take something away from the class.
It's a good class to take to fulfill the Gen Ed requirement because you do learn about human rights theory-- you're exposed to different types of theory. You spend the majority of the semester talking about theories of human rights foundation.I thought the papers were not a good way of testing us. The final is great though because if you went to lecture and went through the study guide, you'll be fine.
It's a good ethical reasoning class and very interesting!
This course will give you a thorough background on the history and philosophy behind human rights. It covers major philosophers and thinkers that you will find very rewarding to read.
I think this class can be really great if you take the time to actually keep up with the readings and go to lectures. Professor Risse is a great lecturer. It is pretty easy to not do readings and go to lectures, though I strongly recommend keeping up.
It's a fairly painless and interesting moral reasoning core.  There is a strict curve (which they only tell you about after the add drop deadline) so the grading depends on who's in your section.
This course really does the job of a philosophy course: it teaches you how to argue effectively and use philosophical mindset to answer questions.
It may be a bit of difficult reading, but I'm glad I took the course. It helped me to grow as a person by actually thinking about why I think the way I do.
This is a thoughtful and well-taught course!
Interesting course. You can get a lot from it if you bother to do the readings (though the instructors probably won't know or care if you don't)
Professor Mathias Risse is the best lecturer I've had at Harvard (I'm a senior who doesn't really like philosophy). He is a good teacher and speaker who cares about his students and about making a positive change in their future. Lectures are well-done, won't make you fall sleep, are engaging and make you think (which, sadly, is not the norm at Harvard). Also, his jokes, although rare, are very well-placed, don't feel forced, and are very, very clever. He is very respectful of different points of view, so you won't feel that any of your views is insulted or not taken seriously; like, for example, whether you're atheist or believe in God, his comments would not offend you and instead, he will try to engage with those different and, sometimes, conflicting ideas in an intellectual way. Also, assignments are doable, fair, and not complicated. Finally, even when I didn't like philosophy, I ended up enjoying the class mainly thanks to the professor's style of lecturing. One of the best classes in my life.
The class is pretty confusing, due to the complex nature of arguing for human rights. Section component is not too helpful, and the lectures can be confusing. Essay prompts were also confusing. Overall, a Middle-of-the-road ethical reasoning course.
This class is pretty easy and painless in terms of workload and filling a Gen Ed. It is, however, quite boring, and also comes up with exactly zero compelling arguments for human rights. Be prepared to run along with what the professor tells you, even though you may well not believe it, because it's not very convincing. My belief in human rights was basically extinguished by this course.
This is a class that requires a great deal of engagement with the subject matter. You need to do the readings well and have them well annotated before section. Beware of section. I don't think that there's a class at Harvard with more snipey "section kids" ready to slit your throat if it would get another point on their average.
TAKE IT!!!
I thought I would hate philosophy; ethical reasoning was the gen ed I was least looking forward to. However, this class ended up being one of my favorite classes.
The readings, professor, and lectures were wonderful.  Unfortunately, the TFs are inaccessible and unhelpful.  Leaving section can be frustrating not because one leaves with questions (which would be a positive experience), but because nothing relevant was really addressed.  Oded did not do a good job engaging with the material in depth, and at times, it felt like doing the readings was a waste of time because there was no meaningful discussion of them.
This class provides an expansive introduction to human rights that every college student should comprehend.
A very engaging and enlightening course that really opened my eyes to philosophical conceptions of human rights. Highly recommend!
Interesting but disorganized and frustrating.
interesting and engaging material, risse is a fantastic lecturer
If you are interested in human rights, but are oriented more towards the practices, you will find this course at once enlightening and frustrating. It makes you aware of ideas and foundations that you hadn't known before, but the philosophical discourse can be a little too much at times.
I was originally skeptical about this class, but I think it was well worth the effort.  It deals with philosophical issues that are important in real world settings, and it helps to answer questions that everyone should think about.
kind of boring
Good assignments, gives you a nice foundation to justify human rights.
This is a great course if you are interested in human rights. You gain a structured sense of how arguments for human rights have developed over the past centuries. However, the overall argument of the course is pushed heavily by the professor, and I would have preferred more critical engagement with the material and more pressing counterarguments to human rights. The curve is not too good for a Gen Ed. Approximately 10 percent A's for papers, at least.
it's nice that it exposes you to the ideas and reasoning behind human rights, but i wish it were more rigorous. good introduction though, especially for those new to philosophy or theories behind human rights.
I'm not sure how I feel about this class. It definitely helps me conceptualize the notion of human rights in a more clarified way; at the same time, we are somewhat expected to agree with the viewpoint of the professor... there is less critical thinking involved than I had initially expected.
This course is a great introduction to the philosophical foundation of human rights. I had never taken a philosophy class before and was intimidated by the thought, but this course helped me get a feel for the discipline and the subject in a fun, engaging manner. It was very well organized and thought-provoking. Professor Risse is an extremely clear and dynamic lecturer. He made the subject and material exciting and relevant. I would highly recommend this course to anyone interested in understanding the concept of a human right.
Do the readings. they're really interesting
Interested in thinking deeply about human rights, but not a human rights concentrator? You have your Gened!
Great class to take ii interested in human rights however it is almost all philosophical.
This class gives you a great primer to the debates in human rights; however, it gets very small-picture sometimes, dwelling on particulars of philosophical arguments.
Try to get Klemen as your TF.
Provides a thorough and interesting--and pleasantly skeptical--introduction to the philosophy of human rights, but don't expect it to be easy.
Interesting introduction to human rights and various ethical theories; definitely worth taking if you're interested in those sorts of things.
Great way to fulfill ER; very interesting subject matter, good lectures, the reading can be a bit dense but there's not a lot of it and they all tie into lecture so any questions you have are cleared up in lecture.
Professor Risse is a great lecturer and definitely makes the content engaging (which might have been boring otherwise). The sections were very discussion-based and interesting for the most part, though we didn't go as in depth as I had expected. Overall, a relatively easy gen-ed course, though beware of the final exam!
I didn't do any of the reading except what was required for the papers and I did well in this class.  It's an interesting, painless Gen Ed-just go to lecture and you'll be fine.
do not skip and make sure you pay attention during lectures. this is where you learn almost everything you need to know to pass the final, participate in section, and write the papers. realistically, you can get by without doing a lot of the readings, as long as you listen to the professor.
I loved this class! Disclaimr: I am a human rights fanatic.  This is my second year at Harvard and this by far has been arguably the best lecture class I've had.  Definitely top three. The professor is interesting and engaging and the material itself is quite interesting.
If You are interested, do seek extra attention from Your TF/Professor.
Sort of boring.
This is a very interesting course and is truly "painless." I'm a premed and an HDRB concentrator and was worried about the ER requirement, but I am really grateful to have taken ER11. The lectures are very interesting and Prof. Risse is a great guy. I thought the material was very interesting and really made you think. They grade the essays very fairly and are not too difficult of assignments. You really don't have to do the reading but I wish I had done more of it... I there was fair reading assignments that really complement the course. The TF's are great as well. Overall this is a very good course... especially for a gen ed.
If you've never taken a philosophy class and logical thinking is not your thing, this class may be difficult for you.
This is a painless Gen Ed, but the lectures are a little bit dry and you come out of the class feeling just a little bit disappointed that there's no "perfect" solution to the problem of the class. If you like Philosophy then I would recommend it, if not then I would probably choose something else.
interesting class, though kind of easy. essay prompts are generally very thought provoking. you dont HAVE to do the work to get a good grade, but its well worth your while to do so. will explode any preconceptions you have about the idea of human rights.
The lectures are not the interesting, but you can focus on the questions that interest you more, and this will not be problematic for doing well in this class. The teaching staff is very reasonable. The assignments were actually fun if you enjoy picking apart and building arguments. The concept of human rights is really worth considering. I was dreading the ER requirement and took this senior spring, and I actually ended up really liking it. For those of you not excited by the concept of "philosophy" this class is actually really well grounded in reality.
Good intro to philosophy
Not the best class I've ever taken, but I think that finding a good Ethical Reasoning class is fairly difficult to do. I would say that this one is fairly low stress in terms of readings and assignments (3 shorter papers and a final) and Professor Risse does a good job covering readings during lecture. Not the easiest class to understand, but the professor/teaching staff recognizes this and tries to make it as student-friendly as possible.
This is a good course with some flaws, the same flaws you might find in any course you feel obligated to take.
Meaningful topic - good structured course and very well taught by Prof. Risse.
This course is a fun and interesting introduction to philosophy and the underpinnings of human rights.
It's a strong foundation in human rights theory, but be aware that it's more about understanding past work towards a human rights regime, and the philosophy of doing so, than a purely abstract discussion of human rights (though there is some of that).
take it if you want a painless ER. You read interesting stuff but won't have any big revelations.
It's probably one of the few ER gen eds that is actually useful in real life and will contribute to your growth as a person. Professor Risse is an entertaining lecturer with a great sense of humour.
take notes in your own words, don't just recopy the slides. Make a study guide for the final!!
Great class to learn a lot of information without overwhelming yourself with hours and hours of work.
Take this class if you are mildly interested in human rights. I think it is one of the best ER classes to take.
This is a really interesting class that has real-world applications. The workload is manageable and it's a pretty painless way to fulfill a gen ed requirement.
Philosophy papers are a lot different from any other papers that you may have written before. If you have never had any exposure to philosophy, you may be wary of this class.
I would urge anyone that lacks background in philosophy writing to seriously reconsider taking this class. The expectations at least in my (Severin's) section were extremely high and her comments on papers made it clear that she did not understand that ER11 is a GENED class and that the majority of students does not have background in humanities. I am a graduating senior and from talking to other people in my section, I would argue that Severin graded our papers tougher than did TFs in most of the humanities courses I have taken over the past 4 years. Choose your TF wisely!!
tfs grade hard on the papers. lectures are alright. final exam is fair though.
good human rights course, but keep in mind its a philosophy course as well
The course did a great job providing the range of philosophical ideas attempting to ground human rights. It was intriguing to learn about such arguments and different standpoints.
the lectures are great, just make sure you get a really good tf and the class should be wonderful!
Good way to fill a gen ed, and the material is relatively interesting as it is somewhat applicable
Professor Risse is very passionate about this topic which is more than can be said about most GenEds. But if Ethical Reasoning is one of your more dreaded requirements, there are easier ways to fulfill it out there. 3 papers and a final is a lot more than it might seem on paper.
This is a relatively painless course for anyone who hasn't taken a philosophy class before. It's also a great elective class if you're at all interested in ethics and morality.
This class is okay. That's the most I can say about it, and that's the way a lot of other people I've talked to also felt about this course. My TF was absolutely horrible and that was probably one of the main factors as to why I disliked this course. There are better courses out there, so if I were you, I wouldn't take this.
this is a very interesting and great class
Interesting subject, but make sure you are ready to write about human rights, as it could be painful to force this stuff out if you're not in to it
It's a great way to fulfill the Ethical reasoning gen ed. It is very interesting and the professors are very engaging and passionate. Great if you are interested in social inequalities - this provides an interesting complement to other coursework.
This course is fantastic! I was dreading the Ethical Reasoning requirement, but I ended up LOVING this course. Professor Risse is very engaging, and the course material is interesting. The work load was manageable as well.
Great for government concentrators
Very interesting and fair workload but essays were graded harshly and it was not always clear what was expected/feedback was not always helpful.
While I really wanted to enjoy it, this was in fact the least academically engaging (and perhaps the worst) I have taken in 2 years at Harvard: lectures simply summarized the readings, and then told us what to think about them. Assignments, as well as the exam, essentially asked us to regurgitate lecture material as opposed to actually doing any serious critical thinking of our own. Grading fits around an arbitrarily low curve,  as well, which wouldn't be a big deal if the class were interesting, but that's not the case.
This is a painless Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed course.  Just pay attention in lecture and section, and be sure to ask for help on essays if you need it.
The class is interesting and isn't too much work. If you go to lecture, you'll be fine for the final. The papers can be somewhat challenging to write but the TFs are there to help.
For a Gen Ed class, this class can be difficult. If you haven't had much of an introduction to philosophy before, the assignments can be hard. There is a grading break down (i.e. 10% get A, 15% A-, etc). All the readings get covered in lecture, and Professor Risse is an engaging lecturer. However, a lot of the interesting debate on human rights gets left out in favor of simply struggling through understanding the dense philosophical material. Overall a good course and perspective on HR if you're willing to put a lot of work into a Gen Ed.
Risse is a good lecturer but does not engage students as well as other lectures, such as Steven Levitsky. He still does a good job running through the arguments. I lucked out and got an excellent TF, but my roommate, who also took this course, reported positively about his TF as well, so I think they've got a solid staff. If you haven't taken a philosophy course before, the writing experience will be different. Outlining your paper is essential. I also recommend going over your paper with your TF if possible.
Great!
Do not take this course for your Gen Ed requirement if you can avoid it. The idea of the course is interesting enough but the way it is taught is not. Hard to feel enthused about the class.
This is a painless gen ed with actually very interesting subject material.  The papers are graded tough though.
This is a very engaging class that truly encourages students to be critical, analytical thinkers, while they learn important facts about the human rights movement, and about schools of thought that have driven the movement.
Pay attention to lecture, because most of the final is based off of lecture notes.
This class is awesome. The lectures are great but not taped which stinks. But Professor Risse is very passionate about the subject he teaches and it shows. The organization of the lectures is great. Section was awesome. The workload is not too bad. The readings aren't really required but are helpful to skim before class. The papers take some time but are not impossible. A painless way to fulfill a GenEd requirement.
The material is pretty dull, but Jiewuh is an awesome TF and section discussions were very interesting.
This class is tough, often times tedious readings, lectures were not as good as they could be
Make sure to keep up with the readings.
This class is pretty average. It's not bad, but it's not awesome. There's not a ton of work, but there's more than nothing. It's alright.
This course was a good fusion between philosophy and real world application. I definitely feel like I learned a lot, I just wish we had had more of a primer on reading and writing philosophy before jumping in.
It's not the easiest Gen Ed, but it was interesting and Professor Risse delivered the material in entertaining lectures that were very thought-provoking. The one thing that I would say is that there is a lot of reading, some of it is pretty dense, and the papers are graded in a way that is slightly different just because they have to do with philosophy. However, you definitely come away from the class with a comprehensive knowledge about the ethics and flaws in a system of human rights and the justification for it, which I think can be incredibly valuable in thinking about real life.
Lectures are somewhat pointless. He just re-goes over the readings, and imposes his own beliefs on whether or not the arguments are valid. We do a better job of that in section anyway.
This class may look easy, since little work is required, but grading all depends of TF. If you have a hard TF you actually have to work a lot harder and will get worse grades on the essays, and though in the end you may end up doing better, you will have to do more work than an "easy Gen-Ed" would imply. This all applies if you want an A. If you are going for a B+, there is no work involved at all, and all you have to do is write a few pages and get a decent study guide from someone for the exam.
Though they say it's a gen ed... you need background in how to write philosophy papers
A good class for Ethical Reasoning requirement. Subject material is interesting and Prof. Risse is a good lecturer.
It was a very well organized course I am leaned a lot from it. I would recommend people take this if they need to fill their gen ed for ethical reasoning. I came away knowing a lot more about human rights then I ever have and feeling happy that I took the course. The final was not bad and it just helped to solidify the knowledge we had learned throughout the course.
Great way to fill Ethical Reasoning. 3 papers and a final, and the material is very interesting. A good TF can really help clarify the material.
This class is a pretty average gen ed. The readings are quite interesting and so is the material in general. Lecture can get a little dry.
it is a good class...the essay standards were higher than i expected for a gen ed, so be ready to have to write a *really good* essay
The class's lack of clarity and pontifical instructor make it a huge waste of your time and effort.
Only take this class if you enjoy philosophy and are interested in human rights. I don't feel that the class was very rewarding because all the philosophers' arguments for why human rights exist (or don't) are incredibly theoretical and seemed to me not to be very closely connected to real life or current events. Lecture can be tedious but the slides are posted online and they tell you everything you need to know, and you can get by without doing much reading because the papers are all based on just one or two readings, and the essay questions on the final are all taken from a list that  they circulate beforehand.
This is definitely a philosophy class, and if you don't think this way, it is going to be a challenge. Lectures can be boring, but pay attention. If you go to lectures and section, you will do alright, even if you have problems understanding the readings. I had mixed feelings about this class. On one hand, I complained about it a lot, but on the other hand, I do still think about the things we discussed, so it is a mixed bag
This class is a pretty good way to fulfill your ER requirement--lectures are interesting, the readings are well-chosen and not too terribly difficult. Section was pretty bad, however, but hopefully that will be fixed by next year.
Very good lectures, interesting material with a good mix of philosophy and study of the real world. Great way to fulfill an ethical reasoning requirement. I preferred ER 30 in the Fall though
This course is extremely interesting and will improve your analytical skills.
Interesting and not too difficult way to get your ethical reasoning requirement done. The readings aren't too crucial, but the lecture material is very important
This course is a very painless and interesting way to do your ER requirement.  Unlike in other classes *cough* where you might have to listen to student yap away at their opinions, this class offers Prof. Risse's clear ideas on philosophy. Since few of us are real philosophers, I think many of us found Prof. Risse's lectures very useful and enlightening. The essays are tricky - learn to write clearly and in a very clean manner - but the exam is more than fair. The course pack is really optional if you are diligent about going to Lamont once in a while to do a few readings for papers.
Take it! You will learn to engage with a very important subject (human rights) in a way that allows you not only to comprehend it intellectually but that suggests what role you can play in helping make a better world through the promotion and implementation of these rights.
I really think that I learned some valuable philosophy in this class. Then again, I had no philosophical background. I would not recommend taking this class if you have done any philosophy before - it will seem extremely repetitive and oversimplified.
This is an amazing way to satisfy the ER-11 requirement. Extremely well taught and taught so interestingly that it felt painless despite the amount of work.
not exactly what most people expect- much more broad theory than I expected
A little dry, but fairly painless CORE. Be very careful on the essays, have someone with experience in philosophy read them before you turn them in.
It seems like it's the best Moral Reasoning core, I'd recommend it.
I would not take this class if you don't like philosophy or are looking for a history of human rights course.  It is very heavy on ideas of what rights are and their derivations rather than contemporary human rights issues and debates.
I thought it was an interesting class (especially in the moral reasoning category), not incredibly time-consuming, and a very good way to satisfy that requirement. I would recommend taking it.
The class is time-consuming if you want to do all of the readings and fully understand all of the material.
It was very interesting and brought philosophy to life.
You'll learn how to write a philosophy paper, and think more deeply about human rights from the philosophical point of view
I personally was a big fan of this course, but I feel I had an unfair advantage over some of the other students thanks to my philosophy background.  For those students who had never before written a philosophy paper, this class was definitely a challenge.
If I had a background in or general comprehension of philosophical and ethical ideas, I would have found this class more stimulating. I would have appreciated a more accessible class, considering it is a core, but for the material I could comprehend, I found it interesting.
Good way to fulfill moral reasoning requirement (interesting and manageable course).
The readings are actually worth reading, if not for doing well in the course, but rather, for being personally changing reads.
interest in human rights will make the class very interesting
A lot of reading but section conversation is intelligent and entertaining
Great way to fulfill MR requirement
that i hope the first year kinks are worked out, but that they'll learn a lot.
Very interesting!
do all the readings and attend all lectures; otherwise, you won't understand anything
Fine if you have to take a moral reasoning, but I would not take it otherwise.
A good way to fulfill your moral reasoning requirement.
Topics covered are great.
It is a great class for a core but not for an elective.
Teaches you a lot about current human rights discourse and all of its aspects.
It's definitely not fun or great, but that may just be because I hate philosophy. It is important stuff you're learning, and I do think it made me a better person, but it just wasn't great.
This class is very interesting and fun. It's difficult, but its very rewarding.
I would definitely recommend this course, but would perhaps caution that it is difficult and requires a time commitment in order to be enjoyable.
It's a good class. Tak eit for  core and explore tortue nd intervention and other really god things!!
be prepared to write according to how they want
This course is focused yet comprehensive in presenting philosophy through the context of human rights (and vice versa).  It's not too demanding as far as workload, and the three short papers help you develop a writing style for philosophy.
Solid intro to human rights; more about the philosophical foundations of human rights than contemporary human rights, so good class for you if philosophical foundations are what you are interested in
The material is interesting and the papers were fun to write, but the lectures were difficult to follow.
It's a solid class but not stand-out amazing.
It's a great moral reasoning.  They're all difficult, but it's better than Justice.
The reading is dry (mostly) and sometimes terribly theoretical, but everything gets a lot clearer once you go back and read over everything for the exam. You will see the slide about God Being Dead about 800 times. By the end you will feel comfortable arguing in favor of torture.
It's a great way to fulfill your ethical reasoning requirement, especially if you don't want to do Justice with a billion other people.
the material covered is fascinating but we are required too cover too much in each lecture
You definitely learn a lot about a very relevant, real-world topic. Doing the entirety of the readings is a bit unrealistic, and hope you get a good TF.
If you take this class, make sure to stay up to date on the assignments.  You don't have to go to lecture all of the time, but at least skim all of the reading.
This class is interesting but the workload is hard to figure out, and you should definitely keep on top of your reading even though there is little motivation to do so until the final exam.
Human rights won't seem like a pointless intellectual endeavor by the end of the course.
If you want a class with no lengthy papers, check this one out. But beware the reading list.
It's a new course, so there are still some kinks being worked out and it is taught by a professor who is kinda hardcore..but it still turned out being a pretty good class.
You better be REALLY into human rights.
Prepare to feel really uneasy about your writing abilities and to understand what you have read.
be prepared for some unnecessary reading and some possibly poor Section
This course is not that difficult and very interesting.  Also you get more individual attention than most Moral Reasoning courses because of the size.
This is a great course for anybody who is interested in global politics, human rights, and current events and wants to get a better foundation about the philosophy associated with those topics.
Do not take this class. It's a painful way to satisfy moral reasoning.
This is probably the best ER in existence. This class is wonderful. I don't even like philosophy and this class is wonderful. It's engaging, it's interesting, it gets you thinking without hitting you over the head with philosophy or 800 pages of reading, and the lectures are great and easy to follow and Professor Risse is an excellent teacher. I shopped at least seven ERs and took this one without knowing how awesome it would actually be. The reading is not overly hard after hearing the lectures, and the papers are straightforward. Basically this class if awesome and if you are terrified of ER like I was, take this and you will not regret it.
Unless this course is seriously restructured, do not take to fulfill ethical reasoning requirement. There was no communication between TF, professor and students. Grading was completely arbitrary and not substantiated by any guidelines, etc.
Great introduction to moral reasoning and how it applies to human rights.  I felt like I learned a lot about how to think about human rights.
Good class; even if you don't believe in an ethical HR framework before and after the class, you get to explore a bevy of attempts to create one
I actually got a lot out of this course and really enjoyed it, although I must admit that I did not realize it until studying for the final when I got to review the whole semester and took the time to understand everything. The philosophy and material is quite fascinating, and I really enjoyed it as my first phil class ever. They graded the first two papers really harshly but it got better, and the exam was really fair if you take the time to study and prepare answers for the exam questions. Other than the papers (which are difficult but interesting to write), there is not much work at all throughout the semester (I never did any readings).
You're pretty much left on your own for figuring out how to write the papers, but other than that the class was very good.
This class was hard, especially to do well in, but the material is really interesting and it's a great introduction to philosophy. If you have interest in getting a taste of philosophy or an interest in human rights, I would encourage you to take this course.
Utilize your TF if you have trouble with constructing a full philosophical argument.
This class was a great and painless way to fulfill the Moral Reasoning requirement for the Core. I highly recommend it! The work load wasn't too intense and the readings on human rights were really interesting.
It is, after all, a philosophy course...I hate philosophy, but when all's said and done, this class wasn't that bad.
ER 11 is a fabulous course that introduces you to the a variety of basic theories for the reasoning behind human rights. It really opens your eyes to the ways in which rights can be challenges, but more importantly the many ways they can be substantiated. Professor Risse is a great lecturer and sincerely wants the students to learn the material and understand it. This really comes across in his teaching style.
This is a very good introduction to the philosophical approach to human rights. The lectures are very engaging.
This is a good way to get through major philosophical texts, but don't really expect to be fully engaged in the lecture material.
Interesting class, eye opening experience. Chances of an A are greater than 75%.
study- group = necessity...
Its one of those rare classes that change you, or at least challenge your worldview. You learn to justify knee-jerk beliefs to issues of internal human rights and to explain why you believe what you do to people who believe the opposite. Super helpful, and the professor is funny.
I loved this course - Professor Risse and the teaching fellows are great & the course lectures are also great.
If you're interested in this topic and enjoy the opening lecture, then this is definitely for you. Be prepared to read some more complex philosophical readings, but they give you more than enough help to understand and dissect them. Definitely appropriate for people with no prior background.
It might not be the most interesting class you've ever taken, or the most engaging professor at school, but the material is good and it's worth taking, especially because it hones your thinking.
I think that this is a great class if you are interested in addressing issues of human rights. Gives you the necessary background to really understand how to deal with them on a philosophical level. Really made me think critically about why I want to work to defend them.
It took me awhile to fully get into the flow of this class because I was unprepared for some of the difficult texts they asked us to read in the beginning. After awhile, though it became easier for the concepts to be understood. Can be boring sometimes but also really interesting when you learn about recent cases involving human rights.
Before taking this class, I had never taken any philosophy-based courses.  This class was a great introduction to both the field of philosophy and that of human rights.  It has truly piqued my interest to learn more about these two topics.  If you are curious about these subjects, I highly recommend shopping ER 11.
It definitely helps hone your reasoning skills and helps you discover what your values are.
At first, the course is rather theoretical or philosophical so it's a bit dry. But with the application of these theories to human rights issues and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the course became more interesting.Take this course if you need to take a gen ed requirement. It's painless and really interesting.
Painless core or elective.
There is a lot of reading and so you need to be on top of in order to optimize your learning experience.
The reading is hard to sort through and there is a lot of it, but honestly it's not necessary to do all of it, but it does help in section.  Going to lecture is very helpful, because Risse's lecture slides sometimes don't make sense without his explanation.  Also, this class is very much based on philosophy, so make sure you're interested in that.
I would recommend it if you are good at staying awake through boring lectures.
It is very interesting.
This is a good course to fulfill moral reasoning/ethical reasoning requirement.
Really interesting course, with a fantastic professor.  It can be a bit difficult at times, but it's worth it.
A great class overall!  I thought that some of the readings are really boring (e.g. Mill, Gewirth), but some of the readings were REALLY interesting (Sussman, Tamir), so it all balanced out in the end.
I would recommend this course with reservations.
Great introduction to philosophy class, in terms of how to approach and think about things for a philosophical standpoint.
Good introduction to philosophy.  Political examples help frame theory in reality.  Also, few courses better understand the mission of the Core/GenEd.  The teaching staff of this course has the right perspective on what to demand in such a class.  Workload is very light.  Really no reason to do readings, except maybe the ones specific to the assigned papers.  Just go to class and your notes will be all you need...easy.
This class is an excellent introduction to human rights and justice philosophy. Very theoretical but engaging nonetheless
The professor is pretty cool and you don't really have to do the readings to get a lot out of the course. If you attend section and lecture you can still gain a lot.
It was way more philosophical than I had anticipated. I expected it to be more grounded in specific cases than it ended up being.
A fantastic way to fulfill a moral reasoning requirement or if you are at all interested in human rights!  A great introduction to philosophy and overall a well organized class.
Allison was a wonderful section leader, and Professor Risse was a knowledgeable and interesting lecturer.  Sections can be interesting but also bogged down by irrelevant or unhelpful commentary by the other students.
This is an interesting look at human rights, but not for those who shy away from difficult readings
Definitively would recommend this course. Learned a lot and was a very good experience.
Funny and competent professor with clearly a very strong interest in the subject. Covers an important subject, often with unexpected twists. If you have anything to do with international relations, you will benefit highly from taking this class. Engages one in a very different area of philosophy than covered by most courses.
If you are interested in easily fulfilling a Core/GenEd requirement, then this class will certainly fit the bill. But if the subject matter actually interests you, then expect to be disappointed with the elementary and superficial manner with which the issues are dealt in the course. The course has very low expectations of its students, which means that it's rare to A) find people who've actually done the readings and B) would want to discuss them with you. In that respect, the intellectual climate of the course was unrigorous and disappointing. Too often, I felt like I was wasting my time, which is why I am unlikely to recommend the course to students who are serious about the material.
Do your readings and you will love it
An applicable, fun course that deals with tangible issues in a philosophical manner. Stimulating and engaging.
This class is amazing!
The material and its thought-provoking discussions were really interesting, but it is a lot of material to remember when it came time to the final. Lectures are a little hard to follow since there is so much material, but make sure to take notes because the lecture slides often contain only pictures and that won't help when trying to remember what was said in lecture about each topic.
Must do the readings if you'r to take everything you can from the class.
I'd recommend this course to anyone interested in exploring the philosophical questions around human rights and how to create a more equal world.
Good introduction to philosophy.  Course material very relevant to our lives.
I learned that I really hate philosophy and that there is no such thing as human rights.
It is interesting and will teach you a lot about philosophy in a fun way
A lot of reading, but easy to skim and get the full effect. Section is a lot of fun and lectures are interesting enough to keep you awake, though it is sometimes repetitive.
If you are interested in human rights or philosophy this is a great introductory course.
Work hard on the papers and say at least one or two things in section, these are the only things that you're graded on.
Easy and interesting way to fulfull your core requirement for Moral Reasoning.
This class has interesting readings but the lectures and sections are not that great.
