What everyone else says: you get what you put in.
This course has easily been the biggest academic regret I have made. The material is completely irrelevant towards everything. There is no consistency in grading. There is no consistency in sections. There is little feedback on work. You get arbitrarily grades with no feedback. 

There is only one situation where you should take this class: you are a senior with a secured job, you dont care about grades, you dont care about learning anything transformative, and you are willing to put up with the final.
This class is fun, you get to learn about the views and teachings of a lot of pivotal Chinese philosophers, beyond Confucius who many of us know a bit about. You don't need to go to lecture and there is minimal prep needed for section, you should do the readings at some point though because they are fun and can be applied to your own life!
This class is the quintessential gen-ed. Easy class, but still to be taken seriously. If you're engaged in the material you will do well. Sections are fun and the discussions are always interesting. It's not that often that you get to engage in fun conversations and be rewarded for it.
I thought that the readings were pretty interesting, but I could definitely feel the level of motivation pushing down on the overall atmosphere of the course. The workload of the class is pretty minimal, but if you truly want to get a lot out of the course, put some time into it!!
Also, I found the final to be reasonable but a bit disappointing. It wasn't as grand as Puett was saying, but maybe I'm just complaining too much.
It's really chill and the reading amount is perfect. The TFs are really good. Many times lecture is a bit repetitive, but I would definitely recommend if you are dreading fulfilling the ER requirement.
Worst decision. The grading is so arbitrary there seems to be no grade moderation between sections. TF that graded super hard on the first essay  then graded super easy on the second and vice versa. This lack of control over your grade makes it very difficult to enjoy the class.
You need an ER. Just save yourself some regret and take this.
Get Neelam Khoja as your TF. She is amazing and her sections are relaxed but effective - you learn without feeling like the knowledge was forced on you.
Just keep up with the readings, and be present at lectures and section and you'll be just fine. :)
It was a great introduction to philosophy.
I thought it was going to be easier. I am sad.
Is the best I have taken thus far at Harvard
It's a great class!
Take advantage of this class! It really does provide you with a new way of thinking about the world, and I wish I'd kept up with it far better. Go to all the lectures because they really give you a lot of helpful background--I found it difficult to listen to the lectures online afterwards because I let them pile up.
Please do the readings for the sections.
Take this class with friends.
This class is quite easy and required minimal work. Section was a good way to make sure you get the main points about each thinker. The final was annoying to study for.
This class is easy and you learn some cool stuff.
This is an excellent course! The philosophers are incredibly interesting, and there is not too much work required. But you should read the texts because they are super interesting
Great course. If you are thinking about taking it, take it.
Take it. Awesome. Easy. You learn a lot.
The content itself is straightforward and the assignments allow you to think about them better. You end up learning quite a bit and at little cost.
Great class for ER
Class is very interesting and truly enlightening, blew my expectations away.
The readings are manageable, the final exam is a little bit trickier than you might expect. How you do on the papers could depend entirely on your TF.
TAKE THIS CLASS
Readings aren't too bad, essays are fairly straightforward and doable.
It is a class that is extremely interesting and can truly change your perspective on how you live your life.
Should definitely read
This class is what you make of it. With very little reading and fairly short writing assignments, this class will undoubtedly become your "fourth course." Lectures are high level, repetitive, and oftentimes quite boring. Section varies depending on your TF. If you engage with the readings, the class can be pretty interesting and instructive. Unfortunately, it's easy to get away with not doing the readings.
Do the readings
I was sceptical going in, but I actually found this course to be pretty interesting and a very manageable workload.
This course is extremely interesting and the content taught is very valuable.
If you are looking for a good class to fulfill your ER requirement, then take this class! It's not too much of a weekly commitment and the papers are rather open-ended, so they're not too bad.
this is one of the best general education classes offered at Harvard. it contains a fair workload with interesting readings.
This is an interesting class that will make you think about important philosophical questions, but isn't too abstract like other philosophy classes tend to be.
Don't worry so much about the grade as trying to get some useful insights about life out of the course.
Make sure to do the readings because you can learn a lot from them.
Super interesting material that, if taken with an open mind and application to the self, will be life changing. I still study the stuff today and the semester's over... Readings aren't too long, professor is awesome, section isn't too bad. Lovely
If you do the readings, go to lecture, and participate in section, you will get a lot more out of this class than you would otherwise! The texts are really interesting, but are more enlightening after you've talked about them a bit
Interesting lectures and reading, but don't expect to get an easy A. The essay grading is pretty arbitrary.
This is an excellent way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement. It's a wonderful approach to philosophy from a less-explored angle. Professor Puett makes the subject matter extremely interesting, and it is a well-structured course. You will be asked to engage with the material in a meaningful matter, however. Simply summarizing what was said in lecture and section will not be enough to get a good grade on your papers (a creative, argumentative thesis will be required). You won't really have to worry about dates, and other more difficult material, however. Overall an excellent course, don't be scared away by the size of it.
People take this class because it is supposed to be extremely easy.  While the workload is low, the grading is not as easy as you would think.  When they tell you to be creative in the essay, they actually mean it--writing anything even reminiscent of lecture will not get you the grade you are going for.  The material is fairly interesting, though, and the texts you read can be pretty cool.
While a lot of people take it just to satisfy the Gen Ed requirement, I think most of then end up really liking it. The professor really cares about the material, and being interested in interesting ideas in contagious.
This class is definitely worth your time. Although it is not extremely rigorous, it covers the material in an in-depth fashion.  It broadened my perspective.
This class is great! The material is very interesting and presented in an easy to understand manner. Puett is very enthusiastic. This class is also great to take if you need a lighter but interesting course to balance out your schedule!
I absolutely loved this course and would recommend this class to anyone who is interested in fulfilling the ethical-reasoning gen ed. Although the readings are not long, if you takes the time to really process and think through what the philosophers are saying the class can help you become a better individual.
Class is very straightforward in terms of the philosophies discussed. A lot of ideas are abstract so it's important to reach out to your TF to discuss them. Manageable reading and the papers were open-ended. Best ER you'll get around these parts.
I highly recommend taking this class to fulfill the ER requirement. Lectures are interesting, but not necessary. I would be prepared to do the readings to do well on the papers. Also, be careful about section leader because some of them grade unusually hard.
Ask lots of questions when you don't understand the thinkers....be specific as you ask...this will help so much later! (for the essays/exam)
It is one of the best classes I ever took.
This class was very manageable and was able to keep things interesting the whole semester.
This class teaches you skills to become a better person.
You can get away with very little work or put in some work and get a lot out; either way, this one is a gem.
take it. the material is veery engaging but not burdensome.
This is a good way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement. It is not very difficult, but it gives you the time to spend close reading the texts. Overall, it provides a good exposure to texts of classic Chinese philosophers.
-very very interesting course taught by one of the best professors at Harvard.
If you are looking to fulfill your ER requirement take this class. Get off CS50 courses. Close your macbook. And relax because you have found your match. This class is interesting and easy. Reading are manageable and the lectures are bearable. You won't find a better ER.
The lectures start off very interesting but get a bit dry and repetitive towards the end of the semester. Puett is an entertaining and very excited lecturer, though, even when the material is pretty dull. The assignments aren't super hard; definitely go to your TF's office hours before each paper to make sure you're on the right track. Not too much reading per week. Section is the worst part of the course so be prepared for a dull hour each week. However, the readings and material are very interesting and can genuinely change the way you view yourself and how you interact with the world.
Better than most gen eds.
Good class for ER.  Material is different but can be interesting.  Have to distinguish between philosophers which can be difficult.  Minimal workload, depends on TF.
This class has interesting readings and painless lectures. Minimal assignments. However, the grading penalties assessed for things like (1) not defining terms, (2) unoriginal arguments, (3) too lengthy expositions, (4) not writing for a familiar or unfamiliar audience, were not explicitly stated in the first prompt, and so writing the first assignment felt like a shot in the dark. Section was often vague and more confusing than helpful. Easy way to get the GenEd, but a pain to sit through.
Great class for exposure to Eastern traditions
This course is great if you are interested in Chinese philosophy. A lot of students choose not to go to lecture, but Professor Puett provides great analysis of the philosophers's arguments. It is true that the reading is only around 50 pages of reading a week. However, the reading will take a significant amount of time if you truly try to understand the arguments of the philosophers.
You should definitely do the reading throughout the course and try to go to as many lectures as possible. It's not a lot of work and it really pays off when you study for the final.
This is a very enjoyble class that lets you explore various Chinese philosophers and then reflect on how their philosophies are still present today. I found myself implementing a lot of the teachings into my own life. The essays are not too bad and actually allow us the chance to reflect into certain philosophers. It's also very helpful to talk to TFs about your ideas for the essay. Puett is a great professor and such a nice human being--take the opportunity to have a conversation with him.
You might take it because it's easy. That's true, but you shouldn't take it just for that. You should take it because it's outstanding.
Before I took the course, it was heavily advertised to be life-changing and a must-take course. I don't know if that's the case and I do feel the course is somewhat overhyped for how easy it is and how interesting it is. That said, I would still encourage you to take this course if you want a good Gen Ed to fulfill ER and if you're interested in Chinese philosophy. This course is a great introduction to the ideas of some of the greatest philosophers of China before the Han dynasty, and the material is definitely intriguing--it makes you really think about your life at times (especially with the Confucian philosophers and the Daoists). Sections are interesting (if not exactly the intellectual sections you imagined) and Professor Puett is an incredible charm to have. This is a great course and I'd definitely recommend it (just don't believe too much about the hype).
Professor Puett is a good lecturer and the section leaders are very knowledgeable.
This is an interesting course, and quite a unique academic experience. Some of the administrative details are messy though.
Do the readings!
This class is awesome.  Low courseload makes you really enjoy and appreciate the interesting material.
This class will significantly change your view on the environment and people around you.
Easy class that you get as much out of as you put in, but I think you do learn and see the world a little differently. Puett is wonderful, and it is a great course to balance heavier math/scientific courses.
This course gives a great overview with regard to the great Chinese thinkers.
This is a perfect class for getting your feet wet in philosophy.
This class teaches you interesting thoughts about Chinese philosophy. Definitely take it if you are interested in learning about the Chinese culture and politics.
if you're sick of western philosophy or want a different viewpoint then take this class
This class will give you a global but not an in depth introduction to Chinese philosophy
An easy courses, granted, but an incredibly valuable learning experience that will expose you to new ways of thinking. It will disrupt your existing thought patterns
This class is indeed an easy course in terms of workload, yet the philosophers and their ideas are by no means simple and easy. It takes time to do the readings and fully understand their implications. At first I was tricked by Professor Puett's lectures because they were REALLY interesting. However, at some point in the semester I feel like he stopped making good logical progressions between ideas and I got lost in lecture.
Great class, you learn a lot with minimal effort!
Take this class! It is an easy and enjoyable way to fulfill the gen ed requirement, and if you take it seriously you will learn a lot about yourself.
Very interesting class with the course organization to support its own mission.
Look if you need an easy Gen Ed then definitely take it. But this is not one of these Harvard classes you will look back at and say - wow. It's fine, readings and ideas are interesting just because they're so different from our ingrained cultural ideas of philosophy, which come from western thinkers. The class however is at a very superficial, almost high school, level. You will not get a lot of historic and cultural background and you will not be digging deeper into ideas as sections include juvenile role playing exercises.
Very chill class. Puett's a fun lecturer.. for at least the first couple... he's enthusiastic but also extremely repetitive, so there's that.. All in all, very good class.
Great class, outstanding readings, interesting lectures. If you engage with the readings, it's powerful stuff
Do the readings!!!
I took this class because it seemed like the most painless way to satisfy ER, but you should only take it if you are at least mildly interested in the readings. Still, a very manageable class.
Always consult with your TF before starting your essay!
This course is a really great way to fulfill the ethical reasoning General Education requirement. Professor Puett is a wonderful lecturer and if you choose to do the readings, you really can take a lot out of this course, with a fairly light workload. Would recommend!
This is definitely the most easiest and fun way to fulfill the ER requirement. I don't think anyone would regret taking this course, and if you really take the lessons to heart - it can definitely change the way you view the world.
It can go great or okay, depending on how tough your TF is.
ER18 is great, do the readings to do well on the papers, meet with your TF. First paper is graded harshly, but it only gets better from there. Final was very fair, and comprehensive
This is a good way to fulfill the ER category.  Professor Puett is a strong lecturer and sections are pretty good.  Papers are fair.
This is actually an excellent gen ed that is very intellectually satisfying as long as you are willing to put the work into it. It would open up your cultural knowledge in so many ways that truly change how you perceive the world.
Material is very interesting, if you want to learn a lot of it you can, or you can succeed without doing any readings.
The lectures are repetitive at times but the class on the whole is enjoyable. My section was great as it had a great deal of discussion and interesting activities.
Very non-stressful way to gain a new perspective on the world.
subjective grading- if you're looking for a course that doesn't take much time, this is it, but if you're looking for an easy A, be prepared to roll the dice
Puett is great, and the readings are interesting. Definitely the best ER class I've heard of.
This course is what you make of it. It's an easy way to fulfill your GenEd, but it also lives up to the promise Professor Puett makes on day one: This course could change your life.
Great course. Highlights:
-Professor Puett's Lectures were exciting and enthusiastic. They got me excited for the material and he did a good job stringing the philosophers together and putting them in conversation.
-The texts themselves. They were awesome and I loved that we read no secondary material.
-Section (Yanping's) did a good job engaging students and challenging us to apply ourselves.
cool class but make sure you get a cool TF too
Really take advantage of it! Work hard, and you will definitely be rewarded. Such interesting material and great teaching approach.
It's a great, light course to take -- you still learn a lot though. But, definitely what you get out of it depends on how much you put into it.
Incredible class that will change your thinking.
Great liberal arts class for sciency majors.
This class is an easy way to fulfill the ER requirement. You get out of it what you put into it, so it can potentially be really interesting and thought-provoking. The class has a very low workload. It's very easy to get an A-, but getting an A may require a bit more effort.
Fun class! The instructor is incredibly fun to listen to and you learn quite a bit! The readings don't take a lot of time, and sections/lecture will help you understand anything you don't get from the texts.
It's the only Gen Ed I've taken that is really that. I learned something entirely new that I would never have been exposed to in my concentration while never feeling burdened by it's novelty. The class is inviting with a manageable workload that encourages careful study of fascinating texts.
The information is familiar, but you think about it and learn about it in unfamiliar ways.
A solid Gen Ed that works well for rounding out an otherwise heavy schedule. It's also very enjoyable--I found myself actually looking forward to 10 AM lectures. Writing good papers can take a lot of thought, but if you keep up with the readings (which is, again, easy to do) you should have plenty of material to work with.
Great class and great way to fill ER.  Relatively painless, with two essays and a final.  The final is not bad at all and the essays, as long as you meet with your TF, will work out fine.
A good Gen-Ed that doesn't require copious amounts of work. The readings are interesting if you choose to engage with them and on a whole I would say the class is thought provoking.
Take this class! Many students do not take this class seriously and go for the easy A, but you truly get out what you put into this class. If you closely read the texts, do background research, and really try to comprehend the words of the philosophers, you will slowly be able to internalize their philosophies, and perhaps be "enlightened". Of course, this process is very difficult, so don't expect this "enlightenment" to happen quickly. However, even if it doesn't happen at this stage in your life, you may find that a lot of the teachings of these philosophers will resound later in life.
Incredible class, truly life changing in the way that you can grow to think about your interactions with others
Loved this course!!!
The lectures in this class are very good. Puett remains fascinated by the topics he discusses and tries to convey this enthusiasm to his students. The culture of having such a large class, however, seems to make people not want to show up to lecture or do the readings. That makes it much less fulfilling than it could be. The papers can be graded tough, as they might have strict guidelines given the size of the class.
Work on those essays.
Not too hard if you do the reading.
Great lectures with very interesting and captivating material. Puett was always engaging and enthusiastic, if a little bit redundant at times. Papers allowed a way to creatively engage with the thinkers. Wish sections were a little bit smaller.
awesome class, terrific prof and texts.
Make sure you read throughout the semester!
This is a great class to take at Harvard whether for Gen Ed or elective.
Depending on your TF, this could be a great class or a difficult one.
If you're looking for an easy ER class but consider yourself to be relatively smart, this class is a waste of your time. You'll get easily frustrated by the basic-ness/stupidity of your classmates and honestly, there are other more interesting ER gen eds out there more worth your time than this one
Take this ER! Lectures are engaging, the readings aren't too bad, and there's only 2 papers and a final. You actually learn the material because there's little pressure and stress.
You can get by with minimal reading, but you should do them if you want to get the most out of the class
This class incorporates some of the philosophy it teaches into the way the class is taught, which is really cool. It is also different from other classes at Harvard in that it is not very much work on a week-to-week basis, so that you are actually able to do all the reading without skimming and really engage with it in a deep and meaningful way. Michael Puett is an amazing lecturer and makes the material really accessible and relevant and encourages you to apply it to change the way you live your daily life. I think Chinese philosophy is fascinating anyway, but even if you're not super into it, you can still take away a lot from this class.
This is a great class to take if you're looking to balance out a difficult schedule.  The grading on the essays is pretty variable and depends on your TF.  But the final is easy and the work load is low, so I would highly recommend.
This is a great overall examination of Chinese philosophy. It also gives great insight on Chinese culture.
A ton of fun, very useful, and a very reasonable time commitment.
If you think you'd want to learn about chinese philosophy, this class is pretty interesting- experience though is of course highly dependent on teaching fellow.
If you can get Neelam Khoja as a TF, do it.
Do not be swayed by comments that this is an easy class, and therefore worth taking. I assure you that it is a total waste of your time, and the pain caused by having to drag yourself through what requirements there are will totally outweigh what difficulty you might encounter in a slightly harder class. Incidentally if you want the same kind of depth that this class provides in this area of human learning, try Wikipedia. I'm not even sure the professor has done the readings.
The class is relaxed but still engaging-- the workload is very reasonable, the readings are interesting and accessible, and Prof. Puett's lectures are fantastic at providing useful context and highlighting the key themes of the text.
This course is an interesting and not too hard way to fulfill the ER gen ed. Readings are sometimes confusing and section doesn't really help in that regard, and lectures sometimes get repetitive... But taken as a whole, the class teaches you some pretty interesting ideas.
Interesting, the assignments and the work don't get in the way of learning the material. Nothing superfluous.
It's relatively painless and mildly engaging
Good class. Minimal work but still get a lot of out of it.
Super easy class in that it is not a lot of work each week and really interesting at the same time. However, grading is very subject to your T.F. so it isn't necessarily an easy A.
Meet with your TFs about your paper so that you know exactly what they want.
If the topic does not interest you genuinely, it's not worth taking it.
I really enjoyed this class. A lot of people think it's just an easy gen ed that tons of people take, and it can be like that if that's how you approach it. However, I think there's a lot of potential for learning about a wide range of philosophical views of the world. I highly recommend going to Professor Puett's office hours to talk about ancient Chinese philosophers or any aspect of life as he is extremely friendly, approachable, and easy-going in person. I hope to come back and read many of the texts in the future.
This is the best way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement! I had never taken a philosophy class/ hadn't read much of any culture's philosophy, and this was an amazing foray into the field. there is very minimal work, and the lectures are enjoyable. They are recorded, but I would suggest going to lecture anyways--Puett is a great lecturer.
Super light-work class but not an easy A. Do all the readings, its only 50 pages a week and then you'll get a good section grade because you'll actually be able to participate instead of sitting there awkwardly. Essay topics are not that hard, but discuss your ideas/outline with your TF first as this will make your grade wayyy better. Final was easy, just some quote identifications (why you should do the readings) and a final essay. Also Professor Puett is really cute and so enthusiastic, he walked around all the different rooms during the final and just smiled down at everyone because he genuinely enjoys students thinking through his ideas.
It's easy and painless
This class is enjoyable and not time consuming, the final is possibly the only final I will ever enjoy taking!
Great way to fulfill your ER requirement!
Might as well spend a little time on readings, will help on final and papers.
This is really easy.
The course reveals very intriguing ideas on the morality of people and society
Puett keeps lectures interesting and very easy to follow. Go to lectures, they will help you understand the general themes of the readings and the philosophers' general attitudes towards topics. Trying to understand them on your own is kind of a struggle. If you get a good TF, sections will be immensely helpful as well.
I loved this course!!! It was so interesting, and honestly I learned more from this course than I have from many other courses I have taken. The workload was reasonable, and it was clear that the instructors were passionate about what they were teaching.
Great class, everything everyone says it is: pretty interesting, not that much work.
This class can be very rewarding if you stay on top of the material.
I didn't have the slightest interest in Chinese Philosophy before taking this course. Professor Puett is so enthusiastic about it though you can't help but to get into it. The reading are easy and short, which is good because depending on your TF you actually have to do them. The essays are also graded harder than other classes here, you won't get an A just for a well-written paper if your argument is iffy. The final was easy, especially if you've done the readings throughout the course and keep a chart going of each of the philosophers ideas on ~6 main concepts.
This is a great way to fulfill the ER requirement; great lectures, helpful staff, and interesting subject matter
This is a really interesting class!
This class is easy and fulfills your gen ed for ethical reasoning, which is really hard to fulfill. Other than that, I didn't get much out of it. Puett said this class would change my life, but that was an over exaggeration. He also said the final was the moment that the all of the work in the course comes together, but that also was an exaggeration. The final had no room for creativity to discuss how these thinkers related to issues in the world today or personal experiences, which was extremely disappointing. Take this only to lighten your semester course load and fulfill a gen ed.
You will get out of this class what you put in - you don't have to put in a huge amount of effort to get a lot from this class so it is worth it to do the reading and go to lecture. Lectures are interesting and if you pay attention you will get a better understanding of the reading. I would highly recommend this course.
don't take it
I hate to be that kid who unreservedly and unashamedly praises a course as God's gift to Harvard. But that's exactly what this course is.
If you are looking for an easy yet thought-provoking GenEd, then look no further! This class is enlightening and generally very easy, with no more than two papers throughout the semester and a fairly easy final exam.
This class is not dense in readings, but it offers you a chance to reflect on each reading and think about the ideas of each philosopher. This class helps you to better understand philosophies of old as well as ideas in the modern day.
One of my favorite courses I've taken at Harvard! Really thought-provoking reading, and even though it's easy to get away with doing little, the course is really so much more meaningful when taken seriously.
This is an easy and painless way to fulfill your ER requirement, yet a rewarding class if you invest the time in it. Puett is an engaging lecturer who gives a clear intellectual progression from thinker to thinker. I thought the textbooks were fantastic, some of the best text translations I've seen. Section tends to be the usual unstructured waste of time it is in most classes: contests ensue between the kids who are really eager for their class participation credit, while others are drowned about by the loud few.
- Great course! Actually go to lecture to get the most form this course! It is one of the best gen ends I have taken.
Absolutely take this, great way to fulfill ER
Not difficult and thought-provoking. If you approach the readings with genuine interest you can get a lot personally out of them.
It depends on what you're looking to get out of thisif you want a relatively pain-free way to get down your ER gen ed, and don't mind having your eyes opened to a totally different, intriguing philosophical tradition, this is your course. But if you are looking for a hardcore response to a Western great books course, you will be a little disappointed.
This course is a must!
Take it! The more you put in the more you get out but it can be as little a time commitment as you want. The material is really interesting and it's only two papers and a final.
This is probably the most accessible ER course you will find. I didn't like the culture of the course very much (very few people do the readings or go to lecture), but the content is really interesting.
This class is everything a gen-ed should be. Full of interesting, useful information with a good structure and great professor. It won't kill you either.
great course
It is a really easy class, if you like writing. It is also really abstract and talks a lot about how everything in the world is connected.
This is a good way to fulfill ER. Not a lot of work, lecture largely optional. I feel like you can learn just as much by reading Wikipedia articles though.
As a STEM concentrator, it was so freaking refreshing to take a class that I felt I could succeed in. This class was so easy and so enjoyable. Thank you, Puett, for exposing me to a new sector of academia, one that I think I would have truly enjoyed more than engineering.
good way to fulfill er
Excellent class. Even though it doesn't require much work, you should put in some effort so you can learn the material.
Not a lot of work. Interesting material and readings, but very repetitive lecture.
This class is really easy and quite eye-opening. Puett is a great professor although some of his lectures can be a little repetitive. It is definitely worth taking if you are looking for an ER requirement. TFs grade the papers harshly (there are only two), so be sure to consult with them about both.
If you are looking for a class with meaningful work that will not take up too much of your time, ER-18 is the class for you.
You learn a lot in the class yet it is fairly low key. Very good way to get ER out of the way!
Very interesting class that you would enjoy taking.
This class is definitely not a lot of work - but they are hard graders. They grade you more then they teach you. (depending on your TF).
It's wonderful and you learn a lot
If you do the readings and are engaged in section, you'll get s lot out of the class.
I think this is a good class to balance out your schedule. It does a good job at exposing you to Chinese philosophy, without making it a burden on your schedule if you're planning on taking harder classes. Overall, a good class.
Overall the course was interesting and good introduction into the Early Chinese philosophers.  The workload wasn't burdensome, however the papers are also not the easiest.  Overall it helps to go to Section and be prepared.
I was told going into this class that it would change my life. I wasn't told this by professors or TFs, but rather by my peers. I was very skeptical of that - I cannot recall ever taking a class that even left a lasting impression on me (excluding math and science courses, that is). I wouldn't go as far as to say this class changed my life, but it definitely did change the way I think about right vs. wrong, morality, and many other ethical questions. It is a wonderful class.
Everyone takes this class because they hear it's easy. However, a low-workload class and an easy-A class are two different things. This class has an incredibly low workload, but getting an A is very subjective and depends entirely on your TF and your ability to write essays.
This is a good class that requires minimal workload and commitment, but will honestly provide you with interesting material if you decide to invest in it
A great, low workload class with an emphasis on primary literature. Experience is probably highly dependent on TF.
This class changed my life. Read everything and go to office hours. Don't worry about the essay grading--just talk with your TF early on and you'll be fine.
This class is great - interesting, fun, not a ton of work. Go to the lectures. They will help you understand the material and if you go to over 80% of them the final will be a breeze.
This is a pretty painless course to take to fulfill your ethical reasoning requirement and the readings really are worthwhile. It gives you several unique lenses to think about the world and also makes for great discussions with your friends (since the class is so big, you'll probably know several people taking it.
ER 18 did not disappoint as a manageable and easy Gen-Ed. The readings weren't too long, and it's very easy to get by the class without doing the readings and just going to lecture. Prof. Puett is very repetitive so it's easy to get the gist of the lectures, and section is also not overly difficult. The final isn't too bad except for the passage IDs, so do the readings to be able to manage those. Overall a good and easy Gen-Ed with interesting curriculum.
Great way to be introduced to Chinese philosophy!
An amazing class to balance out a hellish workload, and it is a lot of fun as well. A gem for overloaded students who need a 4th class.
It's a graet course with great readings. Sections can be frustrating however. Gives one time to think about how to grow as a human being - something often missed in the college curriculum.
Trust me, you have to take this class. And I hate classes.
Do the readings! You can do well in this course without doing it, however you have the opportunity for a lifechanging experience if you do.
Make sure to complete readings each week and begin assignments early to give yourself enough time to revise. Essays may not seem long, but they require you to carefully think through ideas and construct a strong argument (which can be a difficult process if you're feeling rushed).
Take this class before you graduate. It is the ultimate Harvard class - interesting, applicable, and as much work as you want it to be. You won't regret it.
This class does a great job introducing you to various schools of Chinese philosophy, ranging from Confucianism (Confucius, Mencius, Xunzi) to Mohism (Mozi) to Daoism (Daodejing, Inward Training, Zhuangzi) to Legalism (HanFeizi, Lord Shang). The texts you read are all the English translations of well-known, ancient texts and it's interesting to compare them to Western philosophical texts -- they definitely have a different flavor and approach. I loved this class and would highly recommend it to anyone who's mildly interested in Chinese philosophy or satisfying the ER requirement -- it's a light workload (~50 pages of reading a week focusing on one philosopher) coupled with fun lectures and sections, and you come out feeling like you can speak to each philosopher's ideas. I learned so much from this class, and it wasn't a painful process at all.
It's an interesting class that doesn't demand too much of your time - a relatively painless way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement.
Great class. Michael Puett is extremely passionate about the subject and its worth the new perspectives. Very little work and a good class to balance out others.
Keeping up with the readings (and taking good review notes during section and lecture) will make studying for the final way easier.
This is a very interesting class and, in my view, the best way to fulfill the ER requirement. The professor is always engaging in lectures and provides a good way to start off the day. Overall it's a moderately easy course, but be prepared to do a lot of close reading and you should also have some fondness for Chinese culture or ideas.
This course is not much work, but papers are graded harshly.
A great class to take with a group of friends. Awesome class taught by an awesome professor. Really do the readings and talk about them with friends.
I see you, Harvard student looking for an easy course to take
DO IT!
Easy class and great way to fulfill ethical reasoning. Do the readings, understand the material, and you'll be fine.
DO THE READINGS. I wish I did that earlier instead of cramming one philosopher each day of reading period. The class is great overall! It gives a good survey of the early Chinese philosophers and their main ideas and beliefs. It's also nice that this class's workload is FAR less than other gen ed classes.
Take this class and make an effort to get to know Professor Puett!! :D
This is a class that will teach you so much about Chinese philosophy. The professor never fails to grab your attention during lecture. This class is very easy to manage because the coursework is not at all rigorous.
really well organized - you will actually leave with an understanding of chinese philosophy.
It's a gen-ed that's actually relevant to your life without even seeming like it's totally relevant to your life. For that reason alone I would say take this class. Of course, the philosophers themselves are also really cool, and learning about Chinese thought is very refreshing in a classroom setting when you yourself come very much from a Western way of thinking.
Everything I read about this class told me it would be 'life-changing.'  In the end, I came to the disheartening conclusion that this is Harvard-speak for "easy to completely blow off lecture and still do decently well by fudging your way through section."  Professor Puett is really passionate about the material, but sometimes his lectures end up being extremely circular and repetitious of material already covered.  I did not have a great section experience in this class; although Yanping was very nice, my section experience was disorganized and confused, which intensified the feeling that I did not really glean anything from the texts covered in this class.  Admittedly I had high expectations for a class branded as being 'life-changing.'  However, it is not an exaggeration to say that I was disappointed on even a basic level.  In the end, this ended up being 'just another annoying gen ed.'  A disheartening experience to say the least.
very light workload, grading can be arbitrary
Easy Gen ED, especially the final. But make sure you did well on the essays that is where most people have difficulties.
This is one of the best courses I have taken during my time at Harvard. This course is a gem but it doesn't mean it's an easy A, I know a lot of people who didn't put time in and didn't do well on the essays (45% of the grade). If you put in the time not only will you do well, but you will also get a lot out of this class. The readings are short but extremely interesting and the lectures are incredible. You truly will learn a lot about life by taking this course. It has changed my thinking dramatically and I was skeptic about this "it'll change your life" talk early on. The one condition is that you are open to new ideas and you put in the time. Great course, great instructors, great lectures, great material.
This was a fine course. You get out of it what you put in.
This is an excellent class, and everything I could have asked out of a gen ed class. You get what you put into it. The material is interesting and the sections are nice if you've done the reading. Overall, not too much work and you end up learning a lot by the end of the semester.
Great fun class that allows you to explore some of the most influential thinkers of ancient China. Well organized and engaging lectures.
I would recommend this class to fulfill one's ER requirement, or if one were interested in Chinese philosophy. Lectures are wonderful, the class is not too hard, and you get a lot out of it.
It's cheesy to say, but if you come in with an open mind this course will change your life!
This is a great, painless way to fulfill an ER requirement. It was interesting and very light work load. The two papers were not hard and the final was not either. Section is actually interesting!
An easy way to get the ethical reasoning requirement that is both interesting and applicable to real life.  Definitely take this course.
Easy class with low workload, and decently interesting material. Professor Puett is a fantastic lecturer.
This is a very interesting and easy course.
Great class, interesting readings. Lectures aren't really necessary, you'll find that they get repetitive after a while. Nonetheless, Puett is a nice guy and is passionate about what he does. Do the readings.
A great gen ed class. Always fun to come to in the morning! If you do the readings and take it seriously you really can glean a lot of insight into how you operate as a human.
If you really need the ER Gen-Ed and don't want to work a whole lot, then you should take this class. I think there are better ways to fulfill this Gen-Ed, however. The content of this class has interesting parts, but it's hard to take the material seriously when very few people show up to lectures or really try to engage with the material. It won't change your life as a class, like Prof. Puett claims it will, but it also won't be the worst class you take at Harvard. It's one of those classes that will pass in and out of your life with little staying power. If you need ER credit, but don't just want to take an easy class, I would recommend something with a little more substance. If you just need an easier, lighter workload ER Gen-Ed, then this is probably the right one for you.
Easy and manageable class that fulfills ER requirement.
Fantastic for what it is. You can definitely get by with not doing much form this class, but the material is actually really cool and Puett is so enthusiastic you can't help but become interested. Put the time in and you will learn some cool stuff and not have to commit a huge amount of time doing it
This is a relatively low workload class, but my belief is that you can take much more interesting classes that can fulfill your ethical reasoning requirement. If I were given a choice now, I would probably not take it. Not a bad course, but I think it's somewhat overrated.
Do the readings before the final. It's easy to slack in this class, but reading the material is really beneficial.
This is a pretty laid-back gen ed, but really makes you think about how you live your day-to-day life
This is a relatively easy way to fulfill the ethical reasoning gen ed requirement. However, it is also a really interesting class with ideas that will make you question and rethink some aspects of your own life. There is a very manageable workload, and the professor and TFs are all really nice and supportive.
Do the reading! It's really not a lot, and it will be really really helpful. It is the kind of thing you can make up easily but you need to actually make sure you do that.
It's not hard. The papers are clear and straightforward and easy to engage with the material being covered. Section is iffy; I had friends who loved the class simply because their sections were dope, but others, myself included, didn't feel so fondly for the class because our sections were poorly done. The final requires a lot of prep but is fair.
This is a very enjoyable way to meet your ER requirement. Professor Puett is fantastic and the class really gives you a great understanding of Chinese philosophy (and a bit of history), though it's certainly one of these classes that you get out what you put into the course. Workload is light- two papers and an exam, and the readings are extremely manageable (50-100 pages/ week) and enjoyable. Highly recommend the class!
great way to fill an ER requirement
Invest in the material, its interesting!
Puett is a captivating lecturer. I wish I went to lecture more regularly although I found listening to the videos on 2x speed as useful for studying for the final. This is a great class, though. I highly recommend it to fulfill the ER requirement. I feel like it has given me a much more open-minded view on improving life on an every day level.
ER 18 introduces you to the foundational texts of modern Chinese thought. The readings are very manageable (about 50 pages per week) and section, for me at least, was an interesting discussion and review of the material. There are two essays both are which of fairly open ended and allow you to select texts you are interested in, and the final is totally fair. It's not a stressful class, you will learn something, and you will take out as much as you invest in.
If you need to take an Ethical Reasoning class, this is it! The readings are interesting and you get to talk about them more deeply in section. You don't have to go to lectures, but you should since it's the best part of the class! Professor Puett's lectures are interesting and fun and actually really help you understand the readings. Also, go to your TF's office hours and meet with them to talk about your papers, since they're in charge of so much of your grade.
The reading load is relatively short, so I really advise doing all of them. It's only 50 pages or less per week. Also, there are only two papers and a final. This isn't bad at all. I do wish I had gone to lecture more though.
Professor Puett gives beautiful lectures and the course is very interesting. The reading is not difficult and section can actually be enjoyable. This is a great way to fulfill the ER requirement and think about deep questions. It's a reprieve from some more intense courses.
This a extremely interesting class.
Great course! not too difficult but you learn a lot and it's very interesting.
This class is interesting and most of the work outside of class is just reading apart from the two midterm papers
Very minor time commitment with a very rewarding ROI as long as you do the readings
This is a great class to take.
This class takes very little time; readings are crucial to succeed in final and papers
Make sure you do the readings so you aren't stuck during finals. Make sure to highlight any important passages you find might turn up again, and attend section.
Easy but still educational class. Worth your time!
This class was a great way to fulfill the ER General Education requirement. The texts and discussions are very interesting, Professor Puett is great, and the assignments are enjoyable.
Super easy - the reading is less than 50 pages a week - you can do it an hour and a half before section. And the material is pretty cool - give it a chance and you might find yourself thinking in a whole new way.
It is way harder than what people "say". Do not trust people, it is not that easy and if you are really not interested it will be a bad course.
If you're looking for a light course load, take this class. It's barely any work. However, that doesn't mean it's easy. Your experience in terms of grading will be completely determined by the TF you get. Some TF's grade MUCH harder than others. If you want to take a class where you actually learn substantial knowledge, don't take this class. If you want a class with no work, take this class. Loads of people in the class take it because it is easy, not because they're interested in Chinese Phil.
This may be my favorite class.  Your perspective can and will be changed dramatically, in a positive way, if you dive in head first!
Do not take this class if you can't deal with or don't like philosophical abstraction! Read the following quote from Wikipedia about Daoism: "the absolute principle underlying the universe, combining within itself the principles of yin and yang and signifying the way, or code of behavior, that is in harmony with the natural order". Yes, you only read like 50 pages a week, but like the above quote.
Chinese philosophy will differ from any other courses you've taken. The topics are very interesting and thought-provoking. Great way to learn about some history of China, as well as the culture, structure and people of China through the words of these philosophers.
The professor is great, gives exciting lectures. The class component is enjoyable; however,having a bad TF easily ruins this class. The essays are graded arbitrarily. The papers are harder than they appear.
You learn genuinely interesting things you wouldn't normally end up learning, and the assignments are spread out and not a lot of work. Take it.
take this class if you are genuinely interested in philosophy. Though I found it interesting, after a few weeks of different thinkers I realized I actually don't like philosophy enough to take a class that focuses exclusively on it. That being said, I learned a lot of interesting things that I wouldn't have known if I had taken another course!
A nice, low-stress way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement!
It is a wonderful class to learn about an interesting subject material! Definitely take it!
Fun class to take, you learn about as much as you want to based on how much time you put in.
ER18 is an interesting class yet it resembles more a history than a philosophy class. The lectures are very engaging and the two papers written throughout the term help bring the material together. The final is also very well structured and helps tie in all the different philosophers together.
If you are looking for an easy ER class, this is it. You can get however much out of it that you want to, but you can get a good grade without much work.
Solid way to meat ER requirement
This course provides an excellent and thorough overview of significant Chinese philosophers.  Please be sure to stay up-to-date on your weekly readings, as you will receive the most benefit from the lectures and section that way.
Good ethical reasoning requirement
It's a great course. I enjoyed it a lot, and my view of myself and others has changed as a result. Puett will promise that if you take the class seriously, it will change your life, and I can say that he was absolutely correct.
Ended up never going to lectures. Total hit or miss with TF's. I did not like mine at all and she was ridiculously tough on grading our papers, while I heard other TF's gave A's to everyone. Regret taking the class.
This course has a great lecturer, great and manageable readings, engaging and exciting sections, and great content. Whether taken as a requirement or an elective, I would highly recommend this course.
It's a lot of fun, Professor Puett is amazing, and it's not that much work but the material is pretty interesting no matter what your interests are.
great, painless, and interesting way of getting your ER requirement
It's a good way to fulfill ER. It's not hard, only 2 essays, which is good. Good to balance out a hard schedule.
not too much work, but also not terribly interesting
Pretty interesting class, and the workload is as low as you'v heard. You will learn some basic chinese philosophy, and Puett is a great professor. Solid GenEd overall
great class
ON THE CONTRARY...this is a great class. Puett is a legend. He gets kids riled up about a subject that not many Harvard students would be talking about otherwise. I think all Harvard students should try to take this while they are here. The readings are phenomenal and offer a different perspective on philosophy than classical Western ideas. Things do get trippy at times (Zhuangzi), but that's what makes the course fun.
I definitely recommend this class for its great exposure to beautiful, inspiring texts and for the opportunity to engage deeply with them. This class is one in which you get out what you put in. This can mean you use it as an easy class to balance your schedule or that you take it as a chance to reflect on your life and the world and how to be thinking about it and approaching it.
Lectures are usually interesting, section is fine, nothing special, and office hours is amazing. Talk to Puett, he's really sweet and he helps you develop your own ideas without ever being overbearing.
this is a very good class with a lot of discussion and debate. very fun
This class exceeded its reputation. Yes, it was low workload. Yes, the grading was not especially harsh. However, there still were two papers and a final, all three allowing for reflection on the readings. Plus, the readings were really interesting anyway, so anyone who didn't do them just missed out on a really cool educational opportunity!
This class is fun, but don't be scared to commit a lot of time into it. Catching up with readings and starting essays beforehand really make a difference in your experience in the class.
By reading the texts carefully, going to lecture/section, and paying attention, this course really will change your life.
If you need an ER and are not overly familiar with the material already, take this class. Those with a strong grounding in Eastern philosophy might find it overly basic. However, the awesomeness of Michael Puett might still be enough to put this in your list of classes to consider - particularly as Puett's lectures on the texts are nuanced and accessible, and may enrich even those who are well-familiar with the concepts.
Class that doesn't require much work. Great fulfilment of ER requirement. Puett is great!
It is pretty easy. You dont need to go to lecture at all.  Just do the readings and pay attention in section and you will be fine.
This course is sometime advertised as being a 'gem.' Do not be deceived! It requires work, which if engaged with can truly change your college experience and wider life.
Don't just take this class because it's easy - I learned a lot of extremely interesting material in a very structured, digestible manner. It was a new and great way of learning and thinking.
This class will live up to the professor's promise at the beginning that it will profoundly change the way you think about the world. I'm so glad to have taken it.
Read these texts, really read them with an open mind.
If you're not interested in the course material this course doesn't do a great job of engaging you or making it interesting. It's not a lot of work but it's worth it to take a more interesting class
I would recommend this course, but realize that you are taking a course with individuals who might not be as interested in the subject matter as you are.
While the workload may not be that high, the grading is rather arbitrary and quite harsh at times. Also, be aware that the course TF and professors know that ER18 is sometimes seen as a "gem" so they are actively trying to make the course harder, both grading/work-wise. It was quite apparent this year in particular in assignment descriptions. Otherwise, if you're very interested in the topic, it could still be a good class.
You need to really be on top of your close analysis paper writing skills!
This class is not a huge time commitment. The readings are very reasonable, and the two essays are pretty painless. The course material is surprisingly interesting. I had a very good experience in this course even though it is way out of my comfort zone.
Interesting class and a very easy way to knock of Ethical Reasoning. Hard to get above an A- though.
Do the readings
Very easy course, but did not learn too much
This class was a great first philosophy course, and Professor Puett's enthusiasm for the subject is contagious. He is also genuinely interested in talking to his students 1:1, which you should definitely take advantage of. I loved having the opportunity to engage with a heretofore completely unfamiliar subject, and now I feel like I have a great understanding of the philosophers we covered.
Very easy course, and I doubt anything could satisfy the ER requirement less painfully. Required very little reading that hardly anyone does, and bulk of grade is two papers. Can be mildly interesting if you do the reading and attend lecture, but content is very basic and wishy-washy so it was a struggle to make myself have any interest whatsoever.
This is a low workload class that opens your eyes to the realm of Chinese philosophy and may help you view the world in a whole new way.
This course is a pretty easy way to satisfy your Ethical Reasoning requirement. It's known for being the easiest class at Harvard, given it only has two papers and a fairly easy final. The final has quote identifications (none of which were very hard, and certainly easier than the review questions they gave us in section to prepare--plus, you get to pick ten you know out of the fourteen given), and a small, fairly easy essay (you get to pick one from four prompts). Section was great! I've never heard someone complain about their TF. You can get away with either reading (or skimming) or going to lecture--you probably don't need to do both (I knew people who did neither and were fine). I learned the most in section by far! Material-wise, you do learn a lot about early Chinese philosophers. As a physics and math double major, it wasn't the most interesting to me, but definitely a lot more interesting than I thought it would be! You learn about a lot of Chinese philosophers--maybe not very in depth, but it's pretty good for a survey course!
This is a must take at Harvard. If you take this class seriously, it will change your life in a very positive way. Go for it.
The class isn't hard and you don't HAVE to do the reading / go to lecture to do well, but it's like 50 pages a week of very readable material and I promise Prof. Puett's personality is enough to make the lectures worth it.
Attend lecture every week to stay on top of the philosophers.
Super nerdy prof.  Don't go to lecture
This is a truly no-nonsense class -- just keep up with the readings, participate in discussion sections, and write two essays. The class gives you plenty of room to think about the texts on your terms and do your own analysis. Definitely stop by Professor Puett's office hours if you have any questions.
I have found that your enjoyment of this class will vary quite heavily depending on your TF.  I loved loved loved my TF and she honestly is the only reason I so highly recommend this class.  It's an easy way to fulfill ER, and the material is actually pretty interesting if you take the time to read the philosophers and make all the connections between them.  Puett is intelligent and lectures are just an hour of him rambling on the stage (without notes or anything), but lectures were where big picture concepts were tied together.  Overall highly recommend, very fair/easy final and two pretty straightforward papers.
I think this class is a great way to fulfill Ethical Reasoning. It's very interesting, and it's enriching to both your academics and your personal life. The readings each week are very interesting and very manageable. Similarly, the assignments are two short papers and one final exam. It's a great class--take it!
This class will expose you to a new way of thinking about the world.
This class is as easy as everyone says it is. While the subject matter is moderately interesting, the teaching staff (with the exception of Professor Puett) does not take it seriously enough to make students feel they should take it seriously either.
This is a must take. The readings are very interesting and the class can change your life.
Such a great class - easy and enjoyable.
Fun class, smallish workload. Professor Puett is great and you should go to his office hours.  His lectures are very entertaining and he makes the material seem relevant to today.
easy if you read
Low work load, interesting and engaging lecturer, not as easy to get an A as you may think seeing as there are 700 students competing and TFs basically decide the entire component of your grade with section and essays
I enjoyed this class. I took a more active approach in this class. For example, I'd definitely recommend going to office hours if you want more discussion of the philosophers.
For the class itself, the weekly assignments are the readings. They are about 60 pages long each, and if you really want to engage and try to understand them, it would probably take two or three hours each week. There are also two papers and a final.
Michael Puett is pretty cool, but sometimes I feel that he could make it more clear how his interpretations are based on the text, and gave us more guidance in learning how to approach the texts for ourselves.
This is a great class to fulfill the ER requirement. The professor is amazing, the TFs are really nice and helpful and the work load is light.
ER 18 is definitely a gem, where you can get a pretty good grade for not much work, but like any class, you get out what you put in. I found the readings really interesting. I didn't feel that Puett's lectures did them justice, honestly. The most important part of this class is to do the readings and discuss them with other people - in section, through studying with friends... I found that studying for the final with someone who was equally as interested in the material was the greatest help with this class. The essays are pretty open-ended so that you can write about whatever interests you, but make sure to get your TF to look over your outline/thesis.
Changed the way I think about interacting with others.  Fantastic course!
Readings are skimable and the assignments weren't too hard but graded rather harshly. I also thought the final (which came out of nowhere with no midterms) was hard.
lovely class, actually changed my perspective on how to live my life which was awesome! The essays were graded surprisingly harshly though, so watch out for that. The final is easy though.
I thought this class was much more intellectually stimulating than people say it is and I think it is very worth it to do the readings and engage with the class. It is not a difficult class with only 2 papers and a straightforward final, and taking an hour each week to do the reading is really worth it.
The readings are very interesting and fairly light. Lectures are repetitive but enjoyable, when/if you do go. Sections can be hit/miss based on TF.
This class is one of those where you truly get whatever you put into it. If you try to apply the philosophers' thoughts to your life, this course will be impactive. If you don't do the readings, you'll find that it's irrelevant and uninteresting.
This is a great class to take if you want an easy but applicable ER.  If you want to delve into the material, some thinkers are interesting and fun.  Puett is a great lecturer, but often very repetitive.  Lectures are not necessary to do well in the course.However, don't expect it to be life-changing or fascinating.  It's easy, it can be interesting if you like moral theory, but it's more something to skate by in if you have to.
This course has little time commitment, but is only interesting if you like philosophy. If not it will be boring and the readings will be difficult.
It is important to read all of the texts every week. It's not a lot of reading and easy to get through. Reading the material makes section much more enjoyable.
This was a great course and you get out of it what you put into it. I got fairly involved with the texts and found them very relevant to my life; I know others did not and did fine in the class as well. Its a good introduction to very general ideas you may have heard about in high school.
You easily attain a substantial understanding of chinese philosophies and their applications to daily life
Yes, the course is very easy and requires little work.  Though you may not take them seriously, the claims made by Prof. Puett that this course can be life-changing are very true if you take the time to think about the material and philosophies as they apply to your own life.  To be honest, as a senior in the sciences, I have to say that this was the most interesting and useful general education course I have ever taken at Harvard.  Give it a shot!
This class is absolutely amazing--I had so much fun in this class! Professor Puett is extremely nice and approachable, and his lectures are always engaging and fun. The TFs are also very very knowledgeable about all of the material we are covering, and (at least in my case) always willing to meet outside of section to discuss material and papers and whatnot. The material is different, but definitely worth the discussion and analysis--Professor Puett claimed that this class would change our lives, and in some ways I do feel like I've been changed by this course. Studying the different views, marveling at how progressive and relatable they are to the modern day, discussion and analyzing with peers and instructors, allowed for a wholly new and different perspective on life.
it is very interesting and fun to learn. can help you learn about yourself
Great class! I love Puett's energy. Go to lecture so that you can actually let the course content sink in and apply it to your life. Low workload and very engaging.
Super easy, great lectures, and life changing.  Must take this class.
very cool to look at your life through this classes various lens
It's an interesting course.  It doesn't require a ton of work: there are short readings each week, a mandatory 1 hour section, two essays, and one final.  I really enjoyed being introduced to the philosophers and their writings, and my TF was accessible and a great teacher.  I did feel, however, that although lectures were interesting, they weren't particularly relevant to the discussions in section, or the type of writing we did - felt there was a disconnect between lectures and the rest of the course.
A relatively easy class that just happens to be fascinating and fun!
It might be a good Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed, but it's not a good class. The readings are great and assignments aren't very difficult, but the class is flawed. Professor Puett is extremely repetitive, and if you zone out and try to pay attention again, you'll notice that he's saying "this" so often that you can't follow again. His interpretations of the texts are very different from what the book's editors write. His odd speech habits started to bother me to the point that I kept counters of his favorite words and phrases in order to pay attention. Discussion questions for section weren't posted until after I had already read, but I liked section and my TF otherwise. If you miss a lecture, you might never see it because lecture audio was infrequently posted.
This class is fantastic! Puett is able to summarize complex philosophers into easily digestible lectures, the texts are fascinating, and the workload is completely manageable. Just be sure you are happy with your TF as that can skew your experience of the class!
Great class. Take it!
Go to lecture with an open mind. You will be cheating yourself if you do not.
You will learn a lot! Puett is great, the material (if taken seriously) is easy. Puett says this course will change your life. We're too busy and distracted to let the material actually do so. But I think it can. This is material you won't regret learning. Also, it's easy.
Puett is the best and is really understanding of students, which makes the course very manageable and still interesting at the same time.
It is a great introduction into a way of thinking to which we are not generally exposed.
This is an awesome course and probably the best Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed available. Highly recommend it!
This was the most satisfying gen-ed I have taken to date, Prof. Puett really helps one take an interest in a subject matter that many would not consider studying.
Puett gives great, engaging lectures, but it will be up to the TF to make sure that you really learn the nitty-gritty about the philosophers.
Amazing ER class to take. Definitely go with this one. Make sure you stay on top of your readings, though!
This is a great intro philosophy course.  I took it as a gen ed and got much more out of it than I ever expected.  Not a lot of work required outside of class, but I did find myself really thinking about the material!  I would recommend.
If you have a science or math focus and you expect arguments to be rigorous and logical, don't take this course or you will be severely disappointed since the philosophers say nothing concrete and their works are full of non sequiturs. If your brain works in the humanities way go ahead and take this class. You'll have a great time.
This is a fantastic class to fill the ER Gen Ed.  You are actually able to learn a good amount, and though your life may not be fundamentally changed as promised, you definitely will have interesting things to mull over that directly relate to living your life better.  Reading and assignments are very reasonable.
Great class! Professor Puett is friendly and engaging, and he makes a sincere effort to help students apply the philosophers' ideals to our own lives. The workload is perfect: enough to make you feel like you're learning, but not so much that it becomes overwhelming.
This was my 5th class this semester and was definitely the easiest way to fulfill the ER gen ed. Personally, I did not find the material very interesting and didn't necessarily love the class, but I was able to learn about a different culture without putting forth much effort at all. The lectures are very helpful and are all recorded in case you ever miss any. Overall a painless way to fulfill ER.
This is actually a great course. Professor Puett is such a lighthearted but also dedicated individual who genuinely loves what he's teaching, and it shows. I might also be biased because I had an awesome TF--Chen--who really impacted the way I viewed this course. In terms of workload, it was very manageable and the readings are interesting; I wish I had taken more time to read them.
Take the readings seriously and enjoy!
This class is extremely easy. Very light reading -- in fact I never did the reading and got by more than fine. I enjoyed the subject and you will too because it applies to every person. Take this course.
Perfect Gen Ed
This is a fantastic class! I'm a junior and this is probably one of my favorite classes (and I'm totally not into philosophy or the humanities). Puett is a really good lecturer and he really cares about the class. Even though his lectures are recorded, I always went anyways just because he's so engaging and his stories are so interesting. Also, little workload and easy class overall. The papers were fun to write and fair. The final was fair and I DID have fun writing the essay on the final. It's actually true! Some of the ID's were tough though. Overall, definitely take this class - best way to fill ER. And Steve is the best!!
This is a really straightforward gened. Not too much work, pretty basic material. The final was really straightforward. The essay grading can be very subjective, based on your TF, so watch out for that. The amount of actual reading you'd have to do depends on your TF; some will ask you to analyze it in depth, while others won't harp on you all that much. If you're looking for an academically rewarding ethical reasoning, don't take this class. If you don't really care about ethical reasoning or just want to get it out of the way, then this is the class for you.
The workload is very easy. There is one philosophy a week and the material can change your way of thinking if you take it seriously. Puett is a very enthusiastic professor. Sections are very large and can be confusing. Ask your TF for help as soon as you don't get the material.
This course is a great gen ed to take, though with just two papers, it is not as easy as it may sound. However, what I got from the course is much more than just a letter grade. I loved learning the material and have left the class with a strong sense of chinese philosophy that I can apply to my life.
if you really want to gain lessons out of this class, go to all the lectures and try to do the "unofficial" assignments Puett gives out at the end of his lectures. (i.e. applying Kongzi's core values in your life)
Great way to fulfill the gened. Solid course.
Great class.
This course is a painless way to satisfy ethical reasoning. It is a nice, fun course and allows you to explore some classical Chinese texts.
This is a good way to fulfill the ethical reasoning gen ed. It can feel like "spoon-feeding" at times to more experienced humanities students. However, the texts are interesting and you can push into them yourself.
This is an awesome class with interesting readings and a great professor! you learn things that you are actually interested in and have fun while doing it.
This is not an easy A.  Grading on papers is difficult.
Very little work, interesting material, and all in all worth it. Know that it's likely to get harder in the future, though, given that it's started to attract so much attention.
Relatively painless way to satisfy Ethical Reasoning gen ed. Professor Puett is a great lecturer and makes the material interesting. The readings are actually quite engaging and worth thinking about. Papers can take a while to write but there are only two of them and the final is not too bad.
Fun way to fulfill ER
I know this is the "easy ER gen ed," but I actually thoroughly enjoyed it, and I think I would even if it were the most time-consuming gen ed ever.  Professor Puett beams positive energy, and these Chinese philosophers have some really radical and interesting ideas that you can actually find remnants of in many institutions we have now. Everyone learns about Egyptians in elementary school, but I think everyone should learn about Confucius, and some of the other philosophers, too, while they're at it, so take this course!
Worth taking at any point while your attending Harvard
This is a really great course that encourages you to view your life from an entirely new perspective. The workload is light and the readings are manageable, which makes it possible to keep up and understand the material. Lectures are really fun and Professor Puett is incredible! He really cares about his students and the material he teaches. What I loved most about the course is that the material is applicable to daily life and truly does transform you.
This is a great way to fulfill ER! The readings were interesting and not too long (~50 pgs per week). Professor Puett is so enthusiastic and kind, and my TF was great. The essays were fair and not terribly difficult to write. Take it, you won't regret it!
It will change the way you look at the world.
best class to fulfill your ER requirement
Keep up with the readings and pay attention in lecture, and you'll do fine.
I took ER 18 because I needed an easy class to balance an otherwise very heavy semester. In that regard, it delivered. I think I wrote both the papers in a single afternoon/evening each, and spent just one day studying for the final. The readings aren't even that necessary. However, I was really bored in lecture (through no fault of Puett, he's fantastic) and in section. This is probably just because I really don't like philosophy, and I'm sure other people found it fascinating. But overall I can't say I LIKED the class. It served its purpose for me. Basically, if you're willing to be bored but not work too hard, take it! But if you're worried about wasting a class, find another option.
This course really taught me to think not only about philosophy, but also how to apply it to my daily life and understand the world better. Definitely a good course to take!
This class is a great way to fulfill your ER requirement. The lectures are interesting but are all taped so it's okay if you miss some. The readings aren't hard either. Only two papers and a final.
Professor Puett is a fantastic person, and he generates a lot of enthusiasm for the subject matter. The book you read, Ivanhoe, is quite interesting, so even though this course is a GenEd, I'd recommend reading the book if you can make the time. It will help you make the most out of lecture and section, and you'll learn so much more if you do take the time to read the assignments. It was really cool to be able to go through my every day life and see how what we learn in class applies to our interactions, the books we read, the movies we watch, etc.
These texts can change your life.
The course covers outstanding material and is not a huge time commitment.
Awesome course! Learned a ton about Chinese philosophy - the arguments of Chinese philosophers and the presentation of their arguments were fascinating to decompose! I also won't forget how the literature we read impacted the way I think about how I live my life.
This was hands down my favorite class of the semester. I learned so much about Chinese philosophy, but also about myself. The ideas espoused are applicable to the modern world, and really make one think about the best way to live one's life. It exposes one to ways of thinking that at times does not exist in western culture, and by understanding the different ways of approaching life one can really master it.
Very easy work, but hard to do well in.
This course does actually live up to its expectations of making us think about how we live our lives. It CAN change the way you live if you keep your mind focused on just how this material applies to life. Be sure to stay on top of the readings and really try to do them a couple of times as it helps to reinforce the material. Not to mention, the exam (for us, anyways) is based on excerpted quotes, so it's helpful to remember specific quotations for the texts.Finally, enjoy the course. These are philosophers that we reference all the time and whose ideas are still influential today.
This course will change your life if you take it seriously. These 1000s of years old Chinese philosophers really do have something to tell us. I think this class is the best option for the ER requirement. It really is applicable to your life. Prof. Puett is an amazing lecturer and class will just fly away. This is the only class at Harvard for which I regretted the ending of lecture--or section. Chen is also a great TF. She is knowledgeable and takes the philosophers and their philosophies very seriously. I can't believe one of the most "boring" Gen Ed requirements was so interesting! Definitely my favorite class this semester--and I liked all my classes!
I tremendously enjoyed ER18 and would really recommend it to anyone because the philosophers you learn about and the applications of the individual philosophies to one's daily life are really interesting and pertinent.
The material in this class is interesting, but I did not get as much out of it as I could have because section was bland and the attitude of most students was not to take it seriously.
If you take the time to actually reflect on these readings, this WILL change your life. I didn't believe it either but it actually did.
I honestly took this because I heard it was the only tolerable Ethical Reasoning course but I ended up really liking it.  I think its really cool to learn about why other parts of the world are the way they are (same reason i took gov 20 even though I'm engineering) and this class definitely fell into that category.  Well taught, reasonable workload.
you learn a lot about how different fields of chinese philosophy developed with a pretty low time commitment.
Keep up with the readings.
Talk to Professor Puett!  It really helps put a lot of ideas into perspective because I definitely came up with a bunch of readings of the texts that section doesn't so much address as leave hanging.
Take this course. Enough said.
If you read the texts, there is a lot to get out of them, so I actually recommend doing the reading. If you don't, think class will definitely be easy but will also be a chore, which it definitely doesn't have to be.
Take this course.  Puett is a genius.  I just had lunch with him a few days ago and he's one of the most brilliant people I've ever met.  This class is exactly what Harvard is going for with their Gen-Ed program.  HOWEVER - you MUST go in with an open mind.  You must be willing to read and re-read the texts, and truly understand what they are saying.  If you do so, you can learn quite a lot about yourself and the world from perspectives you might have never considered before.  Most people just take this course as an easy Gen-Ed (not taking it seriously), it does offer that - if that's what you're looking for.  But if you're going to take a course at Harvard, you ought to get the most out of it, so go in with an open mind, and prepare to have your assumptions about the world completely turned upside down.  Take it, take it seriously.  It can live up to its promise, if you let it.
Take ER 18!!! It may change your life. If it doesn't, it will at least give you some very interesting ideas to think about. The lectures are incredibly engaging, and the readings are manageable and interesting.
I think this class was amazing! It really gave different perspectives that helped see life in various ways and helps you reflect on your own points of view.
This class is pretty easy. The grading is not necessarily generous, but if you do the readings and go to class, you should get a good grade in the class.
Great course to take to expand your interest in East Asian philosophy.
If you have any interest in Chinese philosophy, this is a good class to take. You only read primary sources and the amount of reading per week is definitely manageable. Focus on discerning the big ideas from lecture and the readings. You'll gain some valuable insights about how to better live your life and do well in the class!
Best course I've taken at Harvard.
This class is very manageable, but the essays are graded in a difficult manner and take a solid amount of time to do well. While I don't yet know what I received for the course, the final was pretty straightforward and in all the class was enlightening and a painless way to learn a lot about a topic not often studied.
Your experience in this class really depends on the TF you get.  As long as you discuss your essay topics, etc. with your TF, you'll be fine!
an extremely enjoyable and life-changing class. every lecture is like a feel-good session with a focus on how to live of goodness taught by THE EMBODIMENT of goodness. prof. puett is an absolute confucian sage, and it has been such a pleasure to listen to his quasi-sermons every week. take this course! it is what you make it, and it will change your outlook on life if you let it.
This class is a great way to satisfy the Ethical Reasoning requirement, a Gen Ed that I otherwise found unapproachable and a bit intimidating. Puett is incredibly nice and cares a lot about his class. There are two essays that are manageable and no work from week to week other than to read about 50 pages from the philosophers. The final requires that you have some familiarity with these texts, but is also reasonable. I would definitely recommend this class.
Really try to do all the readings and understand the significance of each philosopher. To be honest, I took this class because I thought it would be easy but I walked away from the final having learned some very insightful, enlightening perspectives on life. Take the time to learn from this class, it's well worth it. If you're looking for an easy class, this is "easy" because there's little expected from you aside from two papers and a final, but I have heard that papers can be graded somewhat arbitrarily depending on what TF you have. Great class to fill a GenEd.
Awesome class.  Material was surprisingly interesting, Puett was great and the work wasn't too bad
Take this class. Professor Puett is an amazing lecturer and such a kind person. Each lecture is inspiring and will change the way you approach problems in your life
Be prepared to deal with feeling like you have no idea what you're doing, especially on the papers. However, Puett is amazing, so this course is worth taking just to get to know him. Hope and pray for a good TF.
BEST CLASS EVER. Get Neelam's section if you can. She is literally the best section leader I ever had. She made every section fun, interesting, and non-threatening. I would tell my friends who were also in the class what we did for the week and they would be so jealous. TAKE THIS CLASS. you get so much out of it. I was one of those people who were dreading taking an Ethical Reasoning class, but this class was so painless and interesting. The readings were actually interesting and you actually want to do them, because they are so short. I'd definitely take this class again.
You will learn so much in this course, but will enjoy the process!
This was a fabulous class to help balance out a hard schedule. I learned a lot about Chinese philosophy and it changed my life!
Definitely an easy yet interesting Gen Ed. Make sure you keep up with the readings though!
If you're looking for that one course to give you new lens with which to conceive the "natural" world, you've found it. Especially if you haven't fulfilled your ER class, this is one of the best options.
this is class is incredible. i felt like i was meditating in class. you can only gain from this class.
If you need a class that won't require a lot of work and give you space to put more into your other classes, and which offers interesting material to learn from, then take this class.
This class was really cool. What you get out of it depends on how much you are invested, but either way the work load is light, and the lectures are really interesting especially because Puett is just SO passionate about what he's talking about. A wonderful class in something I never would have ordinarily explored!
Do the readings
Professor Puett is very enthusiastic about the material in this course and it shows in his lectures. This class is low work, low stress, and a great opportunity to reflect on your life as a student of Harvard and a citizen of the world. Professor Puett claims this course will change your life..and he's absolutely right.
A low time-commitment class that you can learn a lot in with minimal commitment
Very low workload, take advantage of this! Do the readings before section and you'll be able to essentially mold your essay through what you get out of section. Puett's lecture speed also makes the lecture recordings really nice for downloading and playing at 2x speed on VLC player. This class can really change your perspective about how you go about your daily life and see the world around you, even if it doesn't necessarily change your behavior.
take this class!
Very relaxed, interesting, and ultimately an informative class. Weekly readings are do-able. The final is really cumulative and fulfilling of all the knowledge you've learned in the class. Papers are okay -- you just need to find an original argument to do well rather than regurgitating what Puett or your section leader says. Lectures aren't as engaging as I thought they would be, but overall the content of the class is really interesting and useful!
Professor Puett is AMAZING. I loved his lectures and they always kept me engaged. The readings were very interesting and a lot of the material is very applicable to real life. The only problem that I have is that the TFs could have been better.
This class is great. Go to lecture.
I did none of the reading until the very end, but I wish that I had now. As I was studying for the final, i realized that many of the philosophies I was reading about resonated quite deeply with me
If you want abstract ethical reasoning, take this.
You get as much out of the course as you put in. A lot depends on your TF
its no work, but i don't know how well i did yet
A lot of people take this course because it fulfills a gen ed and many people say it is easy. I think it has changed. I found the grading on papers to be very difficult. Also, because course enrollment was so high, I section quality suffered. The professor, however, is awesome and one of the best lecturers I have seen at Harvard. Take this course because you are interested in the material.
This is definitely a class worth taking if you need a fourth, lighter class in your schedule.  It will definitely expose you to some new material, and it's pretty painless.  Don't expect to gain a huge knowledge of Chinese political philosophy--it's hard to really engage with the material.  Puett is a lovely lecturer, and the readings are short and great (but do require some thought.)
This class is a gem of a gen ed. So easy yet thought provoking with amazing lectures and discussions. I really felt like I learned something from this class with minimal effort required to do so.
This class is a really applicable, fun class to take. The readings and papers aren't too difficult, and the final exam isn't absurdly difficult. Good elective, if you're not sure what to take
This class presents a good introduction to classical Chinese philosophy with a focus on political structure. The topics are generally interesting and the workload is very light. Great gen-ed
A wonderful class that, if you come into with an open mind and put away your skepticism, will actually change the way you live and see the world!
Pretty good class. Interesting material but it's super difficult to stay engaged since there are so many students. If you are not engaged and do not do the readings, the two papers will be more frustrating and you will have a lot of cramming to do before the final. Professor Puett is great though. A wonderful human being.
Surprisingly tough grading scheme. But still a fantastic class. I wouldn't say it changed my life, but I did very much enjoy the readings, and think they were very well chosen. Definitely recommend with enthusiasm. DO THE READINGS THOUGH! It's only 50 pages a week. You can do it.
a great class because it isn't too much work and you actually end up learning something. this is what all gen eds should aspire to be - it makes you think and doesn't make you worry about drowning in work
This class is great example of one that can be really rewarding without overloading you with work. The readings are incredibly reasonable and actually fun and entertaining! Section is a ton of fun and really allows you to see the nuances of the different philosophers. The essays were incredibly manageable and at times, enjoyable to write. If you want to enjoy writing them, try to avoid doing it the night before because trying to reason through philosophy at 3am can be rough. As well, you can actually learn a lot about how to manage your life in order to live a happier one from this class if you take the teachings seriously. I loved this class and would absolutely recommend you take it!
It's a fairly easy and painless course. There is very light reading every week so if you can read it more than once/read it thoroughly the first time then you will have no problems with the course. Also, lectures are fairly interesting but you don't need to memorize anything, just big ideas. In fact, most of the course is knowing big ideas (there is very little memorizing) and the final exam's ten quote identifications are fairly straightforward and obvious if you've read the text well once or twice and have gone to lecture and taken some basic notes. Extensive notes are definitely not necessary for this course.
This class is easy and fun. Take it.
This class really can change your life, as Puett says. Just do the readings every week, they're only 50 pages and will only take about 2 hours. The philosophers have a lot of interesting ideas, and Puett will help you start to figure out what those ideas would look like if they were implemented in the real world. The course can have some profound implications on your life if you put in a little bit of effort. It's also not that much work and a very good way to fulfill a gen ed requirement.
Very low commitment and fun class!
This class is a very good ER class for GenEd purposes. It is interesting and has a light workload which I think helps you get much more out of the class than if you had a huge workload. It's a pretty painless course to take for ER credit. I would definitely recommend it if you need a ER course with a light workload to balance out an intense set of pset courses.
Prof Puett is AMAZING. The course isn't an easy A that everyone says it is, because its completely based on the two essays and the exam. There are definitely easier ethical-reasoning classes but this class is amazing and has changed my life! TAKE IT
Really try to apply the lessons. You'll be pleasantly surprised by results.
This course is great and you really get to learn a lot about Chinese philosophy. Professor Puett and his staff do a great job making the readings applicable to every day, 21st century life and that is the greatest strength of the course. I was doubtful when I entered it and was told that it would change me life - but I learned to think about the teachings and see a change in my life, as corny as that sounds.
this is a very interesting class and the courseload is light...but make sure you stay on top of the material week to week.
Lectures get boring, but you must resist the temptation to skip them in order to watch the videos later, you will not watch them. Definitely do the reading, go to section, and try to find out exactly how your TF likes papers to be written. Doing this will prepare you amply for the final exam.
Really interesting, very little work!! Best ethical reasoning gen ed
Whoever said this class was "easy" really was engaging in cognitive dissonance. This class is NOT easy. Yes, the reading is light in the number of pages, but you actually have to READ IT thoroughly and even memorize some parts for the final exam. Not only do you have to read it, but you have to understand it, make an argument about it, and prove it in the papers. The grade inflation you would expect at Harvard does not exist in this class. I would say that grading is "fair" because you are evaluated based on the true quality of your work. Also, lecture acts as a supplement to the readings and is not tested. Do not buy the book "Inward training". You only need to read one chapter out of the whole thing, and it is $25.
Puett is a great lecturer and my TF, and most of the TFs from what I hear, are great. The grading on the second paper seemed a bit arbitrarily graded (I spend like no time on the first paper and got an A, then spent soooo much time writing my second paper and for some reason got a B+). If you actually do the readings for this class, you will come away having learned something.
As a senior, this class was my favorite course out of my entire Harvard experience. Professor Puett is an incredibly inspiring professor who genuinely cares about getting to know students and truly believes that his instruction can help motivate willing students to change their lives for the better. This course relies upon the wisdom of Chinese philosophers to ask students to examine their behavior from day to day, moment to moment, and to think critically about the causes of this behavior and how any particular philosopher might recommend that you act, live or respond differently for the benefit of yourself and the world. There is no course at Harvard that is more universally applicable and inspiring than this one, and if you truly desire to become a better human being then you must take it.
This course is an amazing way to fulfill your ethical reasoning gen-ed requirement. I really enjoyed the low coursework which made it possible for me to do the reading each week and fully understand the philosopher. We cover one philosopher each week and have 2 essays and a final exam for the course, which isn't bad at all. Also, Professor Puett is an overall happy and enthusiastic professor, who you can tell practices what he teaches. Going to lecture at 10 just felt like story time since he would just stand on a stage and speak to us. I highly recommend this course!!
Be careful of the essays because the grading can be ridiculous
This class has almost no work, and the papers are graded easily.  Lectures can be pretty boring, though.
A relatively painless gen ed with an enthusiastic professor. Good stuff.
Took this class looking for a gem.  Not bad in terms of work, but found Chinese philosophy horribly boring.
Take this course because the material (most of the time) is very applicable to real world situations, and Professor Puett is a charismatic and excellent lecturer.
Wonderful course! The workload is quite light, but you get so much out of it  Puett is a fantastic lecturer, the writing assignments are very enjoyable, and the material is extremely interesting. My section was extremely good to boot.
I cannot imagine a better ER course to take. The professor is unparalleled in his enthusiasm and dedication to the undergraduates. The material is fascinating and if taken seriously, can provide an opportunity for real personal growth. Definitely grateful to have taken this class. Assignments were very fair, sections provided exciting opportunities for debate, and readings were extremely interesting. The course staff were very approachable and supportive as well.
The course is good - Puett's lectures are interesting and relevant, the readings are engaging, and the assignments are fair. Grading is arbitrary and varies highly between TFs, so be warned.
Take it.
Very interesting perspectives
C'mon guys, you know you want to come cultivate your sprouts with Puett. But actually, this course is pretty awesome.
One of the best classes at Harvard! I can't believe how much I have thought about Chinese philosophy in my everyday life during and after taking this class. Prof. Puett is right, it will change your life.
It is important to find a good TF early on in the course. Switch sections if you need to.
If you are looking for an exciting and fun ER class, take this.
Professor Puett is a fantastic person. He is genuine and kind and you should all try to make it to his office hours sometime. Try to take the class seriously instead of thinking of it as a gen ed to get out of your way, and you will get a lot out of it.
the reading is very interesting
For an Ethical Reasoning GenEd, I don't think you can find many better. You do get to seriously consider important ideas without too much work.
This is a great class on chinese philosphy. Professor Puett is a great lecturer and the material is really interesting. Low workload and not difficult but very rewarding.
You know why you want to take this class. It's a good way to balance a difficult semester.
No surprises with this class. Syllabus explains exactly what the class will be like.
This class is wonderful and Puett is engaging and passionate. The readings are short, so do them and you will get a lot out of this course.
This class is fascinating if you get into it. Don't just coast- there are a lot of interesting things to read and apply to your life! Puett is a great lecturer.
Take the class. It may not change your life, but Puett is a phenomenal professor and you'll likely learn a lot about a subject that you would not study on your own.
Professor Puett's lectures were great, but the texts were very boring, repetitive, and, at times, nonsensical. The papers and final expect you to work closely with the texts, even though many times it seems like Puett's lectures (and other scholarship on these works) simply read into the texts whatever they want, and make up meaning where there really isn't any. Ultimately, it's not a great way to fulfill your ER requirement. Just take Justice.
Professor Puett is right when he says that "this course will change your life". My perceptions have definitely changed as a result of the teachings.
Do the reading. It's like 40-50 pages a week tops. It's enjoyable, and you'll be at a decent advantage for just having read, which is incredible.
Great and easy way to fulfill a gen ed
make sure to stay on top of your readings. it makes the class a lot more worthwhile if you actually read and keep up with the schedule they give you. it also makes studying for the final a lot easier. final is a lot about synthesis and connections.
There is very little work required, but I would recommend that you go to lecture because Prof. Puett is a great lecturer and it will help you better understand the readings. Sometimes the reading can get pretty weird, but they understand that and you're not expected to understand all of it. It's great that there are only two papers (neither of which is very long) and the final is definitely manageable as well.
Good, not too heavy course. Can come away with new perspectives on how to approach life
Super low-workload but interesting way to fulfill the ER requirement. Puett is wonderful and hilarious and clearly cares a lot about the students and what he's teaching. Grading seems to vary a lot among TFs, but I didn't find the essays too challenging, and the final was very straightforward. You certainly can't expect this class to change your life if you don't go to lectures or do any of the readings, but if you put in a little effort you might realize that a lot of the stuff you learn actually has some interesting applications to your life.
This class is a great way to do your ER Gen Ed. Puett is a pretty entertaining and fun lecturer and makes you interested in Chinese philosophy. Sections can sometimes be overwhelming by their unstructured nature but TFs are always there to talk to you about the course. Reviewing in groups or reviewing study guides for the final exam is helpful.
The workload is minimal and the material is easy to follow - that being said, don't underestimate how much the material can build up. Otherwise, enjoy the class!
It's a great environment and really interesting. I would recommend it for leisure as this is a comfortable course.
a great ER gen ed!
This class was extremely interesting and eye-opening - great way to fulfill your Ethical Reasoning GenEd requirement.  Highly recommend due to the easy workload, interesting readings and engaging sections.  One word of advice: don't start your papers the night before they are due!  There are so few assignments in this class that you should take the papers seriously.
This course is very interesting and it gives you a good understanding of the most prominent Chinese philosophers. The material keeps you wanting to learn more. However, how well you do in the course is based off of your TF.
Take it if you want to learn Chinese philosophy that is deeply embedded in asian culture especially in Chinese, Korean and Japanese culture.
Really great class and a fantastic way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement. Puett is a great lecturer and a wonderful person, one of my only regrets is that I didn't take better advantage of his office hours. The material was really interesting, and keeping up with the readings was not stressful. Would definitely recommend.
These philosophers are more than the meditators that so many people make Chinese philosophers out to be. Please take the time to consider their works and you won't regret it.
This course reminded me of the all problems associated with large Gen Eds - really interesting material and great lectures with terrible assignments/sections and an apathy from other students that makes it really hard for any meaningful discussions or engagement with the texts. I came in really excited for the course and it ended up being one of the biggest disappointments of my undergraduate career, which is unfortunate because the teaching staff is great and it clearly wasn't a problem with the course itself. Rather, large Gen Eds tend to be terrible because they face these structural issues. So take it if you need an ER and try to find a departmental alternative if you're genuinely interested in the material.
This is a great survey course..
it has the potential to change your life. Dive into the readings head first and get wrapped up in the lectures to take full advantage. Do the Puett weekly challenges!
The course is fantastic. There's interesting material, a truly great and genuinely enthusiastic professor, and a competent and helpful teaching staff. I loved learning the different philosophies of so many people without ever feeling overwhelmed by them.
The course is easy, but it demands so little that students have little incentive to do anything. That said, if you actually express interest in the subject matter, the readers are pretty interesting and Prof. Puett gives great lectures. I wish I went to them and did the readings as they were assigned.
It doesn't require much work
This class is an easy and enjoyable way to fulfill a gen ed. Especially if you haven't been exposed to any eastern philosophy, this is a nice way to encounter a different mode of thought.
Professor Puett tells you at the beginning of the semester that this course will change your life if you take the texts seriously, and there's definitely some merit to that statement.  This is not a stressful class, but you really should do the readings simply because they're interesting.
You must take this class. I was terrified that all of the readings would be abstract and impossible to follow--they're not. The material is refreshingly relevant to the way we live our daily lives. And even if reading ancient philosophers does not change your life, observing Puett will. He is probably the most kind and enthusiastic person you will ever meet.
Do the full reading before lecture, it will be more helpful and relevant
This is a great way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning component. The readings are all fairly short (~50 pages per week) and really interesting if you actually read them closely. Puett is a great lecturer and a really nice person- he was really into the material and brought his enthusiasm to all of the lectures. There are two essays and a final; the essay topics are all pretty broad so you can spin it any way you'd like. They are graded fairly difficultly, though, so be sure to meet with your TF. The final has an ID section that requires you to read a quote and identify which philosopher said it; as long as you understand the broad concepts of each person and some key words for each one, you should be fine. Overall, take this ER class! Fairly low workload and you get a lot out of it.
Stress free and great way for sci majjors to fulfil ER
Prof. Puett is amazing and an incredible human being. Being in his class makes you more aware of your surroundings and how you can become a better person. Truly loved this course!
Well structured, very student focused, great sections. Really do the readings. They are pretty incredible. I saved ethical reasoning for last because I hated it, but this turned out to be the best gen-ed I have ever taken.
Great class! Go to lecture!
The class really changed my way of looking at things. Take it!
ER 18 has enabled me to handle the stress in my life much better. I really enjoyed the readings, and my TF was a great section leader. An excellent way to fulfill your Ethical Reasoning requirement, but I would also recommend it to anyone who is bothered by philosophical life questions and wants some help coming to terms with them.
can be boring if its not your thing
Read carefully
its easy, but not doing anything may catch up to for the papers/exams...Puett is great, but the lectures are not super interesting unless you love philosophy
Puett is a scintillating lecturer, and most important, a good human being who really employs his preachings on Chinese philosophy in his everyday life in how he interacts with students at al tines. And I think this is something all of us can respect - someone who truly own their own beliefs and employs them in the most minuscule ways. Don't miss this opportunity to meat an incredible scholar, person who exudes positivity, and who who will challenge you, thought whatever classical paradigm you look at in the course, to make yourself a better human being -- It will happen if you take this course!
I found the class to be really helpful for developing my own philosophy and approach to life. I came in having read many comments about how this course could change lives, but don't be fooled. You'll get as much out of the class as you put in -- people who didn't do the readings, actively engage in studying the philosophers, and made an effort to take part in the Puett challenges (Puett challenged us to put into practice some positive aspects of the different philosophies we learned about to become better and better-adapted humans) may not have gotten as much out of the class. The class is easy--two writing assignments and then a final with identification and short answer questions--but this is a structure that Puett built in so that we can spend time reflecting on the course material rather than doing overly long assignments.
This course can be really interesting if you do the effort to know it well, but you get out what you put in. It's not a stressful class, and it can be a good way to fulfill that gen ed requirement or balance your schedule.
This class is truly a gem. It's really interesting and very little work. Perfect for a gen ed.
Read all the readings and really think about them.
I would tell future students to most definitely take this course. The course developes analytical skills, writing compositition, and more importantly adds to one's perspective in life hopefully allowing for better future decision making.
I think this is a fantastic class to take as part of your liberal arts education. Despite the fact that these theories originate from over two thousand years ago, you will find them very applicable to modern-day life - you will have the chance to implement the theories in your lives, and you will become more critical of social and political structures around us. Furthermore, the readings are very minimal, allowing you to actually digest the information and appreciate each philosopher's texts.
It's not as easy as you might think it'll be, because of the subjective grading. It'll be easy to get an A- or a B+, but landing that A is going to be difficult.
It is a great way to fulfill your Gen Ed requirement for ethical reasoning. The class is also incredibly easy until it's the night before the exam.
Take this class if you're looking for an easy gen-ed with relatively new material. Don't take it if you are a hardcore philosophy major.
This class isn't as easy as people make it out to be. You don't really have to do much work on a weekly basis, but if you don't, the essays (not so much the final) will be pretty challenging. It's also frustrating that your grade is only composed of two essays and a final, since the grading on the essays is as much a function of your understanding of the material and creativity in topic choice as it is how well you can write an essay. Puett is great and the lectures are somewhat interesting, but the only part of this class I enjoyed was section, when we looked at the philosophers more critically instead of just being told how incredible they each were. Overall, take this class if you're interested in ethical philosophy, not because you think it's a gem.
Light workload, interesting philosophers. Grading of essays may be a bit arbitrary
It's fun and intriguing!
definitely watch all the lecture if you don't go to them...or else you miss the whole point of the class. puett is awesome.
Great course
It's a gen ed that requires minimal work, two papers and an annoying final at the end. Different TF's grade incredibly differently, so that can be frustrating.
Painless way to fulfill your ER requirement
It's a nice way of satisfying ethical reasoning with interesting readings. You should do the readings every week though because the final has ID questions that are specific passages from each reading which is pretty simple if you did the readings every week.
awesome class
I thought this class was so interesting and loved the lectures. Professor Puett was also right-- I appreciated that the final was a sit down exam rather than another essay! The final essay on the exam I thought was almost therapeutic-- a feeling I would never think to have in a final exam! I loved reflecting on what we had learned all semester and the different philosopher's and applying that to an experience of my own. It really tied together all that we had learned this semester and I still find myself thinking back on lectures and points that Professor Puett made!
I highly recommend keeping up with the readings for this course - not only are they interesting, but it's incredibly helpful in being prepared for the final exam.  It does seem silly at first to have a final exam, but it is a very fair exam and ultimately helpful in bringing the material together.  Keep up with the readings, listen to the lectures, and you'll get a lot out of the class.
Take this class! I wouldn't necessarily call it life-changing as the course claims, but it can certainly have a positive impact if you're open to it.  The weekly workload is light: 2 hours of lecture, 1 hour of section, 1-2 hours MAX of reading.  BUT it's easy to get stuck in a pattern of skipping lecture and/or blowing off the reading, and that will make the midterm and final papers very frustrating.  If you keep up with the work and participate in section, it'll be a breeze.
This is one of the best run courses at Harvard. The material is inspiring and easy to understand. This is a great way to learn about Chinese philosophy and to acquire a different perspective on life.
This is a course with a great intellectual return for the minimal time commitment it entails.  I feel like I learned a lot about some of the world's great philosophers without dealing with the painful time commitments inherent in many geneds.
This class is a great way to satisfy your Ethical Reasoning requirement. IT really is interesting and painless even for those who don't like writing as much.
Prof. Puett is an absolutely incredible instructor.  Incredibly dedicated to the material and his students, Puett makes this course an absolute treat for those willing to open their minds (and hearts) to the material.  If you do that, you will quickly discover that this course should rank far beyond a 5.0 on the Q in terms of difficulty.  These texts are powerful and full of life wisdom.  It is difficult to describe how life changing they can be (or were, for me) in words here.  I will never forget my experiences taking this course and interacting with Professor Puett.
not a lot of reading but the philosophies might not be directly applicable to your life
Easy.
This is a great way to fulfill the ER gen ed requirement.  The course has a very light workload (2 papers and a final exam), and the teaching staff does a great job at explaining the information and helping students learn about the different philosophies.  Professor Puett is also possibly the nicest professor that I have met at Harvard.  He truly cares about his students and really loves teaching.  His positive disposition will also put you in a positive mood.  I would recommend this class to anyone who needs to do ER and has any interest in Chinese politics or ethical matters.  However, you do need to do all of the reading.  There isn't too much, but if you do it all, you will appreciate it when the final comes.
This class has really easy assignments, short readings, good lectures, and you get a LOT out of it if you want to!  A really great philosophy course!  And PERFECT for the ethical reasoning requirement.
This course is great! So much fun information to deal with mostly because the philosophy is tied into modern life and focused on how to view these ideas with a modern perspective.
I was actually happier this semester because it really made me think about how I conducted my everyday life, and I truly believe I improved it. Also, invite Prof. Puett to your faculty dinner. He is the most wonderful dinner companion ever.
i feel like you should probably take a different ER class if you are looking for an easy A. this class is sorta easy, but ultimately the curve will probably end up giving me an A- or a B+, so maybe take like ER32? I heard that's like SUPER easy.
Solid philosophy class, pretty painless. The quality of your experience depends strongly on your TF.
This course is an easy gen-ed.  You also learn a pretty good amount for the amount of time that it requires.  Overall, a solid course.
Great class and decently interesting material one doesn't learn about everyday!
presents a rather different philosophical approach to life - eastern/chinese philosophy - in a pretty good introduction. really does make you think about your life in a different light and, even though there are assignments, they are fairly relaxing and give you reason to contemplate your own life along the way.
Spend a lot of time on the papers, and speak to your TFs about the topics.
Really enlightening course. Not as easy as they all say (workload is low but grading isn't that easy). Experience varies a lot dependent on your TF. I still think this is the best way to finish the ER requirement though. I really enjoyed the class.
Puett is a great, enthusiastic lecturer. The class is inspiring and without an excessive workload
Professor Puett is an awesome lecturer, but section was usually very dull.
This is a fantastic class and it exceeded my expectations. Obviously it has a reputation for being an easy gened, but outside of that, it was very rewarding and I learned a ton. Puett is hands down the nicest professor I have ever had. His lectures are interesting, readings aren't too long, and section is actually fairly engaging. I had no prior knowledge about the topic and that wasn't an issue at all. However, I'd warn against taking this course just to float by--if you pay attention, you'll get a lot out of it.
Take this class! Professor Puett is awesome. He really cares about his students, so don't be afraid to get to know him. It will make your experience in the class so much better! My TF, Yitzchak was also great and very approachable. This class is "easy" in the regard that there aren't many assignments so it requires less time per week. However, it is not easy to get an A. If you want to do well you have to really engage with the material and show that you are working hard to improve.
This class is great. Take it!
This was a relaxing and very worthwhile class as it taught me a lot about the basics of Chinese philosophy. Take this class to learn something interesting at an enjoyable pace.
Lectures were usually interesting, readings are light, and assignments are few, but this means that the papers can quickly drag down your grade if you're not good at writing about philosophy.
Interesting topic, not too much work, win win situation
ER 18 is a great experience. With minimal reading and a few concentrated writing assignments, Prof. Puett really lets you think about Chinese philosophies (from a limited perspective, but informative nonetheless!). I loved this course because exposes you to key ideas in Chinese philosophy (ritual, statecraft, action/nonaction, education) without assigning too many readings or papers. His lectures illustrate in often surprising ways that these philosophical viewpoints are not obsolete, and that these ideas are relevant to the way in which we conduct our lives, even as college students. A relatively light workload class, but fulfilling through section and essays. A recommendation to anyone who would like to balance their schedule!
too fluffy, better to read the stuff on your own. but easy class if thats why you are colleging.
interesting topic, good alternative to approaching philosophy (especially coming from someone who had to take Dead White Men 10a, i mean social studies..). Just be careful about the papers though, the grading - as in most philosophy courses - can be super subjective and seemed to vary greatly across sections.
This course is an amazing way to fulfil your ethical reasoning requirement, but make sure that you do not just write this off as something you need to get out of the way. Professor Puett is one of the most amazing lecturers I have had at Harvard. He not only has an unmatchable enthusiasm for the material, but he can also break down some of these complex ideas like no other. Also, the fact that you read only primary sources makes the weekly readings really worth it, as there is never a dry moment. Take this class!
Take it. It was my favorite class.
It is both easy and interesting. The readings are short but make you think about the world in new ways, and Professor Puett tells you exactly what you need to know about them in lecture. Puett is also the MOST ADORABLE human that has ever lived, and has so much genuine enthusiasm for the course and for getting to know each individual that you can't help but love him.
This class isn't a bad way to take care of ER, but make sure you know what a philosophy paper requires of you before you write yours. Don't slack off in this class because it's known to be easy, and you'll actually learn a good amount. Professor Puett is a wonderful guy, and you should definitely go to his office hours to chat!
Do your essays early and get feedback
Like most classes, the more effort you put in, the more you get out of it, and the more you enjoy it!  Take the time to appreciate the material as you read it.
Professor Puett is a fantastic lecturer, and section discussions are very engaging.  The readings are the kind that will really make you think and reflect on your own choices in life.
This is an awful class, easily the worst I've taken at Harvard. Do not take it, even if just to satisfy Ethical Reasoning. The lectures are alright (Puett is cool) but could be condensed down to like 10 minutes instead of an hour. The reading is light but very dry. The papers are graded harshly, and the feedback on them is completely useless. Section is awful--everyone is unprepared, so you just listen to your classmates make stuff up for an hour while the TF pretends that they're making sense. On the subject of TFs, if you do make the mistake of taking the class, make sure that your TF can speak English fluently, since not all of them can and that could affect his/her understanding of your papers. Anyway, DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS.
Decent for the Ethical Reasoning requirement-take it and move on.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. The class is basically what you make out of it. You can do well by just doing the readings, participate in section and write a coherent paper. But if you do the readings closely and think about them in depth, it could be used to improve your daily routines.
The class really challenges your own assumptions and choices.
ER18 is a great class. Short readings, two papers, and a very reasonable final. Meet with your TF early and often about the papers, generally keep up with the reading (or cram in the last few days before the final) and you'll be totally fine. If anything, take this class for Professor Puett, as he's absolutely amazing!!
Professor Puett is extremely engaging and the material is so interesting! The workload is also manageable so it's a great way to learn about Chinese Philosophy and fulfill the ER requirement.
Do the readings; otherwise you will get confused. Also, go to lecture. Although some are repetitive, some really made me think.
Great reading list
cool
Takeaways: 1) Understanding tenets of eastern philosophies. 2) Thinking and actually applying these philosophies (at least just experimenting with it in your life) will give you a sincere leg-up on life. Tips:1) Study group helps in studying for final. Divide up the philosophers and make study guide. 2) Reading assignment takes 2~4 hrs/week. Reading not overwhelming so do it weekly. Falling behind up to 2 weeks is manageable, but actually reading all of the material by the end is key.
Great course. If you are into Chinese history and philosophy this is a must take.
Overall, an incredible learning experience. First off, it's a wonderful alternative to an ER centered around Rousseau or Kant, if you're not into that. Professor Puett will personally inspire you; he's just such an amazing human being. The class does NOT require that much time, but do spend the right amount of time on it. Skimping out is a general disservice that we all do ourselves, but in this class, it's a particular disservice given that the readings are chosen so discerningly. I obviously was only part of one section, but speaking with friends in the class, it definitely seems like TFs are a strong suit in the class. Meet with them before writing your papers, it's an elevating component of the class. Overall, I enjoyed reading the texts a lot, and think that if there is any criticism I have, it would be that I wish there was more time for us, as individuals, to dive into them analytically.
great subject matter and can give you ideas about how to live your life
This is a fantastic class with a fantastic professor. Section leaders are extremely important to doing well in the class. Do the readings. They are interesting and often quite short.
This was an interesting class. I learned a lot about Chinese Philosophy and Professor Puett really brings the material to life and draws parallels with your own life. If you let it, it will change the way you conduct yourself. I often found the ideas of various philosophers coming to mind as I went about my business. For example, one time I was thinking about getting angry about something, but then Laozi's idea of stillness made me wait and observe the situation. I understood the other person's perspective better, and I was then able to respond properly.However, beware of section! Not all sections are created equal. I found that at the end of the course, we had never touched on ideas that many of my classmates had become familiar with during section. This was somewhat annoying when it came to the final. Encourage your TF to go over the section discussion questions! The reason why this is important is because much of what Professor Puett presents during lecture is his interpretation of the material. He takes what the material says and then takes it one step further. It isn't a raw analysis. Since my section TF didn't do the raw analysis either, I found myself not knowing what anyone was saying at the most basic level at the end of the course! I knew what the words in the text said, and I knew some cool interpretations of the basic meaning, but I didn't actually know the basic meaning. A step was missing.
This course was interesting, though it won't drastically change your worldview as some people say unless you spend a whole lot of time mulling over the concepts outside of lecture and section.
This class is definitely good as far as the amount of reading required, but it certainly isn't an easy class. They grade fairly tough on the papers, and usually give lower grades for your first papers in order to give you room for improvement. It was a painless class, but focusing on the papers is very important, especially since they're about half your grade.
This is a great ethical reasoning class. It is not very difficult and the material is actually interesting and relevant.
This was a great class, especially for a Gen Ed that fulfills the Ethical Reasoning requirement. Professor Puett was a great lecturer and definitely shares his unbounded enthusiasm with his students in addition to a unique take on Classical Chinese philosophy. Work load is light and you can honestly get by without going to lectures or reading the materials for most of the year. Quick reviews and the cumulative lecture at the end of the course should be sufficient both for essay writing and the final exam! Great class that definitely provides a unique perspective about society and government and ethics.
This class is truly transformative- if gone through wholeheartedly will change the way you think about the world.
Really fun, great, relatively low-stress gen-ed.  Took it on a whim and I'm so glad i did.  I'll likely remember this class for the rest of my life.  Extremely relevant to life.  I think this class is useful for everyone.  Really made me think differently about life.
I think that this course is well structured in order to help students do well, but I also think that the material can be a little hard to be interested in if one does not really give it a chance.
Very interesting and applicable to real life.
It is a good class to supplement a hard workload. Prof. Puett does a wonderful job.
This class is interesting in its material, since western philosophy tends to get more attention in the US. Beyond that, the workload is rather low, making it a perfect 5th class or a class to balance out the workload from an intense class. The parallels between the philosophies that you'll study and those to which we have some exposure are interesting to see as well, and you'll also see how those philosophies have had a great impact on our society.
Loved it! Puett is a great lecturer. The sections do depend on your TF though.
Don't assume this class is easy and totally slack off in it. The papers were graded harsher than expected. Material is interesting, lectures are simple (perhaps too simple, I wished I had a more complicated understanding of the philosophers come paper-writing time.)
Definitely take it to fulfill ER! Super easy, only 2 papers and the final and very enjoyable. I found myself applying things that I learned in class to my real life.
Puett is an amazing professor and an inspiring person. He is so enthusiastic about the course and the course really does have the power to change your life for the better if you allow it to.
Keep up, and actually try to apply it to your life.
This is a great class! Even if you know nothing about the topic ahead of time, take it! If you are willing to take time to study it, you will do well!
Take this course because Professor Puett is amazing! He makes the material very interesting and fun to learn.
Really great course, especially if you take some of the recommendations seriously. Don't know if it's life-changing but it can definitely impact your life. Really good course to balance out your semester.
It's a good way to fulfill your ER - not overwhelming work-wise, and I also learned some things that I think I can take with me for life. The professor is very enthusiastic about the material, which always makes a class better.
Great way to fulfill the ER requirement. Material is reasonably interesting, and Puett is a great lecturer
If you want an extremely easy way to fulfill your Ethical Reasoning requirement and also an opportunity to develop a general understanding of a few ancient Chinese philosophers, this course if for you. I was able to do very well in this course without completing a single reading assignment. I highly recommend buying the Kindle version of the textbook so you can search for important key phrases when writing your essays. Don't let the simplicity of the essay prompts deceive you; to get an A on the essays you have to actually put some thought into the ideas discussed in the course, formulate a complex thesis, and do a really deep textual analysis of a few passages from the readings.  Studying for the final exam can be completed in less than 8 hours; just go over the important passages covered in section and make a list of the most important concepts from each philosopher.
put in how much work you want to get out- can be easy but also don't put it off
Super fun must take! Ruby Gem
If you are look for an easy Gen ed, it is easy in terms of work load, but don't expect to get As on the papers.
This class has a very good balance of being both interesting and quite manageable.
At the beginning of this class, Professor Puett said that this class would change our lives.  I would agree in that it makes me look at everyday events in a different way, and has also encouraged me to ponder questions such as, "if I were to completely reconstruct the government, how would I do it?"  The workload is very manageable, with just 50 pages of reading per week.  My only complaint was the paper grading; I attended every lecture, took careful notes, went to every section, and read every page assigned, and still got a worst grade than my friend who did none of the above.  I found the comments on my paper to be a bit infuriating at times; for example, one comment was that my TF wasn't sure what my thesis was, when in my intro paragraph I had literally said "in this paper I will argue that...".  Other than the paper grading, I thought the class was pretty great.
This is a fantastic class! Very reasonable and generally light workload. Readings that are interesting but not necessary to do in full. A Professor that is fun and generates a lot of enthusiasm--clearly cares about what he does. Sections were also actually useful (although that might have been because of my TF). Loved this class and think everyone should take it.
Good way to satisfy ER requirement. Material was much more interesting than I expected (I usually find this type of material boring). The readings are very applicable to issues with modern politics.
The philosophers discussed in the class are quite interesting, and the overall workload is very low without compromising content. Highly recommended as a course to fulfill the ER requirement, and worth considering even if you've already fulfilled your ER req.
It's the best ethical reasoning class. Professor Puett is an incredible lecturer, so you will always enjoy lectures. The concepts we learned are extremely interesting and they can all be applied today even though it doesn't seem so.
Do the readings; they do not take long, and actually reading them will put you at a big advantage for papers and the exam. This is an easy way to fulfill the ER requirement, and the subject is pretty interesting.
Great GedEd. Very applicable and thought-provoking.
This course is awesome! The material is really interesting and it is applicable to your life. There are two papers (4-6 pages and 6-8 pages) and about an hour of reading a week. Awesome class to fulfill the gen ed
I actually have more tools to make sense of life. Puett is a rockstar.
Take this class if you're looking for a low-key class.
Take the readings seriously throughout the semester. And the discussion questions. And go to lectures! They are very interesting.
ER18 is very well-organized and the material is decently interesting. Also, the professor is awesome!
Professor Puett really brings these important Chinese philosophers alive with this class. Somehow, he manages to both contexualize them, and explain their significance to Chinese culture, tradition, and thought, and make it relevant to modern students' lives at the same time. The workload is not high--and that was something that actually made me want to do the readings more rather than less. Rather than be a burden, this class was one of those rare ones that makes it fun to learn again. I loved this class.
THIS CLASS IS A GEM. THERE IS NO REASON NOT TO TAKE IT. YOU'LL LEARN SOME STUFF AND THE WORKLOAD IS MINIMAL.
Take it. So worthwhile.
Great class. Easy work. Interesting at the same time. I really enjoyed this class.
Start working on the papers early; the TFs seem to expect a lot on them and grade pretty strictly. Study with other people for the final. Talking about the different philosophers makes it easier to differentiate and understand what they are saying. Also, be aware that the lecture recordings on online.
This is one of the class where the learning/effort ratio is very, very high. I found that more important than the exact material the class makes you think about your life and tries to shape your philosophy about being human. So a very rewarding class! Definitely recommended!
This class indeed does not require much work, but that doesn't mean it is an easy grade. I felt that I didn't get that much out of the class, although the things and lessons I did learn were great.
Good class. Not a lot of work.  Keep up with the reading. Its not that much and it'll make section / papers easier.
This was a great ER gen ed. Puett is very enthusiastic and cares about the material and the TFs also make an effort to help you. Good writing and critical analysis skills are needed and the class is hardly a walk in the park, but it is definitely one of the best ER options out there.
The material covered is absolutely fascinating. I truly enjoyed going to section and speaking about the authors and the works. It was so nice to hear non-Western views toward governance and human nature.
ER18 is a great class because 1) it's easy, meaning there's minimal reading (you can get by in section on Puett's lectures and some solid skimming), two extremely manageable papers, and a fairly easy final and 2) it's actually interesting material. Puett is incredibly enthusiastic about what he teaches, and it's refreshing to be in a class that urges you to think about how you can live your life better. To me, ER18 fulfills the Gen Ed requirement in the best way possible. Definitely take it if you need to balance out your course load but still want to walk away from the class having learned something!
Thought this was going to be just another gen. ed, but turned out to be amazing and quite interesting. Fairly painless, and would definitely recommend.
Not a lot of work but easy to blow off.
Essays are graded very hard.
Great and easy class, if you want an easy but interesting gen ed and are interested in the material then take it
This is a great way to fulfill a Gen Ed. It's easy, enjoyable and interesting.
The most attractive people in the school take this class, so it's a great way to mingle. Section is highly active and engaging, so you should definitely sit next to that dude/gal you find cute and work your stuff. Lecture is also great for this same reason, if the person you're into even goes to lecture (most likely, he or she won't). Of the people who do attend, an even smaller percentage listen the whole time, so you can use it as a long flirting opportunity. If you want, you can even (and should) flirt with Puett, because Puett is awesome. His lectures are cool, but they get repetitive after five minutes (hence the "smaller percentage listens the whole time" comment), and he loves to use the words precisely and absolutely for things that are neither precise nor absolute. I heard that one lecture got really strange and he started talking about Abraham Lincoln or something - I don't know if that's true, though, since I didn't go to lecture (10 am? Really?). The essays are pretty easy, but graded surprisingly harshly by most TFs - start before they're due, like I didn't do, and you'll be fine. The final exam is awesome because it's a joke. The readings are really interesting and really short - you'll be tempted to not do them, and you can get away with it, but you should really take a crack at them. So yea, take this class. It's awesome. Oh, and if you do take it, then when you get to Zhuangzi, please, PLEASE, even if it's the only thing you read all semester, read the part about the turtle South of Chu named Dark Genius, and the part about the huge fish that turns into a huge bird, and make sure you're cooked at at least a steady [7] when you read them. Those passages are #BASED
This is a great way to fulfill your ER gen ed.
great class that is also interesting.
Not a lot of assignments, but you really need to put time into reading and preparation to do well in these assignments.  Your grade is purely based on two papers and a final.
Definitely is a great gen ed, and very different for other classes. It is a great way to mix up your schedule.
ER 18 is probably one of the best options to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement- as opposed to reading texts of dead old white men, you get a chance to read some philosophy texts that you may have never encountered before, many of which are more about a way of life. In addition, the workload is extremely manageable with approximately 50 pages of fairly easy reading per week, two  essays during the term, and a final exam.
What you see is what you get!  There aren't any curveballs, and the essays are exactly as difficult as you expect.  Lectures are good.
If you're not truly interested in the material, then I don't think the course is worth it. It's not much work but I found it extremely difficult to get into.
People often say they take this class as the easiest ER requirement, but don't let that deter you from actually enjoying and engaging in the class! The philosophers and ideas we learned in this class were quite fascinating and applicable to real world issues even thousands of years later.
If you need a gen-ed that won't take up much time, but that actually does make you think about your life and society in general, this is a great one. I think this is one of the only courses that is easy but also worth it. A complete win-win!
Take it seriously and you will get a lot out of the course
Take this class if you want to fulfill your ethical reasoning in the easiest way possible. However, be prepared to attend (or skip) somewhat repetitive/unnecessary lectures, have low-level discussions in section with other students who have clearly not read the texts, and write papers tailored closely to what your TF wants to read.
This class is definitely one I would recommend and an enlightening way to satisfy your ethical reasoning requirement. The staff is incredibly passionate about what they are teaching, and will inspire you!
This class is the chillest
Great class! Very chill, and it really does provide you with a much more meaningful perspective on life.
an utter delight
It's a large, fairly impersonal class unless you get close with your section and TF. The readings are not particularly long (maybe 60 pages a week) and they're confusing at first, but really interesting and applicable to your life if you end up re-reading the material to really understand it.
This class is very interesting. If you haven't been exposed to these philosophies before, the philosophers will challenge you to think in a new way.
If you're looking for an interesting class that requires little work, take it.
This is a great class to fulfill Ethical Reasoning!  Highly recommend.
This class is fantastic and truly is life-changing, just as Professor Puett promises on the first day of class. The material is extremely interesting and helps open up your mind to a whole region of philosophy that is often under-covered in the American education system. The class really makes you think about how to become a better human being, providing the viewpoints of various philosophers from Ancient China. The class is organized and well-run. The assignments are also enjoyable and very reasonable.
This is a very easy way to fulfill the general education requirement for ethical reasoning, and a reasonably good class to learn a bit about Chinese history and ancient philosophy but I wish there were other interesting courses to take in this gen ed category.
I wanted to take this course because I was interested in the content, but I don't pride myself on being a great writer, and so despite doing the readings each week, the course turned into a struggle. I would definitely recommend this if you are truly interested in chinese philosphy, but I found that as the course progressed, my love for my grades outweighed my love for chinese philosophy and I found this class to be very stressful.
Have an open mind about the material and don't BS during section.
Great course.  One of my favorite that I have taken at Harvard.  A great balance between the time required and what you will get out of it.
Great class with excellent lectures and a sense of purpose!
It is very interesting
If you do the readings, you learn a lot and its pretty easy.
Puett is a charming and enthusiastic professor, and the texts are interesting, but lectures are often repetitive and difficult to remain alert through.
This class does not require much work, but I really didn't like it. It's a little overrated, and the grading seemed completely arbitrary.
It's fun, it's easy, and you learn a lot about something you wouldn't otherwise know much about!
As far as ER gen-eds go, this is probably one of the best ones you're going to find at Harvard. Puett is super nice and clearly cares a lot about the material. Sections are boring. Be warned, though: even though there's literally no work in this class outside the papers, they grade them a lot harder than you'd expect. It's definitely easy, but not necessarily an easy A.
It seems to be like this course is only as good as your TF. The papers were graded harshly. The final exam was actually easy to prepare for and do than the papers.
This course is not as easy as you might think.  The essays are extremely challenging to write.  However, Puett is an amazing lecturer.
This is a great class if you want a look into eastern culture. The TF can make or break it though so be careful about who you get and resection quickly if you have doubts.
Minimally difficult ethical reasoning course, minimally annoying if you already think about ethics a lot, interesting breadth of readings, great lectures. Highly recommended.
Probably the easiest ER gen ed.
This class was thoroughly enjoyable! The subject matter was interesting, the workload was not too heavy so I was able to really immerse myself in the texts (instead of skimming), and I really liked going to section because of the activities we would do. If you're looking for a course that will make you think (but not to the extent to which your brains will fall out) and look at life in a new perspective, this is it!
I was never stressed out about this class, but I learned so much and the material was so relevant to everyday life! I found that even though assignments outside of class were minimal, the material came up in conversation often daily.
Even if you think you have no interest in Chinese philosophy, the class is engaging and exciting and will get you thinking about life and how one lives.  I highly recommend it to anyone wanting to take a low-key ER gen-ed requirement.  Very enjoyable and pretty painless.
It's a great class and the material is super interesting. Professor Puett is a great lecturer and provides an interesting interpretation of the text.  Take the reading seriously because it will pay off in the end.
If you have to fulfill ER, TAKE THIS!! It is totally manageable and fairly interesting. The last lecture is most important. Get a good study guide covering the readings and you are set. Take it!
This class is well-organized and well-taught, though your experience with the course can depend largely on your TF.
Chill class. Standard 2 papers, although the first one is fairly short (4-6 pages), and final. The reading is very manageable. The prof. puett gives great lectures - the synthesize readings in an insightful and interesting way. Plus, I learned quite a bit. Gem ER.
This course is easy, but not that interesting. It's not going to change your life. Essays are graded harshly, so it's hard to get an A in the course.
This class is awesome! Excellent balance between breadth and depth of material. Prof. Puett is an easy-to-follow and logical lecturer so you will never get lost! Section is done extremely well where you get to dive into the readings. Essays are not long (2 essays 4-6 pages, and 6-8 pages) and the questions are broad to help you write about whatever interests you. It's just a really well-done class from all angles. I also learned so much and use the course materials in my everyday life on just how to live :)
This course is manageable -- very little readings every week, and only 2 paper assignments + a sit down final. The readings and lectures are interesting, but the papers are pretty difficult to write.
This is a decent course but can be subjective at times.
Excellent class with very little work. Just two essays and a final. The lectures are interesting, but not necessary to do well and the readings are short and interesting
It is what it is. An easy gen ed.
Take the papers seriously. I actually spent a lot of time on the papers, and judging by other people's paper grades, that paid off. Section can be frustrating (oh gen eds...) but if you have a good TF it can still be helpful.
This class is interesting and well-structured. Professor Puett is a wonderful lecturer and very knowledgeable but repeats concepts a bit too much in lecture. The grading also seems to be strange and slightly inconsistent in regards to the papers. Take this class if you are honestly interested in Chinese philosophy and do not get bored by repetition, otherwise do not take it for an "easy" gen ed.
A wonderful, entertaining way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement. Puett is entertaining and extremely knowledgeable.
You can get as much or as little as you want out of this course, depending on the work you put in.  Regardless, it will cause you to look at your life and your daily activities differently.
Nice course. You read books. You talk about said books. Heads up, there's a final rather than a final paper.
This class will definitely give you a solid overview of Chinese philosophers and has only 50 pages of reading a week, which allows you to actually concentrate on these pages and learn the material in depth.  The grading may be a little harsher than you'd expect for a gen ed, but you can do well if you put in the time.
Beyond simply being an "easy gen ed," if this class is taken seriously, it can be fruitful for personal development and ethical inquiry. I highly recommend doing the readings each week and seriously trying to apply them and criticize them in detail. I loved this class because it was easy in terms of course load, but challenging in terms of clear understanding (beyond summary). Too many people take this course for the easy A, but ER18 can be a fantastically fulfilling class if NOT taken with the grade in mind. The readings and assignments were great and open-ended, and I loved sections where one could argue about the themes of the course. Lectures, however, too often tended to be summaries of the readings and/or Puett's opinions of the readings.
This course taught you to look at life in a new way, and it was extremely helpful.
The material covered in this class is extremely interesting and helps you develop a broader awareness about how you can think about life and self improvement!
Please take this class if you get the opportunity. It is certainly one of those good decisions you make in life!
Puett is worth going to lecture for.
Professor Puett REALLY cares about the course. He was a pleasure to learn from, and the sections (at least my section) were very well taught. Great class!
It is one of the best classes you can take here. The material has such an immediate impact on your life.
Ask about all the relevant themes of the individual thinkers - they are not going to be given to you in lecture or section, but you will be tested on them.
This is a great class because there isn't much work but you can still learn a lot. And the class doesn't just end after a semester but you can keep analyzing every day actions with these new skills.
This course is very insightful and gives you a great although simplified look into many different philosophies. The papers can be graded harshly, and there are not many assignments. Section can be great and really engaging if you have a good TF.
This is a fun course to take to fulfill your ER 18 requirement. Professor Puett is engaging during lectures, and lectures are very fun to listen to! It does depend on who your TF is for the course, though so make sure you really like you TF because they can help teach you a lot!
lol
Good class! Very painless way to do Ethical Reasoning. Puett is amazing. Not something I would have taken as an elective, but probably the best ethical reasoning choice out there!
Workload is very light but essays are graded harshly
Class is super easy. Pretty interesting too. Confucius and Mencius are famous and good to know and keep with you. Beware of taking it pass/fail. You may end up getting an A/B anyway....
This class ended up being one my favorite classes that I took at Harvard. Puett's enthusiasm for the material was infectious. The first lecture during shopping week might seem like he's trying really hard to sell the class, but that's just his love for the subject coming through. He is also an incredible man, and is always caring about the students. He gave extensions for both of our midterm finals because some students had emailed him telling him that they didn't have enough time with other midterms or because The Game was that weekend. The readings are actually very interesting as well and thinking about them was very enjoyable. Coming into the class expecting it to be really dumb and having it be one my favorites was a very pleasant surprise. Just take this class.
Professor Puett is the best and it's gotta be the best ethical reasoning Gen Ed.
make sure you have a good TF. read up on how to write a PHILOSOPHY paper because it's completely different than all other writing--and how well you write a paper in their specific style is basically what your paper grade will reflect. come to section prepared (make sure you have like 2 or 3 quotes tabbed in your book) so you can contribute, because your overall grade will really improve if you participate and look like you read the weekly assignment.
Probably the best GenEd I've taken. I feel like this class embodies the GenEd ideal--it's a subject that we don't really broach at all in high school or college, but is extremely interesting and something that we might not have ever discovered without a course like this. It's well-taught and well-organized in a manner that makes the already interesting subject material even more interesting. Take it (and do the reading). It's definitely worth it.
This is what a gen ed should be like. TAKE THIS CLASS. It was, to be frank, pretty easy but I still learned a lot. It's easy to get away with not doing the readings (and I noticed more than one person on wikipedia during section...) but DO the readings anyway, it'll make the class much better. Puett is a great lecturer and so nice. Take ER18!!
It's a very enriching course that I recommend you take.  It is always interesting to learn about previous philosophies and schools of thought, especially the Chinese one which has a very large influence on our world.
It's an okay course.  I liked the readings, but sometimes the translations were awkward.  Professor Puett's lectures were interesting, if occasionally off-topic.  In all a good way to fulfill Ethical Reasoning for your Gen Ed.
Professor Puett is a fantastic, enthusiastic lecturer with flood-like qi.
This is a fantastic class to fulfill your ethical reasoning requirement. The work is manageable, and as Professor Puett says, if you take the texts seriously, they can really influence the way you live and think about the world. Lecture is awesome and section is also pretty great!Take this class!!!
Interesting material presented by an enthusiastic professor but ruined by a sub-par teaching staff who took themselves way too seriously.
This course is a great way to fill out the Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed requirement. Not too many readings and the lectures are pretty good. Limited number of assignments. Puett is awesome. He really loves the material. The readings can be a little confusing and section wasn't great, but overall great course.
You will learn philosophy of a totally different tradition, that, quite truthfully, will change the way in which you think of the world.
Interesting lectures and actually pretty neat material when you actually "get" everything upon studying for the exam. Workload is just 50 pages a week, but the readings are pretty meh - what you would expect from Chinese philosophical readings.
Keep up with all the readings as it will make the papers much easier to write.
Great philosophies, great for everyday life, especially as a student
Easy
This course is for the most part what it promises to be: the content is manageable and sometimes meaningful (I'd say that approximately 4 of the weekly readings provoked genuine philosophical wonder within me, and the rest of the readings were average to mundane). You'll be fine if you do not attend lecture, though It will make it easier to contribute meaningfully in section if you do attend. Easy and painless way to fulfill a gened.
Its a great class - the work required is minimum but I really felt like I learned a lot about ancient Chinese philosophy.
Painless way to fulfill Ethical Reasoning, and actually a very enjoyable course. Do the readings and you'll get a lot out of it. Also, Professor Puett is the nicest professor I've had here.
Definitely take this class if you can! Totally worthwhile. The ideas are very interesting and applicable. If you have any interest in Chinese philosophy at all, take this course. Very easy Gen-ed, very nice BENEVOLENT professor. He even let us out of class and lecture for a whole week cause he felt bed!
In my opinion, this is the best way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed if you aren't very interested in philosophy in the first place. The course material is enjoyable, and the readings are not difficult at all.
This class is exactly what a gen ed should be: a course that really teaches us something to broaden our understanding, while not assigning so much work that it becomes a chore, thereby defeating the purpose. The workload is extremely reasonable (light readings, section discussion, and two essays), which definitely allows us to think about the (really quite interesting) writings more deeply, and internalize them more. You will see the world differently, and become more aware of your own actions. Of course, do treat this course seriously, do want to think about the philosophers and their writings, and don't try to make things up to get through the course, nor just mindlessly regurgitate what Prof. Puett teaches us. It means nothing if you don't think about it! All of the few complaints I've heard stem from not being willing to think things through, etc.---but you might as well, considering the very reasonable workload and fascinating material!Also, Prof. Puett is awesome. He clearly understands the writings deeply, and his enthusiasm is infectious. This course is highly, highly recommended!!
The workload for this class is manageable. Keeping up with the readings certainly allows you to get more out of each of the philosophies, since we often talked about how they were interrelated. Essay topics are fair, and the final exam allows you to see how all the philosophers fit together.
This is a must-take class! After taking it, I'm very much in love with East Asian philosophy and am interested in taking other classes in this area. The course will teach you how to be a better human, which is very powerful.
Great course. You'll get to think about larger questions such as how to live well. Plus the reading and course structure is not painful. Great Gen Ed. Highly recommend.
The professor for this course is one of the most sincere, engaging, and enthusiastic lecturers I have encountered at Harvard! You can always tell that he really cares about the material and he is exceptionally good at distilling concepts so that they're easy to understand. The course has a really really reasonable workload (NEVER more than you can handle) and is a lot of fun.
If you want a class that isn't too much work but will still engage you, take this class. It will be fun! The readings aren't heavy at all, and everything you need to know for exams and essays will be relayed to you via lecture and section. Professor Puett is great! His enthusiasm rubs off.
DO THE READINGS ON TIME. You want to be as engaged with the texts as possible. You will learn so much.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!! It is AWESOME!! Professor Puett is the best professor I've had at Harvard by far! Definitely take the time to get to know him! The class is really interesting and lectures are great!
Prof P is the nicest man you will ever have as a teacher.  This is the best way to fulfill the ER requirement!!
Get a good past study guide in the beginning of semester and you won't need to do any of the readings.
Readings are great, section is interesting, lectures are a bit slow-moving but Puett is awesome, and final exam was pretty breezy. Take this class!
Very interesting course. Definitely take it!
Professor Puett is a wonderful lecturer. Ethical reasoning is the hardest gen ed to fulfill - but, it's doable with ER 18.
A great Gen Ed. The readings are interesting and they actually give you enough time to do them and think about them (unlike other Gen Eds that force you to skim because they don't give you enough time). The load and grading are both fair. Again, great Gen Ed.
Puett is amazing; he's the nicest person and also delivers very engaging and interesting lectures. The only problem with this class is that lecture is all an interpretation of the text, and when you read them yourselves and have to write papers, it can be tricky, especially since they don't give a lot of guidance or let you know exactly what they're looking for.
interesting and entertaining
grading on the papers is harder than expected...requires an element of creativity
Professor Puett is amazing.  Not a terrible way to fulfill Ethical Reasoning!
VERY interesting and great class.
Be sure to ask specific questions about your assignments!! The TF's may not tell you everything they will be looking for, and count off for things that you did not know about.
a basic understanding of chinese philo prior to this course really offers an advantage...the use of secondary sources was the only way i was really able to understand what was going on
This class is a great way to learn more about not only the subject, but develop an appreciation for ethical reasoning.  I was a bit wary about taking my ER gen ed, but this class showed me that this type of thinking is exciting and interesting.  I loved the way the class was arranged too.  Take this class for sure!
Engage the material! It is then a rewarding and worthwhile course!
A good overview of a different subset of philosophers. For all the attention given to our revered Western thinkers, these guys are arguably just as important, and, population-wise, probably had a larger impact. The papers are manageable, even for a slow writer like myself, but grading seems to depend on the TF, as usual. Not really a big deal though. The final wasn't anything too crazy either, and you are basically set for it if you actually do the readings carefully. This isn't hard, as there are only like 50 pages or so per week.
make study group
Professor Puett is awesome, you learn a lot, and while a lot of people take the class it is still a lot of fun. The grading isn't super easy but 2 papers and an exam isn't bad. It's a solid class with a fantastic teacher, and you will end up liking the topic more than you think.
Love the material, that is what it is all about. This course does not try and trick you
very good
Great class, but the tf can make or break the class. Section quality and grading harshness varies quite a bit depending on tf
I definitely recommend this course, whether you're interested in East Asia or not. Professor Puett is very knowledgable about the subject and is clearly very invested in it is well. The variety of texts is good and very encompassing when it comes to major philosophers out of China.
This class is extremely interesting, especially if you do not have any background.  Professor Puett is an amazing lecturer and a fantastic and caring teacher.  If you take the readings seriously and don't procrastinate, you will enjoy this course.
The week-to-week work is fairly minimal; however, the papers do take a fair amount of time and energy, and the grading is rather harsh.  The readings are interesting and engaging, though sometimes hard to understand, and Professor Puett is the sweetest professor that I have ever had.
Professor Puett is fantastic. He brings energy to every lecture, and his enthusiasm for the texts is infectious. This class is highly enjoyable for anyone with a minimal interest in Chinese culture and history. The requirements are extremely reasonable, and the readings are deep and rewarding.
ER 18 offers engaging material for a minimal time investment. I highly recommend this course, both as a way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement and a stand-alone elective.
This class is pretty manageable, but since there are not that many assignments, the class is what you make of it. The reading is very interesting and the Professor is very enthusiastic and nice.
The course is fantastic and very easy. Try to get a good section TF, but in the end it really doesn't matter. You will be fine on the exam if you go to all the lectures and sections.
Pretty painless way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement. Not a lot of work, but you need to write interesting papers to get a good grade.
TAKE THIS AND YOU WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE. NO JOKES.
This is an absolutely fantastic class. Professor Puett is great, as are the section TF's (at least mine was). I highly recommend taking this course
Great! Light reading, two papers, final exam. Not much work, but super interesting. Plus, Professor Puett is a true gem - get to know the guy! He is genuinely kind and interested in getting to know students.
Professor Puett is excellent, thorough, and passionate. The material is so compelling and so different from everything that I've studied before. Opened my horizons and taught me a lot about myself and how to better myself and enjoy life.
umm if you're pretty chinese (or even other asian), don't expect this class to change your life since you'll have already been exposed to a lot of the ideas within, so don't have too high expectations for this class. otherwise, if you're not asian, go for it. this'll be a great class--eastern philosophy is pretty excellent.
This was the best ethical reasoning choice I could have made. Really manageable workload and pretty interesting material! Some of my friends had tfs who graded things pretty arbitrarily, but I loved my tf john lee and got great support for papers. Life changing? If you want it to be.
This class is a great, painless gen ed. Professor Puett makes the material really interesting and you actually learn a lot and think about your lifestyle. The final exam is not bad either.
The material is so worth it and it's not too heavy of a class
Not much work but graded pretty harshly
One of the most fantastic courses I have ever taken at Harvard. I remember friends saying this to me two years ago (when the course was last offered) and I was sort of incredulous. And then I showed up to the first lectures over shopping week and still felt unsure afterwards. But as the weeks sunk in I slowly realised how much I had unconsciously learnt, without the kind of stress that are associated with other classes. You do good work and they make a big effort to make the assignments accessible but not pointless (ie a good balance between manageable and not boring) and to make the sections standardized in some way (and even if you end up with a bad TF, just stick with it. It doesn't matter that much in the end.) The discussion questions are all the same and they helped a lot with pondering about the material in a deep way, preparing for papers and for the final exam (in fact, if you keep up with them you don't even have to study very much for the final). It taught me a lot of unexpected things and also explained to me a lot of the things I have been wondering about. Absolutely life-changing. So give it a chance.
This is a phenomenal class where you get to learn a lot without much stress. It's low workload, very interesting subject matter and style of thinking taught by a wonderful professor who tells you most of what you need to know in class. You should get to know him, he's so interesting and inspiring! Just make sure you realize this is a philosophy class. I took it as a physics concentrator, but I had a tremendous interest in the material, and LOVED it however, some people complained about it being too "abstract"...all I can say is you can't take a philosophy course not expecting it to be abstract lol.
I did not enjoy this class as much as others because I added this course on the last add/drop day, which means I missed nearly a month and a half of material. I did not enjoy section, but I did like the material, and had no problem on the final (although I don't know my grade yet).
A great excuse to read interesting pieces of Chinese philosophy and listen to Professor Puett.
Great course, probably the most painless way to fulfill the Ethical and Moral Reasoning requirement. If you invest time in the papers beforehand, you should be able to do well
Great class!
The course is great and Puett is a fantastic lecturer and the nicest person you will meet at Harvard! The papers do take some time as does the weekly reading but the course is probably the most enjoyable way to fulfill the ER-18 requirement!
This is a great course with clear expectations, and perhaps one of your only chances to engage with the most prominent Chinese philosophers at a rather elementary level. Prof. Puett is entertaining to watch in lecture, but--for those with more background--he oftentimes repeated rudimentary knowledge (e.g. romanization), so you could perhaps just do the readings during lecture. The philosophers that this course covers are very canonical and interesting, so if you're interested in China or philosophy (or if you just have yellow fever or... yellow parents), you would likely find this course immensely useful. The section leaders, especially Stephen Ford, are great!
This is a pretty solid gen ed. Not stressful, low maintenance.
This class is not very good. Tho the work is comparatively less than many ethical reasoning courses, the reading is difficult to understand and the writing assignments are graded harshly.
I would take justice rather than this class. The professor is attempting to make it a large class and it loses its appeal. The assignments are very philosphical and not rewarding.
One of the most interesting classes at Harvard. Puett and the teaching staff do a great job of making it such a great course if the Chinese philosophy part doesn't do it for you.
The lecture really got me excited about Chinese philosophers. The assignments are very manageable and if you take the time to read and think about them you will be more engaged in class and lectures.
Please take the time to go through the readings each week. It is a nice break from a lot of other Harvard classes because it definitely allows you to reflect upon how you are living your life. I definitely agree with Professor in that this course gave me a different outlook on life and I hope that I can continue to use this approach everyday.
This class will not only teach you about the texts of the Chinese philosophers, but it will make you examine your own daily thinking process and how you lead your life.
This was an amazing class. It might not have completely changed my life but I am grateful to have studied Chinese philosophy.  Section discussion was among the best I have had at Harvard. The work load was very manageable and I highly reccommend the course
This has been my favorite class at Harvard so far. The philosophy component itself is very interesting, although the truly great part about this course is that Puett makes Chinese philosophy applicable to your life. I would oftentimes actually walk out of lecture and feel slightly changed and inspired. For the most part, Puett's lectures are engaging and interesting. He is an incredible professor and you can tell he is really passionate about his work and actually cares about his students. There is about 2 or so hours of reading a week for the class, which I would highly recommend doing (it makes discussion sections and writing papers much easier and more rewarding). Also, shout out to the best TF EVER Graham Chamness. If you get assigned to his section, life is good. Overall, this class requires little time commitment but yet yields much reward in return. A great way to fulfill your Ethical Reasoning requirement! TAKE ER18!
The paper topics are interesting to write to, but the papers can be quite strictly graded.
It is a great and easy class.
This course has the potential to be life-changing (as Prof Puett promises), but unless you are willing to spend A LOT of time thinking about the concepts, it probably will just be an interesting introduction to Chinese philosophy--which is valuable in and of itself. Prof Puett is awesome to talk to in person and his lectures are interesting, though at times they feel kind of redundant.
grading completely depends on your TF. some are very easy others are hard. final exam is straight forward
This class was really wonderful! I would definitely take it; it is not challenging in terms of the actual amount of material or conceptually understanding anything. But it is a challenge to yourself in learning the philosophies and really taking them to heart.
If you go to lectures and section and pay attention this class should prove interesting, intellectually engaging, and easy. Great way to fulfill your Ethical Reasoning requirement.
You get more out of the class the more you put in. If you do the bare minimum, the class is decent, not too hard and fairly interesting. If you put in the time to read the readings carefully and take them to heart, the course is very interesting and enjoyable.
This is really a great class and I found it very thought provoking. It changed how I operate as a person and I would recommend that you take it if you want something different from western philosophy.
Take it if you're at all interested in Chinese philosophy. Puett is an amazing lecturer and you'll learn a lot.
Take this class, but be ready for harsh gradings on the essays
Some of the teaching staff takes this course way too seriously. Make sure you assess the type of writing they want and work closely with your TF.
Great course. Moderate workload. Do recommend doing the readings and going to lecture. I found this kind of philosophy a lot less dry than the western philosophy I've studied.
This class was fantastic. The material was great, reading were short and pretty understandable. Lectures, were repetitive, were easy to understand and Puett is an extremely nice guy. Section was well taught, and the workload was relatively light.
Light work load, but the essays are extremely difficult depending on your TF and how you approach philosophical writing.
Great way to fulfill the ER requirement.
This class is interesting, a low time commitment, and will expose you to philosophers you otherwise wouldn't ever read. A great gen ed for a category that doesn't have a lot of great choices, and helps balance out a busy schedule.
This class is actually great if you are interested in the subject. Get a good TF and it will make a huge difference. Don't put it off, do the readings, they don't take very long and you will enjoy the course.
ehhh
Easy way to fill an Ethical Reasoning requirement, especially since interesting Ethical Reasoning classes are often few and far between, depending on the course catalog of the semester.
This is a very interesting class. Each week you read a different philosopher, so its easy to keep up. The sections are a useful opportunity to discuss what you've read, or at the very least, learn the main concepts from the week.
I really enjoyed this class and the different philosophies I learned about. This is probably the only class besides the few classes directly related to the field I intend to go into that I will use what I learned in life.
Limited workload and recommended for anyone who has a slight interest in Chinese philosophy or great thinkers of the past in general
As far as gen eds go, this is definitely one of the least painful. Puett is a wonderful lecturer and a really nice guy (he canceled class one day, and a few weeks later pushed back the due date for our second essay to try to help ease the stress of midterm weeks). The readings themselves were easy to get through and decently interesting, and he explained them pretty thoroughly in lecture either way, so the workload is definitely manageable. I highly recommend taking this course.
Make sure you have a good TF. Seriously, that's all that matters in this class. Puett's great in lecture but that's only so important. It all comes down to section.
Fairly easy course that serves as an effective survey of Chinese philosophy.
This class is a great way to satisfy your ER requirement.  It has a low workload, and the TFs and professor are very approachable and want to help you improve on your essays.  The final is pretty straightforward.  My only problem with the class was that lectures could get very repetitive.  On one hand, it is helpful when studying for the final to have only a few points to think about for each philosopher, but on the other hand the lectures become boring in the last thirty minutes because Professor Puett repeats the main points until the end of class.
Great class if you put the effort into reading and thinking about it.
Professor Puett is incredible! He is the nicest, sweetest, most understanding professor I have had thus far at Harvard and he is so intelligent, funny, and entertaining. He does not use any visual aids during lecture, which at first I thought I didn't like, but then I realized that he doesn't need them because he is such a great lecturer. This class is actually quite interesting (though at times seems repetitive) even with no prior background whatsoever in the topic. The essays are very manageable and the final exam is also very fair. Once you get to studying for the final exam you will really start to see everything that you have learned come together and it becomes much easier to synthesize and analyze all of the philosophies you learn about throughout the course. This is a great way to fill the ethical reasoning gened, I highly recommend it!
THE BEST class I have taken at Harvard. Gave me an entirely new perspective about my own life, how I should live it, how I should treat others, etc. Workload is light. Puett is the nicest man you'll ever meet, and a great lecturer. This class changed my life!
Primarily focus on the readings and how they connect with themes explained at lecture.  If you take the readings seriously, you will learn a lot and do very well for the course.
A really good introduction/overview to ancient Chinese philosophy! Professor Puett is really approachable! Definitely see him during office hour if you are in the class! A very good way to fulfill ethical reasoning.
Do the readings.
The class is interesting, and covers interesting material. You really need to do the readings, and have to be a good writer to get a good grade in this class.
It's deceivingly difficult to do well, the material is pretty boring, and it's all sort of BS. There are better ways to fulfill that Ethical Reasoning Gen ed.
This class is an amazing way to fulfill this Gen Ed req. The professor is amazing and is truly passionate about the subject matter. It is also really easy.
Getting used to Puett's voice can take a few lectures, but then you begin to appreciate his passion for the material and sincere desire for his students to come away from the course changed.  Plus, it's a well-organized class with only two relatively short papers and a final.  I can't imagine a better way to fulfill the gen ed.
Great class. You will take away a lot.
This course is great, whether you're looking to fulfill an easy gen-ed requirement, or to seriously grapple with the teachings of ancient Chinese philosophers.  You can make it what you want- it's a beautiful opportunity.
Try to learn what connects and differentiates the philosophers as you move from week to week instead of simply focusing on the philosopher at hand. Very helpful for essays and final.
This class is a very interesting introduction to Chinese philosophy. Puett is a great lecturer and extremely knowledgeable, and it is really interesting to engage with the ideas of all of the thinkers covered in this course.
The ideal general education class - interesting, important but done in a non-stressful way
its a good way to fulfill ethical reasoning
A good survey course where you read a lot of interesting texts. Puett's really great.
This class was very interesting and it presented the material in a way that was very easy to understand, yet left enough room for your own interpretation.
Whether you have no or a lot of background in classical Chinese philosophy, you would be able to get a lot out of this course. I grew up very familiar with these texts, but Professor Puett provides a very intriguing and unique interpretation. He tries to bring these philosophers and their ideas alive, and makes vivid connections across different fields, between past and present. Definitely will change your perspective.
If your primary experience with philosophy is from the West, this course is a good way to expand your horizons. And it's a relatively stress-free course for meeting your Ethical Reasoning requirement. However, the "life-changing" claim is overblown (though I'm sure some people did feel that way)... lectures frequently bordered on sounding rather self-helpy, which I personally found really aggravating.
It's little work but can be a little boring as well.
Do the readings and you'll be fine.
Easy gen-ed! Great course. It also encourages you to apply the course materials to your everyday life :)
Real-world application of important, life-changing philosophies.
The grading seemed unfair and it's boring, but pretty much all of the ethical reasoning classes are like that
This course is not heavy in terms of reading, but you DO have to read all of them in order to write good essays and do well (and not cram) before finals. The final exam wasn't that hard, with 10 IDs in the first part and a broad essay question in the second part. The 2 essays, however, were graded harshly, so make sure you put a lot of effort into them. My TF literally found all the quotes I cited and commented on them.
Take it!
This class can be really enlightening if you open up to it.
Great way to fulfill ethical reasoning requirement. Professor is extremely knowledgeable and enthusiastic about his course. Workload is not ridiculously hard. About 50 pages of reading per week. Section discussions are always interesting and helpful when grappling with the material. Personally really enjoyed this course.
If you have any interest in Eastern philosophy (or just philosophy, in general), this is a fantastic way to start your studies. It makes for a painless - yet quite interesting and enjoyable - gen ed class. You won't regret taking it - Professor Puett is a fantastic lecturer and a great resource. He genuinely cares both about his students and about the material he teaches. This class could change your life if you take what it teaches to heart.
Light reading each week (~50 pages) and stimulating class discussions. Professor Puett was very engaging and the reading was very interesting. Overall I greatly enjoyed the class, even though writing the essays was a painful process. Make sure you know the general arguments of each philosopher when you study for your final and can distinguish what's different about their beliefs.
Light workload, interesting, fun!
flexible, relaxed, and easy way to fulfill ethical reasoning
Yes, this class has very few readings.  Yes, this class is not difficult.  But you shouldn't be taking this class just for an easy grade, but if you take any interest in Chinese philosophy at all, the things you learn and the ways this course challenges you to think can really change the way you act and think in your everyday lives.  If the course is similar in the future, honestly you could skip every lecture, skim the readings, participate in section, and do well in the class, but you really get what you put into the class.  Go to lectures, read the material, really think about the questions asked, and I promise you will gain so much from this class!
stay on top of the readings.
Chinese philosophy is absolutely worth a look, but this class is not the way to gain that exposure. Professor Puett is great and passionate about the material, but section was useless and lectures often repetitive. Take a seminar - or an independent look - and get the most out of these texts.
This class is extremely well-taught and has you read some incredible works of classical Chinese philosophy. Furthermore, the workload is reasonable enough that you can actually read each of the texts in depth. I'd recommend this class to anyone regardless of their background in Chinese philosophy.
Great class.  Puett is so passionate about his work and is easily the nicest and most accomodating professor I've ever had.  He's a great guy and all of the TFs are super nice as well.  Honestly I wasn't interested at all in Chinese philosophy before going into the class, but I'm really glad I took it.  It was a very painless and fun way to fulfill the ethical reasoning gened.
Don't take this as an easy Gen Ed. You will put no time into this class and it's easy to get away without doing any work, but the grading system completely depends on your TF (which are mostly stereotypical philosophical nutters), who will find anything that can detract from their personal views on the subject, and write snarky comments on how you don't understand philosophy. An interesting class, but prepare to be told that you just don't get ancient chinese philosophy and not be told how to fix it.
It is an excellent introduction to Chinese culture and really helps with understanding not only the background but also the future implications of government and culture in China.
ER18 is a great opportunity to delve into the work of seminal Chinese philosophers.  You'll get a lot out of it if you're willing to go through the entirely reasonable amount of material assigned each week and take the time to think through implications.  Also, Prof. Puett is an incredibly engaging lecturer and very accessible outside of class; take the opportunity to discuss with him at office hours!
This is a wonderful introductory course to several ancient Chinese philosophers, and gives a good break from the philosophers and texts you might have to read in any other social science or humanities based concentration. Professor Puett is a great lecturer and makes lucid points and clear arguments for every reading, and you get the sense that he really cares about his students.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Not only is it a pretty easy way to fulfill a gen ed (two papers and a final, nothing more), it teaches you so much about human nature and the personal and political implications of practicing different types of morality - I know Chinese Philosophy may seem like a superfluous class, but it is one of the best classes I've ever taken. You will learn so much - perhaps about something you never expected. Plus, Puett is such a softie, he will do anything to make his students' lives easier. Take this class!
While this course is well known for having a really light course load (1-2 hours of reading / week, 2 classes / week) and minimal assessments (2 essays, 1 final), it's important to know that the grading is rather harsh. Most students received a B+ on their first paper and a B+ or A- on the second. Supposedly, there is a limited number of As that TFs are able to give out, which creates an unnecessarily harsh grading curve. I would rather do more work and get an A / learn more than do no work and get a lower grade.
This course is easy because the workload is very low. Aside from the readings that you have to do every week, you only need to write two essays (typical length) and take a final. The final isn't hard if you prepare for it by reviewing all of the material (not too much information) but the two essays can be tricky (depending on the grading of your TF).
LOVED THIS CLASS
Although it is possible to bs through sections without doing the readings, you will have to do them sooner or later to do the papers and final.  better to have a working understanding of the philosophers, their ideas, and how they interact with each other during the semester than crammed together at the end.  Puett is an amazing lecturer, though.
This is a great class for those who want an introductory survey of the different ancient Chinese philosophers. It is definitely a breadth over depth class.
Make sure you do the readings and talk in section because section is a large part of the class.
Prof. Puett ensures that the course lives up to its billing as ER by focusing not just on the analysis of historical texts, but the potential for their application as well. Reading and assignments are very manageable, and while Puett's lectures can be occasionally repetitive, they are seldom unclear and nothing if not enthusiastic.
Fun Class, learned a lot.
Puett is a great lecturer, and it's easy to learn the material as long as you keep up with the readings. The only problem is that the grading standards of the various TFs vary greatly, so don't be afraid to switch to a beter TF early on if you think yours is going to be unnecessarily tough.
The writing assignments ask you to come up with your own original ideas instead of just testing you on the knowledge of the philosophers.
This is definitely the most painless way to satisfy the Ethical Reasoning requirement. With two essays and a final there is very little work involved, and Professor Puett does a great job of making the different philosophers easily digestible. Just be sure to keep up with the readings (it's only 50 pages a week) else you'll begin to get all of the theories confused and have to go back and reread them at the end of the semester.
Really reasonable workload. Pretty cool to learn about Chinese philosophers and their relevance to Chinese history.
Professor Puett is awesome!  He starts the semester by saying that this course can change your life if you take it seriously.  Most people would probably agree with me when I say that it didn't change my life, but at least I appreciate what I've learned and see things in a different perspective.  Puett may talk in a funny voice, but he's one of the most interesting storytellers there is.  He's also the most genuinely nice professor I've ever talked with.  That being said, a large part of this course unfortunately is the TF you have and the essays graded by your TF.  The TF you get can make or break your experience.  It ruined mine.
This is a great way to knock out the ethical reasoning requirement for someone who does not want to take Justice. Professor Puett does a great job of synthesizing all of the material in his lectures, so even if you aren't a philosophy buff, you can do well in the class.
This is a relatively painless way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement, and you read philosophers from so many different schools that each student will likely find something in the material that speaks to him/her. The lectures sometimes seem spare, and the sections can be tough. But on the whole a good course.
eh. the grading (as far as papers) feels pretty arbitrary, but the readings take little to no work, and the final wasn't too bad. section also feels kind of useless because we didn't get into any really good discussions, but i did enjoy learning about all the different philosophers.
It is relatively easy.
It is a captivating course that is applicable to one's personal life.
Simple and straightforward class, but don't expect to have your life entirely changed from this course. Many lectures can often be summarized within one sentence, and can therefore seem a little long-winded. Section quality is greatly affected by your TF. Class also does not go into detail about all the major Chinese philosophers and their ideas. It is very biased towards whatever interpretation the textbook authors chose to include.
Do the reading and try to apply it to your life. Section will be better for everyone in it if you do the reading. Its really a reasonable amount of reading. Just Do the REading! everything else good in life will follow. If you get into it, and take it seriously, you may just become a better person. No jokes.
Professor Puett is an exciting lecturer..lectures were always fun, engaging and life-changing. I would consider the class as an above average, low stress GenEd.
A good, rather painless ER for those who like history and aren't as big a fan of the "do you divert a train..." type classes.
Not the best course for learning Chinese philosophy. Easy way to fulfill ER though.
Cool and different material.
The professor is awesome! Lectures are really interesting. You will not regret taking this course, especially if you have a heavy course load.
Perfect Gen Ed in terms of pragmatism. Low input (i.e. easy workload); high output (can still get alot from lecture and section). Not a "life changing" course, but definitely makes you think.
AMAZING class. The philosophy is incredibly engaging, particularly if, like me, you're sick of reading western stuff. Combine that with a light workload and you've got yourself an awesome class. I would have really enjoyed this course even if it weren't a requirement.
This class was interesting in that I found many of the philosophies quite applicable to life. I didn't really like the readings, and the grading for the papers can seem a bit random. I think my grade will be okay in the end, but it was "a breeze" like a lot of people say.
This class is a great alternative to the traditional western philosophy survey course that many use to complete the ER requirement.  The readings for this class are very manageable and interesting, Puett is the kindest and most understanding professor I've had at Harvard (and he really really believes in the power of these texts, which is fun to see), and the ideas and philosophies that emerge from these texts feel important and significant even in their complexity and occasional contradiction.  The ratio of value achieved per hour of time spent on this class is very very high --a testament to Puett's superb planning and thoughtful class structure.
The texts from this class definitely have the potential to change your life. You can get this change however, without the class. Puett's lectures are repetitive, and you get that much more out of the class than you would just reading the texts. Don't take the class unless you have a specific reason.  Read the texts though, no matter what. Zhuangzi is awesome.
Pretty manageable course. Easy to catch up, can put it to the side for a while and come back when needed. Not much reading, which is awesome. Readings pretty interesting, except for 1 or 2 which, in my perspective, are unintelligible.
Interesting and a good way to fill Eth Rsn,  but VERY subjective. Hard to know how to write a paper to satisfy what they are looking for, although I heard it depends on what TF you get. Mine just happened to be an incredibly harsh grader, which was hard since I had never written a philosophy paper before.
Very light work load. Professor Puett is awesome.
this is a really well taught class, go to office hours and take advantage of being able to talk to people about the course materials, it makes learning all the information a lot easier.
It will make you think and question your own life.
Professor Puett is an extremely engaging lecturer and definitely one of the nicest professors I've had. The course is painless and actually pretty interesting, though, it did not really change my life like Puett claimed.
It is a light course, but you have to work hard on the essays.
its not terribly difficult. its a good excuse to read and think about classical Chinese texts. sections are discussion driven. a good gen ed, especially considering that many ethical reasoning gen eds are sound demanding and unenjoyable. its a "well-rounding" class, but in a good way.
This class was easily the best gen ed I've ever taken. Great texts, great assignments, great teaching staff - and not particularly stressful to boot!
This class is really cool! There are so many really interesting ideas that you cover which are really fun to think about. The ratio of "Impact on Your Life" to "Work Required" is really high (high impact for relatively little input).
The workload for this course is very light, but do try to learn something. The section TFs aren't the best at generating enthusiasm, but the readings are pretty interesting and with a good group of people in your section, you can end up having some fun conversations.
Chinese Philosophy is a good class and a relatively painless way of of fulfilling the Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed. There were only about 50 pages of reading a week which makes it very easy to keep up with the course. Two pretty short papers are your only grades during the semester, and the prompts were pretty open ended so you can write whatever you feel comfortable writing. All that being said, with an large class like this, the course may be easy, but that doesn't mean it is easy to get an A.
The class is a relatively easy Gen Ed with a low workload. The readings can be confusing at times, but lecture does a good job of clarifying the takeaways. Take it if you don't want the courseload of Justice.
Good material but slightly arbitrary grading. Wondering how the curve is going to be, but I expect tons of A- will be given. Getting a solid A will be difficult, no matter how "easy" people say the course is. Despite grading, though, material is still interesting / relevant.
This class really did change my life in some ways as promised. The different methods of leadership you learn are quite powerful when you really take them to heart and try them out on say the student group you're in charge of. The papers were graded a bit hard but other than that it's a fun painless course. Also Chinese philosophy is way more interesting than Western philosophy (not to mention applicable in your daily life).
This class is truly amazing. Professor Puett is an awesome guy and a brilliant lecturer and the readings are life changing. As a Christian, I often see moral and philosophical questions in a very myopic light. This class illuminated the questions of morality and human nature, and I am so glad that I chose to take this class.
while the lectures and professor are great, I felt that the TF's and section did not complement the course
As far as a gen-ed in the ER department goes, I'd say this is probably a good one to take
As a philosophy class, this is not for the pragmatic of heart. The professor claims that this material will profoundly change your life. I think it's fair to say that it changed the way I look at everyday interactions with other people, but some to believe in the  potency of some of this material requires a certain degree of mysticism. There is not much work, and it's certainly one of the best gen-ed's I've take by far.
Course is not necessarily that easy but worth taking.
This class is an excellent opportunity to introduce yourself to the core works of Classical Chinese philosophy.  Engaging lectures by Prof. Puett greatly contribute to the understanding of the texts as well as their impact on our lives.  The course provided a unique, alternate perspective to the Western schools of thought that permeate most elements in our society.  I found this course genuinely stimulated me to think about the questions posed by each philosopher.  Course material is extremely useful, assignments are constructive and evaluated fairly and the teaching staff is an absolute delight to work with.
Lecture is very very interesting and I actually felt that I learned a lot. Professor Puett is great and the ideas presented are super interesting. I did none of the readings, but always went to lecture and section and was attentive in both. However, my section TF (Hanung Kim) was horrible and I learned nothing in section. I found the essays hard (though the final exam was easy).
Didn't go very in depth about the philosophers. Few assignments = not many opportunities to contribute to your grade.
Pretty fun class. The essays are kind of tough so be wary. Otherwise, light workload and interesting material. Final is fine if you put in some time.
Not really "life-changing," but I guess it's one of the better ways to fulfill a Gen Ed. Talk with your TF to make sure expectations for essays are crystal clear.
Michael Puett is an awesome guy! Readings were relatively painless, and papers weren't too bad. He's very enthusiastic!
This is a wonderful way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement; take advantage of the opportunity to step outside of the Western canon that usually dominates our studies.  The readings are challenging in a good way (and assigned in very manageable chunks) and Professor Puett's enthusiasm for the material is contagious.  This is absolutely one of the courses where the more you put in, the more you get out.
You know exactly what you are getting into with this class. There are no mysteries as to what you are expected to do or know.
If this is something you're NOT interested in, it's difficult to get through material even though it's extremely short. It's weird, new-agey and abstract, and it wasn't my favorite class this semester. It's also not the easiest A depending on your TF. However, if you're looking for a class that is little work on a weekly basis (meaning few assignments and short readings), take it! It's probably one of the better ethical reasons you can take.
Make sure to do the readings. They are more interesting than youd think.
Best way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement. Professor Puett is a great lecturer and really lives by many of these philosophies. He was very flexible, understanding, and very positive. The material is interesting and the assignments were fair.
Great class and really interesting for non-philosophy concentrators as well.
It helps to be interested in the material, but it's well lectured, well organized, and not overly taxing. The professor is awesome.
Take good notes in section
Michael Puett is one of my favorite professors at Harvard. He is an amazing lecturer and truly generates enthusiasm for the material. He is also just so kind, and so positive all the time, so it was great to start my day with his lectures. The materials, while confusing at times, were never too lengthy and the assignments were not too grueling, though they did really make you think. Absolutely loved this course- everyone should take it.
The material is super interesting and Dr. Puett is a great lecturer, very enthusiastic about the subject matter, and an all around nice guy. The work is pretty manageable, if not easy. Section ruined this class for me---extremely painful and not really helpful at all. Papers are also graded relatively hard, but otherwise pretty low maintenance.
Its not super interesting and literally every philosopher says some vague stuff about life. The lectures are not on point either. Its pretty easy and can be interesting here and there.
Professor Puett's enthusiasm makes this class a joy to take. The assignments are very reasonable, and the material is not only interesting but also very practical.
The readings can get a little dry, but Professor Puett's lectures are amazing and very thought provoking. Go to lecture. That's what makes the course great. If you keep up with the readings and show up to classes, you will do great.
awesome class take it
Professor Puett was an excellent lecturer. He was very enthusiastic about the readings and emphasized the applicability of the various philosophies to our lives. The readings are interesting and because we read one philosopher each week, it was easy to read carefully and grapple with the ideas. Section discussion was also great as we went over the texts and discussed bigger questions of how each relates to the others.
This is such a great course and relatively painless way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement. Professor Puett gives really interest insight into the different Chinese philosophies and you can see it play out in your everyday life as the course progresses. Also, Professor Puett is just the nicest person you'll ever meet. Do it!
do the readings before reading week
Take it seriously. If you do, this course can honestly be very rewarding (from an ignorant Americans POV). Also, if you're looking for an easy grade, you better know how to write well.
Section was absolutely unbearable, lead by an incapable TF and surrounded by a snarky group of peers.
Puett is such a sweetheart! One of the nicest, most caring, most genuine professors I have ever had. The workload is also pretty light. Grading on essays was a bit arbitrary, however, and section tends to be painfully useless. But it's a gentle introduction to philosophy, and it's nice to get to know another culture.
Super cool class. Professor Puett is the best, but readings are not easy.
Very painless Gen Ed, interesting and you actually learn something. Definitely recommended.
Learned about classical chinese philosophy and was able to draw parallels with modern western philosophy...also provided a useful perspective on my own life
This class will honestly change your life! It will give you a new outlook on life that truly helps you improve as a person. Professor Puett is an amazing lecturer and will definitely engage you in his lectures. Know that he doesn't use powerpoint, he just lectures so it might make it difficult to follow at first but you will notice that you will be able to follow along and engage more in material because of his lecture style. Truly phenomenal class!
Professor Puett is quite possibly the nicest professor at Harvard. Great material and interesting!
This class has inspired me to think much more consciously about my emotions, energy, and influence on others very fundamental areas of my daily life that I wish I had explored academically before my senior year of college. The class can be frustrating at times the lecture are energetic but often repetitive, and section can be frustrating because it's such a big class but the readings and content of the course are great. If you take it, do take it seriously, like Professor Puett says. This is the best Gen Ed I've taken because it actually accomplishes the goals the program claims to have. I did think critically about my place in the world, albeit on a small scale. I think this is a very important class to take at Harvard, which is a heightened environment of stress and distraction.
Keep up with the readings and attend all sections.
Need to fulfill a Gen Ed? Check. Need to become a better person? Check. Need to sit back and experience two awesome lectures a week? Check. Shop ER 18? Check.
Try to be placed with the head TF, with the hope that his vested interest will make the section will be more productive than my experience.
Professor is very nice and incredibly energetic. Makes class interesting. Section experience really depends on your TF (as usual). Surprisingly harsh grading on the papers.
If you had any background in Chinese philosophy like I did you will end up terribly disappointed with how terribly taught this course was. Essentially, Puett ends up teaching a horribly bastardized version of Chinese philosophy to neophytes who don't know any better and only end up corrupted versions of each text with very arbitrary abridging. Puett is also horribly ineffective in his lectures with a tone of repetition. He could really benefit from actually using Powerpoints to organize his lectures better.Hanung Kim is a pretty incompetent TF. He doesn't really have a good mastery of English so section was a disaster. The discussions were not being stimulated at all considering all he did was try to struggle through reading in English the discussion questions every 20 minutes. It's pretty absurd for a Harvard section to be so badly run. He is also really quiet and reticent and did not insert himself into sections appropriately to keep it moving. I don't think he feels comfortable with the American idea of what a Harvard section should be and how the TF should not just be a robot reading a few lines from a sheet of paper every 20 minutes.DON'T TAKE THIS CLASS. YOU ARE BETTER OFF READING INTRODUCTION TO CHINESE PHILOSOPHY BY JEELOO LIU, available at Widener. I ENDED UP READING THAT BOOK TO STUDY FOR THE FINAL AND APPRECIATED AN ACTUALLY WELL WRITTEN INTRODUCTION TO CHINESE PHILOSOPHY FOR ONCE THIS SEMESTER. This is the course that actually made me question whether I should have gone to Brown and never need to take an Ethical Reasoning class, until I realized as horrible an experience this was, as a senior at Harvard, I wouldn't trade the last 4 years for anything.
Lots of critical reading
Weirdly applicable to real life.
This was the best imaginable way to fulfill my Ethical Reasoning requirement.
Puett is an awesome professor who really cares about what he is teaching and his students.  Go to his office hours because he is a professor who will actually take the time to talk to yo and to get to know you and to take an interest in you.
It's an easy class, Puett is AMAZING and friendly, but the class really depends on your TF. Like I said the class is easy but the grading isn't, if your TF is very tedious and picky.
This class is great--cool (but not-too-long) readings, and a really enthusiastic professor and TFs! Definitely get to know Professor Puett if you can--he is really funny and positive, and cares deeply about the material and his students.
Take this course if you're interested in learning something much different than western philosophy. The class will be mind-opening if you really take the time to think about the readings and participate in section. Professor Puett is a really enthusiastic lecturer, and he's great at getting you thinking about how you can apply this philosophy to your everyday life.
It's an interesting class with a good workload. Try your best to actually do the readings and then you'll get a lot out of the class. The readings are not hard, and will take an hour and a half tops. The best thing about the class is Puett, who is the nicest and kindest professor I've ever had.
It's a really easy course if you want it to be, but you also won't get much out of it. If you put in the work, you'll actually learn something, but that...you know...requires work.
I had a great section leader so it made that part of the course better, but the lectures are quite dry and you will never want to go. Then, because it's an easier class, you never do the readings and the entire thing becomes a vicious cycle.
The class is an incredible experience and will provide you with a new way of looking at life and understanding much of the reasoning behind the structure of Chinese government and the reasoning behind its underlying cultural principles
It was great! Really enjoyed the subject matter. Definitely take this over Justice.
Okay, let's get started!  This class is taught by Professor Puett, a funny and engaging lecturer who is always concerned with the well-being of his students.  This class is a Harvard cult classic with a wonderfully quirky and dedicated professor, a good overview of the seemingly esoteric subject of Chinese philosophy, and a head TF who shares an intriguing story about his tattoo.  One of the students made class t-shirts in my year.  A fun and memorable way to fulfill Ethical Reasoning.
The material is sometimes confusing as to the exact points and ideals the authors present, however the workload and general class is a great way to fulfill this elective
If you are genuinely interested in the subject, take the time to carefully read the texts and see the professor in office hours. Otherwise, you will find that many of your classmates, who have not done the assignments, have little to offer in section, and everything quickly becomes a summarization of the lectures. Nevertheless, the course is easy and the professor very considerate.
Amazing class and will broaden your horizons to the world of classic philosophy. It is scary how pervasive and widely circulated the texts we read are in the world. Puett's first words in lecture are that the class will "change your life" and I believe it fundamentally can if you engage yourself with the texts. The class will basically go based on your section leader though.
Fun, and section was also informative. You cannot get anything out of section without doing the readings (which isn't much anyway), so if you don't go to lecture, at least do the readings and go to section.
Do the readings each week. If you fall behind, it's a lot to catch up on at the end. That being said, the weekly reading load (~50 pages/week) is not bad at all. I really enjoyed this course and have no background in philosophy, Chinese history, or political theory. It's a great way to complete a Gen Ed.
NA
Take this course, if only to get to know an incredibly funny, caring and knowledgeable professor. The workload is relatively light and the course materials are fascinating, especially for anyone interested in studying an alternative to Western ethics. Above all, try to take Ian Miller's section -- he is a brilliant section leader, accessible outside of class, and cares deeply about the material. He even has a portrait of Laozi tatooed onto his arm!
Take this class. You will learn a lot about how to lead your life, and it makes you think about your life in general. Professor Puett is an excellent lecturer, and he is very enthusiastic about what he teaches. Lectures are not boring - some are more interesting than others. I thoroughly enjoyed reading the material for the class and going to lecture. If you keep up with the readings and go to lectures, you will find the final exam pretty easy. The lectures and readings are straightforward. Take good notes on lectures. This class will teach you a lot about your own life.
Great way to knock out ER. Reading is reasonable and assignments are fair.
If you're looking for an easy gen ed and you're actually interested in Chinese Philosophy, this is the perfect class!  The workload is very light and the readings are informative/short/manageable.  Sections are participation-based.
Professor Puett is the absolute MAN! If for no other reason, take this course to listen to him in lecture. He is so passionate about the works in this class! Going to this lecture was the best 2 hours of my week. TAKE THIS CLASS!
Great professor and very nice man who generates a lot of unexpected enthusiasm for the course in his students. Lectures are worth listening to.
This is a great way to satisfy a general education requirement. Professor Puett genuinely cares about the well being of his students. He is extremely understanding that students have a lot of work both in and outside the classroom. He has a great deal of enthusiasm for the material. Definitely recommend this course.
Great class! Puett is an awesome professor and the class is really easy.
Good class, not too hard, enjoyable.
Lectures are interesting but sections were very underwhelming. Huge discrepancies in the rigor of discussions expected at sections and grading of exams.
Pretty much a gem. The subject is not that interesting but also isn't that bad. Not that much work and the exam is pretty easy to study for.
read each week and go to section with the discussion questions answered. Make us of the lecture recordings each week. Ask many questions. You'll learn a lot about chinese moral philosophy and concepts that you can apply personally in your life. If you listen closely, this course could make you a better person.
Professor Puett goes out of his way to accommodate his students (assigning reasonable amounts of reading, extending papers, canceling lecture the week a paper is due, etc.). He genuinely cares about the students in his course. That, in my opinion, is ER 18's strength. Although the readings were short in length (about 60 pages per week), they're very dense and require a second or third read through to fully understand. I personally did not enjoy the readings, but if you're choosing between taking this class or Justice, I would definitely say take ER 18!
Grading is arbitrary, quality of discussion is poor, and you won't learn anything that you can't learn on your own
The papers were tough and took considerable thinking. The final was very doable if you reviewed your lecture/section notes and did the reading. Easy course workload-wise, but definitely not an easy A.
The lectures are fascinating and Professor Puett is very caring and accommodating. Unfortunately, the work for the course seems to be graded much more harshly than you'd expect given the pace of the course that is set in the beginning.
Puett is fantastic - uniquely devoted to his students, enthusiastic, loves what he's talking about. Strange voice that attracts a lot of laughs. Very likeable and obviously renowned in his field.
The course does have light amounts of reading and writing, but the texts can still be difficult to tackle, so beware of that.
Doesn't require too much time, but the information is interesting and a good amount of thought should be given to the essays
Take it, easy, fun.
Lectures felt disorganized and were sometimes difficult to follow.  Discussion in section was uninspiring because science majors self-select into what they expect will be an easy ER Gen-Ed.
Interesting: you encounter philosophies that rarely make their way into the Harvard classroom. And very easy.
This is a great, easy way to get a gen ed fulfilled. It has light coursework, around 40-50 pages per week. The final was easy as long as you did the readings.
Be prepared to sit through lectures that merely repeat the same argument. Also, some tf's may not necessarily fit the field or offer suggestions for improvement.  However, the readings were excellent and the only good part of the course.
this is a great class to take (and in my opinion, probably one of the best ethical reasoning gen eds if you are looking to fulfill the requirement). it has a very manageable workload, but more importantly, the course material is interesting, and Professor Puett presents it in such a clear and engaging manner (also he is just the nicest person you'll ever meet). would definitely recommend!
I took this class instead of Justice because I thought it would be interesting and easier.  It was kind of a pain, and I underestimated how terrible it was to try and read something that you have absolutely no interest in.  So if you're like me, do what I should have done: take Justice.
It's very important to stay on top of the reading for this class.   Philosophers can easily be confused with each other, but readings and lectures add clarity.
This course began as one to fulfill a General Education requirement, and became my favorite course of the semester. The readings are great, and the lectures are extremely interesting. The course also plainly states what its purpose is, and fulfills it extremely well.
This class does not require that much work, and the material is actually very interesting.
This course is great and easy. You can totally coast through the course, but the material is cool enough that you don't really want to coast. the reading is minimal enough that you can def get it done in time to get something out of lecture and section.
It's ok, but doesn't live up to Puett's own hype--it doesn't change the way you think about the world. It's an easy way to fill a Gen Ed, and it's moderately interesting at times, but most people don't find it inspiring. People stop attending lectures about a month in. No fault of Puett's--the material is just not always that interesting.
It unfortunately did not live up to the hype (for me) - I was disappointed in lecture because you were not able to hear the end of Professor Puett's sentences (he would lower his voice at the end of sentences to make a point and because it was in Sanders, the sound would disappear) which was REALLY frusterating, to the point where I did not want to go to lecture. My section was also pretty sad
as good as an ethical reasoning can get
This class will change your life.
Great way to fulfill your moral reasoning requirement.  Less stress/work than justice, and without too much effort, I got an A- on both papers.
Good alternative to Justice.
For a core, particularly in Moral Reasoning, which I was dreading, this was really painless and at times actually, surprisingly fun. I had a few friends who were really blown away by the ideas these philosophers had, and it's definitely always a foundation for an actually pretty intriguing class discussion in section, which rarely happens in class in general.
Professor Puett is a great professor. His voice sounds odd at first but you get used to it after a while. This course is the best alternative to Justice or the other moral reasoning/ethical reasoning classes.  You learn to appreciate how one can live life and be happy.  Economics assume you are rational but Confucius knows we are not. We go with our "guts" rather than with our minds. Plus you get to say "Confucius says..."
This course will provide you with an easy way of fulfilling your ethical reasoning requirement, and it may even provide you with some preliminary exposure to major Chinese philosophical texts.  However, if you are looking for a scholarly examination of a foreign culture with regard for authenticity, you will find this course frustrating.
This class has extremely low workload and I found the subject matter pretty interesting (can't say everyone will though).  My section was good, and everything was graded easily.  Much better than taking Justice like everyone else!
TAKE JUSTICE. This class will not change your life, and it will not teach you anything new or useful. Your experience depends on your TF, obviously, but these TFs have some sort of complex that doesn't allow them to give you a good grade on a good paper. This is a fact (I'm not being bitter) for the following reasons. TFs come from a variety of backgrounds (history, comparative literature, etc.) that means they won't give you a good grade unless you feed their interests and do things the way THEY want, and NOT they way the actual COURSE demands. The course goes through each text superficially (in lecture AND section), but the essays are graded on an arbitrary basis that does not reflect the course. For example, my TF was a literature person, so she was angry at our class after the first paper because we weren't writing essays that fulfilled her ridiculously pretentious standards (the majority of corrections on my paper were about word choice). The final was a joke, but since the TFs grade it, I'm sure I didn't do well, even though the course was easy enough for me to know everything there was to know. TAKE JUSTICE because, even though the class depends on your TF, you will end up actually learning useful things.
It is probably the easiest and painless way to fulfill the moral reasoning requirement. If you are looking for a broad philosophy survey course, I would take Justice instead- same workload, but more difficult material..nonetheless its the stuff every undergrad should be at least a little familiar with
Prof. Puett is a very enthusiastic lecturer, and you will read some of the greatest texts ever written. Perfect food for thought-- and the workload is absurdly light.
The class is fun and a great way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement.
I would tell students that this course is extremely interesting, and that it will provide them with an understanding of ancient China, which is extremely relevant to China as a rising power in the world today.
The stuff covered in this course has impacted the way I interact with the world
This class is really good if you want a broad overview of Chinese philosophy. The lectures are engaging, and the material interesting. In terms of grading, it depends entirely on your TF how difficult or easy the course is.
Take this class!  It is one of the most painless cores out there, with only approximately 50-60 pages of reading each week.  In addition, the class is taught in a modular fashion with one thinker each week, so if you fall behind for any reason, it is easy to keep up because it's not a class where each lecture builds on the previous one and if you miss a lecture, you're lost for the course.  If you're interested at all in Chinese history or culture, take this course!
Great class- makes you think and students will remember these perspectives and philosophies in the future.
Puett is a passionate and enthusiastic lecturer. He's also the same way in person - and I really appreciate his willingness to reach out to students. I'd say the same thing about my section leader as well. They try do their best to help you engage with the material given the circumstances - so you can probably do a very reasonable amount of work to be successful.
Excellent, excellent course. It is easy, extremely reasonable, fun, and yet you will still learn a lot. The material is great, Prof. Puett's lectures are fascinating, and it did not require much of my time each week, and despite that I learned a lot.
the sections are terrible and the material is a bit repetitive
Awesome! Take it! Puett is the sweetest professor ever. And the readings are great. If you let them, they can actually really change your way of thinking. I wouldn't dream of taking another Ethical Reasoning core over this one. The workload is perfect. Both light and sufficient to engage you in the material and teach you well.
Not life changing as suggested at the beginning of the course, but still an extremely interesting course and easy way to fulfill a gen ed requirement
Go to lecture! Even though it may seem like it won't affect your grade if you miss, do not miss it because a) they are so good/inspiring they are worth waking up for and b) if you do not do the reading, you can still participate in section if you went to lecture. That being said, do the readings because the 1-2 each week will make your life so much easier when it comes to papers/finals
It is an easy class in which you learn a lot.
The class exposes you to a variety of different philosophies, causing you to question and perhaps modify your own ideologies.
Very few people are enrolled in Justice and this class, so it's difficult to say which is better for your ethical reasoning requirement. I have a REALLY hard time believing that Justice is better. This class had an extremely friendly lecturer, and the workload was super lenient. I came in not thinking I'd be able to do as well as some of the other students that grew up in China, but it's an extremely accessible course. I didn't like philosophy, and I probably won't start after this, but this class definitely helped my feelings toward the topic.
great way to satisfy ER, probably a lot less painful than justice
This class is a painless way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement, especially if you are not a big fan of philosophy. The reading is really light and the lectures were actually interesting.
Minimal coursework. Doing the readings will help on the final for the passage IDs.
It's a really interesting course if you engage and do all the reading.
This class is a great way to fulfill a core.  The readings are actually interesting if you take it seriously, and it's not difficult at all, yet thought-provoking. Try to get Michael Allen as your TF, he is the best!
Read the material
The essays are graded more strictly than you would think.
This class is a great way to knock out your ethical reasoning requirement.
This course can really change/challenge the way you think about ethics and society (not only Chinese but the 21st century American). The professor is one of the best lecturers at Harvard and the teaching fellows are amazingly dedicated and supportive. The papers are not too easy, but not too difficult either. The reading load is not heavy, so do them and do go to the lectures and sections. Highly recommend this class to any Harvard student.
At the beginning of the course, Professor Puett says that the class will change your life, regardless of whether you agree with or like all the readings and all of the views that get put out there.  You won't believe him when he says this.  But it's pretty much the truth.  Maybe you won't buy into any of the philosophies completely, but you will likely find something in one of them that you'd like to apply to your life.
The ideas are pretty cool but the course was too big. Puett is a nice professor and the ideas are awesome but the course kinda sucks. Easy way to fulfill the gen ed.
Prof. Puett is a passionate lecture but very confusing. I didn't get much out of lecture because I couldn't understand the structure of the lecture. Since this is such a big class, make sure you get a good TF.
This course is fine. It's not great but it isn't terrible either.
Very good ethical reasoning class.  It was very easy with only two papers, final seems manageable, and around 50 pages of reading a week. Even as an applied math concentrator, I found the material interesting.
It's a good class- but the grading depends on the TF
This is a great way to fulfill the ER core - the texts are engaging and interesting; the papers are short and fun to write. "Life changing" is  a strong term which Prof Puett will encourage you to use when describing the course. I'll avoid it, but it definitely will change how you think about some aspects of life.
This is an interesting way to fulfill a gen ed because you will actually learn a ton about Chinese philosophy and history (provided that you do the reading).  I strongly recommend doing the reading because although it can be easy to get by without completing it as there are only a couple formal assignments, it really adds to both appreciating the course and possibly even changing your outlook on life.
Probably easiest for the final exam if you keep up with the reading
If want to know the future of our world, understand the Western present, then you need to look into the past of these Chinese thinkers.
great course to take to fulfill an ethical reasoning requirement. pretty painless and really interesting material.
Professor Puett states that the ideas in this course are "profoundly life-changing" at the very first lecture of the semester. Whether or not you find them to be so really depends on how much you reflect upon and try to digest the ideas in the texts. The lectures do become somewhat repetitive as the semester goes on, as all the philosophers are inter-related and there is some overlap, but overall, the readings are enjoyable and there is plenty to learn. Definitely worth taking if you're curious about what Confucius really said beyond all the fortune cookie messages.
It's an easy but great class.  Puett is a fantastic lecturer and story-telling.
Great for a gen ed that is not overwhelmingly difficult or overwhelmingly boring.
So easy, great and thought-provoking material, adorable professor genuinely enthusiastic about trying to get us to be excited about life and thinking about these philosophers. NO MIDTERM. 50 pages of reading a week. Great way to fufill the ER requirement!
This class is super, super easy.  This class won't push you intellectually at all: 50 pages of reading a week with no real engagement with the material beyond "this philosopher said this."  That said, this class wasn't a total waste of time.  A lot of the readings were interesting, and, being a product of a very Western upbringing, I probably would have never been exposed to them on my own.  That is worth something.
This course is an excellent introduction to classical Chinese philosophy, which in the West is very underrepresented. However, it really is only an introduction. If you want a real analytical philosophy course, however, this is not it.
not difficult except for papers
If you want to learn alot, you might not want to have Qian Guanchang Clint as your TF. Clint tells us alot of Chinese history, but talks less about the course material in detail.
I took this course in large part because of the professor's pitch on the first day. He made a bold claim that if you listen to the philosophers covered in this course and really think about what they have to say, it will change your life. After taking the course, it does not seem like such a bold thing to say. Classical Chinese philosophy is full of intriguing ideas that question many core assumptions of western thought. The workload is light, the sections are engaging, and the material is interesting.
This class will make you think about your own line of thinking from new points of view.
If you are dreading fulfilling the ethical reasoning requirement and don't mind reading somewhat nonsensical Chinese philosophy, this is the course for you. The amount of reading is very light and the essays are pretty easy. Plus, some of it is interesting. Definitely worth shopping.
Best ER requirement offered
This is a wonderful class in that you can learn a lot while fulfilling a gen-ed. It's an introduction to an unfamiliar subject that you would likely not encounter otherwise and the Professor generates enough enthusiasm and material to make it worth while. It's not supposed to be a challenging class to test your limits as a Harvard student, but instead to let you explore a subject with intellectual curiosity without risk. It's meant to test academic curiosity not academic endurance, which sadly Harvard emphasizes far too often with most other courses, forcing students to forget when they learned something for its own sake because it was interesting.
It's a really painless and pleasant way to fulfill ethical reasoning.  The lectures are pretty interesting and the reading is very easy.
Good for personal character development
easy workload!
This course does not require a lot of work outside of lecture or section except for the readings.
This is definitely a wonderful course, especially if you're looking to be exposed to Eastern philosophy. However, who you get as a TF matters A LOT, and that can make or break your experience, unfortunately.
Writing the essays actually helped me see how useful the philosophies can be for learning how to live a better life
This class is great in terms of opening you to different kinds of philosophies.  The texts here are truly at the core of the Chinese psychology.
Make sure you really enjoy doing Chinese philosophy!
Good course, but graded very hard for a gen ed course
Take this course! It's relevant to everyday life and changes the way you at life and live. I feel like a calmer and even happier person now. Professor Puett is incredible!
I really enjoyed the readings. Professor Puett is very enthusiastic about the subject material. The course was interesting.
mostly easy class, but section will be stressful and the lectures are basically the propaganda of Puett's own personal opinion. expect a broad gloss of chinese history and philosophy that lionizes everything Chinese and basically says that everything good and awesome was actually originally Chinese and everything the West did was either wrong or actually first from China. He also never directly quotes the reading once, and I can only think of one instance where he ever even refers to a specific story from the reading.
A great way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement. If taken seriously, these texts will definitely change the way you think about everything!
Great way to learn about philosophy, religion, government, and foreign cultures at the same time.
Take this class if you're interested in how to be a better person, and in seriously studying the theories of those outside the Western canon. Don't take this class if you think that philosophy not written analytically is not rigorous or legitimate enough.
Not as easy as everyone says. Especially when the lectures/section/even the readings don't prepare you well for the final exam.
Readings focus on quality rather than quantity: ideal for a core. Lectures are a brilliant performance by the professor, whose insight innovatively synthesizes and reanimates this ancient material.
This class will change the way you look at the world and how you interact with your surroundings.  Chinese philosophy is extremely thought provoking, and if you do the work, you will get a lot out of this class.
This course is manageable given the readings and the lecture/section. I'd probably take this core over any others.
Very mind-opening. don't be intimidated by the foreign material.
Awesome class! Professor Puett is the best and he is a great lecturer!
Absolutely fascinating class loaded with simple yet extremely powerful ideas, a variety of writing styles (from poetry to instruction manual) and practical guidance for how to lead one's life.  Thought-provoking and entertaining lectures - Professor Puett's enthusiasm and confidence in the material is infectious!  At the very least, a fun and straightforward way to fulfil the ER requirement and learn about the philosophical traditions and history of a re-emerging superpower.
TAKE THIS CLASS OR YOU ARE A FOOL!!! I was dreading my ethical/moral reasoning core/gened more than any other, I detest paper writing and most western philosophy gives me a headache, but this class was great.  Very refreshing way of looking at things, lectures were always engaging, section was fun, workload minimal- PLEASE DON'T CHANGE THIS ASPECT!!!!! I also realized that I had been something of a Taoist for the past 9 months without being able to put a name on it, so it was wonderful to suddenly be able to learn about the origins and ideas behind it.Also, if you are a guy with yellow fever, this is the class for you.
Make sure you get the right TF (not kristen)
it's pretty painless and if the material interests you in the slightest, then there's no reason not to take it. puett's a good person and it's fun to take especially if your major has nothing to do with it.
Best way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement --take it and ace it!
If you need a class that is very interesting but does not require a lot of work then this is the class for you.
It is extremely well taught, and Professor Puett is the man.
I wish I had done the reading more carefully because when I was cramming for the final I really enjoyed a lot of the texts.
This is an excellent class. At times it is challenging and the readings are hard to follow. It can often be hard to know how well you're progressing because so much of the course is open to the student's own analysis that it takes some confidence (although not too much, otherwise you'll just be plain wrong) to engage with the themes and papers.The readings are more than reasonable in length each week (50 pages) but to make the most of this advantage in short length it would be best to spend more time engaging with the readings and a good set of discussion questions that go with each reading.Don't be cynical about Professor Puett's promise that this course will be life changing. In many ways it is and opens your eyes to a way of thinking that we just don't engage with normally.
The class is a valuable introduction to Chinese philosophy.
Professor Puett is awesome and the TF's in this course are really great as well! I would definitely recommend this core/gen ed because you do connect your daily life with the texts of the ancient philosophers. While it is a big class, it doesn't feel like one because Professor Puett and the TF's are so readily available. Take it!
ER 18 really changed the way I viewed simple things in my everyday life. I learned to be in sync with nature, to calm myself to prevent agitation and align myself with the way. And I'm not kidding or just sounding abstract, it really works if you try it.
I feel like it depends a lot on your TF. I was not that happy with mine.
The readings are not that long, but they lead to great discussions and a new outlook on different aspects of your life. Professor Puett really has a great understanding of the material and gives great lectures, so definitely go!
Great way to complete the ethical reasoning Gen Ed requirement.
This is a great way to fulfill ethical reasoning. Puett is a really fun lecturer and the readings aren't bad at all -- just make sure you do them (even if you don't make it to class, which you sort of don't have to).
This is an extremely interesting class and all the TFs and Professor Puett's enthusiasm makes this class extremely fun and interesting.
This is a fantastic course. If you are interested in the meaning of life, spirituality, government/political theory, comparative philosophy, history (of philosophy and of the world), or China, and you want to fulfill a gen ed or elective with fascinating, laid-back lectures, quite manageable readings and papers, and genuinely caring and knowledgeable TFs and good section discussions, this class is probably for you.
not an easy A course but not bad for an ER class
Take it! Very painless way to fill the Gen Ed, and you will actually learn a lot, especially by hearing the opinions of your peers in section.
This class presented me with a lot of cool ways to think about life. There is not very much work required, but you will find it extremely boring if you do not do the readings. Also, the class pretends to be a philosophy class, but it is really more of a history of philosophy class. You learn the basic ideas of the various authors, but do not wrestle with them at all. I would recommend it as an easy gen ed, although the grading is more difficult than I would like.
The readings are great, but the professor often seems to be teaching a third-grader, which does no justice to subject matter. Take the class for the readings--and do the readings--or don't take the class.
This class is a great way to fulfill Ethical Reasoning, and is a great introduction to philosophy for those without any experience. The professor is awesome and you will get a lot out of class!
Excellent, at times inspirational lectures. A new way to look at the world. Take it.
This class provides a great overview of Chinese thought, but the course is structured in such a way that students compare and contrast a lot of the thinkers, instead of providing their own insights in papers and the final exam. Professor Puett is one of the most wonderful lecturers, and it was great to be in his presence and hear his take on Chinese philosophy.
Professor Puett is great, but the readings are more challenging than he lets on in lecture and the section leaders will expect a lot out of your essays. It isn't too much time, except when the essays are due.
A good, accessible introduction to classical Chinese Philosophy.
It's a great class to fulfill a requirement and to introduce yourself to some new perspectives.
I thought ultimately it was a waste of time because I didn't need to put much time into the course and my section leader graded the essays really hard.
This class is so much better than Justice it is unbelievable.
A great course if you're interested in learning about classical Chinese philosophy.
This class is pretty cool. I was slightly afraid that it would be kinda boring and out of my depth, being a moral reasoning class, however, the professor made it exceedingly interesting and funny. I can't necessarily say the course changed my life but I will admit it has changed the outlook I have on several things, and it probably will for you too, if you take it.
Don't take this class unless you are genuinely interested in Chinese philosophy.  The readings are incomprehensible, the lectures are intolerable, and the essay assignments are needlessly difficult and arbitrarily graded.  This is NOT a painless gen ed, and it will NOT change your life.
It's an easy ER course--minimal reading.
It may not have exactly changed my life, as Prof. Puett said in the first lecture, but I keep noticing relevant things from the course all over the place in real life. The class is chill and Prof. Puett is so so so so great.
Take it!  Way better than Justice based on what my friends who took it have said.  The readings are really interesting, section was AWESOME (just a bunch of smart people discussing different political/life philosophies around a table), Puett is an amazing lecturer, and the workload and requirements are minimal.  Painless way to fulfill a core, but you'll get a ton out of it.  And, last but not least, it did change my life, as promised!
Professor Puett is fantastic! Every day he comes to lecture with such enthusiasm, it really makes the course a pleasure. He is also very reasonable with coursework and only assigns readings that are absolutely necessary for a basic understanding.
I am not sure if this course "changed" my life, but I certainly did learn a lot about myself. I think the readings for this course are the most important things.
very interesting readings and very engaging lectures most of the time.
This is a great course. Professor Puett is a great lecturer and very passionate about the subject. I recommend this class over Justice (I myself switched in), but only if you are interested in Chinese philosophy. Otherwise, the material could get repetitive. Overall, definitely take the class!
It's simply an excellent way to fulfill the Moral/Ethical reasoning requirement. Great lectures, great material, great TFs. You can't lose.
Great, painless and interesting way to fulfill a requirement.
At the beginning of the course, Professor Puett promises that this course will change our lives. While my life hasn't been changed (yet), I feel that my decision-making rubric has. This course has opened my eyes to different ways of making what we call a "good" decision. Take this course if you want to see alternative ways of thinking that are contrary to the norm!
Take this class especially if you want to consider new ways of evaluating your life. The professor starts off saying it's a life-changing course, and some students may disagree. However, they are the ones who do not value the material as much as they could have. If you're willing to go beyond the text and apply concepts to your life, things will change as promised.
Puett is awesome, I almost always enjoyed lecture, but make sure you get a good TF.
This class is interesting and low-stress. I encourage you to do all the readings not only because they are easy, but because they are easy to talk about in section discussion, so you may as well do it. The workload is not at all heavy.
This is an easy way to fulfill a general education requirement, but it's hard to get much out of such a big class with light assignments. The class had a few really cool readings and I enjoyed section, but Professor Puett didn't say very much in lectures.
Class was super easy but also really boring. Seemed like the professor repeated the same things every lecture.
The course is very interesting- the philosophies are really powerful if, as the professor asks, you "take them seriously".
This class is great! The professor is so enthusiastic and keeps everything interesting
Great class! It was really interesting. Take it if it's offered, but I don't think it will be offered the fall of 2011.
This class is very interesting.  Professor Puett gives excellent lectures and makes the material very interesting to learn.
If you do the reading, you will have no problem with this class. Puett is awesome, although he can be a little repetitive. I think this class has the potential to change someone's outlook on life. Puett is all about making this class minimal busy/unnecessary work, but maximal return.
If you're like me and not at all amenable to fulfilling a Moral Reasoning/Ethical Reasoning requirement with the overcrowded, super hyped Justice, this is an amazing alternative. In fact, it will teach you not only how to confront challenging situations (much like Justice), but it will actually set you on a journey to becoming a better person. Can Justice do THAT? Given the pitfalls of modern psychology and the way humans reason through things,  I think not.
The workload is not severe but the grading is tough.  It's hard to tell what is expected of you in the essays.  However, the material is interesting and this class will broaden your perspective and understanding of Chinese Culture, Philosophy, and History.
Take it. Better than Justice.
Good class lectures are interesting and the assignments aren't too hard.
Best class I took at Harvard. Hands down.
absolutely amazing class. professor puett is serious when he says that these texts, when taken seriously, can impact your perspective. he is truly one of the most genial, genuinely caring professors i have ever had. the teaching staff is amazing. so glad i took this course.
This class provides an easy to understand, comprehensive introduction to the main Chinese philosophy schools of thought.
The class is very fun and interesting if you're interested about the subject material. It is more than just a philosophy class, as you also get insight into the history and culture of early China.  Overall, the work is fairly easy, especially if you find it interesting. The professor and teaching staff are very enthusiastic, too. Again, if you're interested, I'd highly recommend the class!
The papers are graded more harshly than you might expect.
You should take this class for the Professor alone. He brings these texts alive and applies it to everyday situations in our lives. It makes you think about them on a daily basis and really changes how you think about certain things. His guarantee is true!
Professor Puett is an inspiration.
This is a great way to fulfill Ethical Reasoning requirement. The professor is awesome and the course doesn't have a huge work load. Just two papers and a final on top of only like 50 pages of reading per week.
This is not an easy class that just gives out As. But, you do learn a lot from it and it could be interesting.
What a class. Gives you WAY more than you have to put in. Reading each week is about 50 pages, but incredibly valuable intellectually and morally.
My life didn't necessarily change from this course, but if you decide to consciously implement some of the teachings of these philosophers in your life it may have that potential.
Lectures are interesting, though somewhat repetitive. Would recommend with enthusiasm. Is a painless way to fulfill a core. Readings are brief.
The readings, lectures, and section discussions are interesting.  I found the ideas in this class to be quite relevant to life, which felt great!
Be ready for a repetitive course. Also you must be open minded otherwise you won't buy into anything he says and just be like this is bullshit. I thought it was an awesome course.
It's a very interesting course
Relatively painless ethical reasoning class; you won't find justice-like annoying class participation, sections are really interesting, and the reading isn't too extensive
Definitely not life-changing, but certainly thought-provoking.
The class opened my eyes to ancient knowledge that has helped me improve myself and my life throughout the semester. Few classes at Harvard offer the opportunity for such introspection in tandem with serious consideration of academic topics. Puett makes the material come alive, both by himself embodying the teachings and by making the teachings accessible to a wide audience. My section was phenomenal.
Easy, fun, some interesting ideas to engage with from outside the traditional back-and-forth of Western thinking.  Professor Puett's a peach.
painless way to complete a core, but not actually life-changing as the professor suggests.
The class gives a fresh change from the dominant western view and will expand your understanding of the world. It also strengthens your ability to assess different theories that may at first seem absurd but contain an unintuitive truth behind them.
easy material, although a flat A is harder than you think. Possibly slightly easier than other philosophy courses for A-/ B+.
it's a great way to get your Eth-Reasoning requirement fulfilled and learn a lot about chinese philosophy which is really interesting
The class material is really great, especially for one who is not familiar with Chinese philosophy. The readings cover a lot of different things, and Puett is a very fun lecturer. He really has a lot of passion for the subject and I enjoyed lectures, even though they have their flaws.
this is a great class to take in order to fulfill your ethical reasoning requirement. Its not only chill but the material is very interesting. Its very much a "get what you put into it class." I never really knew what to expect out of section, but the writing assignments are very doable and the final exam was pretty expected.
Do the reading (its like 50 pages a week, totally manageable) and the class will just breeze by
Papers are harder than they seem so make an appointment with your TF. Prof Puett is very lively and ties many themes into the course.
Lectures are the best part so don't miss them.
Even if it gets a little boring/less new and exciting as the course goes on, recognizing that it is not very demanding, which is in itself a valuable thing. Ultimately, if you just get your shit done, you will still come out of the course with an understanding of Chinese philosophy and a new way of looking at people/societal structures.
You need the right TF, one who is supportive, because the concepts in this class are sometimes confusing, as there is a lot of commonality across the philosophers we study
It's not bad for a gen ed course, and not especially time-consuming, but unless you are actually interested about the material it could get dull. For me, I liked the readings better than the class itself, mostly because of uninspired discussions in section.
Let me preface by saying that I did all the readings and I attended the majority of the lecture. But I ended up disliking this class. The material was repetitive and I didn't really learn anything tangible about philosophy over the course of the semester. It was more a history class than a philosophy class. That being said, my section leader was fantastic...he tried his best to engage us and he was very helpful with papers. That was the only redeeming part of the course. There were definitely people who enjoyed the course very much, but if I had the choice again, I would not have taken this course.
The material is very interesting - take time to read the texts.
Painless way to knock out a gen ed. But the material is redundant and not particularly exciting. And do the readings. They aren't that long. It's just a matter of having the discipline to not blow them off.
The professor is AWESOME.  His lectures are incredibly organized and logical.  The material is really interesting too.
This is a great class, I absolutely loved it! Definitely one of the best classes at Harvard! Everyone should take this class.
This is possibly the best course I've taken at Harvard--readings are super short (although some take a bit of time to digest, especially the Daoists), the professor is engaging, the subject matter is treated thoroughly, but doesn't delve too deep into jargon and incomprehensible mumbo jumbo.  Normally when I see enthusiastic responses like this on the Q, I take it with a grain of salt, and in this case, the grain of salt is that you have to get a good TF.  Mine was Michael Allen, and you could tell that he both really cared about the material, and really wanted to share it with the students.  He even brought candy once because someone suggested it.  Professor Puett promises that if you really wrestle with the texts, they will change your life, and I for one think this course really has had a profound impact in the way I think about everyday life.
Awesome course!  Prof. Puett says on the first day that it will change your life, and it will!  Providing a comprehensive survey of classical Chinese philosophy (as well as some history), amazingly the course is still fundamentally geared towards making each and every subject relevant to your own life.  Additionally, every lecture is strung together like an ongoing story, and I genuinely didn't want to miss any installments; Prof. Puett does a better job of encapsulating the "story" of history and all the ideas and philosophies it has spawned than any other professor I've ever had.
This is a painless way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement, and you can get a lot out of it if you're invested and do the reading.
While it may not have changed my life, this course certainly got me thinking in ways I hadn't before.  The readings were significantly more meaningful than ones I've had in other classes, and were not very long.  Section was great.
Do the readings! They're not that long, and you won't really learn the material otherwise.
My favorite aspect of ER18 was the lectures. They enriched my understanding of the the readings and helped me place each philosopher in context. Professor Pruett was an engaging speaker and his obvious passion for the subject translated to to his students. I looked forward to lecture each week. However, they gave us no guidelines on how to write a Philosophy paper which was very frustrating. I really disliked section which clouded my overall opinion of the class.
Great class. Interesting material, great lectures, manageable workload.
I highly recommend this class to any student who needs to fulfill an ethical reasoning class.
Go to lectures, although repetitive, they shed a lot of insight into what some of the philosophers are talking about. Section too.
this has to be the easiest, most painless way to fulfill the Moral Reasoning requirement
This class is a great way to explore something new without having to endure a heavy workload. Professor Puett explains the concepts in a clear way and the reading is not unmanageable.
One of the best classes I've taken.  Professor is very excited about the material, interesting readings, and low work requirement.  I don't agree entirely with many of the philosophers I read but I did reassess how I view the world.
This class offers a refreshingly meaningful Core/Gen-Ed experience. The professors and teaching staff communicate their enthusiasm for the material in a way that creates a wonderful academic environment.
really fascinating stuff!
great course, very strong introduction to chinese philosophy, very interesting stuff and relatively painless
A lot of people choose this class because it's known for having a light workload and being enjoyable, but if you put a decent amount of work in you really do get a lot out of it. It might not be completely life changing but if you really engage with the material your assumptions about the way people think will be challenged.
This course is a very easy and pretty interesting way of fulfilling the Ethical Reasoning requirement.
This course will force you to think of philosophy in a way that no other course in Harvard will.
As many people say, this class has potential to change your life.
Interesting material, good lectures, and not a lot of work!
Don't get fooled into thinking this is an easy A!  While there are not that many pages of reading per week, the reading is tough and if you wait until the final to try to learn it all you will be in pretty poor shape.  The papers are difficult to write and at least some of the TFs grade pretty harshly.  If you do not have interest/experience in Chinese philosophy don't take this as your ethical reasoning requirement.
Like most courses at Harvard hopefully you get put with a good TF.
This course will enable you to read several of the most important Chinese philosophers, however, the course itself doesn't give that much insight into them.  The lectures are very good at contextualizing and superficially explaining the text, but they leave you wanting more.
This course will change your way of thinking and carrying yourself.
This is an amazing course, bolstered a lot by the classic texts you will study.  I had a great experience in section and as I had not been exposed to any Chinese thought before, this class was particularly exciting.
This was a great class.  Extremely reasonable expectations as well as organized with very interesting topics.
Take this class! I was terrified about fulfilling my ER requirement as a major math/science person, and this was a class that exceeded all my expectations. Not only was it not a boring class, it was actually one of the most fulfilling classes I've taken at Harvard. Certainly the best Gen Ed class.While I learned all sorts of things about early Chinese philosophy, what I truly took away from this course were ideas about how to live my life to make it more rewarding than it currently is. Puett said that this class would change my life at the beginning of the semester. I didn't believe him then, but I certainly believe him now.
It gives you a wonderful foundation from which to understand philosophies that impact society today.
Not well taught, but very worthwhile reading list.
If you'd like an introduction to Eastern thought, this is a great course. I didn't want to graduate without taking anything about China. Cool course. I wouldn't say "life-changing" but still a thought-provoking and meaningful experience.
This is an easy way to get your Ethical Reasoning requirement done, although, I probably should have taken Justice instead.  The way the course is taught is basically fine. Just know that the material itself is completely irrelevant to everyday life since these ancient philosophers are inherently contradictory and we have a better understanding of human nature now that we have the Theory of Evolution.
One of the best classes I've taken. Even the attitude in which the class is handled and taught is laid-back, fair, and just great.
This is definitely an awesome course! I recommend it.
I primarily suggest that one do the readings for this course.
The professor is sincere, engaging and involved, even if he makes promises at the beginning of the course that are hard to live up to (such as that the class will change a student's life fundamentally).
