make sure to have enough time to write your papers and use the help available in the philosophy department
It's not great, but I guess it will do the trick for gen. Ed.
This is such a valuable class. It promotes thinking about the fundamentals of morality, so it prepares you to address not only current issues but those of the future, whatever they may be. It really fulfills the goal of the Ethical Reasoning requirement.
The lectures were not interesting and the section was uninteresting.
The professor is modest, someone to look up to and someone who encourages discussion. The theories discussed are eye-opening. It feels good (for me at least) to know what I would/could do in certain ethical dilemmas, but expect more questions than answers.
prof scanlon is one of the greatest moral philosophers alive, and he's such a friendly, funny, intelligent guy. you don't want to miss this. plus, it's not too bad in terms of philosophy-class-difficulty
the readings are heavy but section is extremely helpful!
I mean just take it for your core.
I haven't taken any other philosophy classes here, but this seems like a reasonably good introduction to moral philosophy. You cover a lot of the important issues and address the big questions. It's worth taking, but you might find that you're just not very interested in moral philosophy--I don't think that's the fault of the class though.
pretty easy if you understand the material
It is not a difficult course but definitely not the most stimulating and thought provoking course.
This is a relatively straightforward class to satisfy the ethical reasoning requirement. The topic is relatively limited, however, and gets tedious by the end.
The professor is brilliant and passionate about the class topics
I enjoyed the course.  Lecture was interesting for the most part.  I really enjoyed section.  The assignments and exam were very fair (just make sure to meet with your TF about the questions and join a study group).  Workload was very light, and the material was interesting to read.
If you really like philosophy then go for it otherwise stay clear
It's a nice review of moral thinking.
Know what you are getting yourself into. Workload is not that bad but the material is extremely dense and mostly not relevant to everyday life.
It's not worth putting in all the effort. Find an ethical reasoning course that will actually teach you how to engage with ethics questions and philosophical reading.
Great course for getting exposure to discussions on the basics and core ideas underlying morality. Papers and argumentation aspects are great for encouraging rigorous and critical thinking about abstract and qualitative subjects.
Professor Scanlon is a great lecturer, and I think he's about as clear as one can be when explaining philosophy.  Be prepared, however, to hear a ton of questions and never really get the answers (but I guess that's philosophy).  For a core, pretty reasonable: a doable weekly reading load, 3 fairly short and interesting essays, and a final.  If you're not really into the material though, I might recommend taking a more basic intro philosophy course - this one expected a lot, especially in terms of the writing.
It's a well structured class that covers many of the major themes in ethics. The readings are contemporary and always interesting. Be prepared for really hard grading on the papers.
Make sure you have a group to study with for the final. Very clear lectures and make the readings easy to understand.
This class is AMAZING! If you read the articles slowly and carefully and sit back and relax in lecture, you are almost guaranteed to learn a ton. Also the essays are really fairly graded and you have lots of options to choose from. You can't go wrong with this class, and it will forever change the way you think.
A great way to satisfy the moral reasoning or ethical reasoning core or gen ed requirement. Interesting readings, fun section, and the papers are very manageable. Definitely a painless way to satisfy a requirement.
Take this. It is Justice with more 1on1 time with brilliant minds.
The readings in this course are not very heavy, and the lectures will help point out important topics within the readings.  This is a good course to take if you have no background in moral philosophy because you learn about many different moral theories and moral questions.  Professor Scanlon is a great lecturer.  I really enjoyed going to class.
Very interesting class
