Professor Hamilton spends a lot of time discussing linguistic origins of words, so if you are interested in the Greek, Roman, French, and German root words, his lectures are interesting. However, he does sometimes dwell too much on these topics and less on the concept of security. The lectures can be a bit wandering, although Professor Hamilton is a dynamic lecturer who is very enjoyable to listen to. He is a great professor in that he does want his students to succeed and is available for extra explanations outside of class. However, if you are looking for a course on security policy or politics, this is NOT your class. It is much more focused on the abstract concept of philosophical security.
This class is a great way to fulfill the ethical reasoning general education requirement. You learn a lot but with a low workload. The assignments are actually useful for thinking about security and exploring course concepts. There isn't busy work. Every assignment is geared towards a better understanding of security.
The professor is exciting and the material though tough, once discussed/explained really interesting
For an ER class, this course is excellent. It definitely exceeded my expectations. The assignments are not too difficult, and you can always think creatively about the materials rather than routinely memorizing philosophers and ideas. John Hamilton is a great lecturer and makes the course totally accessible for all students.
It's an awesome class. Professor Hamilton is made up of pure awesomeness.
I dreaded Ethical Reasoning but loved this class. The sections are amazing and the readings are incredibly interesting.
This is an awesome GenEd: interesting material, not too much reading or work, great professor with great lectures, and section was awesome. Easily one of the best if not the best GenEd I have taken. I would enthusiastically recommend taking this for the Ethical Reasoning requirement.
Prof Hamilton give wonderful lectures, and the (little) work involved becomes quite enjoyable after hearing him speak about the assigned texts and discussing them in depth in section.
it's an interesting class. you should take it!
Great to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed.  Professor Hamilton doesn't take himself too seriously and has a great sense of humor.  The class has a light workload, but you can learn a lot if you put the work in.
This is a great ethical reasoning course. It's not too difficult, requires little reading, and the prof is a good lecturer.
While the prof is interesting and talented, the course material is entirely unfortunate, intensely boring, and not that applicable to the world. This is NOT a modern events sort of course; it is very philosophical and unhappily cerebral.
The class is good, but you need to keep in mind that it is an ethical reasoning course. I wasn't expecting so many discussions about philosophers. That said, Professor Hamilton is a really good lecturer. He is very funny and engaging, although the two hour class makes it a bit hard to focus sometimes. Assignments are very fair, and the TFs are always there to help.
The 2-hour lectures were a little rough, but with only three big assignments and a take-home test, this is a nice way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement.
This is minimal work but I'm guessing very hard to get an A. There's little direction. The lectures are boring/ redundant but Prof. Hamilton is a very engaging lecturer considering the material. There is a lot of reading but you don't need to do it to get by.
Its a great and interesting way to fill your ethical reasoning requirement.
THIS IS PROBABLY THE BEST ETHICAL REASONING GEN-ED POSSIBLE!! Workload is minimal but still really engaging and helps you learn and think critically, readings are really interesting, lectures are fascinating and fun (Prof. Hamilton is a really, really good lecturer), and section is really relaxed and people actually contribute interesting thoughts. Simos was a great TF. Not necessarily a super easy A, but you can definitely get a good grade if you do all of/most of the reading and put a bit of real brain-time into your work. LOVED THIS CLASS and felt really lucky that I chose it over the other ethical reasoning options...
This is a solidly decent course. John Hamilton is an entertaining lecturer and the teaching staff are enthusiastic about the material. The workload is low and the expectations are clear. However, it is unlikely that you will leave this course having changed the way you see yourself and the world around you. The material is rarely applied to security in the real world; instead, it remains generally in the realm of theory. The assignments are easy but never particularly thought provoking. Sections are fun but rarely challenging. This course was by no means spectacular, but it could be a good way to easily fulfill a general education requirement.
This is a great class. Depth into the story of security, and breadth in terms of the many writers who have considered security.
Interesting lectures, and great section discussions! The teacher is always open to extensions on assignments when needed, and he's very lenient and down to Earth and awesome. Great way to get your gen ed requirement.
The course is a great way to fullfil your ethical reasoning requirement! It was interesting, and well planned out. Juan was a great TF. The readings don't actually need to be done just being honest because the whole course is about security so as long as in section you bring it back to security as a whole you'll sound very polished!
This course is what you make of it: if you enjoy the readings you can sift through the overwhelming "hipster" feel of the course. At the very least, you can now quote Nietzsche in your blog while sipping a fair-trade latte.
Take it only if you like reading a lot / writing analytical essays.
This class is amazing!  Professor Hamilton is the best lecturer!  The readings are really fascinating and section is fantastic.  The assignments will make you think but they are very enjoyable.  To fulfill an Ethical Reasoning general education requirement this is the class to take!  It was absolutely amazing.  Highly recommend it!
This class is an easy way to knock out the Ethical Reading requirement, and is fairly interesting. That said, you do not learn a ton and lecture is very silly.
The readings are dense, but Professor Hamilton is very engaging. Expectations for papers are not made clear ahead of time, and grading is arbitrary.
If you are looking for a manageable gened and you feel like you want to read an interesting selection of texts than you should take this class. If you put in work this course can be rewarding. Also, John Hamilton is really cool you should definitely try to get to know him.
Everyone should try this course! The readings are long but not particularly difficult and always very interesting and engaging. Sections are fun and discussions motivating. The papers are difficult to write but short and fun. The topics are well-written and there are always choices.
Professor Hamilton's lectures are occasionally incoherent, but they're also really inspiring.  He raises thought-provoking questions that touch on universal anxieties.  The course is not a breeze but it's quite reasonable and I'm glad I took this as a Gen-ed.
This class is the best combination of interesting material and minimal amounts of work. Basically the only things you are graded on are three short essays and the final exam essays - all of which have interesting prompts to choose from which make them super easy to write. Professors and TF's are super interesting, lenient, and generally just foster a lot of enthusiasm for the subject. I would definitely recommend taking a class with Professor Hamilton at some point if you can, he is quite impressive in a lecture hall, and if you take this class try and get Adam as your TF! I am a science/engineering student and this was still one of my top two favorite classes that I have taken at Harvard so far. Exactly what a college class should be like.
This class is a great way to fulfill the ER requirement. The professor lectures excellently and the discussions really expand your perspective.
I'm so glad I was exposed to this material having never taken a philosophy or social studies oriented course before. The lectures were a bit dry but the readings and sections were fantastic.
This is a great ethical reasoning course. Prof. Hamilton's lectures were excellent, as were the readings and sections. The papers and final were quite manageable.
There is very little work day to day, but the assignments can be tricky and grading depends entirely on your TF. Overall, not much work but not amazingly easy.
If you do the readings the class is fun and easy.
Best way to knock out Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed. Not a hard course with minimal writing.
If you are looking for a class to fulfill your ethical reasoning gen-ed, definitely take this one! I think this is by far the best class I've taken at Harvard so far.  The readings are interesting and the assignments are reasonable.  You will be challenged to think in new ways.
somewhat boring lectures, but overall a good/interesting class. Kris is the best TF!
Amazing Class. Take this class! Hamilton gives amazing lectures, and sections are interesting. You will open your eyes up to things that you never even considered, and for the first time in my life philosophy was kind of fun.
Some complex philosophy for someone who had zero exposure to it previously. Make sure you actually attend lectures or else NOTHING will ever make sense!! Ever!
This course is fantastic! The readings are great and come in a huge variety! Sometimes they are a bit long and boring, but most of them are good.  Professor Hamilton, who is a great speaker, analyzes the readings very nicely in lecture in case you don't quite understand them.  While a lot of students do not go to lecture, I definitely recommend going because it's just a great learning experience just to hear the professor talk!  Sections are also very and engaging, with a different group activity regarding the readings every week.
The course was amazing!!!!!  Not very much work at all, and you end up learning so much more than you thought you could learn in one class.  This course actually gave me a new way of thinking about security, which you'll learn isn't just theoretical-- it is fundamental to everything from your political views, international relations, and even your relationships with other people.  I feel like this  class was the perfect example of why someone would choose a liberal arts education.
It's a great ER to take that is low in work-load and a very interesting topic.
Its either this or Chinese philosophy. There are like no other ER's that are worth sitting in without gouging your eyes out or sticking a spoon up your butt. Hopefully, next year will be better. If not, it's worth knowing that Hamilton is a really understanding, kind, and forgiving professor....just saying. He's also got great anecdotes and is a great lecturer. It's unfortunate that ERs are so boring and everyone in the class either didn't show up, leaves early, or were asleep.
adsadas
This course really engages you in interesting philosophical talks that Professor Hamilton brings to the table; such information that you most likely have not heard before extrapolated to the field of Security.
This is a great class. Keep up with the readings and make sure you attend section/lectures and you will do really well!
A really interesting course. Professor Hamilton is one of the best professors I have had at Harvard. He is funny, entertaining, and made me really interested in the material. The in-class quizzes are easy if you've done the reading but the response papers are kind of a pain since they aren't clearly explained and they're graded really harshly unless you can write like Kant but that might also depend on your TF
Very low work load, and time commitment, but the materials are dense, and there is a possibility of feeling like an idiot in section.
Take this class. You will not regret it. The course touches on many large questions discussing what is security, and how it can be maintained. You will deal with texts and authors that are quite fundamental to political philosophy. All the while, Prof Hamilton is from the Comp Lit department, so actually the connections between some of the texts are not just thematic but literary as well - this was super enjoyable for me, and actually inspired me to apply some of the perspectives of this class to my life. (I.e. Oedipus is name dropped throughout lecture throughout the semester, although the play never really explicitly mentions anything about security, but Hamilton will make it super relevant).
You have to attend every lecture. There is a reading quiz in the first 10 minutes and when there are papers due, you have to hand in a hard copy only at the end of lecture, which is 2 hours long. Lecture is good and Hamilton is interesting, but it is also very easy to be distracted. Section you are not allowed to use your computers so taking notes in a notebook is kind of essential. The workload is actually not bad at all. The final though is 2500 words which is actually kind of long compared to our other papers that were only 3-4 pages.
Lectures are very boring, and readings are dense and difficult to get through. However, quizzes are easy and essays are graded really easily, so it is easy to get a good grade in the class after you sit through the lectures every week.
While this class is relatively low workload, the weekly reading quizzes mean you have to try and get through long and dense philosophical texts. If you have no background in ancient history you will find this very difficult. Prof. Hamilton is very nice and tries to be engaging, but the two hour lecture drags on quite often.
The class was not as interesting as I hoped it would be--the 2 hour lectures do take a toll on you. I'm not really sure what I got out of the class that I did not get in the first few lectures, but it just may be because I'm not much of a philo person. I did like the Freud and Kafka bits of it. Hamilton is a great lecturer, but I think I would like his Lit/ German lectures better. His interpretations of the root of words is interesting, but also gets a little old.
Wonderful way to satisfy the Ethical Reasoning class. I've heard excellent things about Sandel's classes, but this is one to definitely check out! Incredibly accommodating, well-balanced, and the amount of work expected from a gen ed.
It isn't too hard, but you need to pay attention in order to do well on the papers and the quizzes.
Not much work is required, but if you do the readings, they are very interesting.
The class is fine. Professor Hamilton is pretty funny. The texts are awful. Section depends on your TF, as always. The assignments are good. There are these really ridiculous lecture quizzes to make sure you go, and for participation points, I guess.
Professor Hamilton is a quintessential quirky professor who generates enthusiasm for a subject which could easily slip into boredom.
Professor Hamilton is very knowledgable and is a wonderful lecturer. The course load is very manageable. The reading quizzes really helped me to not fall behind on the readings and better engage with the material. It was also very intriguing to hear about other students' interpretations about different topics. I think it's a great course to take to satisfy ethical reasoning while learning about different philosophies. Even though I dreaded taking a philosophy class to satisfy ER, I found the course very enjoyable. I would strongly recommend!
This class was pretty underwhelming.  It was so concentrated on philosophy and I thought it was going to be more interesting.  If you're looking for an easy Eth-Resoning course that you don't have to do much work in then it's not a bad class.
The reading is quite complex.
This class is a great way to fulfill Ethical Reasoning!  There is no need to be familiar with philosophy at all (though it would definitely help).  I took it as my first philosophy class, and it was a perfect way to test the waters.  I am a huge German fan, so I loved Professor Hamilton's allusions to the German language.  He includes a lot of etymology in his lectures which is interesting whether or not you know the languages to which he refers.  He makes an effort to make the class manageable and fun (quizzes are laughably easy if you've done the readings).  Two hour lectures are tiring, but please don't leave in the middle.  Prof. Hamilton is sad to see people leave.   No, I am not Prof. Hamilton.   Really though, this is an easy but interesting way to fulfill ER.  Take it!
This course is a good way to fulfill what is a painful Gen Ed. Professor Hamilton is very enthusiastic and fun to listen to but the content is very abstract (this is probably more a reflection of the ER requirement than this specific course).
I don't think there was ever a point where I felt like I had a really solid grasp of the material-- that's not a bad thing though! It just meant that the readings were very challenging and there was always more clarifying to be done. This balanced well with the super laid-back nature of Prof Hamilton and how this class was run. Weekly quizzes were written to be as easy as possible and there was an opportunity to get extra credit on each one. Prof. Hamilton even structured the classes so that late students could get there and not miss much. The grading policy was also accommodating; there was an opportunity for extra credit where students just had to watch a movie. The class's laid-back vibe made it so that students could really spend time thinking about the material (which could be really dense) and not waste their time on worrying too much about grades and such.
Definitely do the readings!  They're really interesting.
Too much reading. This is NOT an interesting class about security in the contemporary sense. It's basically a philosophy class! That's graded super hard.
I think this is one of the best examples of what a Gen Ed requirement should be--very much relevant to our daily lives and developing a broad understanding of a field of thought (here, security theory). The lectures are well-delivered if a bit long, the assignments all easy, section occasionally boring but usually mildly interesting. The readings are fantastic and definitely a very good reading list for an overview of the field. If anything, I wish this course had been more rigorous so that we could have had better and more productive discussions on it, because I think very interesting ideas and authors (eg Foucault) were presented at a much shallower level than they deserved.
Make sure to do your readings!
Very thoughtful course, but be warned that it's misleading in its shopping week promotion. I thought it would actually talk about philosophical issues in modern security (ie wire-tapping and body searches). The class is really more about how philosophers approach security on the level of society (ie How does society decide who should be in charge?). This is still a useful topic, but know what it is going in.
I chose this class because of the high Q scores, and I was disappointed.  I had no background whatsoever in philosophy or really any humanities, and I always felt like I was falling behind everyone else.  The material was interesting at times, but sometimes I wondered the relevance of the things we were reading.  The grading was frustratingly hard considering how much effort I put into this class.  On the positive side, only having lecture once a week was pretty awesome.
This class will not force you to engage too much with the material, but if you do it is a rewarding look into viewpoints on security across history... a more interesting topic than it sounds!
Great Professor and TFs
Very interesting and easy course
It is a relatively easy class, however the material is extremely boring and overall a subpar class.
This course is perhaps the greatest way to fulfill the ER gened. Professor Hamilton is incredibly engaging and really cares about entertaining his students. Yes, there are weekly reading quizzes but they are super easy if you have just skimmmed the reading. The assignments are also really short and dont take all that might time to write. The final wasnt even a final---was just another paper that was worth a little bit more. And the material is also surprisingly interesting if you are interested in political philosophy/government at all.  That being said, I did think that the course would focus more on modern day security whereas it looks must more at older theories and doesnt delve much into current society. Overall, if you are looking for an ER class that will be actually interesting (not like the snoozefest that is ER18) and not very difficult, then look no further than ER32.
The mini quizzes at the beginning of every class are nothing to worry about; they are simply reading checks. However, this will force you to keep up with the readings, which can occasionally be a bit tedious in their language, especially in the earlier documents.  The TFs were great, and were readily accessible, providing constructive feedback on papers.  Section can be a bit dry, especially if everyone is there simply because they must, but since their grade is tied to participation, it usually is a good discussion.
This is a great way to do ER. The professor and TFs are so nice. There are reading quizzes once a week so you have to do the readings, but usually they are somewhat fair. Pay attention to important names, distinctions in arguments, and important concepts. That will be helpful bc philosophy is hard to read. Also, meet with the TFs for writing help! I learned so much about security and the readings cover a lot of topics (check the syllabus).
The readings are often confusing but Professor Hamilton makes them understandable in lecture and section is a huge help
It's a good way to do your ER gen ed requirement.  Professor Hamilton is really funny, and although I'm definitely NOT a philosophy person, the readings were accessible
This is a very interesting way to fulfill an ER requirement. Professor Hamilton is an excellent lecturer, and sections give way to really great discussions. It's helpful to be able to think/express yourself philosophically, and quite a bit harder than I thought it would be in terms of writing papers. Readings are great--at one point I was actually thinking about taking a Gov class (which I've never done) just because the political theorist we were reading wrote so clearly about his topic.
This class is more philosophical than the blurb will have you believe. Be careful when taking it if you aren't into philosophy - go through the syllabus and get a sense of what you'll be reading. The course isn't about ethics of security in the modern world.
This class does an excellent job overall. The professor is an amazing lecturer, and the section discussions really push you to think critically. There is a lot of reading but the work is very doable and enjoyable since you may find a lot of the concepts to be fascinating and applicable in real life.
Take it: this class moves one careful step into your careless self.
I thought this course would at least involve at some point an evaluation of ethics of modern day security.  It didn't.  Instead it seemed that any philosophical work that mentions the word security (or didn't) was fair game for the course.  I found it very difficult to condense all these several unrelated readings into an understanding of security.  I failed at that, but I'm still not sure if that is my fault or the fault of the course.  If you've never had any prior study of Locke, Hobbes, Kant, etc., you may find yourself overwhelmed at least at the beginning of the course.
The professor is great in lecture, although the material itself is lackluster, as seen by the class that gradually thins out each week throughout lecture. Quizzes are given to boost grades but also to make sure people show up, otherwise it is likely people wouldn't come at all, because lecture can be such a drag at times. Interesting concept, but hesitant to recommend because the structure of the class itself is lame and section can also be quite boring depending on the TF.
The lectures are very engaging and the assignments are very fair and manageable.
It is a really interesting class
Although this class can sometimes be a bit dry, a lot of the readings raised some very interesting questions. If you like to ponder the ethical questions of how security is handled around you, you'll like this class.
This course is a real gem.  The final is a take home that you have ~2-3 weeks to do, and the only assignments are three 1000 word essays each with a week's notice.  The lectures are interesting and applicable, and the readings are very reasonable in length.  This is a great way to satisfy the ER requirement (believe me, I'm a Physics/Astro concentrator).
Great class. Lectures can sometimes get a little long but generally interesting and section is cool.
Great course.  Interesting material without a heavy workload.
This is a pretty chill class. Not a bad way to fulfill ER. If you don't like philosophy or sifting through some tough readings, then you might want to think twice about taking this course. The readings aren't that bad, but you will be reading Kant, Kafka, Machiavelli, Locke, etc. Besides the weekly readings, there are three response papers (3-4 pages) three times throughout the semester. The final consisted of three questions (selected from a list of questions) of 4-5 pages each. Takes time but it was bearable. I think that's a good way to describe the course overall. You learn some pretty cool stuff though and you will think differently about world problems. Hamilton is a great lecturer. If nothing else, take this class just to watch Hamilton lecture.
It was a great and interesting class! Only met once a week for lecture which was appreciated in a busy schedule. The readings and assignments are interesting and the lectures are phenomenal and really make you excited to think about the material.
Secret gem! Prof Hamilton makes material very interesting, and not a difficult course at all.
This class offers an interdisciplinary look into "security" from ancient to modern philosophical thinkers. Very interesting, though at times disorganized. Section and lecture felt somewhat disjoint. Readings were typically enjoyable, though some were a bit dry. Professor Hamilton is a great lecturer and a skilled storyteller. I really enjoyed the parts of lecture when he would write etymologies on the board. The 2-hour lectures can sometimes feel long (especially without visual aids), but were generally fascinating and enjoyable.
Take this class!!!! John's lectures are informative, easy to understand, and often include bad, but funny, puns. The class also forces you to think about security in a much more comprehensive and much deeper way than the traditional security theater you see at the airport. I think that the class would be generally helpful for everyone, and it's a fun way to fulfill a Gen Ed class!
incredible class, not too much work at all and super interesting lectures and section.
Great course about a large timespan of historical philosophy. Quite a bit of reading but the assignments are great.
This is the best Ethical Reasoning class at Harvard. This class is much better than ER22 Justice taught by Michael Sandel and far better than ER18 Classical Chinese Ethical and Political Theory taught by Michael Puett.Do not fall for the hype of those other classes. Professor Hamilton is the best instructor I ever encountered. He is passionate about teaching and genuinely cares about his students. He is also fair with his grading and will help you earn the best grade you can. He was always so helpful during office hours and throughout the semester. Philosophical material tends to be very challenging. However, Professor Hamilton has an extraordinary ability to help his students not only comprehend but also enjoy this material. Professor Hamilton showed me that philosophical material is not supposed to be overly difficult to learn. After completing this course, I now look forward to reading more philosophical texts. This is the best way to complete this requirement. Without having to go through the pain, suffering, and frustration of, all too often, poor instruction, I truly learned a lot this semester. If there is any class not to miss out on in your Harvard College career, it is this course, ER 32.
This class is a relatively interesting way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement.
Professor Hamilton was a great Lecturer and the readings are interesting. The class in general was well taught.
The professor is clearly incredibly knowledgeable about the material. However, there is simply no accountability, and the clear lectures notes he writes are perfect for writing the papers. As such, the laziest of students could simply not go to lecture and use the notes for the papers without reading the source material. Furthermore, sections are too convoluted, wishy washy, and marginally related to the readings if they are at all. Section readings were often vapid; some articles were utter trash. Of particular note was the section on feminism: the first article was from a disreputable website in which the third most popular article was essentially graphic erotica, and the second article wasn't even really an article, but rather a series of tweets. With such interesting source readings, the addition of this drivel was utterly disappointing and disheartening. Ultimately, this is a course where if the student is committed, she will gain a particular perspective on many thoughts on security in philosophy and survive the sections. However, the course opens itself up to academic laziness. If you go this route, however, you will feel intellectually bankrupt and feel as though it was an utter waste of time. If you're interested in doing all the readings, however, the selection is excellent.
The readings are definitely worth it, but not necessary
This is definitely one of the most engaging ER classes. Hamilton's lectures are fantastic, and he does a good job of explaining the more knotty texts like Foucault and Baudrillard in understandable terms. Section was less engagingthe relationship between the course readings and the current events articles we read wasn't always clear, and quite a few times the issues we discussed were so controversial that the discussion dissolved into tense bickering. But the assignments themselves are super doable and the take-home final is no problem at all.
John Hamilton has a lot of really eye opening things to say.
Great lecturer and great person
Professor Hamilton will consistently blow your mind with his careful readings of texts and the etymologies that he explains in class. I highly recommend this course!
