I highly endorse the comparative and exploratory nature of the course: listening to two of Harvard's best lecturers go head-to-head every week on the meaning of life was a real treat.  That said, I think the class could be tightened up a little, as it seemed to wander thematically at times.  While Puett was typically attempting to promote constructive conversation, Unger was often pursuing his own agenda. I found Unger's dramatic oratorical skills to be inspiring yet frequently overly esoteric; sometimes I had no clue what he was trying to say.  The readings are wide-ranging and not all interested me, but, on the flip-side, perhaps a strength of the course is that it caters to student with interests in many subjects (metaphysics, ethics, social theory, history, aesthetics, etc.). Overall, I don't feel that I was ever as fully invested in the course as I could have been, but it was nonetheless a rewarding experience and I would still recommend it highly.
Do not take this course. The professors are very knowledgeable but the lectures were annoyingly repetitive and just tiring.
Make sure you have a string philosophy interest and background.It appears as an easy class but it really is not.
Make sure you're really, really interested in both the course material and in Unger's teaching style before registering. I would suggest having a back up course in case you find you're not up to the class and want to drop it.
If you want to change the world, take this class. It will teach you how, and it will give you the confidence to make it your life's work.
Lectures feel like sermons, and I mean that in the best way possible.
This course will change the way you view your own education and the academic system at large.
Challenge the way you think and take this course.
Want a class that can change you and the world? You got it here. One of the most unique classes one can take, and listening to both Unger and Puett speak is a marvelous treat. A can't miss experience!
Unger and Puett are great lecturers. Life-changing class.
I would tell students that this class is NOT A GEN-ED no matter how hard the head TF and lecturers try to argue it is. The class presupposes an extensive philosophy background, and you are expected to guide yourself through the philosophy of Professor Unger. Puett is a great lecturer, and really positive and nice--He will try to make the material as easy as possible to understand, whereas Professor Unger does not do the same. The essay prompts are literally "Discuss anything ever mentioned in class/section/lecture", and you don't have to refer to any class materials. Whilst this may sound fun, trust me, it is beyond difficult and really put a damper on the class when your entire grade depends on the papers. Overall, really not a good undergraduate course, and needs some serious re-working and fixing if it ever hopes to become one.
Be prepared to have a lot of freedom in your papers.
if you don't like structure and know some about philosophy, you will get something from these ideas.
Save yourself a giant headache and don't take this course.
It's an eye-opening course, and Moyn and Ungar are two of the most brilliant thinkers on the faculty. It's a course that requires you to think - very, very critically - which has been exciting and has really expanded the way I think about things. However, this is not a GenEd to take lightly. It will feel like a lot of work and you will put in many, many hours.
If you've always wanted to cross-register at the law school but aren't intensely pre-law, this is a good compromise. To take full advantage of the lectures, which are rather dense, you need either prior deep knowledge of philosophy or a commitment to doing all of the readings. The essay assignments give immense freedom in essay topic, approach, etc., and the sections are also very free-form. Overall, depending on your attitude, this class can be a moderate gen-ed or a deep intellectual exploration, both of which are good options.
