If you like this kind of thought, this course can be mind-expanding.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading and sections are a good way to go over some difficult material.
I like the ideas behind this course, but the implementation was a little poor.  Still, better than Justice for a moral reasoning core.
If you're truly interested in philosophy, take it. If you're not, don't. While the sections are good and helpful, you won't ever go to lecture. You also will not do any of the readings since there is basically no motivation to do so unless you actually enjoy reading them. It's easy to get an ok grade in this course, but hard to get a good grade. If you're just looking for a B+ out of this gen ed, this class is for you - you can get that grade with VERY minimal work. Grading for A range grades is hard.
Be prepared for not much guidance and be willling to take initiative.
The class attempts to answer the question of life, but unfortunately, that's a question only you can answer. Many of the philosophies are quite hard to read, and the amount is pretty substantial, so many people skip out on reading all of them. Lectures can provide clarity, but sometimes, a professor's argument may add to the confusion. This is particularly rough, because once you lose track in lecture, its hard to pick back up. Take the class only if you like philosophy and want to read most, if not all, of the philosophies closely.
The class is not too difficult if you attempt to do the readings (though they may frustrate you) and attend the lectures. Just be aware that it only tells a few sides of the incredibly complex story of human philosophy.
This class has a lot of potential, but its originality can become frustrating with time. It was a class worth taking, some moments were eye-opening, but definitely not all...
It is a very unique, fulfilling experience that you probably will not come across very often, or maybe not at all at a different university. The dynamic of two professors is great, Unger of course, is legendarily reputable, and Puett is great as well and very kind and helpful. The TFs also did a tremendous job and were very attentive, and sections were good.
Great class. You might not need to work very hard, but you will definitely be thinking very hard.
the class raised interesting ideas, but was entirely too confusing.
If you can deal with talking about philosophy, this is a good class to take for your Ethical Reasoning requirement. The professors made sure that what we talked about in class had relevance for our real lives--which is really the point of learning how to reason ethically, isn't it?
Puett and Unger are a joy to watch in action. They had such different styles, approaches and beliefs--it was entertaining as well as illuminating.
Great course overall; fairly painless.
This is probably the best Moral Reasoning/Ethical Reasoning class available.  A painless way to fulfill the requirement, and you might encounter some interesting ideas or even have a few life revelations on the way.
It is very repetitive and one-sided but it is a broadly-themed philosophy class that asks big questions.
This course is well, interesting. The subject matter is food for thought, the section is good. Lecture can be ok, but the style of Roberto Unger sometimes makes me want to get up and leave. Also, the final paper sneaks up on you.
I would recommend this course strongly to anyone who needs to fulfill the relevant core requirements and is interested in getting a general introduction to philosophy.
Take it if you want a moral/ethical reasoning core that allows a lot of flexibility and creativity. The writing assignments were very open-ended (which became problematic at times b/c you had no idea what the TFs wanted), but this allowed for a lot of creativity. Can be really abstract at times, so it's good to participate in section right from the get-go. Not too much work (the TF cut a lot of reading some weeks b/c there was just too much assigned), but a lot of free-thinking.
Good, but very easy to get away with not doing the readings and not really trying. Worth it to try, though
It turns out to be a very fun class; and it does, as the Profs. promise, have the ability to change the very foundations of your thought system, if you take the class seriously.
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard yet. It will likely remain that way for years to come. That is all.
This is one of the best courses at Harvard, taught by two great thinkers. I think this course will be most beneficial to those with a basic background in philosophy or social thought who haven't necessarily had the opportunity to explore non-Western thought or think about it holistically. I definitely recommend the course to those without a background though as a long as they are willing to put in the work.
Prof. Puett is AWESOME and some of the readings are really great.  But if you're taking it to satisfy an ER req or for fun, take Puett's MR 78 (Classical Chinese Ethics and Philosophy) instead, read the works on the reading list on your own time, and audit the class if you're really interested in the other half of the course.
quite hard, but worth it.
This class is extremely boring. It is easy to do OK, but you'll really not care about it after the first few weeks. The essays are vague.
Take it!  It's a invigorating to see these two professors working together.  Lots of though provoking stuff . . . you actually get an overview of all human thought since the beginning of civilization (I swear, it's possible).
Only watch the lectures after you've done the reading, they're worthless otherwise
A lot of very interesting material, great readings. However, the information becomes kind of repetitive as the semester goes on.
It is a chance to ask yourself the really big questions, and see how others have grappled with them before you.  Also, it is a chance to frame wide swaths of philosophy in one cohesive way.
Be prepared to hear essentially the same arguments in every lecture. For two hours on end.
This course, when taken for CORE requirements, satisfies your thirst for some interesting philosophies for the first half of the semester. However, it seems to get repetitive after a while unless you can really stay focused on this class and pick up the cool things going on that I seemed not to notice due to diminishing interest.Professor Unger and Puett have complementary lecture styles, which make lectures amusing to sit through. Still, it seems that overall the class is an "Unger" class. He has a distinct style of lecturing.
A good class, but fairly esoteric.
Unger and Puett are both brilliant. Unger's philosophy in particular is revolutionary, and reading it will help you transform as a person.
This class is very interesting, but loses steam/gets repetitive quite quickly. I took it pass/fail, which worked out fantastically. However, I wish I had forced myself to do more readings, as it would have made the class much more interesting. It's very unstructured, so definitely not for you if you don't like a lot of creative, boundary-less thinking!
It will change your life
you wont find this kind of discussion anywhere else. will make you think critically of reality and grow.
You decide what you want to get out of this class. Unger and Puett provide all the tools in the form of reading for you to struggle with your thoughts and think about them outside of class. It's definitely one of those classes worth taking because it epitomizes what a Harvard education should feel like.
This class has the potential to really change the way you think about the world, and not at all in the sense that people usually mean. It doesn't necessarily open you up to be more positive or optimistic, but it has this strange way of making you believe that things you may otherwise have thought of as permanent, are not really, and reality is actually much more than what we make of it. In saying this, this class requires OPEN-MINDEDNESS like nothing I've experienced before, so if you aren't willing to look at you current views critical and be brave to throw them away and take a chance, you probably won't get the most out of it as you could. It's definitely intense. But fantastic.
it's so focused on unger's opinions on life and you don't actually feel like you're learning anything. the tone of the class is also very dramatic and it made me kind of anxious
I thought this course would be an expository introduction to a wide array of religious and philosophical ideologies. While the course did provide this, it often did so with the explicit goal of framing and deconstructing these ideologies within the context of Professor Unger's overarching goal for the so-called "religion of the future" which necessarily favors certain ideologies over others. While criticism of this religion of the future is invited and encouraged in the course,the overall course is hampered by the favored position Unger's ideology occupies in relation to the other approaches to existence examined in the course. Furthermore, the essays are very open-ended and it is difficult to gauge exactly what the professors want in these essays. I left this course a bit disappointed with what I was taught. While the course has potential, it is woefully unrealized.
This is a challenging class in the sense that it pushes you to think about your life and why you live your life a certain way. The readings are interesting but lots, but they give you a broad stroke idea on the major schools of philosophy in the past thousands of years. I personally found the class and section discussions very fascinating and I would say the class has definitely changed me in some way.
If you're interested in this, I would go to one or two lectures, but I wouldn't take the class. Unger repeats himself (verbatim) from lecture to lecture - and answers any questions you may have with the same exact language/phraseology - which makes for a very frustrating course. His ideas are certainly worth engaging, but given the haziness around any concrete conceptions of how his ideal world could be set into motion (or sustained once in motion for that matter), you can only go so far. Sections elicited similarly ambivalent feelings from me this semester. They helped sometimes, but they were mostly a reinforcement for me that general education doesn't work. Forcing people to fulfill requirements makes for classes in which everyone considers the reading their last priority. This is not unique to this course, and my section leader did her best possible, given the preparation of students each week, but still section felt like a waste of time for the most part.
If you like to think about how to define meaning in your own life, and how you choose to live, take this course. If you would rather go through life without an awareness of deeper philosophies, then avoid it. This class will make you think about your own life. For the most part, it is more practical than philosophical, but the readings can be very philosophical, so you have to read closely and think hard about how to apply what they are saying.
If you aren't well read (or a philosophy person already), know that you will struggle a lot more than your peers.
Out of all the Gen Ed courses I've taken at Harvard, this one without a doubt has been the most fulfilling. Although the reading is intensive, the course really does invite you to take almost every aspect of your life and put them up for debate.
No tests, great conversations, applicable to any topic in life, and definitely made me think of current issues in new lights. I spent a lot of time reflecting on myself, the world, how I want to change both, and how I can go about doing that.
The readings are difficult, and rather extensive, and the lectures are VERY challenging, but it is WELL WORTH the effort! Recommend with enthusiasm!
I was confused for much of the semester. I still don't understand the three major philosophical orientations which provide the impetus for this course.
The readings are long and sometimes confusing. The lectures deal with extremely nebulous thought so if that is not your thing you will be bored and confused. similarly, if you need structure in your assingments and don't like having to come up with your own theories/ questions this is not the course for you.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard.When I talk to people about my experience at Harvard, I talk about this class.Is there a topic that is more important than deciding how to live your life? The two 10 page papers and the 20 page paper go pretty fast because the topic is so interesting.
This course looks at variety of perspectives on some of life's biggest questions, and gives you permission to unmoor them from their contexts and consider them seriously as ideas relevant to your own life. The lectures are thought provoking and engaging. I highly recommend this course!
Be prepared to be personally challenged in the way you live your life. The readings take a back-seat role to general reflection, which can be frustrating and also refreshing.
There is a lot of abstract thinking in this course - even more than many other ethical reasoning classes at Harvard. Some of that can be challenging. But if you really devote yourself to understanding what the professors are saying, it can open your eyes to new ways of thinking about the world.
Take it only if you are really interested in philosophy. It's not really about religion, it is about how to live your life. It is going to be a challenge. Also Unger is not the easiest person to decipher.
While the class is provocative and makes you question your beliefs, the materials and lectures were often dense and difficult to follow. I do believe it did a sound job at fulfilling the ethical reasoning component of the gened curriculum. Be prepared for long, dense readings and lengthy lectures, but it certainly makes every student think deeply about their understanding of the world.
This class forced me to face my most fundamental assumptions and retain only what I could accept with open eyes. The effect has been an intellectual and ideological transformation that has opened up new academic horizons and a more robust existential paradigm. It has been a complete education, what a college class should be. I'll remember this class as a benchmark for all my future classes.
Unger is phenomenal. Not only that he is Obama's professor, he also has a Grandiose vision for all Harvard students. The class is about finding a meaning in our lives. It challenges Our belief, ethics and what we take for granted to be right. Having taken the class, I feel like I have a new direction in life. Besides, the readings are optional and the grading is generous. Painless way to fulfill this gen-ed requirement.
This class is really interesting and eye opening. There's a lot of reading but luckily this class is manageable if you do around half of them. The final paper is such a broad topic that you should start thinking about what you want to write about from the beginning of the semester.
might as well... what else would you be doing, Justice? these guys are much cooler
I struggled quite a bit with this class, and I don't think that it's a good intro class. I took this because I was looking to fulfill my Gen Ed requirement, and I regret it. While there was minimal work in the class, I struggled to grasp a lot of the concepts because they were simply too abstract for me. I like to deal with concrete examples, and in many parts of the class there were none. I also thought that the class was very subjective, which made papers more challenging and subject to the opinions of the TF's and professors. If you are looking to fill your Gen Ed requirement for moral reasoning, do not take this class.
The reason why I recommend this class with enthusiasm is because I realized how twisted Unger's philosophies are. His social theory is brilliant but he is a terrible Theologian. This class really shapes your personal philosophy, and it shaped mine alright. Be prepared to put up with one of the most egotistical professors at Harvard. Prof.Unger instead of choosing to see the similarities between different religious phenomena, chooses to put religions into little boxes to suit his own twisted philosophy. We cannot put religion or spirituality into boxes. That is an orientalist approach to studying it. He uses a parochial understanding of Christianity, seeing it only from his Catholic viewpoint. I think you should take this class. Take this class to see the exact reasons why we have religious disputes, because we have people like Unger perpetuating divisions and categorizations among religions when people can try to understand similarities instead. What kind of a professor decides to create a class about himself? The entire class, we analyze the work of this guy who is giving us the lectures. I think it is so beyond narcissistic. Prof.Puett is such a sweetheart though, if anything, come to lecture to hear this beautiful man speak. Definitely take this class :-) It will shape you in ways you never thought possible, it sure shaped me. There is no such thing as first orientation, second orientation, or whatever. In fact, these are Orientalist constructs. Categorization is a supremely male method to understanding something. It is VERY left brained, and that is something huge I learned in this class. Religious phenomena is deeply rooted in a lot of right brained things such as art, music, poetry, and those are aspects that Unger completely forgets to acknowledge. So please take this class, take it so you can develop your own philosophy. Deconstructing Unger's philosophy is going to be my next endeavor. I had so much fun criticizing Unger and even my own beliefs. It was great.
I have such mixed feelings about this course.The good: if you apply yourself, this course is actually very interesting. Lectures can be very fascinating and you can learn from your writing. The bad: this course got really competitive and annoying over time. The essays were often uninspiring. I didn't feel like there was much incentive to actually read besides own personal gain. Sections felt like the same discussion week in and week out. Overall: fairly easy (in work, not necessarily in grade) and fascinating course that will be somewhat different than other courses you've taken. If you've been in Social Studies 10 or another rigorous philosophy/social theory class, I would not recommend it. If not, you might enjoy it.
I appreciated taking the course.  I learned a lot via their framework of the three orientations interplaying the main existential debates of human existence for 2000 + years.  It was really an awareness opening experience.
This class changed me. However, I think the class could be a lot better. If you engage with what the class is asking you to do on a personal level-- think about the best way to live your life-- this class should be inspiring. Prepare yourself for disparate readings and dense lectures from Unger.
This course is incredible if you make time to do the readings and to ponder the large questions posed by the professors. It can in fact be transformative. The amount you gain from this course is directly related to the time you put into it. If you make an effort, this course can be life-changing.
This was my first and only Ethical Reasoning course. Unger and Puett are incredible speakers and provide simple structures and frameworks for organizing complex ideas. I'm usually not the type of person to stick around after class to continue talking about the course, but I often found myself doing so. I enjoyed talking to friends outside of this course about the ideas presented in the course. I read comments from previous years that said something along the lines that this is a class everybody should take. I was really skeptical when starting the course, but I completely agree with these statements.For me, this was the most intellectually challenging and frustrating course I took this year. At the same time, it was the most exciting for me and became one of my favorite courses I have ever taken at Harvard.
It is one of those rare classes where you get to be with a professor who is a leader in his own field, whose ideas are revolutionary, and who will make you think about the world in a new light.
Students shouldn't take this class if they already have a lot on their plate. I took this as my 5th class during the semester to fulfill my gen ed requirement....bad idea.
Interesting ideas are thrown at you, but it can be somewhat frustrating for someone who does not like having a strong background in philosophy/religion. Without the background, this class feels like hopping from clouds to clouds (ideas to ideas) and not having a ladder or support structures (actual foundational knowledge) underneath you.
Make sure to not only read the readings, but also go to class, because there is no way to do well on the papers without at least knowing what's going on in lecture.
The class was a good way to think about very large patterns in the history of philosophy and how they relate to basic human attitudes toward life: benevolence, love, detachment etc.  No where else will a class talk about how philosophical arguments are at a fundamental level related to such basic ways of thinking.  If you want any rigorous philosophical or theological thinking, this isn't what you're looking for, though.  The class tries to take a huge view of the history of philosophy and religion and therefore goes into very little depth on any given topic.
Hard readings, often frustrating and dense.  The course itself was frustrating throughout the semester, but reflecting back now, I find I've learned a lot about myself.
Every once in a while a class comes along. This is that class. Ultimately, this class is about developing your own philosophy, and discussing it in context of all that has come before. Reading is light and enjoyable, and paper topics give you a huge range of exploration. Discussion is an important part of this class; a lot of philosophy is arguing your ideas against your peers. It was quite a transformative experience.
This course is really interesting and makes you think about life and the way that you choose to live. If you are interested in philosophy and these types of questions you will probably love it, but if philosophy isn't your thing, I think you wouldn't like it.
Overall, the course can be very helpful if you are interested in thinking about philosophy in regard to your grounding and orientation to life.  It can be a great chance to reflect on your own life while learning about different approaches.  The course really focuses on these two subjects, however, and mainly in terms of how Unger sees them, so it is not a good course to take if you want a broader overview of philosophy or want to focus on more mainstream philosophers.
I found myself referencing this class outside of the classroom all the time. It gave me a new way to think about my "life's path." It was the most explicitly personal class, or at least Gen Ed I expect to take here - the real question of the course is how should I live my life? Mastery over specific texts or intimacy with certain thinkers is really secondary to re-examination of your own life.
Everyone should have to take this or a similar course before graduating. very interesting class - the prof is awesome and you basically get a chance to think about life and your perspective and hear about prof unger's for credit.
This class is worth it if you are willing to put in the time to really think about the philosophical topics addressed. It is, however, reading heavy and the readings are often very difficult to grapple with. Don't take this class is you're expecting that it will just be an interesting and easy core. It is CHALLENGING to be forced to grapple with metaphysics and take in the ideas the Professor Unger puts forth. Very rewarding overall if you're committed!!
This class is moderately difficult in terms of work, but is really difficult in terms of material, since it deals primarily with metaphysics.  Unger is an incredible lecturer, and the readings we do are a great completment to the lectures.  The class is definitely catered towards an older audience (Law School), but is a great class for undergrads.  The section component and short papers are a great way to organize your thoughts and opinions, and I would recommend this to everyone I know.  Great class that definitely changed my perception of self for the better.
This is one of the harder Ethical Reasoning courses from what I can tell, but it provides a good survey of metaphysical viewpoints.
A great and unique chance to think about big questions and ideas.
If you're interested in taking a course that makes you think deeply about the purpose and direction of your life, this is great. Taking a course with Roberto Unger is also a very unique Harvard experience. The readings (though interesting) are sometimes too easy to skip and not have problems such that you might not get out as much of this course as some others.
Unger is AMAZING. Truly inspiring and unique! This class was by far the most interesting gen-ed I've taken in my four years at Harvard. Hopefully the section component will be greatly improved by the next time this course is offered, because it fell far behind in its ability to help you productively engage with the course material.
This is the best course I have taken in my 3 years as an undergraduate.
This is a unique class, there are none others like it, and because of this it will give you a perspective on life, and academics you never had before.
First, I don't think there is fair warning about this, but think twice about taking this if you're depressed or down on life. It makes you think really hard about the meaning behind things, and that can be really hard if you're in a space where it feels like there isn't much.This class is really good if you like to learn by experiencing something you disagree with and critiquing it. Professor Unger basically preaches, and then you have very open ended assignments in which you can tackle things you disagree with. Sometimes lecture is really dry, and Unger repeats himself a lot, but I appreciated having the space in the essays to sit down and think a lot about what I thought about life and what I cared about enough to argue for. It's a nice complement to thinking you do outside of class
Lectures are great, section not so much.
This course is one that appeals to a niche group. It is dense and often times the material is so abstract that is is absurd. The sections are difficult because you feel put "on the spot" and responsible for readings that you attempted to do, but gave up on because they were pointless, difficult, and abstract. Either you love this class or you hate it. The papers are open ended enough to be okay, but still, this course stressed me out and made me feel stupid. I couldn't even understand what was being talked about in the lectures. I felt like I was the only one who thought it was a strange course.
It is not an easy class but very rewarding.
sometimes the course seemed boring, but as we got more involved in professor Unger's book and ideas the class became more interesting.  lectures were not always engaging
I would not take this class if you are not seriously interested in philosophy. If you are looking to fulfill your ER and you have no experience with philosophy, I would choose a different course.
take this class its awesomeit's kind of dense and sometimes hard to sit through lectures, but really really amazing if you do at least a marginal about of reading and thinking and listening
It makes you think about things you've never thought about before and tries to steer away from traditional ways of disciplinary teaching. A lot of what we learned in philosophy and religion really questioned the way I thought about living life. This is the closest you'll get to a course that examines the meaning of life. Having a bit of a background in analyzing philosophy or religion would have helped--perhaps even more so just essay writing and critique in general because it's just very high-level thinking that's not always spelled out for you (which makes it more difficult than the typical gen-ed). The material is fairly difficult while the class isn't super structured, which can be a bad combination for some people.
This class is most certainly going to challenge you to think differently about the world and the human experience. The concepts which you are asked to grapple with are difficult to wrap the mind around, but have such profound implications for everyday life. Take this class, you will love it.
Not the best or most engaging course I've taken at Harvard.
The class is essentially an in-depth study of the argument that Professor Unger makes in his book 'The Religion of the Future', which was just published this year. In the book, Unger tries to lay down the metaphysical, spiritual, and ethical foundations of an orientation to existence that may support transformative change today. In order to do so, he casts a big master-narrative on the entirety of the philosophical and religious history of mankind. Other philosophical traditions are really only considered in relation to Unger's argument.This said, Unger's philosophy is certainly awe-inspiring. I would recommend grabbing a copy of the 'Religion of the Future' form the library and reading a chapter or two before enrolling in the class. That will give you an idea about the kind of material that will be discussed. Very abstract, and with deeply religious undertones. Since it is all about the progression of one argument, and because of it being presented as a program for religious revolution today, the class can be frustrating at times, but it can also be very transformative. The lectures are astonishing, certainly among the very best I ever witnessed in my life. Puett is so brilliant and sweet, and the dynamics between him and Unger are spectacular. An experience, and it will make you think (for real). Yet you should accept the nature of the class as you go in. Don't expect it to be a survey course in philosophy, since it is quite the opposite.
If you like philosophy or looking for meaning in life, this is a great class. However, Professor Unger's bias against any eastern philosophies can become frustrating during the class.
It's not a class for everyone's taste. It's fairly disorganized and can seem to wander, but it's a great forum for thoughts and ideas, to set aside time for you to really consider your own conduct of life and how it compares to ideas of thinkers through history.
The professors are fascinating lecturers. The format of each class is set up so that one professor will open with a presentation of one philosophical perspective.  Halfway through, the other professor will try to contradict the first professor's theory, offering an alternative view.  The professors will then turn the discussion to the class.  Each professor is open to new views and opinions.  This course really pushes you to delve further into some of life's most basic questions.  The reading and outside work is fair.  The TA, however, did not offer much feedback or clarification.  Be prepared for an immense amount of independent readings for the sections.  Overall, it was a great class!
Without a doubt, one of my favorite courses during my four years at Harvard. It fundamentally reshaped my way of thinking. The professors are heavyweight champions; a privilege to be in their presence. Take this course, you won't regret it.
Don't take this course unless you are a philosophy student and want to expand your knowledge of different philosophies. It is quite difficult to follow along without having knowledge of previous philosophers. Would not recommend for freshmen. The essays and section were decent but lecture was a bit tedious.
