ER30 is a great intro course to philosophy. As a science concentrator, I found writing philosophy papers to be a very scientific process.
This class is better than you'd think! It's actually a lot of fun to think intensely about moral issues that are very relevant to the "real world". Risse picked a handful of great topics for laymen to discuss (immigration, environmentalism, governments). It may change the way you view moral issues (or how you think about them). Not too difficult. Read readings from the prompt multiple times and outline before writing your papers.
Best ER that actually changes the way you think about the world. I've taken and dropped the "easier" and more popular ER option, and I have no regret. This actually makes you think about the important ethical questions facing our societies today and asks you to become part of "the good elites." Professor Risse is amazing and Kerstin is without a doubt one of the best TFs I've ever had.
Great class
This course asks the "then what?", "what if?" questions.  Be prepared to defend your own personal beliefs and define the arguments of others.
It's  a very interesting course, but be prepared to work more than you would for other general education courses.
This class is very well organized and the readings always felt relevant to lectures. There are three paper assignments that progress in difficulty, but I think that the way material is presented in lecture definitely makes these papers feel very manageable. The course also covers many real-life examples, which makes it a more interesting way to get through the Ethical Reasoning requirement.
This is a really painless way to get the ER gen ed out of the way! It's relatively little work and the material and lectures are pretty interesting!
This is a great way to satisfy the ethical reasoning requirement. I would especially recommend the class to those who are "afraid" of the ER requirement, as it is a very manageable course. Papers were straightforward and the expectations were always very clear.
This is a great way of fulfilling the Ethical Reasoning requirement. It does not require much work and the material is a little theoretical, but primarily focuses on applications of the theory. Also, it does not assume that one has previous experience in approaching philosophy readings or writing. I am an economics major who has never taken philosophy, and I feel that after the guidance of Kirsten (best TF!!!), I can write a philosophy paper well. It is definitely worth taking.
Really interesting stuff and out of all of the ER classes this one looked like one of the best. Lots of very practical information that forces you to rethink your position on a lot of issues. Not too difficult either, especially if you meet with TF to help with papers.
This course, though you will have to put a bit of work in, is very fair. Risse and TFs do not try to play tricks or penalize you for small mistakes, they are actually interested in you learning the material and very earnest about the GenEd purpose of this course (to learn "ethical reasoning").
Go to lectures. Don't be lazy.
Awesome class, will change how you think about the world.
This is a great class! It's also an easy gen-ed that doesn't require you to do the readings, if that's what you're looking for.  Section is the best part. I learned a lot and the time passed so quickly every time. Take this class, since it's hard to find a good ER class.
This course is a great introduction to philosophy! It covered a wide array of interesting and relevant topics in a relatively painless way. The paper assignments were also reasonable and the instructors offer plenty of support!
This course provides a good introduction to moral reasoning. Risse, as a lecturer, is difficult to understand at times due to the complexity of his thoughts, but is absolutely brilliant as a whole. The readings are time consuming and often very difficult to understand, and lectures aren't necessarily related to the readings at all, so it is important to understand each reading individually before coming to lecture. The section of this component, at least for me, was a little dry due to lack of discussion (I think a lot of people take this class because it fulfills a gen-ed), which was a little disappointing because I felt like there could have been a great discussion.
Lectures were a little dull but section was very discussion based and engaging
Lectures are great, slides are funny. Papers are very user-friendly and gradually ramp up as the course goes on--nothing is very hard.  The class is all about learning how contemporary thinkers frame several different important issues, and how we can approach and look at the issues ourselves.
Great course for the ER requirement and not too much work, but definitely makes you think about our current global power structure
The professor and TF's really know what they're talking about. There are bound to be a few opinionated people who dominate discussions. If you like to "coast" through section, ethics classes allow you to watch other people debate. You can actually learn from this, if you pay attention.
This is a great way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement! It is very easy to understand and very applicable to real life. I would especially recommend this to someone who does not like philosophy or has never taken a course in this subject.
This is an incredible ethical reasoning class! (Yes, they exist). It covers the basic principles of justice that everyone should have exposure to (Kant, Rawls) but uses them in an interesting and accessible context that is relevant to everyday life by addressing the major ethical issues of our current generation! No matter how comfortable you are with philosophy, you will enjoy this class and you will leave the class with a totally different perspective on life.
this was a rather painless way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement; professor was organized expectations were clear, and TF was very helpful. lectures could getting a little dry at times and depressing because of the subject matter but that's probably just because it's ethical reasoning.
This is a great course. Go to lecture, Professor Risse is an excellent lecturer!
its the best ER class you can take.
This is a good class for those interested in exploring introductory philosophical thinking and learning about modern and historical interpretations of justice and the moral obligations of individuals and societies. The course is not too demanding; you don't always need to go to lecture, but section is a good idea.
This class is perfect. It is not difficult at all, but it is powerfully thought-provoking and devastatingly interesting. Risse is the perfect professor, and my section leader was awesome. Take it if you care about the world and want an active forum for engaging in ethical debate.
very fascinating, but with little to no experience with philosophical thought, a little difficult to catch on at first.
A very good ethical reasoning gen ed.
Risse is an excellent professor who gives clear lectures and is patient with his students as we try to learn the material.  I thought he did a great job choosing the topics for the course - immigration, trade, and climate change.  I learned a lot from this course, and I am a bio major, so I recommend the course to any student in any field. The reading was also very interesting and relevant to major ethical issues today. It was really a life-changing course for me, and I will always be thinking about what I learned as well as how to craft a sound and valid argument as I embark on business school.
This is an incredible course (especially if you are interested in issues such as global health, economic development, energy, immigration).  Thought I would hate Ethical Reasoning going into this class, but I loved every minute of it.  The lectures are very entertaining and relevant to real life.  Take this class for your E & R, you won't regret it.
Fantastic class, as far as gen eds go. Will give you practice thinking about philosophical and moral issues in a logical way. It's also just issues that you think about a lot as a human being--what's justice? what does it mean to live morally? are there basic human rights? immigration, environmental issues, etc.--so the class is like a more structured conversation that you might have with a friend. It addresses the important stuff. But in a structured and logical way. It will leave you wanting more. And Kerstin is the bomb; best TF ever!
This course is very interesting and gets you thinking on important issues you may not have considered before.
Great way to fulfill the requirement.  Interesting material, applicable to the real world.
I was not looking forward to fulfilling my ER requirement at all, but by the end of this class, I actually enjoyed it! The papers are a bit hard because it's a different style of writing than most students are used to. Definitely go to office hours-- it helped so much on my final paper, and I regret not doing that before. The final was perhaps the most enjoyable in-class final I've taken-- as long as you put in the time to prepare the questions he gives out ahead of time, you'll ace it.
This is a very interesting course.  Lectures outline all the central points in the readings and are very much worth attending for that reason and for the fact that the professor gives really good lectures.  The workload is very small.  Spend some time with papers, even going as far as talking with your TF about them because, more than likely, you are not familiar with writing in moral reasoning, difficult form other forms of academic writing.
Great thought-provoking class!
A great ethical reasoning class. The readings were interesting and manageable, and for the most part not difficult to comprehend, because many of them were from the past couple of decades. The papers weren't too long, were spread out nicely, and were on interesting subjects. We were given all of the possible essay questions for the final exam in advance, so we were able to prepare well. Overall, the philosophical questions raised were all interesting and highly applicable to the modern world.
Strong intro philosophy course that strengthens your logic and moral thought.
You will get a clear idea of the current debates in international ethics.
great professor and tf
This class is quite easy if you just follow directions (especially on the papers).  Section is the most rewarding component of the class, so take it seriously.
Students may find that this course takes too academic an approach to social issues without giving enough opportunity to really think about how the issues at hand affect people in the world every day.
These are topics I -as a person in the midst of deciding my future- was really interested in. It's super important to lend time to thinking about how much of ones life should be devoted to helping those in need. This was the topic of the course was half the semester. We then seemed to go in odd directions -trade, immigration, climate change-. These are also important to dicuss, but should have whole classes devoted to each subject individually. To tackles such big subjects in two lectures each was odd and too vague. So I would say take this course if you're willing to think about these issues, but know that it will only scratch the surface. At the end, it will be about memorizing philosophers' thesis and not developing your own individual thoughts.
This class was awesome.
Even if you haven't engaged with questions of morality or philosophy before, this class is a great way to get introduced to the field of ethics while examining topics in international relations that are fascinating.
Great opportunity to learn about different topics and apply ethical theories. This is the first class here where I've had to push my own ideas and arguments and learned how to parse arguments.
This is an excellent gen-ed with engaging sections, and not too heavy of a workload, yet that still makes you think about important ethical and global issues. Good for people who may not be wholly interested in philosophy. You will get out of it what you put in, in the sense that most readings aren't necessary if you take good notes and pay attention in lecture and engage in section.
Three papers, not very long, not too difficult final exam where he gives you the questions before-hand. Section was a little dry and sometimes got confusing though. I would go in thinking I understood the readings and leave section confused.
This is a fantastic gen-ed and you will learn a great deal.  Professor Risse is wonderful and very clear when explaining philosophical arguments and the section leaders are super helpful too.   I would say it is not easy at all; challenging readings and the essays are not graded nicely at all.
If you care about international justice, are looking for a good ethical reasoning class to finish the requirement, or enjoy diving into complex discussions, take this class. It is a great level of difficulty for a fourth class if your other classes are more challenging. If you do take this class, try to get James as a TF. As my TF, he always spurred my section into challenging yet interesting debates. He did a great job of always pushing us with counterexamples or difficult questions, goading us into engaging in deeper thinking about immigration, free trade, human rights, or whatever else we were discussing that day.
This course will challenge the way you think about the world and its issues. While I personally wasn't a fan of the teaching style or section, I really appreciate how it made me look at the world.
Risse has very specific opinions about things that I think some people might feel challenged if they didn't already agree with him? I'm not sure how valid this is as a statement but like I agreed with most of the things he was saying so it was kinda cool.
TAKE IT!!!!! Honestly it's very interesting and Risse is great and you'll truly appreciate the class esp at the end!
I enjoyed this class much more than I thought I would. I am very much a math/science type of person and so I didn't think that I would really like reasoning through moral problems, but the lectures are great and helped get me excited about the course material.
Professor Risse is a phenomenal lecturer. He's surprisingly funny and very engaging. Moreover, I thought the chosen readings and topics were really accessible given that I had no prior background in philosophy--they were thoughtful, complementary, and actually really educational. Probably the best ethical reasoning Gen Ed that I've heard of!
This course presents itself as an examination at whether different aspects of our global status quo are ethical. Actually, it's a look at whether different aspects of our global status quo are ethical, ASSUMING that morals do exist, ASSUMING that humans can identify what is moral, ASSUMING that we think in the right way to identify what is moral, and ASSUMING that how we feel about something is a good moral argument for or against it. If you have a problem with any of these assumptions, you won't like the course.
Pretty easy way to fulfill the er requirement. Better than er 18. Would recommend it to anybody, especially if you're vaguely interested in politics or political philosophy.
Great ethical reasoning class where you learn quite a bit about a number of modern ethics issues. Very low stress, just try to go to lectures, since they aren't bad and are pretty useful for the assignments.
This class was pretty good! The topics are interesting. But, I think the experience comes down to your TF. Klemen was absolutely great and was very helpful when it came to writing. The professor is very understanding as well. The essays are pretty chill and you don't really need to do the readings to do well in the class. Plus, the final was very simple and was really more about assessing what you got from the class instead of regurgitating information.
I enjoyed this course a lot - definitely one of the most interesting options for fulfilling the ER requirement.  I did feel that the grading in the course was rather unfair/arbitrary and now really related to the quality of work that was turned in, which was a bit disappointing.  Besides that, I enjoyed the course and would recommend it if you're looking for a straightforward and simple way to knock out Ethical Reasoning.
This class is an interesting course. The material is interesting and Risse is very clearly a genius. However, I think I expected more based on the Q reviews. Also, it's easy to get a B+, takes a little more effort to get an A.
The lectures--and the course overall--may seem disjointed and lacking in substance at first, but after reviewing for the final exam, I was amazed at how everything really came together and at the depth of the material. Having James Brandt as a TF is really what made the course for me though.
A good course that covers lots of interesting material. Risse is an engaging and thoughtful lecturer and welcomes student interaction. Some of the reading is very dry but the workload is light and the 3 papers are not a huge burden. Studying for final has helped me synthesize all the material and its actually quite interesting. A good course.
It covers interesting topics, the Professor sometimes is difficult to understand and having a good TF is really important, otherwise you'll struggle so much with your papers!
I really enjoyed this class, because I am greatly passionate about the subject material. However, this class is not for everyone. It requires serious thought and is demanding in terms of its reading and writing (the paper topics were difficult). Nevertheless, this is the perfect class for people who want to dabble in moral and political philosophy but do not want to concentrate in it!
A lot of reading
If you are interested in engaging in some serious thinking, contemplation, and writing, this is a fantastic course. You will be pressed to think critically about some serious issues facing our world today and the best courses of action to respond to them.
The class is a really interesting, thought-provoking discussion of issues that actually matter today. I guarantee this will be more relevant to you than ER-18. However, the papers' topics and structures are very rigid and you should expect to be knocked down a couple of notches grade-wise for relatively superficial things.
Great introductory philosophy course that teaches you how to write effectively.
I would definitely recommend this course for anyone interested in moral philosophy and global justice. This is a great way to fulfill the ER requirement. The workload is reasonable, and I found the class particularly interesting because all of the issues discussed are still global issues today.
Essays are graded very harshly, on very arbitrary criteria. However, it is an amazing class and I highly recommend it if you're interested in issues of morality and justice.
This class is a very good way to satisfy an ER requirement. Professor Risse is quite a good lecturer. The material is straight forward, but interesting. There isn't much room for creative work on short essays that are loaded with sub-questions to answer, but that also makes them relatively painless.
Though it is a tough class in terms of constructing arguments and understanding the exact arguments many of the authors make, you come out knowing a good deal on how to accurately and moreover systematically reason.
ER 30 would be a great class if it was concentration-specific, not a Gen. Ed.  I found myself somewhat overwhelmed with the pace at which we went over the material, as well as plagued by the lack of clarity of the essay prompts.  Section was so-so, but essentially it is simply the TF asking a bunch of questions about the reading and the students answering those questions - nothing more.  For a Gen. Ed., don't take this course. But if it is required for a concentration (if it is, I'm unsure), it'd be a good course!
This is a great course to take to fulfill your Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed.  Mathias and his TF's are passionate about what they do, but also realize that most of the class is taking the course as a general elective.  As such, the workload is quite manageable.  You grow as a human being by taking this course, feeling better informed about your ethical views.  Additionally, you are challenged to argue your views against some of the smartest people in the world, and you might even change some of them!
This course is a lot more philosophy than case study examination. There is immense disparity in TF teaching styles and grading. However, you will gain a new set of skills with which to discuss many common issues.
The class overall was okay. Pretty straightforward, not that hard, the papers were fine. The topics in the second half of the course were interesting, but the first bit is pretty dry. I would recommend this class to people who are really interested in philosophically thinking about global issues. For me personally, given that we only get to take a limited number of courses at Harvard, I kind of wish I shopped something else.
As a science major I would recommend this course to everyone.  The readings are interesting and very easy to understand.  This course was interesting and inspiring to me.
The readings are interesting, but they are nearly all written by white men, and you don't get much of a chance to engage with them during section or lecture. This course was fine for a gen ed, but definitely not as good as an ER class could be.
Incredibly well-organized. Lectures, readings, and discussions complement each other very well. ER 30 section is what every Harvard discussion section should look like. If you're interested in ethical reasoning, this class is a gem!
Professor Risse is a very good lecturer and is very good at tying everything together. The readings and lectures are connected very well which is nice because the reading is dense and difficult to understand. The final exam was very fair and was administered only to make the students review the material.
This class is not too bad and offers a good perspective with regard to globalization. Very straightforward and applicable to other issues.
The material is interesting. However, Professor Risse's rambling in lectures and the poor section structure makes this course difficult to follow and results in having to learn a lot of the materials on your own.
Interesting subjects discussed.
great intro to ethical reasoning
This course is manageable, very interesting and engaging, and thought provoking. It's not too difficult and doesn't require too much besides section participation, lecture attendance, and readings. The assignments are explained thoroughly and are straight forward.
The end result is rewarding because the topics are relevant but the day to day lectures and readings can be dry. The readings aren't entirely necessary to do, but I found it helpful to do the readings that we talked about in class. James is an awesome TF- who is very helpful.
You will get what you put into this course. I put in very little and got very little out. The nice thing is that the Final is super easy and so are all of the assignments. You can get through the whole class without doing a single reading (outside of the 3 that directly relate to papers). Sections can get interesting, so that is good.
Its not a huge time commitment, but is still very engaging, interesting, and thought-provoking.
pretty easy. 3 essays and the final, which was very easy if you prepare. if lectures will be made available online (even if it's only during reading & finals period), don't really need to attend lecture
If you are looking to take ER30 for a GenEd, simply do not.  Poorly run class.  Prof Risse was a good guy, but the class was a bust.
This class is easy but studying for the final will be annoying if you don't do the readings/attend lecture during the semester.
I thought the class was well implemented.  The staff was great, and I had a really good section leader.  I just realized that philosophy was not my cup of tea, being a science concentrator who is used to taking rigor into account when making logical arguments.
This is a very good ER. It is as painless as they go (I'm a CS concentrator and I hate  writing). James, my TF was an awesome guy and Professor Risse is also great. The really just want you to be exposed to the material, it's what a gen ed should be. Definitely take it.
This course has great balance between teaching you how to think about moral issues around the world and how to solve some of these issues but also helps with more technical aspects like writing papers fit for these topics. With some interesting paper prompts and course readings throughout this class is thought provoking in a beneficial way.
A nice overview of some very important ethical topics. Gets you thinking about real issues. Papers are very easy, but the readings definitely aren't overly simple. Great ER.
Take it.
This class frustrated me to no end. Circular arguments abound and I got nothing out of it. It was really easy and did not require much work of you, which was good for me as i took that time and put it into chem 30. But if you are actually looking to think about ethical dilemmas instead of just coming up with terms and making conclusions that are only useful within a very narrow and unrealistic definition of that term, don't take this course.
Do not take this course!! The upside of this course: it is extremely easy and you will do well with very minimal effort (never doing the reading or going to class). That said, you will also not get anything out of this course. This course is by far the worst that I have taken since getting to Harvard -- Risse is an awful lecturer and the class is terribly organized. I'm sure there are tons of easy classes at Harvard you can take and at least get something useful out of -- seriously, this class is a waste of your time.
Keep up with the readings; they're very interesting.  Engage in section.
The essays are tough, make sure you plan them and think them through! The final is not too hard! You become a better writer
Too much reading and sections are too strict and serious.
This class is great, honestly. The professor is good at making the readings (which can be a bit overwhelming) very clear in lecture. All essays and exams were straightforward and dealt with what was discussed in class rather than arcane details from the reading. Though this course is challenging, it's extremely rewarding. I feel like I'm a better global citizen.
Very interesting stuff! Lots of reading. Papers werent too bad, but the final covered a lot of material. Be prepared to spend time on this class.
This class provides an in-depth ethical consideration of our roles as individuals and members of a larger global society in bringing about a more just world and is definitely worth taking.
Graded more difficultly than expected.  Go to lecture and do all of the reading
Not nearly as informative as I expected. You really need to do the readings and engage in section participation to get anything out of this class.
As an engineering concentrator, I was not looking forward to the ethical reasoning.  However, this was for the most part painless.  The grading of the papers was somewhat harsh, especially for people with no experience in philosophical writing.  The final was not bad at all, you get the essay questions in advance.
I am unlikely to recommend this class, particularly to freshman. The class was difficult for a gen ed, and there was not as much application as I would have liked. There was a greater focus on theory than I may have liked. So, if you are interested in the wider application of moral theory, then you should probably not take this class.
It's a great course and covers many intriguing topics.
Interesting topics, and not a bad way to fulfill your ethical reasoning requirement. Lectures can be a little dry at times.
Interesting material!
So boring; lectures are disorganized and jump from one topic to another, class not structured....
Professor Risse gave engaging lectures. This course offers another perspective (moral, philosophical) towards social justice issues.
There is a lot of reading, but it is manageable. The reading material is very interesting, and I would definitely recommend trying to read it all if you have time, but it isn't essential for the course to read every single assignment.
Pay attention in lecture and take good notes since the reading is dense. Pay attention in section, too.
I took this class expecting that I would discuss particular current issues and propose specific solutions. This discussion only happened towards the end, and the solutions the professor proposed were too vague.
This class requires a pretty high level of reasoning and ability to work with the materials to produce your ideas as well as criticize others.
It's  good course. Just stay on top of your reading and talk to your TF before you hand in your papers!
If you're at all interested in how you can make the world a better place, take this class. Prof. Risse is a very cool guy and his lectures are always interesting and to the point, doubt you'll ever fall asleep in the class
The best philosophy course you can take. Super interesting lecture. Risse is brilliant and makes the material accessible. Papers are very productive in facilitating learning.
It's not that important to do the readings every week. The lecture slides sum them up pretty well and are available online pretty quickly. The papers tell you specifically what reading to focus on, so if you hadn't kept up with the readings (like myself), it makes it definitely doable. Overall a good class to fulfill a gened requirement.
Amazing course. First, Professor Risse is an excellent lecturer -- his lectures were funny, engaging, and incredibly useful in helping us understand the material. The readings were consistently fascinating -- you'll find yourself talking and thinking about the material outside of class. The workload is moderate; some people breeze through by not doing any readings, but if you do the readings (which will make your life easier), it will be a moderate amount of work (3 short papers and a final exam). In addition, the TF group was fantastic -- they give incredibly thorough feedback and are the most email-accessible TFs ever. TAKE THIS COURSE!
ER is a good introduction to moral philosophy.
if you have an interest in politics this class will give you an opportunity to reevaluate your opinions
Make sure you like "thinking in slow motion"!
A good way to meet the ethical reasoning requirement and explore an interesting field...try the readings when shopping the class
This course is a great way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement. The topics discussed are extraordinarily interesting because they pertain to modern-day domestic and global issues. Even though there is a lot of reading at times, the content of the readings is very interesting. The workload is very reasonable with only three short papers and a final.
It will make you think about your role in the world differently.
This class wakes you up; it forces you to contemplate the global order and its effects on poor countries. It is also one of the easiest classes I've taken, if you talk to your TF, show up to lecture, and remain engaged, this class should help your gpa as much as you want it to.
It is an ideal Gen Ed, promoting both philosophical thought and a deeper level or logical justification.
The material is interesting and really makes you think, but getting a good understanding on the concepts will take a bit of effort
The material is really engaging
Pretty painless class that teaches you a lot about the different ethical frameworks at play in our global institutions.
This is a great course and really forces you to think about difficult questions that arise everyday, especially in policy formation and justice.
The Just World is a great, and relatively painless, way to fill your Ethical Reasoning. I learned a lot about philosophical argument and examined todays hot-button issues from a new angle. Overall, I enjoyed the course a lot and would highly recommend it.
the class is really interesting and Risse is great, but the material can be kind of confusing.
While the course info is very interesting, the class is dominated by difficult readings.
Fantastic, engaging lectures, great assignments that are challenging but straightforward--no tricks, and he gives you a list of potential essay questions for the final so he really makes it straightforward. It also really challenges you to think about the world around you and the privileges you have, and the responsibility we have to confront injustice, poverty, and the threat of climate change.
Great way to do your ethical reasoning requirement. Professor Risse is a good lecturer and the readings are interesting. If you care about social justice, this is good philosophical perspective.
This class was such a gem! As a senior, pre-med science concentrator needing just Ethical Reasoning to finish off his GenEds, I was dreading this course coming in, but I was blown away by how great Professor Risse is, how interesting the discussions get about the various topics in global ethics get, how invested the TFs are (especially Kerstin, who is the best TF I've ever had), and how fair and straightforward the papers and final were. I couldn't have been happier with this course and it was a great way to fulfill the GenEd that I was dreading the most.
Do the readings (or at least the ones discussed in class)! You'll get it much faster.
ER 30 is a great class to take regardless of if one wants to be a Philosophy concentrator or not because it challenges a student to think about what responsibilities s/he has to people around the world. The topics students are exposed to, such as multiculturalism and immigration, prompt them to think about how their future careers as doctors, lawyers, engineers, etc. may impact the well-being of others, which is undoubtedly a great benefit of the class.
This class will teach you to think critically about the global order and international policies and to understand the structure of arguments. However, while it raises many ethical questions about the global system, few of these questions are answered. Nonetheless, at the end of this class, you will view the world differently.
It's hard.  I took it because I really liked the topic material, but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone as a gen/ed or filler.
great broad understanding of ethical thinkers and global development issues
Good class, but note that it might be harder than your typical, random gen ed... average student probably needs to work pretty hard for A
This was the first year the class was taught. There is a high expectation for a gen-ed. If you do not have a philosophy background, this is not an easy course.
I loved this class.  Lectures were fascinating, section discussion was great, material was interesting.  The reading load might seem heavy, but things are reviewed really clearly in section/lecture, so if you have to skip a week or two it's not a big deal.  The assignments (three papers, 5-6 pages each) were really enjoyable, thought-provoking and not too time-consuming.  Looks like the final might be difficult, but I'd definitely recommend it anyway: I learned a lot, did a lot of thinking and didn't get stressed out.
This was a good class and a fairly easy way to complete the Ethical Reasoning GenEd requirement. The reading was very manageable (and you could definitely get away with not doing a lot of it) and the lectures tended to be quite interesting. I would definitely recommend this to anyone looking for a way to fulfill the requirement.
Unless you're really into philosophy, this course is dry as toast. But the assignments are reasonable. A good way to fulfill the ER requirement
Not too much work, but very applicable subject matter
You'll learn probably the most useful material in ethics - can apply it quite a lot especially if you think about economics and international relations and domestic/international policy. The essays were all on topics that are really important deep questions that I had not figured out in my head, but I am so glad I was forced to write about them because it clarified my opinons on these things. The TFs were great when I took it. Mathias is a good lecturer.
The course seems structured towards upperclassmen and I really do not suggest underclassman (specifically freshman) from taking the class. This material is at times interesting, but I think te whole course was very poorly structured.
Such an important and relevant class! A great gen ed, a great ethical reasoning!
Interesting class. The TFs however, are arguable the worse TFs at Harvard University.
This class is a mostly painless way to satisfy the Ethical Reasoning requirement.
This is a great way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement (I'm a physics student), especially since there are so few options. It is based on philosophy, which is probably a given for ER classes, but the topics discussed are practical and relevant to life.
Don't take this course.
A nice survey of real-world ethical questions and political philosophy. Risse is decent though lecture seems to aim to promote his own viewpoint rather than bring attention to difficult questions. He does go over most of the important readings in lecture, but if you really want to understand and get something out of the course, do them. I'd even recommend doing the readings and understanding them well, then not going to lecture (which effectively becomes superfluous if you understand the readings).  If Tim, TF is still around, try to get in his section, he is an awesome TF, one of the smartest and clearest people I've met.
