The professor may not be the most engaging on campus, but has a wealth of knowledge and really knows the topic.  Only take the class if you're interested in the material covered.
Class doesn't require too much weekly work, but the material can be dry.
not bad for an ethical reasoning course, its more like a history course and there's limited painful philosophical writing
Good way to fulfill ethical reasoning requirement. work was pretty straightfoward.
I know the subject material seems interesting, but the lectures will suck all the life out of the topics.
The lectures are boring, but the syllabus makes it completely worthwhile. Just do the readings, participate in section. Painless.
The structure of this class was horrible and very few of the readings were enjoyable and relatively helpful.  The only redeeming quality of this course was the sole TF, but he will unfortunately not be returning.  One of the nice things about the course is that there were no exams, which allowed for the students to focus on high level thinking through the briefs and the final paper.
The reading is only essential for when you are writing the briefs. The lectures can be pretty dry and hard to follow, but Prof. Maier is really nice and approachable. Overall, not too much of a time commitment and a good way to mark off the ER gen ed requirement.
do all of the readings
This was a really good class. I would recommend it. You get to read about different political trials and discuss them in class and section. The workload wasn't too bad except for the mock trial and final paper at the beginning of reading period so just make sure to plan for that.
The class has very interesting topics but it requires a lot of reading. It is probably the best way to fulfill a moral/ethical reasoning requirement though.
It was interesting and informative. Two hour lectures were sometimes hard to get through, but usually they held my attention fairly well. Section discussions were fun.
Learn about a variety of interesting trials throughout history and gain a better understanding of the implications of political justice
It's a good course just has a lot of reading.
a really great way to get your moral reasoning req fulfilled-- interesting topic and great discussions.
If you're dreading moral reasoning, this is a great way to fulfill it because it's more of a history course really.  You don't have to read lots of annoying moral philosophy, but you do get to argue about ethical dilemmas, in a political context.  Professor Maier's lectures are boring and I stopped going.  The reading list is way too long, but just don't do most of it - you don't need to.  Sreemati is fantastic and will make the course worthwhile.  Plus no final exam.  I'm glad I took the course but you should keep all these factors in mind.
I thoroughly enjoyed the fact that this was a discussion based class; once I got used to skimming through the readings (which is what we're meant to do), I was able to enjoy participating.  Prof. Maier himself is a rather dull lecturer -- in my opinion, it was the TFs that made it worthwhile.
Good class for Moral reasoning core requirement. Very interesting topics covered but with too much reading.
There is a lot of reading in this course and it is very hard to determine what part of the readings are the most important.  The readings themselves are also very challenging.
Don't expect to find the lectures fascinating. They're rather dull, and they are two hours long. However, if you're looking for a class where the reading - if not the professor - will stimulate you, and you won't have to deal with a heavy workload, I would definitely recommend this class. It's been a breeze - and unlike most easy classes, actually engaging and interesting. This is great, because it makes you focus more on the actual readings than on his opinions, so you actually end up analyzing the trials for yourself. Secondly, it's way less work than Justice, and it's way less boring.
The material is interesting, but be prepared for a heavy workload with a lot of reading.
be prepared for much reading and little satisfaction that the reading mattered; not stimulating whatsoever
Sections are mandatory but don't worry, they are the best part.
The type of history class that everyone enjoys, regardless of concentration.
The lectures are interesting and occasionally meandering (just the way I like them), the product of a professor with enormous knowledge and passion for the field.  A lot of reading.
This is an excellent option for either Moral Reasoning (core) or Ethical Reasoning (gen ed).  The work load is only intense if you read every page of the reading list, but this is not necessary.  Written work is minimal until the final paper, and the subject is very interesting.I would recommend this course as an alternative to Sandel's Justice.
Only take it if the readings and course material themselves interest you enough on their own -- do NOT attend lectures.
The only reason to take this class is that it is easy.
If it looks more structured this time around, take it!
Easy way to fulfill a core
There are some rewards, but be prepared to do a lot of reading.
It can be a bit dry at times.
Coming into this class, i expected it to be a constant lecture. however, i came to find out that the conversations were very engaging and thoughtfully stimulating.
I would tell them that lecture is very interesting although not essential to doing well in the course. It is very necessary to complete the readings, and do so will make the class much much more interesting.
It's an easy class, and you can get by without doing any work for any of the weeks that you don't write a response, but the lectures are boring and you don't end up learning much.  I never really got any "big picture" understanding of political trials from this course.
it was easy and interesting.
Make sure you like this subject matter and that you have no other class with a lot of work because the readings will consume you.
Great way to fulfill a Gen Ed - not excessively philosophical, and I learned a lot about history and logic.
There are probably better ways to fulfill moral reasoning core. Unless you enjoy writing or are interested in political trials I would recommend a different core.
Very interesting ideas. You need to be interested in the subject, however.
not too much work. no midterm or final. grade depends on 6 two-page response papers and final paper. good for moral reasoning core credit
It's a reasonably easy gened, and you take away what you want from it. you can get away with doing the reading for just the weeks when you're writing a brief, but the material is interesting so study up for section.
Very interesting class, manageable work load.
The best way to succeed in this class is to manage your time well and not to get too bogged down with the readings. While it is important to know particular details, make sure that you are grasping the bigger issues at play.
Can be a bit boring, but the reading material is intersting and discussions can be riveting.
If and only if you're willing to spend lots of time reading, you will learn and dissect a stash of historical events that provide useful context for analyzing current developments in the world.
One of the most interesting classes I have taken.
If the course structure is changed, this could be a really cool class. If you're *really* interested in the topic, though, there might be better departmental seminars in History or Government instead.
This is a great way to fulfill, in my opinion, the worst Gen Ed category. With no midterms or final, it is a painless way to fill this category.
This course is great if you are really interested in historical trials, rather than just an interest in law. There's definitely a lot of reading that you need to do to understand the trials and be able to write the response papers. There are actually only a few things that your grade is based off of in this class so you should definitely be ready to invest some time in this class- its reading, the assignments, and section participation.
Only class i've disliked in my time at harvard. I can't quite seem to put my finger on why though, so it would be unfair for me to definitely not recommend it.
Do not take this class! The lectures are long and digressive, and the prof. is sometimes distant and unavailable in office hours. The meat of the course is in the section, but the TFs are hit or miss.
Don't take it.  There is not much work, but you also won't get anything out of it.
only take it if you want to take a relatively easy core for moral reasoning.
It's a very interesting course, but lectures may get a little boring.
Section is more interesting than lecture. Start the final paper early.
This class seems interesting based on the website, but I seriously seriously warn against it. I ignored previous cue ratings because I thought the material was so interesting, but honestly it would be MUCH better to take a class that was better structured and taught on a topic of less interest. This class was a DISASTER. The teacher was terribly terribly boring and obsessed with hearing his voice in the 2-hour lecture (without any power point or anything visual at all). In addition, the head tf had a really bad attitude problem and was extremely unhelpful. He gave one or two sentences for feedback on response papers and didn't respond to emails for an average or 4 or 5 days and refused to look at any outlines of the final paper, but would only look at a full draft and required that we get it in at least 7 days before the due date of the paper.
Make sure you do the reading!
Lecture is pretty boring, but there's no final.
Only consider it if you are interested in the subject material, lectures can be tedious and readings are excessive
It is a good option to take instead of justice. Lectures are unnecessary and kind of a drag, though sections are interesting.
Not a very good ethical reasoning core.
Political justice is an abstract subject, but this class definitely gives you an understanding of what it is about. Professor Maier is rather dry, but if it is any consolationg, attending lectures is not THAT pertinent to the work you need to do for the course over all.
If you find law or legal philosophy interesting at all, this course will be an exciting one for you.
Keep up with the reading, speak in section, and speak in class.
This is an excellent class to take, even if just for a general education requirement, as long as you are somewhat interested in history and prepared to read a good deal over the semester.
The course doesn't involve that much work, but there's a lot of reading. Lectures are not very enthralling.
i think this class is very uninteresting unless you have a passion for law or international politics. however, that being said, this class requires basically no work and you don't even really have to go to lecture, so if you're just trying to get moral reasoning out of the way, it might be a good idea.
Easy! It's an interesting and not too difficult core -- you don't have to do the reading every week (only the ones for which you do responses are really necessary) and at least the way they ran it this year, you don't have to go to lecture either.
The course and readings are interesting. The lecturer is quite dry. The sections are engaging. It is what some may consider ideal for a core class; however, do not let the syllabus fool you. The end-of-term paper is nothing to leave off till last minute.The course is quite accommodating for people who don't want the burden of a midterm and final in a Core course, as neither are a part of this course.
There's a lot of reading, but pretty good as a core/gen ed course.
Great way to satisfy ER requirement.
The course may seem like it has low workload, but it is still difficult to get an A or A-.
SO much reading.
be ready to read a lot
have a strong interest in the subject or else the class can be painful
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS! You will undoubtedly regret it. The lectures are so boring and dry, and Mr. Maier drones on and on and goes off on inappropriate and equally dull tangents that make following him extremely difficult. I sincerely regret not dropping this class.
It's not much work, but the lectures are boring.
take it if you like to write response papers and don't mind boring lectures. the readings are interesting and the issues raised are important.
This course was great but it had a lot of reading, a but too much in my opinion -- a study buddy is necessary to get through it.
This is a relatively painless way to fulfill a requirement - the lectures are boring, the reading is interesting, and the final paper assignment is really interesting provided you put the effort into it.
Be careful about the readings
Everything we discussed was very interesting!! The readings were not too dense like you would expect of a moral reasoning core.
good class if you dont mind being bored
Unless you have a personal interest in the topic, do not take it.
Readings are not as necessary, but you should always be prepared for section because while you might get lost in lecture, it is a real gem.
This is a very entertaining class with a relatively light workload.  If you like history, this is a great way to satisfy the Ethical Reasoning requirement for General Education.
Very thought-provoking material, a comprehensive survey of important trials thoughout history, and well-balanced historical context and ethical context.
This class is great for people who are interested in the idea of political justice as a moral concept -- if you're looking for a history class, it's probably not for you. Nonetheless, looking at ethics through a historical lens is a great way to understand how people's opinions change and what rationalizations people can come up with for great atrocities.
This is a great class. I love my TF and Professor Maier  !!!! There is a lot of reading to do, but not too much writing. It's great!!! TAKE IT FOR ETHICAL REASONING GEN ED!!!!
The lecture component of the class can often be repetitive and get dragged into tangents.
Too much reading. Briefs are graded randomly. Get a good TF.
A lot of readings, and grades are subjective. Interesting material and very interesting topics posed. Take this if you're a good writer and a good talker in section because that is how your grade will be determined. If you can whip out good, quick response papers and know how to skim dense readings, this course is for you. If not, maybe not.
Get ready for the readings. Make sure you plan your time accordingly because you are not given enough time to do the readings each week. Alot of people dont finish the readings.
This class is a great way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement. Lectures are long and can sometimes get boring, but learning about the trials as well as the brevity of the assignments make this class wonderful.
too much reading, but interesting material, good assignments, great sections, and lectures can be interesting when they focus less on quite so much background information.
there is a reason it has so little work
The material of the course is highly interesting, but the lectures, not so much.  There is a ton of reading (a little too much in my opinion) but if you stay on top of it and writing your briefs, it can be managable.  I got a good TF so my section was interesting and very stimulating.  The writing takes a bit to get used to because it usually takes a philosophical/analytical tone, but after the first few briefs it is pretty easy to pick up.
This course was very good, although I think a good deal of that was because of my TF (Crispin) and the students in my class. We had plenty of active debates in our class and everyone had ample opportunities to speak. It forced us to confront our ideas of right and wrong and the contradictions and nuances in those ideas. Lecture, on the other hand, felt dry. The material was all background necessary to understand the week's readings and have debate in class. It was taught directly from the slides, however, which made it less engaging and unnecessary to take thorough notes. Take the class for the sections and the fact that it's a rather painless way to fulfill a gen-ed requirement.
there is a ton of reading in the course, but the trials and cases that are covered and extremely interesting and thought provoking
This course is very interesting if you enjoy history because we studied a broad range of trials throughout history, each in a different context or from a different viewpoint. Most of the ethical considerations are discussed in section, while the lectures are mostly about the history of the particular case (in general, the course has a history focus but also makes you think about the ethics of each case we study). There is a fair amount of reading but it is not overwhelming, and there are only 6 response papers and a final paper as assignments, which makes the workload very reasonable. There is a mock trial at the end of the course which is interesting to prepare for. Overall, very good class with interesting content and not much work.
This course will help you battle with ethical issues that are important to think about
Interesting class with relatively straight forward material
Great class! You learn a ton about political trials and it really makes you think. Consistent work but well worth it.
It is definitely worth taking if you want to push your brain on complex questions about justice, even if it is not  your primary field of interest. The lecture component can get long, but it can be very interesting if you engage with the course.
Great class. Loved section (best of any class I've ever taken).
This class is harder than it looks. There's a lot of work, so only consider taking it if you're interested in the material. If you're looking for a Gen-Ed, take Gov 10 instead for ER, that class was much more straightforward.
I think if you already like this kind of stuff, then you'll love the class. If not, might be a bit rough.
Solid gen-ed for anyone interested in law / justice or looking to brush up on their history in an episodic way. Lectures were engaging and section was great practice for anyone looking to be a better debater / arguer.
This course provides the chance to really learn where you stand on issues, and develop your strengths in defending what you believe in in the context of major cases that you come to learn about quite rigorously.
This class is a great way to fulfill your ER gen-ed if you have any interest in politics and law. It's not too difficult but all of the material is really interesting and there's minimal busywork. You'll get out of it what you put in, so I do recommend doing the reading, which is reasonable.
This was an amazing course! For anyone that needs their ER requirement, this is a course that places history in perspective of the present. In order to understand how the law and trials have progressed, it is necessary to know from where the progress came.
Incredible class. Mock trial is super fun, Crispin was an amazing section leader, and you learn a bunch of cool history/law facts that you would never have otherwise. it is also a very very chill class, and you can put as much work into it as you deem appropriate (although obviously you will get more out of it if you put more in). Overall fantastic way to fulfill a gen ed.
covers interesting trials, but is not a law school class
I would like to tell them that it is a great challenge but is worth it because you learn a lot about the way you write and you get great feedback. What I loved about this class was that the professor and the tf wanted you to really learn. It was not about the grades for them, but the hard work and what you actually learned that mattered. I really appreciated this.
The class was interesting and the workload was minimal, however the lectures were extremely boring.
This is an easy way to get a Gen Ed out of the way. If you're lucky to get a good section leader like I did, you'll at least have something to look forward to for this class week in and out. Lecture can get very tedious and humdrum. But in all honesty this was the largest class they've ever had, so hopefully we were an anomaly. Very manageable workload, and you can get by without doing any readings.
I really enjoyed this class, but I feel like it was highly dependent on your section TF.  In our section, we had relaxed but interesting discussions about the ethics of each case, and I feel like section is where I actually questioned my preconceived notions, ethics, etc.  The lecture component of the course is largely where we covered the historical background to each case..and in lecture you barely touch on the ethics (a few minutes at the end of lecture).  This format worked well with my TF (who's sadly graduating), but I think my experience would have been very different with a different TF.  Sometimes the logistics/grading expectations of this course are very unclear, so if you have a good/understanding/smart TF, you'll really enjoy it and do well!
This class is very easy but also boring. The lectures are pointless and section drags on.
Everyone should take this class! It prepares you for learning how to articulate your opinion on difficult issues. It allows you to learn more about injustice in history, and what legal, moral issues are at hand in current politics. AMAZING. Kathryn is a great TF and support!!
The lectures were a bit dry, but the class is pretty easy and you get exposed to a variety of trials throughout history.
Very easy ethical reasoning class. Just don't expect to get any feedback on your work.
I took this course so that I could fulfill my ER requirement easily, and I do feel like I was able to do that. I had great interest in the general themes of the course, but I don't particularly feel like I learned anything significant. It is very easy to get by not going to lectures of this course, and section is pretty dull anyway. It isn't the best run course, but it fine for an easier gen-ed. Professor Maier is very knowledgeable and sweet, and I appreciated his intellect a lot. Although lectures can be dry, it was an interesting new perspective on world history that I feel is beneficial and important.
It's not too crazy as far as work goes, but it's totally disorganized and disjointed. You have 6 assignments throughout the semester, which you never get feedback on or get them returned. The topics can be interesting, but Professor Maier just spends the whole time rambling about the historical context of the time, so lectures are totally useless
The course asks good questions about ethics, justice. Prof. Maier does not shy away from candid analysis where other's often do. I found the course to get more interesting as the semester went on. This course is what a gen-ed should be like.
This class isn't very difficult, but you might not find it all that compelling. The reading assignments are hefty but can usually be ignored.
This course deals with a plethora of very interesting cases from Ancient Greece to the modern day.  Professor Maier is clearly brilliant, but is probably better suited for a seminar rather than the lecture format this class has.  That being said, there is room for lively debate on many issues.  And Professor Maier tries to make the lecture as much like a seminar as possible - so be prepared to participate now and again!
You might feel out of place at times, if you are not a history concentrator or passionate about history.
Very interesting course that explains many controversial issues that occurred throughout the history. However, if you are not ready to read 50-75 pages per week, think twice before making your decision.
Very doable and interesting if you do the assigned readings
If you engage with the material it is really interesting stuff. The secitons are fun and the workload manageable, if you know how to skim and tell important readings from ones that are less so.
good chill ER. mock trial is fun and chill if you haven't done one before. 6 papers are also pretty chill to write. final paper is annoying but fun since its a topic of your choice. I don't know how I stand in this class, grade-wise, but it's a course that you get as much as you put into it. Either do all the readings and participate a lot in section OR read the readings when you need to and make 1-2 comments. Both models are okay. Meier's lectures are boring, so don't bother going to them. Wikipedia prob does a more efficient job.
Take this class only if you are in desperate need of a class where you do not need to attend lecture. Do not take it for the Gen Ed requirement, and definitely don't take it as a History req. Any class would really be better. Very uninspired and dull overall.
This course expands your historical knowledge and ability to analyze the political implications of varying scenarios.
This class is very thought-provoking and allows you to think about matters critically that you have never contemplated before.
The workload is not heavy, but it is hard to tell how you're doing in the course due to the minimal feedback, which makes it stressful.
It was not the most interesting course and the lectures were a little dry. However that being said the workload is light during the semester (and only has a final paper at the end so it is an easy way to fulfill the ER requirement
It is a gem, but the lectures were so boring and mostly treated the material like a history course would. I found it more productive to research about the topic on wikipedia than take notes in class.
This class will be interesting enough to keep your attention during the minimal readings and is extremely low intensity.  to me, it was the perfect gen ed
This is a great course! Take it!
This course was a solid gen-ed class. You'll learn some new perspectives on legal systems and the cases you study are interesting. The reading can be a bit heavy but you generally don't need to finish all of it and the assignments are very fair.
The course material is good when you start to get into the questions, but it's difficult to get into at first, probably because of the lecture style.  I learned the most from the discussions!
super great way to fulfill Ethical reasoning. I'm sure the rest of the q guide statements will talk about how this class was a joke (in terms of easiness), but I found the lectures quite interesting and Professor Maier is a really interesting guy.
This class is a good gen ed. The material is interesting. However, lecture can get very boring.
This was the worst organized course I've taken in three years at Harvard. Basically, the entire course was run spontaneously: the TFs were largely selected last minute, meaning that my TF was utterly unqualified to teach the course; the prompts for response papers were released on a totally inconsistent timeline, making it difficult to manage coursework; and unbelievably arbitrary grading (to the extent that while some TFs graded response papers, other just gave credit for submitting them).
This is a great fifth class.  (Also, if you are a history concentrator, you can take this class as one of your required classes, which is nice.)  Overall, this was a fascinating class.  Prof. Maier goes really in depth in his lectures and knows a ton about all of the different topics that you will be studying.The first week or two of class, you might be dissuaded from taking the class based on how many people are there and how small the classroom may be.  However, stick around!  After shopping period an the first week or two of class, the number of students in attendance drops precipitously (possibly because there's no midterm or final, I think)and the class takes on a really intimate feel like a large seminar-type class.
This was the most poorly run class I have taken at Harvard. While well meaning and possessing interesting content, the entire lack of communication and uninspired and uninformed teaching, all exacerbated by a lack of organization, left me angry. Would not recommend under any circumstances.
You don't have to get the course reader or any of the readings, because they're all at Lamont Reserves. Technically, because of the structure of the class you also don't have to do the readings ever week, just the weeks where you want to go in depth with the trial and write a brief.
There's no final, a mock trial, and Professor Maier...That's more than enough reasons to take this course!
Very boring lectures, grading all depends on who your tf is, wouldn't recommend if looking for an easy ER gen ed
You get out of this class what you put into it. It's a lot of reading, but the cases are very interesting. Section is fun and engaging
This course will cause you to rethink your positions on many court cases and laws and challenge you to think outside of the box -  always interesting, always insightful. There's a lot of reading but it's usually interesting material. The section component was also great for voicing ideas and opinions. Great class overall!
Very, very low workload (what some may call a "gem").  Most classes with this little work turn into joke classes, where nobody does the reading and sections become boring, but not this class.  You don't technically have to do the readings, but most people do because the discussions during sections are simply to interesting to be missed.  Lectures were fairly boring though.  Painless ER gened.
Amazing topics, very relevant and very engaging. The mock trial at the end was a lot of fun!
this course is pretty straightforward for a gen ed. the six briefs you have to write are a little nuanced and tedious, but since they don't actually give a letter grade for the papers, it's not too much of a hassle. the lectures weren't really that engaging because it was just background info on trials that you don't really need for the paper. the sections are chill and the teaching staff enjoys the content.
This is a great class and an awesome way to fulfill this Gen Ed! The topics are really fascinating -- and the cases you study are all good to know about for your life. The assignments are easy and there is no midterm/final. Lectures can sometimes feel a bit long, but Professor Maier is very knowledgable. Danny Orbach, the head TF, is fantastic - he leads a great section discussion and provides helpful feedback for the assignment - he's also extremely smart. I would definitely recommend this course - it's not a huge time commitment and it's rewarding information to know.
Lecture really needs to be improved if this course is going to be worth students' time. Section was always interesting and engaging, but lecture was often off topic and unnecessary. The notes handouts were helpful, but there were times I honestly could have learned more about a political trial from its Wikipedia page than from what was said in class. The syllabus and spread of topics was interesting, but you really don't need to attend lecture. The 6 response papers are entirely manageable and the final paper is a great chance to expire your own interests. Pretty painless for a gen ed!
This course is fairly straightforward, a good gen-ed!
The topic of every week is a different trial, some of which are more interesting than others. Maier has a lot of knowledge about the subjects but lectures can be a little dry sometimes, especially when Maier mumbles and you're not sitting at the front of the room. Section was okay, although discussions can sometimes be monopolized by a few people talking and can go off on a tangent, which makes it frustrating sometimes to participate. The grading seems rather arbitrarily; no letter grades are ever assigned until the end (i.e. briefs are graded on a unsatisfactory, good, excellent scale for example). I would recommend this course to people who have some background in the subject area.
Be ready to participate in discussions
This course is a wonderful way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement.  Professor Maier gives amazing lectures, and is truly open to student input and discussions. The readings are quite long, however, only six briefs are required over the course of the semester, so you can get away with skimming the readings you choose not to write about.
This is an excellent course. Prof. Maier is a great lecturer and Danny is a phenomenal TF. Very interesting material and you will learn about. Some interest in international law, law, politics, or history would be useful.
Lecture is bland, but section (if still taught by Danny) is really interesting and thought provoking.
