A good class if you're interested in the content, the readings and discussion are very interesting.
The reading list alone is a reason to take this class, but add in a great professor who gives interesting applications of the material to leadership and life, and you have a true gem of a gen ed.
The texts are phenomenal so just enjoy being bathed in wisdom. Except the first week was not AS interesting as the rest.
This is absolutely one of the best classes I have ever taken. I could write an essay about why it's so great. Just in case you don't want to read this essay, I'll start with the most important part, that this class forced me to reason abstractly and exercise my logic like I never have before, and also taught me that the most important thing you can ever learn is learning how to learn, not just learning facts - which is the point of a liberal education, since this is what prepares us for operating rationally and justly in an irrational, unjust world, without growing cynical or disillusioned. Damrosch's 2-hour-long lectures are both lively and comprehensive. He puts the readings into historical context, which is so helpful for understanding the importance of the texts, and what influences were shaping them. He then led us into lively discussions in order to get at the meaning of these texts. He offered his own insight without imposing opinions, even as we waded into matters fraught with controversy, like the Bible. Never have I felt so invited to ignore personal opinions and discuss with my classmates purely based on analysis of the author's logic. And whenever people veered off into into irrelevant matters, such as trying to disprove an author's theory based on whether he or she followed it themselves (which digressed from examining the theory itself), Damrosch directly put the discussion back on track. Great readings from a huge swath of time and cultures throughout Near-Eastern and Western civilization.
Good readings, but easy to get behind.
ER 31 is the best course I've taken at Harvard. It is a literally life changing course! I enjoyed every minute of it. The readings are really well chosen and how they come together and connect at the end of the semester is beautiful. Professor Damrosch crafted the perfect Gen Ed. To benefit from this course you must do the readings though.
This class will shake the bottom out of your life like the Lisbon earthquake. You will read The Republic and then meet your wife as a consequence. This is how I met my wife. All of our wedding guests will receive a copy of The Republic. Professor Damrosch, of course, is invited.
great syllabus. Lectures should be tied in more to readings, exams, etc. because they were totally separate
This is a good class, just keep up with the reading and it should be an enjoyable/smooth class.
I loved doing the reading for this class even though I found it difficult, and I encourage people to take classes where the reading list excites you, challenges you, or intrigues you, because that's what I did here, and I don't regret it!
Take this class!
has a good little work to learn a lot ratio
If there is one class you should take at Harvard, it would be Ethical Reasoning 31 with Professor David Damrosch. You will have no regrets!
Take the class! The readings are fantastic (and even if you don't do it, the class lectures and prepping for midterm/final will leave you wanting to know more). Keep up with the class responses (not a big deal) and simply pay attention in class. Great alternative to other Eth. Reas. I know of.
Don't be intimidated by the amount of reading on the syllabus, it's really manageable. Sections + lectures are great. Overall an awesome ER class.
Excellent ER course. Gives you a taste of a lot of different philosophers across history (from ancient Egypt to modern-day), and the course staff is incredible. Relatively light workload.
Ethical Reasoning 31 has an amazing reading list and a very manageable workload.  Professor Damrosch is a great instructor, and the course's blend of philosophy and comparative literature is quite interesting.  I recommend this course as a great way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement for anyone with an interest in the intersection between philosophy, politics, and literature.
Professor Damrosch is delightfully quirky. He inflames with passion on seemingly random points at various times during the lecture, which excites attention and generates interest. However, this is exceedingly necessary owing to the two hour lectures that have great potential to drag. Overall, the course material is interesting and the workload isn't bad.
Lots of reading! Not an easy gen ed.
This is a great introduction to some of the most important literature in the Western canon taught in a genuinely enjoyable format. I really enjoyed the weekly lectures from Professor Damrosch, who managed to make them entertaining, informative, and poignant to the present day. This class is a great gen-ed because it is very little work on a weekly basis, maybe 100-150 pages of reading a week, and it is also entertaining. I would highly recommend it to anyone who has any interest in learning more about some of the most important philosophers from history, and even if you don't, the information that you learn in this class can keep you afloat in almost any conversation you might have about western literature or wisdom. It's really important material.
This is a pretty good class.  Philosophy is pretty dry, but you can make some application to the real world, which is cool.  You read some good reads also.  Overall a dry but relatively easy course.
The readings are too long and some of the books are really boring.
Fun class. Interesting readings. Great professor
It's amazing. You learn a lot and get to challenge your opinion on biblical and philosophical texts.
This class is really great. The professor is extremely legit and knows his shit thoroughly. The TFs and the rest of the teaching staff are also really awesome and are knowledgeable and willing to help you understand the material. Workwise I would say the workload is pretty low for a gen ed but the readings are awesomea wonderful spread of foundational/classical textsand you'll want to read them (otherwise you cannot understand lecture for your life). Definitely up there in the classes I've taken at Harvard and would recommend.
If the structure of lecture changes and the wiki is done away with, this course is worth taking because the reading is great.
This course needs improvement as it was new, but I think it will improve. The two hour lectures without computer were pretty rough, but the reading list is good. And it isn't too hard until the end.
If you are interested in the readings and authors presented in this class, you will love it. If you want to sail by without thinking, don't take it.
Because it meets once a week and requires little from you, it's tempting to kind of tune out this class and scrape by with minimal reading. Doing this will make the final and the paper much much harder, so give just a little more than it asks of and try to apply yourself to the readings and in section.
Lectures are boring and focus on the mundane - attributing meaning to minor words in texts huge in scope. If you're looking for ER, try not to lose the lottery for a better class.
Seems to be like an Aesthetics and Interpretation course due to textual analysis emphasis.
This is a really good way to knock out your ethical reasoning gen ed requirement because it focuses on how philosophy can be applied to the political realm rather than as an abstract concept. Professor Damrosch is an entertaining lecturer, and even if you don't know anything about comparative literature, he'll explain the important themes and how they are presented.
The course gave a great in-depth study of certain basic texts that should be apart of one's repertoire.
Think of this as an easy lit class with an ethical viewpoint!
I think that this class is bound to get better the next time it's taught. Damrosch is a far-reaching teacher and I loved how he wanted to go beyond the accepted canon of philosophy--looking much farther into the past than Plato, and making a real effort to look at female writers as well. He literally edited the textbook, which is always fun when it happens. The class did have some major flaws, primarily organization of lectures (but that is not hard to improve) and feedback on assignments (not a hard fix to make). The concept is fascinating, not just philosophy and tyranny but about how to be persuasive, how to use language, how to navigate an unfair world and still have faith. When I was reviewing for the final exam I really could see how it all fit together, even though, during the semester, I often felt exasperated by our quick jumps through space and time periods. Highlights of the course definitely include Plato's Republic and More's Utopia (they're more alike than you'd expect!), the very personal musings of Marcus Aurelius, and the indefatigable Hannah Arendt.
Great way to take care of the ethical reasoning requirement, the professor is enthusiastic and gives great lectures; lots of reading but good materials.
David Damrosch is a great professor who is very passionate in the material which makes lecture great, but taking notes rapid fire by hand for two hours is really frustrating. Also the reading is very dense.
The class is amazing, not too difficult and really interesting.  If you know some of the readings beforehand (like the Bible), it makes it even easier.
Convinced me that Gen Ed and the Liberal Arts in general have undeniable value. Make sure you get Kris as your TF and come to lecture.
Very interesting and engaging course, but a lot fo reading and it isn't reading that one can gloss over.
This course covers interesting material and has great readings, but the organization could use some work. That's the case for most first-year courses, though, so I would recommend giving it a try.
This course is an especially awesome way of fulfilling ER. It is a small class that meets once a week and the readings are fantastic. If you've already done a lot of classical philosophy reading/training, this is not for you because it deals with the topics on more of a superficial level than would be appropriate for more advanced students. The assignments (aside from the reading) are easy and tended to not be marked insanely harshly after conferencing with the TF staff. You will have to invest time in not falling behind with the readings because it's really hard to catch up.
If you're not interested in philosophy, or if you don't understand philosophy, don't take this course.
Don't be fooled by the awesome first couple of lectures--you are going to have to sit through a lot of VERY LONG two-hour lectures about texts that were boring and hard to read.  The overall concepts are interesting but they weren't very well explored.
The readings for this course are interesting, and Professor Damrosch knows his stuff like the back of his hand.  Still though, there are better ER courses.
If you want a course that explores an alternative set of wisdom texts, this is a pretty interesting course with a light work-load.
If lecture improves, this will be an awesome course.
I didn't really know what was going on in this class and at some point I was getting worried about the final. You don't really get to have a real grasp on the core matter of the course until towards the end when you have to force yourself to get what is happening. The final exam was also pretty difficult. There was also very little help in the final exam preparation (no stuff from previous exams and no lecture/section hand outs) so you were pretty much on your own. If you take this class, consider taking it with a few people you know. That may be very helpful on the WIKI project and in preparing a study guide for the final.
This class is so amazing! The readings are incredibly well chosen and have a wonderful range--you read everything from the BIble to Plato and Machiavelli to Queen Elizabeth and Hannah Arendt. I dreaded the thought of philosophy so put off my ER gen ed until senior year, and after this class, I think I might just keep reading philosophy for fun! The lectures can sometimes be a bit of a whirlwind because the professor talks really quickly and provides very few notes but the section discussions are really fun if you do the reading. Instead of having a midterm, they were nice enough to just have us write weekly paragraphs about the readings, so it motivates you to do the readings for section and also helps you enjoy lectures and sections throughly. There is only one paper, which is really painless because they have you submit a rough draft before submitting a final draft, so this is the best way you could fulfill your Ethical Reasoning requirement. Damrosch also does fun, modern-day examples that help us make the bridge between ancient philosophy and today's world. He also makes sure we understand the historical context of the readings as well as the relationships between the various authors, which are really fun to learn about. Do the readings though. It seriously makes the class so enjoyable.
Fantastic class. Juan is an amazing TF - he's like a walking encyclopedia of the material and it's clear he's passionate about it. Damrosch is a wonderfully quirky and excellent lecturer as well, although there are many times when you're not quite sure if what he's saying is important for the exam/paper or when it's just purely extra information. Readings are well-chosen and relevant, workload is very reasonable. Just make sure to do your readings!
This class provides a really great synthesis of Western philosophy and political theory, which Professor Damrosch does an awesome job relating to the present day.
Prof. Damrosch is from the Comparative Literature department, which means that he does not extemporize about philosophy but rather talks about words that are actually in the text. His readings are not long but he expects us to read them deeply.
The readings are good but difficult to keep up with, especially as they were changed frequently and at the last minute before lectures. Lectures were sometimes difficult to keep up with and Prof. Damrosch speaks so quickly it's sometimes hard to even understand what words he's saying, especially when he's reading from texts.
The lectures will most definitely put you to sleep...but, the course material is pretty interesting and the class if forgiving if you have some busier weeks.
Less a fundamental change in the reading list, this class focuses too heavily on outmoded, and in my opinion, irrelevant readings. The Book of Samuel may have some appeal to a scholar (comparative literature perhaps?), but I feel that students in the 21st century would be much better served reading some more contemporary authors' opinions on the wisdom tradition. Plato I can handle; Ethics of the Fathers, not so much.
This class will appeal to a narrow range of students. If you aren't interested in ethics or philosophy then this class can be a drag. For those who are interested, this class has pretty interesting readings and you are free to incorporate your own ideas into your writing without fear of repercussion.
By the end of the course, you will have a philosopher (or tyrant) whose views resonate with yours! Its interesting and scary at the same time.
This course is not much work, just weekly responses, a paper, and a final exam. However, if you want to get the most of out the course, it is worth it to do most of the readings... they are quite interesting anyway! It is a bit unnerving, however, because the only two things that are graded are your final paper and exam, so I literally have no idea what grade I'm in line to get. But it's a great course and you should take it if you're looking for a cool intro to a variety of great philosophical thinkers in the compelling and unique context of "the philosopher and the tyrant".
The class may seem a tad boring occasionally but Professor Damrosch is great, the readings are very interesting, and there's not too much work other than the paper. Why not take it?
If you're interested in Philosophy, go for it. If not, it's a little vague. The readings are interesting but there are so many that you tend to not do all of them which isn't the best approach come the final. But it's very light work load during the semester.
Great class, entertaining lectures, very little work. Definitely take it if you need to fulfill your ethical reasoning gen ed.
Great class to take pass/fail.
1. Good Gen Ed class. 2. Professor Damrosch gives pretty good lectures, and occasionally a really brilliant one.3. Section is really really good; lectures don't include much class participation but section definitely makes up for that.4. The course readings are classics, so this class can give you a good reason to read them.5. Do ALL the readings (you'll need to for the final exam)6. The course grade is heavily determined by the final paper and exam.
This class provides a great survey of philosophical works for you to read, but the actual class does not do much to clarify your understanding of the material.
ER31 starts out as an interesting class, but the 2 hour lectures can be hard to follow. Section is the best-run part of the course, and the readings are actually pretty great if you have time to do them well. 80% of the course grade is based on the last two weeks of the term (a final paper and final exam), which can get frustrating during reading week and exams. I wish this course would have been organized better so that the work was distributed more evenly throughout the term.
This course was very interesting and had some great discussions, BUT the lectures are long, the readings are long, and the final exam does not relate to what you did in class all that much.
This is an enjoyable, provoking way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement. The reading list is full of great classic reads, and the lectures are full of smart ideas, sometimes hilarious historical details, and refreshing energy. Breezy workload.
This class was both enjoyable and useful! Ever feel out of the loop when others are discussing the Plato's Republic or the works of Machiavelli? Take this course and you'll be both competent and engaged in those discussions.
This is the ideal ER Gen Ed class. Take it.
Just google Professor Damrosch and judge for yourself!
Spend some quality time with the readings. You'll get more out of the course if you let The Republic and Meditations sink in.
This is an excellent ethical reasoning class to take if you really want to learn about philosophy and read important texts like Plato, the Bible, hannah Arendt, etc. It is NOT a blow-off easy ethical reasoning class and you do need to read the texts each other in order to respond to postings and participate in class.
This is a very, very interesting class with a wonderful reading list. Though they're classics, I probably would have never gotten around to reading these books in my free time, so I am very grateful that I took this class and got to learn about all the great thinkers throughout history. Damrosch is an incredibly intelligent professor who you can learn very much from, but his lectures are a little difficult to follow because he likes to focus on small esoteric details rather than look at the main ideas of a certain text. If you quit paying attention for a minute, which is very easy to do during the long two hour lecture, you will be pretty lost until Damrosch moves to a new topic. Also, though Damrosch claims he has very well made power points, they're quite hard to follow on their own, and often aren't even properly used throughout lecture. Though the lectures could definitely be stronger, the class is certainly worth taking so that you can be exposed to the many awesome texts.
Damrosch is an excellent lecturer, and the readings are books that everyone should definitely read at some point.
The course is a great idea in theory and initially it starts of well, but once it reaches the half way point student opinions come to dominate lecture time, which takes away from learning anything new. Courses like this, that deal with dense and interesting material need to be guided by a lecturer who ca outline the important ideas-the opinions then of undergrads takes away from that opportunity. If this course is taught one again with student participation during lecture as the focus then skip it. If the format changes I highly recommend it, its one of the better GenEds.
If you're really interested in the course readings, this will be a great class for you no matter what. If you're not super interested, it can be a frustrating course. The course lectures are not well-organized and the class lacks a certain unity.  The lectures are make or break-- either really great, easy-to-follow and informative or vague and insubstantial.
Solid class. Some of the readings are incredibly boring and a struggle to get through, but it's a pretty painless gen ed.
The course has an amazing reading list, and while some of the ideas discussed in the readings and lectures seem not to connect in the middle of the semester, the professor did a fantastic job tying everything together with Hannah Arendt and Heidegger at the end. I definitely recommend this class.
Damrosch is a sharp and hilarious lecturer but is also friendly and willing to riff off of student comments. The reading list seems like a collection of his personal favorite texts on political philosophy, wrangled to fit into the framework of the ostensible course themes; they're (mostly) interesting, and you'll probably get a lot out of them if you do more of the reading than I did. An option for the final paper is writing a dialogue between two of the authors you read, which is really fun.
If you like deep reading and understanding methods of rhetoric and metadiscourse, this is a good class.  Materials may be a bit dense (the Bible, Plato, Thomas More), but the professor and TFs are very good at keeping the topics interesting and encourage discussion.  If you know how to read semi-philosophical works, take this class.
Easy, interesting, and provides a great survey of western literature on the theme.
I spent too much time on the readings, I knew the content but I just did not spend that much time analyzing it. I would tell future course takers to take this class as an analytical writing class and to try and interpret the readings and make sense of them from the context of when, where and to whom they were written.
The books are great; I encourage you to read them more thoroughly than I did. However, if you can't
This is a pretty good ethics gened. It is somewhat of a "Great Books" course, and the readings are good. Lectures are a tad confusing, but the course staff is great. So overall, I would recommend this course.
Make sure you keep up with readings and take notes! Those will come in handy for responses as well as when it comes time for the final paper and final.
Prof Damrosch is a good lecturer and clearly knows these texts back to front. Overall pretty painless. I found I got a lot more out of lecture when I was familiar with the readings, so if I had had more time to put in I would have enjoyed the course a lot.
Interesting material, but the format of the course really detracted.
If your truly are interested in the material that you will be covering over the semester, you should take this course. A lot of your assignments, such as the final essay, are open to your interpretation, so you can write on what you'd like to focus on.
Lectures are great! It sometimes runs a little long though.
I really enjoyed the readings for this class. However, especially if you are easily distracted, don't expect to learn everything you need to know in lecture. I often found the lectures quite disorganized, thus, making it very difficult to follow or keep engaged.
No background is required at all to take this course.  Just do the readings and participate in class.
Overall the course taught you enough for it to be worth taking and was not too difficult to handle with other harder classes. A pretty good Gen Ed class!
As much as I enjoyed most of the readings, I'm not sure I really learned much from this course. The lectures and section discussions were often disappointing. I couldn't really grasp main themes from each week.
This was a great course! The readings were manageable, interesting, and relevant. I was nervous at first to take a philosophy-esque course but there weren't any "Is 2+2 really 4?" questions or annoying tautology, which many of the philosophy majors I know enjoy. Overall, take the course. There isn't a midterm, the final was fair, and Prof. Damrosch's lectures are great!
The texts are good, but the two hour lectures are difficult to follow and connect to the readings.
Get ready for some real mind expansion!
It is time to begin. Your mind will be expanded in ways you didn't possibly imagine. Would I ever predict that reading Marcus Aurelius would buffer me against the scourge of death? Not until I took this class. Whether the schizophrenic musics of Adolf Hitler or the windy words of Hamlet, I did not struggle or think that something was rotten in the state of the Gen Ed department. That being said, God is Tyrant. Take this class if you found my summary deliciously pretentious.
This class was by far the easiest class I took this semester. It was also the most boring. If you are interesting in talking about rhetoric and meta-discourse, then you might enjoy it more then I did. I liked the readings, but I wanted to discuss their political or philosophical significance, and I felt we didn't. It might just be me, but I did not care for this course.
The reading list is fantastic and is the main reason to take the course. The lectures are interesting and it's nice they're only once a week. The assignments are fair and it's easy to do well on them. This is one of the least painful ways to fulfill your ethical reasoning GenEd.
There's not too much work and the assignments are fine but the lectures were hard to follow (not just myself but for anyone else I talked to about it).  The readings can be long but they were all interesting.
The lectures for this class are very unorganized and very hard to follow. I think that other Ethical Reasoning classes exist that have equally great reading lists but that probably have better lectures.
It may be tempting to take this course because it seems fairly simple. 2-hour lectures once a week plus an hour section is not very much, nor is there an excessive amount of reading. However, the material will be unbearably boring if you end up just trying to get them done without really trying to understand what's going on. Only take this class if the readings interest you. There was only a final essay and exam this year, so there's a minimal amount of feedback. There's also a minimal amount of stress until the end, but that means it's also tempting to save all the reading until the end. This is a bad idea.
Very chill class. Interesting information and teachers in a non-stressful environment.
It's a fairly painless way to knock out the ethical reasoning and study of the past gen ed course. The teaching staff is great and the professor knows the material by heart. The readings are pretty interesting, but the amount that they expect you to read does become overwhelming at times, and it does suffer the same pitfall as the other ER courses by focusing more on philosophy instead ethics.
This is neither a philosophy class, nor a political science class, nor a literature class, nor a history class. It is one that takes all these areas into account. You will get the most out of it if you do the readings. An interest in politics is essential to enjoying the course. Overall, this is an excellent class to take and a great way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement. It provides a good brief introduction to the history of Western thought.
This class presents very thought-provoking questions about the world and human nature, and it also introduces philosophical concepts and ideas in a manner that is digestible even for beginners. If you complete the readings and attend lecture (preferably taking notes), this class will not be too difficult. The readings are manageable in length to finish (especially because you have a whole week to do so), and many readings are very interesting so it will not be a struggle to complete them.
This class is an easy way to fulfill the Gen Ed requirement and the readings are really interesting. There really isn't much work.
The readings are generally interesting although they can get a little long. Try to read before lecture.  Otherwise lecture tends to be less interesting.
Be prepared to work relatively little, but work extremely intensely.  The class has a lot of reading and assignments that require intense thought and consideration.
One of the best ethical reasoning classes. Damrosch is a great lecturer and he makes some really cool connections between texts (the reading selection is also pretty awesome). There's not too much reading and the essay's pretty fun to write. If you're not sure which ER to take, definitely consider this one.
Look at the course readings and take it if you feel that you would genuinely be interested in them. I did that and was not disappointed despite the number of readings we were expected to do. They get better once you're done with the Bible and ancient texts. The discussions are very interesting and you end up believing that you have actually taken a lot from this course.
A terrific introduction to philosophical texts from a more literary, historical standpoint. This is exactly what I liked about it. It is NOT a course in which you will debate Values and Big Theories, the great questions of morality and society, with others just as unqualified as you are. Rather, you will analyze, question, parse and compare the works of the greatest minds to do so. Again, it's more like a literature or history course in that way. Beyond that, all the logistics are good. Damrosch is insightful and entertaining, evaluations will keep you working steadily but are not difficult, and reading list and lectures are fascinating.
I really thought there were no options for Moral Reasoning core/Ethical Reasoning gen ed that were not horribly painful.  This was not painful.  It was a fair amount of reading work, but the written work was kept to a  minimum to keep from making the workload unbearable.  Amazing professor and interesting lectures.
