I think the material covered in this class is similar to that covered in Justice taught by Sandel. However, the main obsession of this class is to apply ideas of government and justice to instances of civil disobedience and decide if such cases were justified on a philosophical basis. The material is interesting, but lectures are often tangential with Professor Siegel often giving abstract examples during class. Only take this class if you have an interest in political philosophy and distributive justice.
Only take this class if you are very interested in philosophy and learning it on your own, as well as if you know how to write a philosophy paper
The nature of this course leads to very facile armchair moralizing about complex struggles. For someone already politicized around some of the issues discussed in class, the focus on argument and rhetoric abstracts so far from real discussions to be had around power and injustice in society, which was extremely frustrating and made it difficult for me to gain any sort of anything from section. Section discussion about the Attica prison revolt devolved into a yes/no question about whether or not it was justified, which is what happens when these topics are presented in the setting of a gen ed course. But that probably doesn't matter if you're taking it for your ER requirement, so you probably don't care, right? Siegel is engaging during lecture and the essay prompts are okay. The material is interesting and well excerpted (meaning no slogging through unnecessarily long readings). Nevertheless, be prepared to be depressed by and disappointed in yourself & your classmates in section.
This class had pretty interesting information and wasn't too tough. I'd never taken any philosophy before and this was a good introduction to philosophical writing and thought.  Most of the readings were pretty doable.  Some of the modern applications of the philosophy were very compelling.
This is a really chill class that I found rewarding without a heavy workload. We read a wide range of theories from a variety of philosophers (Plato, Hobbes, Rawls, Marx) and learned about examples of civil protest to apply these theories (Attica prison revolt, Bus Riders Union). If you're curious about what people's moral obligations are, what our relationship to the government should be, and what place civil disobedience has in society, then I'd recommend this course. Sometimes the big picture is not always apparent, though, and lectures can be boring.
Very good class. Had interesting concepts and relevance to the real world.
Unless you are interested in deep, philosophical discussions, then do not take this class. It requires a great amount of thinking - thinking in a different, nonacademic sense.
I thought this was a pretty painless ER to fulfill. While Siegel's lectures might seem pretty dry and boring, she actually does a very good job explaining the arguments and main ideas of the philosophical texts we read. I enjoyed writing the two papers (totally not bad) and thought the midterm was extremely straightforward and not difficult! The take-home final exam had some tough questions but you have a week to prepare. I actually enjoyed doing the readings (you definitely do not have to do all of them) just the main one's (Rachels, Hobbes, Marx, Nozick, Rawls). These readings are about 20 pages each -- which is not bad at all. I felt like I learned a lot from this class and am inspired to maybe try another philosophy class in the future! Also, try to get Javier as your TF...he was so nice, supportive, and enthusiastic about the material plus he offered extra meeting times to go over exams/papers. He was awesome!
This class is extremely boring but the workload is very minimal. The readings are boring but you don't really have to do them until you write the essay. The lectures are worthless - Siegel just stands and rambles on while the majority of the class who still goes to lecture is reading the news.Midterm was fair but the essay was graded pretty harshly.
horribly structured midterms and the material was dense enough as is, unfortunately lecture only made it worse. Take a different ER class for the Gen Ed.
Be sure to keep up with the readings.
the final is brutal. They will assign 3 essay topics out of 10 that they give you before the exam to prepare, which means you have no room to choose and will have to prepare for all 10. Each question is expected to be 3 page long but you only have 3 hours for the exam, so you actually have to do a lot of preparation, if not 30 pages of preparation in total. You don't learn much, both in terms of theories and writing skills, but the papers are graded harshly.
The class is grading difficulty.
The assignments are graded very harshly.
I would definitely not take this course again if I had the option. I consider myself a hard working, bro-intellectual. I am doing well in all my other classes, but this one is impossible. The philosophy papers are vague and very, very difficult to do well on. I would get absurd feedback about how I misunderstood whatever small thing (only comment) and walk away with a terrible grade (talking C ranges, folks). I took this class to capitalize on the low workload, but I feel that the random grading is a terrible trade off in the long run.
This is easily the worst course I have ever taken at Harvard. If the point of the class is to evaluate social protest, I am not sure how the class winds up solely focused on Marx, violent revolution and economic equality. Class handouts were poorly worded, full of spelling and grammatical errors and overall made no sense. The cumulative final exam was no better, featuring the same error-filled writing as the rest of the class material. Additionally, for a cumulative exam, the teacher must have meant all material not assigned, as the final did not ask a single question on material we were asked to read.  A quick google search reveals that the same appalling class material has literally been copy and pasted from the previous years since 2006. Moving onto the teaching staff. The teacher herself is pretty miserable. By mumbling into the speaker and lacking the ability to piece together a coherent thought while attempting to lecture, it was impossible to understand what was going on. Quite bluntly, it is a miracle that a single student showed up each day. Adding fuel to this fire of incompetence was that the TF's and the Professor were not even in agreement on the takeaways from the course lessons. Both parties constantly contradicted each other between lecture and sections, leaving us the students to decide who is correct and who is not. I would like to think this large disconnect was unintentional. However, based on every other experience I have had in the class, I am forced to assume that this was done on purpose instead. After taking this class, my only thought is that this must have been an experiment by the administration to see if students had a breaking point for professor ineptitude. By the fact there was no social protest against the class, my only conclusion is that as long as a Harvard professor espouses a socialist viewpoint, then students will embrace it wholeheartedly. Seeing this is akin to watching lemmings willingly jump off a cliff, only this cliff is the cliff of intelligence. Overall, I would recommend this course with boundless enthusiasm to people that love wasting time, being highly frustrated and do not enjoy learning. I award this class zero points, and may God have mercy on this teachers soul.
Apparently ER are hit and miss and I found this one to be a miss. It was interesting at the beginning of the class when we were debating real world examples of social protest but don't be deceived, it gets dry and boring from there until the end of the semester. The course should really be called an intro to political philosophy because it barely touches on actual examples of social protest, instead focusing on philosophers and their theory which was boring. I wouldn't take this class again if I had the choice.
Nope.
This is a very interesting course. You read some philosophy and some case studies of social protests in history (and some recent ones). To me the most interesting parts were the case studies. If you pay attention in lecture and do the readings, you really don't have to do much other studying. Lecture didn't use powerpoint, which makes it a littler harder to follow, but is also kind of a refreshing change from a lot of other classes.
Take ER18 if you want an approachable class to fulfill the ER requirement. ER21, while providing very interesting readings and great TFs for section, is not really an easy class. The final in particular was frustrating because it claims to be take home however in reality it is just an online exam, not a take home.
The subject matter is interesting and you will develop a good foundational knowledge of the ideas of many philosophers.
Although this is a light workload, the class itself is a headache and completely unfair.
Only course in four years at Harvard I genuinely regret taking. Material was boring and was not presented in an engaging way. I don't feel like section really helped my understanding of the material and I never really saw the overarching theme of social protest in many of the materials. I don't recommend taking this class, take Justice instead if you need ethical reasoning. Having taken both, I'd recommend Justice over this class any day.
This was the worst class I have taken at Harvard thus far and is about as bad a class as I can imagine. Susanna Siegel is the worst lecturer imaginable. She is unorganized, ineffective, unprofessional, and all-around terrible. This class uses far too advanced course readings for an introductory Gen Ed philosophy course and the papers are far too difficult for a course of that nature. This class will be highly difficult without a background in writing philosophy papers.
Easy course but need to stay on top of readings.  Class is very biased and ignores economics.
The grading is a bit tough but the course itself is interesting. I feel like I learned a little about philosophy and a lot about myself.
This class is boring. The living wage campaign was the most interesting part.
Average class. Material was interesting, but lectures can be hard to follow. We would jump around from topic to topic and there would be no clear sense of direction in lecture. Sections were good. Discussions definetly help understand material better. Grading is fair, but slightly hard considering this is supposed to be an introductory philosophy course.
If you want a class that is not too heavy in workload yet, by the end of the semester can quote Rawls, Plato, and Nozick, take this class!
The material is pretty interesting and it's cool to go through actual examples and apply the theories to those examples. The class as a whole is not super engaged though so if you want to get something out of it you'll probably have to take quite a bit of initiative to make sure that you're engaged in the texts
It's a fairly easy class, but the lectures are dull! The professor is very boring and reads off a paper in most of the class.. Having said this, the material is very interesting though and opens up one's mind to a lot of political theories that one wouldn't think of
the material talked about is very interesting and you do not have to have a philosophical brain to be able to understand it or form your own opinions. Great way to fulfill this gen ed if you are a science kid like me.
Rough final exam format but everything else in the class is incredibly easy. Just try not to fall asleep in lecture and use the TFs as a resource!
The class isn't very enticing. The lectures are boring to sit through and they seem to go on a tangent a lot.
This class has very little work and a very easy midterm and final. There are only two essays which are graded based on your TF. I didn't enjoy lectures really at all but if you want to get this Gen Ed requirement out of the way, this is a pretty easy way to do it. Also, when studying for the midterm and final, use the study guides she has online!
Not too much work. easy class if thats what your looking for
Must put some work into it to get the A. Not a difficult class, but you shouldn't think you can get away with getting a top grade if you don't put in a fair amount of effort.
This is an interesting and fairly painless ER gen-ed.  For someone who ended up adding this class late unexpectedly and didn't want to take an ER class, I actually really enjoyed it and it ended up being one of my better classes.  The workload is very reasonable, section is helpful, and assignments seemed to be graded fairly. It's a good touch on philosophy if you never plan on taking a real philosophy class.
Very interesting course, with minimal course load.
Everything is easy if you do all of the readings.
Philosophy papers are tough and they grade them that way - make sure to meet with your TF before you hand one in
The class grades very difficultly and specific words and thoughts are looked for
Its a great way to learn about important political views and see the roots of the political views that dominate our society today. I think it was an awesome course where you can get a Gen Ed requirement out of the way painlessly, you just have to be prepared to reach out to your TFs when it comes time for assignments. They will prepare you the best way possible to get a good grade on anything.
Take advantage of section discussions
If you read you can get an A
Lectures can be dull but section is a good way to learn about course material
Lecture was miserable and a waste of time generally.  Section was fun, and the topics covered are pretty interesting, but I'd probably stay away from this class.  Despite me getting lucky and having a good TF, the class as a whole isn't organized well, and doesn't really seem to care much about students learning.
This class is good. The ratio of amount learned to effort put in is excellent. Looking at the comments from years past, I know you might think this class is just an easy class people take to get out of ER. It is true that the class is fairly easy. The readings are quite manageable, the papers are straightforward, and the tests ask you exactly what was discussed in class. However, you shouldn't write this class off as a joke. The questions we ask are really interesting and make you think, and you will certainly read some philosophers who will challenge your understanding of justice and of social protest. You might be able to skid by without doing the readings, but you will get more out of the class if you actually do them all and participate in section and lecture. I encourage you to take this class and to give it some effort!
Interesting material and one of the easier ethical reasoning gen eds, but lecture is scattered and grading can be a little harsh.
engage with the course to be rewarded
The class has some interesting subject matter; lectures can get dull, though they are definitely useful. It is an easy course, but that also might make it dull.
Kind of boring. Not graded especially easily either...
Not a bad course to fill requirements but it's important to stay up with the readings.
Lecture is good, sections are not the best. The readings are very manageable and the case studies are thought-provoking. The organization of the class is not the best, as you spend a lot of time on some stuff and less time on things that are more interesting, and there is sometimes a lack of connection between philosophers and case studies. There are only two papers and they are pretty short, but philosophical writing is more difficult than you'd expect and essay questions were often really poorly worded. Ultimately, I learned some interesting things about social protest and systems of government.
It doesn't require much work but the few assignments you have to do you should really take your time on.
Not a lot of work required. But because the work is boring, it will seem burdensome. Preparing for the final took me a lot of time. I would highly recommend doing most of the readings.
As a senior I can unequivocally say that this is the worst course I have taken at Harvard. At every turn my regard and respect for everyone involved in the instruction of this course dropped to a new low. First, let us discuss the rambling incoherent messes that Professor Siegel puts forth as "lectures." Not once has there been a lecture that even came close to staying on topic for more than thirty seconds, failing at every turn to convey even the most basic of information to the listeners.  If that is not enough, the "material" presented in lecture (if you can find any) is frequently at odds with the outlook discussed in section.  But never fear! There are handy study guides provided that summarize each philosopher.  Sadly, these study guides (which along with the final exam questions and syllabus have not been changed since 2008, along with included spelling errors) are almost as incoherent and useless as the lectures themselves.  While these guides may at first be tempting to the uninitiated, do not heed their siren song!, for if you do write an essay  based on these guidelines you will be graded most harshly by your Tf who will not accept "these answers were on the distributed study guide" as a justification for your (alleged) mistakes on the paper.  It is also amusing to note that while rampant errors exist on fairly important material (such as final exam materials) that significantly affect the interpretation of questions, you will be docked many points for perceived incorrect phrasing on the exams. Sadly these exams continue the theme of apathy as they fail to test 90% of the material actually covered in the course, yet have the fun bonus of including material that we never mentioned.  In conclusion, I would recommend this course to those of you who would enjoy spending an inordinate amount of time on a class where you will learn nothing while furthering a useless professor's career.
This class was quite easy. Lectures can be skipped if you're busy, and papers have space for revisions.
For an Ethical Reasoning course, this one is surprisingly painless. The material is taught and reviewed in a way to make it very easy to understand, even if you're someone like me who was afraid of philosophy before taking the course. Smaller than ER18, but likely every bit as good.
This class is probably as painless as Ethical Reasoning gets -- readings are minimal but get the point across and there are a few movie screenings in and out of class. I think your experience with this class depends largely on who your TF is, but overall, the lectures get you thinking and Professor Siegel frames the material in a way which makes it easy to understand even if you don't have a background in political philosophy.
This is a big Gen Ed, so expect awkwardly silent sections and the few students that go to lecture to never leave Facebook. Philosophy without the passion. However, this does give you a sense of what Philosophy is all about--it fulfills the Gened mission admirably. Philosophy is really not for everyone, so this course will probably be frustratingly difficult or laughably easy.  I suspect many people will evaluate this course taking into account factors instructors cannot control--disinterested students, the nature of philosophy, the nature of big courses. While this course suffers remarkably because of those three factors, that is not the fault of the staff. This course does an impossibly difficult job as well as you could expect.
the methodology of thinking is different than what you may be use to
You get from this class what you put into it. It's possible to skim by without doing the reading or paying attention in section, but you'll think it's a really bad class that way. If you do the readings, ask questions, and talk about the materials with your peers outside of class, you can really gain a lot from taking the class.
It is an interesting course, and it was nice to see that they incorporated real-world events in such a philosophically-based class, but MAKE SURE YOU TAKE GOOD LECTURE NOTES!!!
This course is a great course for fulfilling the ethical reasoning requirement. I loved it. It was a great introduction to philosophy that made me fall in love with the subject matter. That being said, some people disliked the structure of the course, or felt that it was difficult to derive an argument philosophically. Overall though, this course is a great way to fulfill the gen ed.
This class is very simple and straightforward.  Beware- tf's grade harder than you might think.
This class is a great class but you have to make sure to pay close attention as the material can get a little twisted and confusing at times when discussing philosophical things.
Good way to fulfill gen ed.
Write your papers early.
Didn't really end up enjoying the course as much as I expected. The course grading is emphasized a lot on individual's ability to write, rather than the capacity of thinking / critical argument.
Easy, but please be aware that the course does not offer the best TFs.
The class is really disorganized and you don't really learn much--it's an easy gen ed though.
If you are looking for a course that you will discuss with your fellow classmates outside of section, or want to be engaged in on any deeper level than your three hours of section/lecture a week, this may not be the best course for you. Yes, you can get by doing the minimum readings and raising your hand minimally in section, but if you want to be really engaged and engrossed in the material and really get your money's worth I would look elsewhere.
This class has a very light workload, but I found it hard to make a B on any of the assignments, but I also found it hard to make below a B. This may have varied with sections but if you put in a little effort you will do fine.
it was so bad
This course is amazing and the material is very interesting. Yet be ready to receive some bad grades on writing assignments. Also, you have to keep up with the readings in order to pass the final easily.
This is a pretty good class to take for the Gen Ed requirement. The teaching staff did its best to make the class painless. There were two five page papers, one in class midterm(about one book), and a take home final. In addition, there were handouts online summarizing each lecture topic.
This class is a good gen ed for people who have no prior experience with philosophy.
Lectures can be dry.  You can get by without really reading anything, but if you actually care about internalizing any of the concepts, you gotta spend a lot more time than most everyone else
It is a very easy course, yet very interesting material. Definitely take it for ethical reasoning.
This is a great and interesting course. Take it.
Take this class if you don't want to learn anything. Make sure you get a good TF because the material is straight forward but my TF was a ridiculously hard grader.
Doesn't require much work, however, you must be very clear and diligent when writing your essays if you want to do well
Readings are light and interesting, section discussions center around real-life issues, and you are exposed to a few historically important events.
While this class is really easy, the lectures aren't very engaging and don't teach much beyond what you can get from the text on your own.  It's an easy way to fill a core/gen ed, just not a very intellectually fulfilling one.
I really don't feel strongly about this class. While I have no basis for dis-recommending it, there isn't anything particularly memorable about it.
A great class to fulfill a requirement.
Make use of section, it is the best place to learn the different concepts!
take this class if you want a class that requires no work and won't teach you anything
this helps you understand what justice really is
Terrible TFs
This is a very interesting course because it applies philosophy to recent examples of social protest (Harvard students taking over Massachusetts Hall, inmates taking over a prison, and bus riders demanding better public transportation) It's a good way to fulfill a core/gen ed.
easy class, but boring
There is no benefit to attending class
This class is a great way to fulfill a Ethical Reasoning Gen Ed. It is quite painless but not always the most interesting or captivating class.
Outstanding core - fun paper topics, interesting readings, light workload. TF Paul Julian was really great. The class also has some good movie screenings. Lecture notes are very well prepared.
this is a great, interesting, and not too challenging course to fulfill your ethical reasoning gened.
The material is interesting, but the class is not. Enjoy thinking on your own, because the lectures add nothing to the various topics.
Cool material; easiest and lightest class I've taken at Harvard.
This class is fairly easy-- many people don't attend lecture but they are helpful around the time of the midterm or when an essay is due for relevant information.  Otherwise, the study guides online are helpful in lieu of doing all of the reading.  Section is helpful to attend in order to have an easy chance to participate and to understand some of the course concepts better.
This course was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard!
The course really made me think about philosophical arguments and my own moral judgements, yet wasn't overwhelming. It was a painless way to fill the moral reasoning core and I actually enjoyed some of the readings. The tests were also very easy and the papers are both straightforward and short.
It's a good general education class: engaging material about an interesting subject but not too much work.
Be ready to do a lot of reading.
At first, I was not thrilled about taking an Ethical Reasoning course as I had neither experience nor interest in philosophy. However, ER 21 was a good experience; it made political philosophy accessible and the requirements were reasonable.  It's another way of justifying social protest that requires logical argument from a different approach. If it sparks your interest among the Ethical Reasoning offerings, you should shop it.
This class is extremely manageable with a minimal workload.  2 papers, a midterm and a final ensure that you feel like you are taking one fewer class than your study card says.  The lectures were pretty boring most of the time, but the sections can be very interesting as they turn into open forums for freely discussing your opinions.
Just do the readings and consider them all with an open mind.
Be prepared to change the way you think about social justice.  It is informative, interesting, and applicable to every day living.
The material in this course is stuff that you should definitely know in life - Marx, Nozick, Hobbes, etc. We also look at some really interesting cases of social protest - the Harvard Living Wage Campaign, the Attica, Prison Revolt, and the Bus Ruders Union No Seat No Fare Campaign are some examples. However, this course does not reward people who are either smart or study hard. Some of the smartest and most hardworking kids in this class are getting some of the worst grades. Why? Because the grading structure is highly arbitrary, non-uniform among the TFs, and is essentially geared toward the bro-academic, who (please forgive the generalization) is only partially committed to gaining knowledge and is more concerned with getting the A and moving on. I had a great TF who led great discussion sections, but it was definitely a tradeoff because he/she was a much more difficult grader. All in all, I would say: take it if you're a bro, and if not, I would probably choose a more rigorous Gen Ed unless you are extremely interested in the topic of social protest.
Absolutely incredible! You will come away from this course with a true appreciation for philosophy. It is a great introductory course (that also happens to count for a Core/Gen Ed requirement), which touches upon many key philosophers. The course is neatly organized and the papers/exams are interesting and by no means stressful. As a senior, I went into this course thinking I would hate it. Instead, it ended up being one of my favorite courses I have taken at Harvard! Philosophy is awesome - you will not regret taking this course!
The lecture component of this course is sometimes very interesting and sometimes very slow.  Lecture is not always very helpful, or the material covered in lecture could have been summarized in about seven minutes as opposed to fifty minutes.  Overall, however, this was a relatively painless way of fulfilling the Moral Reasoning requirement.
It's a painless way to knock our the moral reasoning requirement.
Pain free way to finish ER requirement.
Interesting material that challenges your thoughts.
Make sure you like the material and you like learning on your own. The course is superficial otherwise.
ER21 is a relatively painless way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning GenEd requirement, but if you are legitimately interested in the field, it might not be the best to start off with simply because of the classmates you are bound to have. I would wager to say that 80% of students simply did not attend lecture, especially after the first month or so, and this shows a disheartening lack of interest that would get me down were I a concentrator in this field.
If you need to fulfill your ethical reasoning requirement... TAKE THIS CLASS. yes, it's boring, but you don't have to do any reading/work and it's EASY!
It is a good, easy course.  Ideal for freshman fall while you're still getting your bearings.  You learn many of the same things as you would in Justice, but with a far less demanding workload.
It was not too difficult though there was a fair bit of reading and writing.  Case studies were interesting.
If you want an easy class, take this one.  You don't have to do the readings or even go to lecture.
a joke. take it for an easy core.
This course has a low time commitment but covers really interesting topics, raising important questions and facilitating thought-provoking discussions.
Though this class seems easy, the lectures are not inspiring and we basically go over three scenarios of social protest during the whole semester, which is definitely overkill.
It's a great way to get the ethical/moral reasoning requirement out of the way.
This class is easy and requires little work. That said, it is not a fantastically well-taught course. The lectures are very fast-paced and sometimes very repetitive. Notwithstanding, the material itself is quite interesting. Most of the readings are not very dense, and some are even enjoyable. Bottom line: this class is a good way to get your ethical reasoning gen ed out of the way. Unless, of course, you actually enjoy ethical reasoning.
This course did not deal as heavily with some of the texts as I would have liked. While the course syllabus does highlight major philosophical texts, I would have appreciated a deeper analysis of many of the assigned readings.
very enjoyable class! the professor is very organized and passionate about the material. definitely take it!
This course is a great gen-ed. The courseload is very reasonable and the sections were very helpful
Be prepared to do all the readings if you want to understand anything
This class was a very easy way to fulfill ethical reasoning. The topics could be engaging if you do the readings, but this isn't necessary and so you can put however much work you want into the course.
Maybe you dont have to but do the readings they are actually really good, and put some effort, if its an easy class might as well get an A
This is a great course for anyone who has to take an ethical reasoning course, but is not interested in pure philosophy.  You read many important writings in philosophy and political philosophy, but you discuss them in a historical context.  One of the great strengths of this course is how it applies philosophical thinking to real protests in history.
A very engaging core class, which does not require too much work.
Come in with an open mind and take the time to understand the readings in order to strengthen your opinions, especially for the two papers assigned.
take it. everybody and their mom will with you.
Try if at all possible to take this class concurrently with Justice. They go over much of the same philosophers, theories, and general topics. Cuts down on study time and increases information retained.
Your experience in this class will be dictated almost entirely by your section leader.  The material is mostly fun only if you engage with it well.
easy, but boring.
It totally depends what you are looking for.  There aren't many good ERs out there, so your options are somewhat limited.  This class is very easy and it has some nice real-world examples to which the material is applied.  In the end, take this class if you want an easy Gen Ed - if you're looking for a rigorous ER or philosophy class, find something else.
pretty easy, essay prompts can be obscure, midterm was very fair
great way to fulfill this gen ed - WAY better than justice
Take this class if you'd like a taste of philosophy without working your butt off. The workload is very reasonable and the material is interesting. Although lecture isn't always the best.
Great class for the Ethical Reasoning requirement if you know nothing about philosophy and want to take a class that won't require a lot of work.  Just don't expect an A as a 95 on the midterm was the cut-off for an A.
This class teaches you the basics on philosophy. Getting a good TF is key in doing well in this class. For your papers, it is really important to write clearly. I would bring your paper to the philosophy writing tutor to look over.
This class was truly amazing. The lectures were interesting, the readings were relevant, and the assignments were more than fair. You never felt as though the Prof. or the TF's were trying to make things hard on you. If you came to lecture, and at least skimmed the readings, everything was more than fair.
This is a really easy class, but it's also not very thought provoking. The only thing you have to do to do well is go to lecture. Don't bother doing the readings.
It is a useful and enjoyable core, and not too demanding as long as you keep up with the readings.
Interesting material and the amount of reading is reasonable which is nice because it means you can actually complete all of it, unlike other classes.
A waste of your time. A poorly organized and taught class. Lectures were unbelievably boring and scattered. Topics were too focused. Just a mess.
Really easy, but not worth taking. This class is poorly organized and mind-numbingly boring. Take something more interesting, even if it's harder. You will regret taking this.
For a moral reasoning requirement course, this one requires only that you attend and pay some attention. Parts of the curriculum were genuinely interesting to learn about.
I would say that it is rather simple and the workload is not bad at all.
If you're into liberal economic causes, take this course!
This class is relatively painless and a good way to satisfy the requirement. As long as you come to class and are familiar with the readings you won't have much trouble.
Incredibly easy class. If you regurgitate lecture materials on midterms and in essays, easy A. Exact answers to midterm are covered in the couple classes before. Readings are interesting By all means, get in a section with a good TF. I wouldn't take this class again, would take a harder class I was more interested in.
It's an easy course, but it's not worth the "A" you will probably get. Pick something more interesting.
painless ethical reasoning
Great intro philosophy class.
Study guides were helpful. No work outside of class is needed if you go to lecture. Lectures give you all the information you need to know. Midterm and final are straightforward.
