Be prepared to feel as though you aren't learning anything new initially, the application of knowledge is the more important part. Also be prepared for things to be a bit all over the place in terms of content.
It is not the most challenging course I've taken- mostly because the problem sets and exams are relatively straight forward and sources are provided for writing papers. So as long as you pay attention, you will learn a lot and do well.
This really was a great course. I learned so much, and both professors really teach well. The midterm and final are both very reasonable, and labs only last half the semester, and psets aren't even every week. Still, I feel like I have a solid understanding of climate and global warming after taking the course.
This is a good introductory class for anyone interested in climate change and environmental science. Lectures got a bit boring at times, but the material will change your perspective on the policy surrounding climate change.
The material covered in this class is useful, especially for those interested in environmental issues.  Although the lectures are somewhat disorganized, lab is worthwhile.  A different teaching staff next year may result in some changes.
Really great way to learn not only about the atmospheric systems, but a way to engage with current issues on climate change.  It is very informative and with leading experts in climate and atmosphere.  By incorporating the fundamental physics of understanding these processes, this course allows one to more fully engage in understanding the way in which the oceans and atmosphere interact--and how anthropogenic emissions have and will impact (ed) climate.
This course has relatively difficult subject matter at time, but you are only required to know concepts on a level that can be learned via Google
A pretty manageable overview of some broad earth science topics.
Nothing you haven't already learned in other classes offered in the department.
This is a very interesting course!  This is best for students who are interested in the environment and especially understanding climate change (if you have little interest in those subjects, this class is definitely not for you!).  Schrag and Wofsy are both good teachers.  There aren't that many labs, so the lab portion isn't too overwhelming.  Overall, I found the course to be pretty fantastic and gave me a really solid understanding of climate change. :)
If you are taking this for your SPU, only do so if you have prior physics and chemistry knowledge. Otherwise, you will be lost in class sometimes.
Overall the course is pretty interesting as you get different perspectives and solutions to the climate change issue.
It is such important stuff and so cool to know how the planet and weather works!
EPS 22 is a great course for students interested in the Earth Sciences. I found that almost every topic was extremely interesting. The TFs and course heads are helpful. I would say that the only thing this course needs work on is the lecture component, which can be a little unorganized at times. The exams and assignments, however, are VERY fair and no curveballs will ever be thrown at you. This course really opened my eyes to climate change and other environmental problems the earth is currently facing. Overall, this is a great course with great instructors and support staff!
Lecture is bad. Really bad.
Very easy introduction to Earth science with topics focused on the fluid Earth. If you have taken other EPS classes you will likely find this class uninteresting and unengaging. But it requires very little work.
If you aren't interested in the atmosphere/circulation currents, you might be bored. Also the first couple weeks are the worst part, stick around.
instructors are really cool people, but really smart and knowledgeable, which sometimes makes it hard for them to come down to our level and explain things to a novice. course is interesting, interact with the TF a lot, do PSETS diligently and know that the course is trying to be uncurved and evaluate yourself along the way..
The lectures are usually not worth going to.
I really enjoyed EPS.  Though the material can border on the dry side, you learn subjects that are often overlooked in high school, like weather, ocean circulation, ice ages, etc.
Some of the worst lecturers that I have had in my life.
This is a great intro class with great teachers who are passionate about the subject.  The material is really interesting and straightforward; there aren't any concepts that are too difficult to understand.
good foundation to have if you want to major in earth- or environment-related fields.
Make an effort to engage with lecture and ask questions- it will improve the quality of this class enormously. The professors are intelligent and interesting characters, and the tfs are committed, they've crafted a careful syllabus, but sometimes it's easy to disengage.
The course material is pretty interesting, but lectures (especially in the beginning of the course) tend to be somewhat dull. The labs are annoyingly stupid but the problem sets are reasonable and help you learn the material. The TFs are always available for help and the material at the end of the course is really cool!
The material is interesting and the teaching staff is excellent, but sometimes lectures are boring and the lecture notes are not comprehensive, which makes it hard to study. Writing the term paper is great experience.
This class has the potential to be interesting, but I was struggling to pay attention/stay awake most days. DON'T buy the textbook. It is completely useless. I think it was just a little bit disorganized because it's new, but if they fix it up, it could be a great class.
This class teaches exactly what it claims to, and I personally found it very interesting. It's a SCIENCE class, and thus it's built on basic ideas from science, including physics and chemistry. If you don't have a strong science background, you'll learn it here, if you do, you'll enjoy its application.
painful. get ready for a waste of 1 class slot.
it's pretty low-workload. Take some high workload stuff to balance it out.
This class gives is interesting and will further your appreciation for the magnificence of Earth.
This is a super awesome class. If you are looking for a Gen Ed that isn't too hard but is excellently taught and very interesting, then take this class. It requires knowing a little bit of physics, but not too much. If you are taking this for a concentration requirement, then I highly recommend it. It will be a lot of fun.
pay attention in section, it's the only time you'll learn anything.do problem sets with other people - the TFs are willing to help!
I said recommend with reservations because I'm sure there are some kids in the class who enjoyed it. I just did not, and maybe that's both because I struggled through the course, and didn't feel like the class kept me engaged.
This is a great class if you are interested in understanding systems within Earth--i.e. oceans, winds, weather, climate, etc.
Make sure you do the psets and ask questions about them ahead of time - it's sometimes hard to match lecture concepts to psets. It's sometimes difficult to know what the professors think is important because they give you slides with pictures and then talk to you.
Like EPS. Like physics. Don't take this class if you don't or you will be bored out of your mind and not understand anything.
you may come out skeptical of climate change...which is very surprising. the lectures are not great.
EPS22 was a fine course, but not the most well taught and not at all challenging. You'll definitely learn a lot of cool stuff, but you probably won't love the course itself. If you have to take it for EPS then go for it. But if you're looking for a neat elective go for a higher level EPS class.
Only take this course if you are an EPS concentrator or secondary-fielder.  If you are looking at this course to fulfill your SPU requirement, like I was, look elsewhere.  The lectures are really boring, made even more so by the monotone professors.  Do yourself a favor and find a course where the professor know how to explain concepts and engage their students.
Don't take this course. It is taught VERY poorly. Wofsy is great and hilarious, but after a while you begin to realize that going to lectures is essentially useless. You will learn everything in section and when doing the problem sets. If they didn't rely so heavily on clicker questions, I doubt anyone would show up.
Probably my expectations were a little different but I believe only students that are very interested in the material should take the class.
Good class, obviously required for all ESPP concentrators. Doesn't go into nearly as much depth as I expected it to. Keeps you interested & engaged mainly because the topics are so relevant to what is currently happening wiht climate change. The labs are pretty lame and the writing component isn't that fun/ makes this class more involved. Overall a decent class & Professor Wofsy and Professor Huybers are good lecturers although you'll learn the material from the TF's and by doing p.sets.
This class is very interesting and a great introduction to the types of Earth sciences having to do with climate, oceans, and atmosphere. The class has some physics heavy material and MatLab that is difficult, but it is doable and a good time.
This is a fine intro class. I appreciated that there was an increasing focus on how to apply all the material we learned to real-world events. If you don't have much experience in EPS, be sure to keep on top of the material in the first several weeks of the course, as some of the principles/mechanisms aren't the most intuitive but are essential in understanding the rest of the course. Also, Cristi and Andy are AMAZING TFs. Always available and supportive. The writing assignment is also an interesting way to grapple with some of the material in a more nuanced, applicable way.
Climate science is a hot topic today and with good reason. This class investigates every aspect of the field and it's phenomenal.
Very interesting course that provides a solid background in oceans, atmosphere, and ice. Previous exposure to physics makes the material much easier to grasp.
This is a great class, very practical! particularly learning how to properly write scientifically is so great. In order to do well in this class it is really important to reach out to the TFs and use the help that is available.
Pretty solid course overall, if you do the work, you'll understand the material. Its a fairly straight forward class.
Great class. Very interesting material.
It can be dull at times and the labs can be frustrating, but if you like earth science it's still pretty cool.
Be weary of this course. If you are not the biggest fan of physics and chemistry it may not be for you. It doesn't have some very interesting climate change aspects that are definitely worth learning. Take it if its restructured. It was very difficult to predict what was coming next, when psets would be returned, etc.
EPS 22 is a solid introduction to its respective topics. If the Matlab component is eliminated, don't hesitate to take it.
This is a good course to take if you can use it to fulfill requirements. If you're simply searching for an interesting and informative course to round out your schedule, look elsewhere.
I took this course as an SPU requirement and am SO GLAD I did because it was very relaxed but yet I learnt an incredible amount about weather/climate, something that affects every one of us every day and that it feels awesome to understand (how clouds and rain and wind and oceans actually form and move around). It also gave me a much stronger understanding about climate change, how it works, how estimates are made, what the concerns/consequences of different changes are... this I think is the defining issue of our generation and so I really believe it is something every Harvard undergrad should leave here having learnt to understand. I will say that this year with a new professor the class was slightly disorganized, but as soon as those kinks are ironed out I expect this to be a really great class for anyone interested in how the world works!
You will get a great overview of climate science and learn a lot of really interesting and important material. The material can get frustrating at times and you may have to put in some extra outside effort to grasp what is going on in lecture. Section did not seem to be aimed at clarifying material; you focus mainly on learning matlab and science writing. But I would recommend this course, because you do learn a lot - not just subject matter but also skills and ways of thinking, evaluating and writing about science.
It's very interesting and professor explains things well. Probably a bit tricky without any chem / physics / science background, but for people with that foundation this is not super hard, and is mostly just really cool science. Not much work either, so its pretty great.
Great class in a great department! Learned so much, especially from the paper. Grading is super fair, readings are good. Make sure to take detailed notes when Peter makes graphs/diagrams on the board, though, because they aren't likely to be in the lecture slides
Very interesting and an important part of a well-rounded education. Great professor and tfs.
I think that it is a necessary class to take as it introduces you to many aspects of the fluid earth if you're an EPS primary or secondary, but I would not necessarily recommend it as a general education class.
It's not too hard, make sure you're keeping up with lectures and go to office hours when preparing for the tests.
The class is split between people truly passionate about the material and those who are not and are just doing it for some sort of requirement. The TFs and Professor are very accessible and helpful if you are in the latter group, but the material can be very difficult to comprehend if you are not incredibly sciency. Also, because science/physics students find the class to be easy, it can be hard to get a word in during lecture or section.
Great introduction to earth climate systems, modeling, and research.
If you have the chance take it together with EPS-134. The courses are complementary and help to better understand the topics.
