Be prepared to absorb a lot of information that's often not well-organized or thoroughly-presented. You have to draw upon a lot of outsize knowledge, whether that's gleaned from other classes or from pleasure reading of science literature.
Interactive, fun class.
This is a great course for getting an overview of the planetary sciences--something that's usually not all that accessible.
If you're interested in planetary science and are considering doing it beyond classes, this is a very useful course that covers a broad range of things at a basic level. The result is that you have a better intuition about how planets and planetary systems work, even if you can't do it quantitatively yet.
Excellent course!  Take this course if you are at all interested in planetary science and, in particular, Mars.  There are innumerable wolds.
This class was painful. Sarah is moving to California this summer, so I suspect that a lack of interest was the primary reason for the failure of this class. Lecture was unorganized and boring, and consisted mostly of the professor speaking quietly toward the blackboard. Figures and diagrams were NEVER explained, but once it was put on a lecture slide, it was assumed that we knew everything about it. The textbook was useless. It had more typos than relevant material. Problem sets tested us on material that was not covered in lecture or the textbook. I honestly used google to help me with my homework more than I used my notes or the book.
Sarah is very nice. She is a lovely person and a very important figure in her field. This class, though, was one of the most frustrating experiences I have ever had at Harvard. Though the content could have been, and should have been, very exciting and interesting, it was masked by a poorly organized class with little to no resources to turn to to understand the material. Lectures could be hard to follow and the book didn't seem to align with lectures. The psets seemed generally irrelevant to almost everything we talked about in class and what was in the book. If you take this class, be prepared to google. A lot.
