Good survey class. Discussion of topics you would not ordinarily come across in your field of study improves general knowledge about the earth sciences...and also links across fields. Class presentations are typically informative, but it is frustrating that discussion seems to get stuck for considerable periods on one small topic which can straddle the line between informative and unproductive.
The course offers a fairly broad survey of Earth science. It is a good way to appreciate many areas, the discussions are always interesting. Thinking about what makes good science is a worthwhile endeavor, and this course is a great way to do this.
A great way to get introduced to a variety of earth science topics.
This course is an interesting introduction to a range of topics in the Earth Sciences, with a fascinating consideration of the history and philosophy of science.
The class is interesting.
This class is a good way to sort of "get your feet wet" with a lot of different subjects areas in the earth sciences. Though I'm no expert on any of the subjects, I do feel like I have a much better grasp of many of them now.
Great class!  You learn a lot!
Great way to get a broad feel for earth science. Also, a fun way to get to know the history of the discipline.
It`s really interesting! You`ll lean a lot from it.
Excellent course. Engaging professors and great readings/discussions. A perfect introduction to the earth sciences.
This class is fantastic. Eli is an extremely gifted professor, you learn a lot, and it has a manageable workload.
It's a great way to be exposed to new disciplines in Earth Science and to hone your discussion/debate skills in a scientific context.
you can sound smart about the earth sciences about this classit teaches a lot of soft skills, like comprehending technical writing, writing a one-page response (which requires organising your thoughts and framing them)
Allow yourself reasonable time to read the papers and really think about them. You can get away with doing cursory readings, but do yourself a favor and be thorough--you'll definitely learn a lot. Also, when giving a presentation, start early.
Good reading class. Relatively light workload. A wide range of earth science topics explored.
