Planet formation!  3.5-billion year old evidence of life!  Trilobites!  Dinosaurs!  Fossil-hunting excursions!  Uncovering the secrets of the history of life!  This class was such an adventure and a fascinating survey of the little blue planet we call home - I would recommend it to students in any field of science because there is SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE!
If you like geeking out over fossils, the material is fascinating.  And Professors Johnston and Knoll are great at making sure students understand each lecture and make the field trip a lot of fun.
Such a great class. Dave and Andy are two of the best professors in the department, and probably at Harvard. They are both very accessible and made this class their top priority. A very, very good review of Earth history from a geological, biological, and geochemical standpoint which builds well off of eps 21. I would recommend taking this after 21 and would recommend it as a must for any eps concentrator. Labs and field trip are cool, especially if you like fossils.
This course is a great overview of life on this planet from the time it began to the present day. This is a very meaningful perspective to have when trying to understand life today and what will happen in the future. This was one of the best classes I took at Harvard.
I thoroughly enjoyed this class. Manageable workload, interesting lectures and will leave you with a perspective on the world (both the modern and the ancient) that you definitely didn't have before.
Great class, not too much work, fascinating subject matter and a truly great teaching staff.
You will get out of this class what you put into it - take good notes and study them on the weekends. Go to lab and ask questions in class about what you don't understand. The teachers want to help you as much as they can, and welcome expressions of interest.
This course offers a great overview of Earth history. Andy and Dave make lectures with broad sweeping ideas and fascinating details so that all students--from those who have never taken an EPS class to the graduate students auditing the lectures--all learn during lectures. It is truly the BEST course I have ever taken at Harvard! TAKE THIS CLASS
Very low workload and often interesting. Occasionally frustrating, since the level of necessary background knowledge varied between topics, and some students already knew everything that was being taught, while some students were complete beginners. Lab assignments could be completed within the lab time, and there were only two short papers, so except for right before the one midterm, the required workload was essentially nil.
The Earth is a complicated subject, and it is more interesting for the student if the most important and astonishing bits of its story a pointed out to him. This class is great for providing exactly that guidance.
Get all your cycles down pat! Enjoy touching the fossils
I'm surprised that this class was so small, but it made it very easy to get to know the professors, the TF, and your classmates. I think that it provides an excellent understanding of how early Earth formed and was subsequently populated with life. The field trip is also great!
