Prof. Shaw is great and it is always nice to be part of the EPS family!
John Shaw is an amazing lecturer!
It's a very accessible subject with minimal math and physics background required, but you learn a lot of very applicable principles about the earth.
The course is interesting, fair, and the lab assignments complement lecture well.
It's a great class that is totally worth taking.
The labs can be frustrating, but it's a very rewarding, interesting, and well taught class.
Great material. Take it!
It had very clear and organized lectures and interesting material.
The labs are interesting but may require a lot of time outside of class. Sometimes, I finished in lab, but some weeks, I spent 3-10+ hours in the computer lab on the weekend to finish. This was especially true for the last half of the semester.
This is a great class, that takes up a lot of time but is definitely worth it. If you're interested in pursuing geology as a career or in higher education, this class is a must.
Professor Shaw's lectures are really, really great. They are full of information, and if you make sure to take notes and follow along, you can learn a ton. Best lectures I've had at Harvard.There were several labs we'd have to muddle through before figuring out what was actually asked of us. Which is fine and expected; it's how we learn. But it became tedious when it took two hours of our three hour lab period to understand what was being asked. And then having to come in for another 6-8 hours to finish the lab...having clear directions to get us all started from the beginning so we wouldn't be wasting time with busy work would help learn more effectively and efficiently.
Labs are nearly unbearable and the vast majority of time you spend on the course. They are time-consuming and don't teach much for the amount of time invested.However, structural geology is an important subfield of geology that any serious geology student should learn. Lectures are very well-written.
it takes a lot of time for certain labs...don't start those the night before
Be prepared for a lot of work towards the end of the semseter!
If you're studying geology, you should take structure. No doubt about it. But it's unfortunate it has to be this class.Ok, let's back up a little bit. John Shaw is a boss. His lectures are probably the best I've witnessed at Harvard. They're extremely well planned, well delivered, understandable, and engaging. He takes all questions asked in class very seriously, and he gives great answers. He's accessible outside class. He's really nice. His leadership and teaching on the field trip are excellent. If I were rating this course based solely on Prof. Shaw, I'd give it a 10 out of 5 (in reality I gave it a 2) and I'd be knocking on doors telling people to take it.So why my first statement? Because lecture and lab are two totally different beasts. First, the labs are very long (we're talking 40+ hours for a few of them). Long can be just fine; I've had classes in the past with problem sets that long, and they've been a great experience. The bigger problem with these labs is that the workload is not at all distributed across the semester (some labs finishable almost entirely during lab time, but a solid subset as long as I've described) and the work is often absolutely meaningless busywork that could easily be lessened with no loss of educational value. On top of that, Joe is less than helpful.I guess you probably should take it, because you will learn a lot, but don't expect to have a very good time. Except in lecture, which is great.
Lots of work, but really great class if you are interested in structural geology
John Shaw's lectures are the BEST!! Expect >10 hour labs lots of weeks, but other than that the course is incredible.
Great course. John Shaw is a great lecturer and you'll be sure to learn a lot about structural geology.
Be aware that most of the work of this class is weighted toward the end.  This means that the work comes at a time when you're occupied with midterms, papers, and the beginnings of finals so it's possible to feel a bit blindsided and overwhelmed in the final weeks.  That being said, the class is excellent and both the TF's and John Shaw are willing to help people out.
This is a very good course. Professor Shaw is engaging in lectures and extremely knowledgeable. The labs can be time consuming and difficult, but they are an important aspect of the class and are thoughtfully designed around real-world examples, so you actually do learn a lot about applying the concepts from lecture. Also, labs end up counting for a large portion of your grade, so hard work in them does not go unrewarded. The assignment schedule could have been better organized (we ended up with a ton of work at the very end of the semester), but Professor Shaw and the TFs recognized this and were appropriately understanding. They also reassured us that some things would be reorganized for the next time the class is taught, so this shouldn't be an issue for future students.
John Shaw is one of the best profs. that the EPS dept. has to offer, hands down. Well taught, enjoyable, and who doesn't like field trips? Generally the workload is extremely reasonable, although beware labs towards the end of the semester that can require hours of outside work.
If you are at all interested in structure, this is a great class. It is well taught and the material is very interesting. The labs can be confusing but they're really worthwhile and you get to use data as is used by people working in this field.
such an incredible class. requires a significant time investment for weekly assignments but is well worth the effort.
You will definitely be challenged, but you will come out of this course feeling that you learned a lot.  Be prepared to spend a lot of time on the assignments, but know that it will be time well-spent.
This is a great course, but in terms of labs it is very time consuming.  Don't leave assignments to the last minute and be sure to ask your TFs lots of questions - they are great resources!
The class is amazing. John Shaw is one of the best lecturers in the University and the material is very interesting. Just be prepared near the end to do a bunch of work on labs.
John Shaw is awesome.
John Shaw should be Time Magazine man of the year.
A tough class but one in which you will learn a great deal. Excellent professor who really engages the class.
Great class.  Professor Shaw is awesome! The material in lecture is then put into real life applications within lab, which really enforces the material.
