Does a very good job of covering the basics of biogeochemical cycling (isotopes being simply a tool to understand its dynamics), without exposing students to undue time consumption or stress.
This class is fantastic. Dave and Andy are both wonderful and extremely dedicated. The course material is incredibly interesting. The course is not extremely rigorous and very little background in chemistry or geology is necessary. You'll learn a lot, although there's very little work and it's not at all a stressful experience.
This course is a fairly basic introduction to ocean geochemistry. You'll gain a broad sense of processes that take place in the ocean and chemical trends. The pace and direction of the course tend to vary abruptly, but Dr. Johnston welcomes questions if you're confused. Be sure to attend section because that's when a lot of the material is covered.
If you need to know things about stable isotopes and how to use them, this is a great class to take.
It's a really great biogeochemistry introductory course. Dave doesn't make it too hard, but he teaches all the concepts well. He emphasizes thinking ability over memorization.
This class was amazing! Definitely take it if you are remotely interested in the topic.
Dave and Andy were both phenomenal teachers. The material is extensive, but very interesting and important, and it is generally explained clearly. If you like Earth science absolutely take this class.
This course was great! It really made me understand the ocean cycles and opened me up to an entirely new field! I really loved learning the the professor we're awesome. They would help you in any way if you had questions and it was a great class! Not too much work but you had be able to understand it which took some time.
Amazing class! Professor Johnston is probably the best teacher I've had at Harvard. I didn't originally find the subject matter terribly interesting, but I still really enjoyed the class. Everything was clear and I got lots of support whenever I needed it. Class is also relatively low work.
Dave Johnston is a really good lecturer. If you're taking Ann Pearson's class, take this one first. If you think Earth history or biogeochemistry is cool, take this class. I understand isotopes and fractionation way better than I did before I took it.
You have got to take this course!!! Professor Johnston is amazing.  On top of being a clear, well organized lecturer, he makes ample time to see students one-on-one.  If you don't get a concept, he will break it down for you, going from a conceptual, general understanding of the material to a detailed, nitty-gritty explanation of the equations.  A really fun course that teaches you about the early earth and the mechanisms that got us to where we are today.
Prof Johnston is great and very likable, even though sometimes he gets so excited about lecture that he goes a little quickly. Taking this class pass/fail was great, because when we were going over stuff that was pretty confusing I didn't have to stress about understanding it to the deepest depths. The material is pretty cool, and i'm really happy I took the course. I'm sure itll only improve as they learn from the first iteration of the class.
This is a tough class, but you learn a lot. As wrinkles are ironed out the class will only get better.
