Peter and Eli are really nice professors. The presentations are a lot of work. You will learn so much about what is going on in the world around you and it will motivate you to try to do something about it!!
It's a great course for EPS or other hard science concentrators.  The seminar discussions are very enjoyable.  It requires some work, but it is minimal relative to other advanced science courses.  Expect to focus entirely on the science, not the politics.
This course gives you the tools to join the scientific debate regarding climate change.
This course was extremely engaging and interesting.  I learned a lot about the debates surrounding global warming, as well as gained a greater understanding of the scientific process and the scientific community.
dont read it the night before.
I don't think this is for an English major who knows nothing about the topic.  But for someone who has taken some coursework in the area it's great!
It will change the way you think about global warming debates and will make you much more of an expert on the issues. You will learn to ignore the garbage that the media says both in favor and opposition of fighting global warming.
This is a great course...I definitely recommend it!!! You will learn a ton, and don't have to do much work. On weeks when you're not presenting, the class requires at most 3 hours of reading/writing a response paper. You really learn to read scientific papers and analyze them critically. The professors are super knowledgeable and can explain almost anything climate-change related. The class also helps introduce you to the most debated issues in EPS and really current research. Grading is very vague though and you have no idea what your grade is throughout the semester.
This class is incredible. The entire class is in seminar format, and you learn a ton about climate change issues, as well as how to be critical of scientific papers. I feel like a more educated person, with a better scientific mind, after taking this class.
Definitely worth taking if interested in climate change. A scientific way to look at the issue unencumbered by political rhetoric.
Peter and Eli are great, the subjects are great, get excited.  The presentations can be annoying to put together, but oh well.
You will really get a unique perspective on the state of climate science and a much more rigorous understanding of global warming and how certain are the risks involved. It is also very inspiring to work with Peter Huybers and Eli Tziperman-- to fantastic climate scientists at the cutting edge of the field. One word of caution though is that you will not leave this course with definite answers about global warming, but you will be able to talk about it much more intelligently.
This is a great class where you will learn a lot about fascinating issues and develop your presentation skills, without having to bang your head against the wall on endless problem sets.
Great class, I now feel informed about the different aspects of global warming and their possible effects on our lives. Also teaches you how to read scientific papers critically.
This is the most mind-opening introduction to the key debates surrounding the issue of climate change; your previous assumptions will be questioned thoroughly, and you'll leave with a better mastery of the real debate that is occurring in the scientific community.
I learned to examine scientific papers critically, and saw how statistics could be manipulated to suit the purposes of researchers, and why it is always important to examine scientific results thoroughly.  I also gained an understanding of the complex effects climate change is having on our planet and the multiple things we still do not understand about this phenomenon.  Class discussion was at a high level and fascinating every week.  I looked forward to this class and time seemed to fly by during it, to the extent that sometimes I would look at the clock for the first time and class would be over, and I would actually be sad about it.  Eli and Peter were great discussion leaders and there wasn't too much work, and the work there was helped improve my criticism of scientific papers and my skills in giving presentations.  Hands down one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard. It's one of those classes that changes you and more specifically the way you view something as important as global warming. Peter, Eli, and Alex were all great!
You really should want to learn more about scientific topics related to global warming. Remember, this is a science course, not a policy one.
One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Amazing Professors and really fun class. Topics can be tough sometimes, but are worth the extra effort. Take it with EPS 22, the courses are complementary and deepen your understanding of the covered topics.
Take this class.  It is some of the best discussion I have had in college.  It is very well-run but has some minor annoyances (response papers can be annoying).  I looked forward to it every week.
Take if the class is smaller and if you're interested in knowing the various debates, the class is great. The grading is arbitrary/never explained. The week of presentation takes A LOT of work but is worth it. Eli (my fav) and Peter are great, but maybe the TF will improve. Also, work on your weekly papers early on--
Very Interesting course. You will learn about Climate Change from a completely different perspective. Definitely worth taking, especially to cover a EPS or ESE requirement.
The class was good overall. Wish I had taken it pass/fail because the grading was pretty ambiguous. Participation was a large percentage of your grade, but it was hard to participate with 30ish kids in a seminar setting. The materials was useful and definitely helped me get a better view of the scientific community's discussion of climate change.
The reading can be pretty thick and the response paper takes longer than you think, but it's a good class that makes you think a lot about global warming debates and really teaches you how to critically read scientific papers.
Great course! Take it! The presentations are a lot of work, but they're worth it.
Learned SO much -- both about the science of global warming, the many different sides of the arguments, AND how to read (and understand) scientific papers and critique them. Before this class, I took what papers said as fact, but now I am able to look at an argument, and decide whether the methods used fabricated results. Put a lot of time into your presentation. Weekly assignment of a 1 page response paper -- those are what make up your grade so do a good job on them.
Very relevant and engaging, pretty low-stress most of the year, but take your presentation seriously.
This is a strong introduction to climate science, and you absorb a lot about how to think rigorously about scientific papers and the production of knowledge in that realm. For that, I am very grateful. It was challenged this year by its size it was far too large to have the kinds of discussions that would have made the course excellent.
This is a great course. Make sure to do the readings carefully, since you'll get a lot more out of the discussions that way. Peter and Eli are great at ensuring that everyone participates while still making sure that the discussion stays focused. This will teach you which areas of climate science interest you the most, which is very valuable for anyone who studies the environment.
Fantastic course-- should be required for all EPS concentrators. Really key in understanding the science behind the climate debate. Many important topics presented in a manner hard to find outside otherwise.
This course is really good, but it will not be as easy as you think.  The papers are challenging, but you will learn a lot and think differently about climate at the end of the semester.
this class is not great papers in the earth sciences, and doesn't really give you a lot of new tangible knowledge.
