This is an excellent course for anyone which a physical science background who wants to understand climate science and climate change.
This is a very extensive, well-taught course covering many different areas of climate science. It is taught at a high-level but is highly recommended for any graduate student studying or interested in climate.
I highly recommend this lecture with respect to its quality. But strong backrgound is needed.
A not-too-strenuous introduction to the basic understanding of and issues in climate physics.
It's a nice course that you should take if you are in atmospheric sciences. It could also be a good elective if you are in another field and would like to learn about the climate system.
It is a very nice introduction and I really liked the professor.
This is a good introductory class if you want an overview of the physics behind climate, but if you're hoping to apply these concepts in your research right away, it would be better to take a couple more advanced, specialized courses.
It is very good.
A very interesting course for both students of climate science and people who are just interested in the topic.
Make sure to take the time after class (or during class) to go over all of the concepts so you know that you understand them well, because if you don't master them as they come, the fast pace of the class will leave you feeling lost during some lectures. Otherwise, it's a really good class and you learn a lot of different things, and since problem sets are every two weeks it's relatively low-stress.
An enjoyable and manageable class where you get a good introduction to the physics behind climate. Start the problem sets a little early as questions can sometimes be tricky to figure out. This class is definitely manageable for undergrads with a physics/math background.
A good course but may not give the detail required by grad students in this specialty.
Fun class. Learned a lot. The assignments can be time-consuming. It's easy to fall behind in lecture, but it usually doesn't affect assignments.
It's a good introduction to the climate system
This course is a valuable introduction to climate physics.  The instructor is clearly passionate about the material and his students, and he makes time to address their questions.
Great class, Zhiming is always ready to help but the maths and physics can be demanding.
The equations can be difficult to follow, but it is the best-paced overview for most atmospheric related questions that I can think of.
Good course material, problem sets were challenging but also sometimes frustrating and needed a lot of time to interpret what the questions were asking. Overall I enjoyed the course because of the topics covered, and I learned a lot.
This course is a great complement to EPS 200 and they are most useful taken together.
There is a lot of interesting material to be learned, but the second half of the course is progressively more complicated and difficult to comprehend. The assignments don't do the best job at solidifying the material and you have to do a lot of work outside the course to fully grasp the confusing part of the course. But, the lectures are great and the concepts and topics are essential to be familiar with if you are doing anything in atmospheric sciences.
Whether your interest in climate is old or new, chances are you'll learn a great deal from this course.  The teaching is very good and done in an accessible and welcoming style, and the small class size helps students to feel comfortable asking questions and taking part in discussions.  Because this is a survey course covering a wide range of topics, outside reading will really help you to delve further into topics of particular interest.
The course material is good and the teacher is very informative.
Great course, just difficult subject matter.
Absolutely
You should definitely go ahead ahead and take it if you are interested in climate physics, although read: climate PHYSICS not climate chance science. The class is really small and feels like a seminar. Wonderful professor and support crew!
Read the lecture notes before going to class if possible.  Get started on P sets early.
The course will be very useful for not just research scientists but anyone who has any interest in our changing climate. It is very well taught.
This course is a great survey of Earth's short term climate, it is filled with a variety of mathematical and qualitative arguments to describe how the climate system behaves as it does. However, as a stand alone course some of the arguments may feel a little incomplete and it is best supplemented by other course work in atmospheric processes.
challenging, yet rewarding.
It is a quality class and the professor is very flexible and open to feedback.
Good overview of climate physics. Interesting topics. Reasonable work load.
Important class, important meteorological concepts, but class could be taught a lot more effectively.
It's a good course for understanding basic climate phenomena, but much in-depth information goes by too quickly without reiterating basic concepts and learning how to apply them.
It is a great class, worth taking, if you are interested in the atmosphere aspect of Earth and Planetary Sciences.
If you're interested in very technical explanations of climate and are willing to deal with a graduate level class, it's a great class with very supportive staff.
This is a really helpful course, helping you build up a complementary understanding of atmospheric and oceanic science.
Does a good job - mainly because of Prof. Kuang being a very solid lecturer and responsive to questions - of covering the broadest generalities of ocean and atmosphere circulation, without delving into the particular phenomena much. Focus on the mathematical tools for investigating these phenomena demands that the student have a strong footing in real analysis.
If you have an interest in atmospheric science and/or climate modeling, and you are comfortable with a very mathematically-based approach, take this course!  You get to see a lot of very interesting topics over a broad range.  The course staff is very relaxed but engaged with the material, and you also get to learn directly from someone making strides in the field.  Not having a basic background in atmospheric science can be disheartening at times but the p-sets will help you come out with a good understanding.  The TF was also very helpful!  The midterm and final assignments were a great way to get into the depth of a couple topics and really see the forefront of atmospheric/climate research.  The class in general is pretty light on workload since problem sets are spaced to every two weeks.
This class is not hard at all, and Zhiming does a good job covering all the material in a pretty clear way.
