This class is great if you want an interesting course to explore energy issues with a moderate and engaging workload.  The science of it is not at all unmanageable, and you'll have opportunities to actually create your own work through case studies on energy issues, which are very interesting.
Should be easy/moderate if PS1 was easy/moderate.  A lot of review from PS1.  If you are interested in global climate change and renewable energy the class will be worth your while, but I'd imagine it would be painful if you weren't
EPS-135 offers a unique opportunity to master the essential science behind energy and climate.  Completing this course equips one with the skills to independently assess whether science/energy proposals contain truth or mere bunk.
tremendously interesting and relevant to the world today
Professor Anderson is fantastic and though it was a new course and had some rough patches, it is well worth taking. Everyone in the class was very engaged in the material and it was great to see practical applications of concepts from other classes.
great course. very useful.
It is really good, but it was a little rough being in the first class. The kinks need to be worked out, but I bet it will be even better this year.
This course was basically an intro chem course and an intro physics course all jammed into one course and applied to energy and the earth. If you have taken intro chem and physics, this class can be interesting since you will know most of the material and its applied to an interesting topic. If you haven't taken intro chem and physics, this class may be quite overwhelming.
The problem sets in this course are very challenging but you'll be shocked at how much knowledge--both quantitative and qualitative--you emerge with.
You should have substantial pre-requisite knowledge in chemistry prior to taking this course.
While I enjoyed Professor Anderson's lectures, I am not sure how much new material I learned in this course.  The problem sets this semester were overly difficult and required spoon feeding in office hours each week.  Overall, the class provides a global perspective on energy issues, but does so in a somewhat disorganized manner.
This course is AMAZING. I learned so much about energy and it's relation to climate, and after this course I feel that I have a good understanding of climate change and issues related to energy. The Case Studies are great for looking at real world issues related to the chemistry and physics you're studying. Professor Anderson is super nice and really cares about the course. Problem sets were difficult this year, but the TFs were super helpful and were always willing to have several office hours to help people out. Other than that, though this course is great, you'll learn so much, it's interesting, and it's useful.
As long as the problem sets and TFs improve, this course will be wonderful. The topics are engaging. You have so much freedom in what you write in your case study. Professor Anderson is a kind and extremely knowledgeable professor so take advantage of his support.
You'll learn a lot even about areas of science you thought you alredy knew.  And will come out knowing how to do quick back-of-the-envelope calculations on everything from basic energetics and traditional fermi problems to astronomy, nuclear physics, and global economic policy.
You will work hard, but not absurdly hard and it will be worth it.  You will feel that you have learned something of value.
This was honestly the most horribly run class I have ever taken. For starters, there was no syllabus, so lectures just jumped around randomly. I think that actually describes everything in this class though- P-sets were often completely unrelated to what we had learned in lecture and "just google it" seemed to be the most common answer to any of my questions. Section was absolutely terrible for the first few weeks (we didn't even discuss relevant course material at all), so I just stopped going and I definitely wasn't any worse off. The midterm wasn't scheduled ahead of time, so the TFs just sent a doodle around for it. NOT easy with a 30 person class. This just meant that scheduling was an absolute nightmare, and assignment due dates shifted constantly. The only redeeming qualities of this course were that Professor Anderson really is a great guy (even if he did a bad job with this course), cares about what he is teaching, and isn't a particularly tough grader.
So interesting and a great way to satisfy ESPP chemistry requirement.
This class is legit. It goes through a lot of material rather rapidly so I strongly encourage you to have taken PS1/PS11 or ES6 before taking this course. For those ESPP concentrators out there, this is DEFINITELY the best choice (unless you are premed then you still need to do Orgo). Great class. Professor Anderson is awesome. Class is a bit long, but the end result is great.
I really enjoyed this course! I learned a lot and it wasn't too time consuming.
The material is interesting, but the course provides no feedback on your work. I still don't know how I did. The midterm was also not representative of what we focus on in class. It required much memorization, while the course stressed problem solving. Had they asked us to memorize facts, I certainly could have!
The course itself has amazing content and the professor is great. It is def one of the most useful courses I've taken. However, if Jason is the TF again I would just warn you that you will probably be very frustrated if you try to go to him with any help or guidance.
