A wonderful class which provides a fascinating expose of the current field of sea level research.  Jerry does an excellent job conveying concepts while keeping the class awake with his humorous anecdotes.
The class is dynamic and relevant to current research in the field.
That it was a very well taught course with a great professor and challenging final project.
This class does not require much work, and so is a good option as a breadth course for those in the EPS department.
This course provides an excellent introduction to the subject at a very high level, even for those without a background in the field.
Jerry is very committed to the students. If you need help, he will sit down with you for as long as it takes.
This class has been the most interesting class I've taken so far at Harvard. The material is cutting edge and Jerry is really an expert. In addition to the material being interesting, Jerry is a good lecturer, and keeps the class entertained while they learn. Never a dull moment!
Jerry is a very nice teacher! Just go to talk to him if you encounter any problem or difficulty in this course.
It is a good course to take as an introduction to the subject but probably does not provide the in-depth knowledge required to work in this or related fields directly.
Great course!  Jerry is a great lecturer; he has many digressions which are fun and often insightful, but he also still gets through the material and presents the concepts clearly.  Math (differential equations and spherical harmonics) is useful but not necessary.  Jerry himself emphasizes that no one should be scared away by the math because the focus is on the concepts, on the physics.
This course gave me a completely new perspective on what sea-level change is, and how one can think and do research on it. The math involved can be tricky and most of this research is done computationally so for a student to make the most of this course a firm basis in maths and CS are helpful. Nothing to be scared of, just to be aware of.
Although the subject matter was occasionally interesting, overall I did not gain much insight or intuition that could have been gleaned by reading review articles. There were many excruciating lectures on long complicated mathematical derivations that added no additional insight or intuition about sea level change. The project is time-consuming and fairly difficult. Although a small sense of accomplishment when finished, the long-term benefit to me of doing the project remains unclear.I got the impression that sea level research is a fairly contentions and controversial area of research. However I am not convinced that I came away with an unbiased and inclusive view of the field. Finally, Professor Mitrovica is the master of hyperbolic storytelling. Though amusing at times, the stories served as enormous distractions and disruptions, often leading to the class running over time. This course was an unfortunate waste of my time.I told someone I was taking a class on sea level change, and she responded, "Sea level is rising". After ostensibly sudying sea level change for a whole semester, all I can add is "different amounts in different places".
