Super fun class, great opportunity to do fieldwork, Francis is one of the best teachers at Harvard
This course offers a fantastic introduction to field work in geology. It's a fantastic course for learning geology--Francis and the TFs are all incredibly patient and good teachers. Death valley was so much fun--but be prepared to work long days in the field. DON'T TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU ARE NOT INTERESTED IN GEOLOGY!
This class was an amazing academic and personal experience.
If you field experience and are at all interested in geology, this is a must take!! This is such a great experience with hands-on work and a way of learning that forces you to teach yourself and push yourself. Make sure you are ready to live in a tent for a month and hike all kinds of mountains and cliff sides! So much fun and you learn an amazing amount of skills and geology!
Amazing, but intense experience. To really enjoy this, you'll need to like either geology OR hiking all day, preferably both though. Francis is pretty demanding and intense, but is also the man, and it is hard to sugarcoat and simplify a lot of these difficult geological topics.
The course will change you. It's a lot of work, and you learn a lot. If you're going to become a geologist, you need to do this. You should note that it's relatively physically demanding. Know what you're getting into - you will be camping for a month.
For the most part, I loved the trip.  Not so much the geology, but more so for the people I met and the camping experience.  If you aren't geology-oriented, this class will be difficult and at times VERY stressful! Still, Francis and the TFs are extremely dedicated and knowledgable.  I'm very glad I went on the trip because I learned quite a bit about geology and met some great people along the way.
I took this class (12.222 at MIT) on geophysics through cross-registering over J-term, and had an incredible opportunity to work with a group of students not only from Harvard, but also from MIT. This was definitely the most interesting and hands-on EPS class that I have taken so far.
