It's interesting but not easy.
i would tell them that the first part of the course is more based on physics and the second half on chemistry, and that a pretty good background in both is necessary. i would say that this course is interesting because it provides a quantitative approach to contemporary issues such as pollution and ozone depletion, and especially to the processes involving them, not just the outcomes/facts of the present situation.
If you like learning about the way people interact with the environment, it's a good course.  You have to really like the material, and then this class will be amazing.
Very few people would genuinely enjoy this class
You will gain a thorough grounding in basic atmospheric chemistry-- make sure you read the book.  Often if you're not understanding a problem in the problem set it's because you aren't aware of some tidbit of vital information that is found either a)somewhere in the book b)not in the book, but that you are supposed to know from chemistry or c) in a past math class.
challenging but interesting, learned a lot
good class. read the chapters. do the term paper a week ahead of schedule. go to office hours. date your lecture slides.
I highly recommend to anyone interested in atmospheric science, in general. The workload is manageable, but the problem sets, exams, and term paper will be difficult for someone who has not had much experience with math and chemistry. If you are unsure if you are ready, take EPS 5 first.
If you are interested in the material and willing to work hard to learn it, you will enjoy this class. The Psets can be frustrating so find a good study group - it will make a huge difference.
If you can find the time to make office hours every week, then this class will be extremely interesting and worthwhile.  If you cannot make it to office hours, expect to be extremely frustrated with the assignments while simultaneously wishing you could like the class because the material is so cool.
Problem Sets are very reasonable as long as you are prepared to go to office hours for half an hour a week. Go to section.
Although this class was very difficult it was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.  The material is very interesting and relevant.
This class is amazing.  You will learn so much and it will not kill you, especially if you have taken EPS 22.  Daniel is a great teacher and a great guy.
Professor Jacob is an engaging, funny, and brilliant lecturer. The material is very interesting and relevant to policy, economics, and many different science fields.
Professor Jacob is a brilliant professor and clearly likes to teach and engage with the questions his students ask.  Problem sets are doable if you attend office hours each week (you'll do okay if you don't go but probably won't get all the points). Sections are a nice chance to review material. The textbook is excellent and follows the lectures closely. If you are interested in geochemical cycles, climate change, ozone pollution, acid rain, why ozone loss occurs and Earth in general, you'll enjoy this class!
For students with an interest in atmospheric dynamics or even just in environmental problems related to the atmosphere (eg Climate Change and acid rain/pollution) this class is great!
You have to be proactive in this class.  In term of learning the material and knowing what you may be tested on.
Very interesting, but be prepared to work hard!
Covers all of the interesting problems about climate change and air pollution.
Lectures can often be dry, but the material is interested when independently explored.
For people very interested in the atmosphere and up for a very challenging course -- this is for you!
This course should be called atmospheric physics & chemistry.
the class is very interesting, but you must do the work. Will be difficult if not an EPS or Chem concentrator
This class is great if you're interested in chemistry and the atmosphere...
It's a very interesting class and it's incredibly relevant to today's climate issues. The problem sets can be frustrating but you'll learn a lot.
homeworks and tests are hard and confusing but dont worry theyre that way for almost everybody.
the material is very interesting and worth learning about.
This class focuses on a very specific area of chemistry and will only interest students who have a strong interest in environmental science. However, the topics are presented well and are related very clearly to pressing environmental issues, leaving students feeling empowered and knowledgeable.
Professor Jacob is thrilling, a superb professor in many respects. The class itself is small, intimate, and uses a lot of math.
It definitely taught me a lot and it feels very rewarding after it all. The TFs clearly are on your side and want to help out, and the term paper taught me a lot. At the same time, the homeworks and exams are very difficult, and there is very little structured help.
This is THE class to take if you are interested in the myraid ways that humans have influenced the environment and climate. It provides you with a fundamental understanding of all the big-brow climate issues that are of increasing relevance in our time-the chemistry and math behind climate change, rising mercury levels, and acid rain. A difficult class, but totally worthwhile whether you want to pursue some environmental career or simply wish to have a solid understanding of what President Obama's calls his top priority after the economy-energy and the environment.
Daniel Jacob is an excellent lecturer, and the material is very interesting. The problem sets and sections can be frustrating, however.
It is a very interesting and enjoyable course, but it can also be very difficult.  Be sure that you really like chemistry and have a fairly advanced background.
The course is very broad and you will learn a lot of conceptual and technical information about the physics and chemistry of the atmosphere. It is definitely relevant to today's discussions of climate change. It is a difficult and taxing course, however, so I would recommend it only to those getting concentration or secondary field credit. Take advantage of office hours and you will be more successful.
It;s a really interesting course, but requires a lot of work outside of class just to understand the problem sets.
Take this class with the knowledge that it is harder than it sounds.
You learn a lot if you put your time into it, but be prepared to spend a lot of time over the psets (they're hard).
This class is challenging, but very worth it. It also produced a great collaborative learning environment this year as we worked through problem sets. Don't expect to figure everything out on your own, but the TFs were great this year! Prof. Jacob really does everything he can to make the class useful and enjoyable.
If you have to take a 100-level EPS course, this is the one to take. Professor Jacob presents the material in an intuitive manner that makes it easy to understand.
This course was really interesting and good, but harder than I had bargained for. The textbook was really helpful -- I'd really recommend printing out the text (~$50), because exams are open-note and every relates to the text material.
awesome class, great lectures, great sections. I learned a lot! the material covered goes well with the book! book is free. exams (even though open book/note) are extremely challenging because there are a lot of hard questions squeezed into the exam time. but everyone finds them hard, so the exam grades are curved. 10 homework assignments, 1 midterm, 1 final, 1 final term paper.
This class is extremely well run! The lectures and book go along very nicely and most of the homeworks went along well. The tfs were really helpful and of you go to office hours the psets are not so bad. Do not expect to cruise through this class, it takes attentive attendance, reading of the book and quite a bit of time per pset, but definitely you will learn a lot and enjoy it! Do not expect to do well on the midterm, it is extremely hard and very de people survive it. Overall though, the class is very doable.
It's very difficult and requires intuition about physics. The first half is about physics, not chemistry. You will need to work with people on the problem sets.
Come prepared to be challenged
I feel like everyone should learn more about the environmental sciences as it's so critical to our development, especially for future business and government leaders. It dives into a lot of the details while covering enough breath. Prof. Jacobs is one of the most knowledgeable person in this subject area and brings in a lot of cool facts.
Though the rigidity of course schedule, deadlines etc. is a bit of a concern as with many other chemistry classes, it is definitely less pronounced than in Chem 20, for example, without the course itself being any less organised.
Professor Jacob is an excellent lecturer and extremely approachable. However, the majority of problem solving is done during section and office hours. A study group is very helpful!
