The professors are excellent and well-organized. The problem sets are challenging but fair, and the use of computer tools is nice because you get to work with real seismic data.
You will leave lectures feeling like you understand the material, then you will go to lab and feel frustrated and confused until the TFs tell you how badly you did, then you'll just be sad.
This is a really interesting course and Miaki is a wonderful professor. However, labs can take a long time and the TFs were often not as useful as I wanted them to be when I had questions. Also, the final project stole an entire week of my life. Even after committing myself wholly to it, it was still one of the worst assignments I've ever turned in. Despite this, this course was still very much worth it for me.
Miaki is an excellent instructor who prepares the course material with much care, organization, and effort.  Taking this course will give one a fairly comprehensive introduction to many topics discussed in seismology. I personally don't think I will be able to find a better course on the subject of seismology at this introductory level.  As for math requirements, a firm grasp of trigonometry is a must; a calculus background will be a guide, and occasionally a necessity in navigating one through problem solving; any higher level math course taken previously or concurrently will increase appreciation for little tidbits that are mentioned in passing.
Start your final project earlier.
Exciting and engaging class which is small promoting interaction between the Professor, TF, and students.
Great class. Labs are a substantial amount of work, but you really learn a lot in the it.
Interesting subject matter.  Labs were usually helpful, but sometimes I wanted to rip my eyeballs out during them.  The labs were new this year, but hopefully in the future they will be better planned.  Both Miaki and Eric seem to care a lot about what they're teaching and it seemed like they were altering and revising the course.
