This is a very useful intro geochemistry course.  Sujoy's lectures are very clear and I'm confident that my lecture notes will be useful in the future.
The class offers an opportunity to learn more about the origin of the elements and provides one with an understanding the reason behind the theories scientists have developed about the origin of the Earth, the moon and other phenomena.
When you sit in lectures with Sujoy you can really tell he is a leading expert in his field. Then extent of his knowledge is very impressive.
Problem sets were challenging, but learned a lot in completing them.  Also, the final project was a great way to delve into an area of geochemistry that is of interest to you.  If you are interested in how the Earth was created you should definitely take this class.
Interesting topics covering recent research and even studies that are still in progress.  Great course to get an overview of the field and the directions of current exploration.
Aside from the problem sets, there isn't any work for the class.  However, I worked on each problem set for at least 30 hours, and I also felt like a learned a lot after turning them in.
I strongly feel that this is a must-take course if one's interest is in the Solid Earth (it may apply to interests in atmospheric sciences etc. but I cannot attest to it because of the bias in my own interests; it has helped me greatly).  The material that is handled in class is approached with some depth and detail (i.e., this class will be much appreciated when google search and wiki have failed time and time again, and unfeeling textbooks have often blinked blankly back at a pair of baffled eyes). and will build a foundation that is crucial to understanding the history and evolution of the early Earth.  On top of that, Sujoy is an excellent instructor and a friendly resource to get to know for questions on topics that pertain to geochemistry.
This class is a very good introduction to SOME aspects of geochemistry. It seemed to be heavily influenced by the particular areas of expertise of the instructor; more breadth would have been preferable. The problem sets are difficult, but doable when done together and with the help of the professor and former students.
