This is a great class, but don't take it until you're ready to get the most out of this class! I think if I took this class in previous years, I would have really not enjoyed it, but because I've had enough of a mix of classes with some applying math and others focusing on more general science behind climate/environment, I was able to fully appreciate the class. Be aware that this isn't a biological or chemical oceanography course and involves lots of equations. However, that is also what makes the material beautiful- that the ocean can be modeled by a system of differential equations. Fascinating! Also great class because Eli is great and has fun ideas about how to motivate the class, like the fun field trip to Woods Hole and the movie competition.
Can be boring, look over differential equations again since most of the course is applying differential equations to fluid dynamics
Eli is a fantastic teacher, and the material is really interesting. What more could you ask for? And for all you physics majors out there, this counts as a physics course!
Fun, interesting course! Great more "real world/visual" way to apply your physics/math knowledge! And Eli's really cool.
Interesting explanation of basic ocean phenomena.
Our homework assignment was to throw rocks in the Charles.  If that isn't awesome, I don't know what is.
It's great, and the professor is AMAZING, but it's disorganized.
It's interesting.  Just be aware that it is PHYSICAL oceanography - no plankton or orcas here!  It's more like applied physics and math instead.  If you enjoy that stuff, then go for it.  You'll find yourself in a fun, well-taught class.
Excellent course, great faculty.
You will learn so many interesting things about the oceans, and have great fun while doing it.
Don't be fooled by the name oceanography...it should be called an "Applied Math" subject.
very fluffy; does not provide the strong foundation (in terms of language, mathematical complexity), for future work in physical oceanography or fluid mechanics.
Definitely recommend to anyone with sufficient background, because it is a very interesting course but if you don't know enough already it will be very difficult to keep up.
Eli and Laure are smart, fun, and relaxed. The class is a fantastic intro to oceanography.
Be prepared to hear about the Day After Tomorrow!
This course was not what I expected. It was a lot more quantitative than I originally understood it to be, and I didn't feel like there was a sense that what we were learning about applied to any actual movements or trends in the ocean.
Go to office hours
Eli is a great professor and he is able to explain concepts very well, both quantitatively and qualitatively. Oceanography is a really interesting field, and I highly recommend this course to anyone who feels confident with calculus/differential equations.
I really enjoyed this course. At face value, it takes differential equations and applies them to understanding ocean phenomena, but the class was so much more than that. We looked qualitatively at ocean phenomena since students presented each week (a nice break from lecture) on various oceanographic topics. In making my presentation, not only did I learn a lot about monsoons and the currents they cause, but I also learned how to make an effective presentation since I worked a lot with Eli (the professor) and Charlotte (the TF) in the week leading up to the presentation. Eli and Charlotte were both great and they made sure the experience was interesting. We looked at what it means to be an oceanographer, as we took a really fun trip to Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute. Also, Bob Pickart (a renowned oceanographer) gave us two really cool lectures in Harvard. Overall, I thought this course had a great balance and should be a great experience to anyone who has some math/physics background and an interest in the oceans, which are so important to the future of our planet. Don't hesitate to take this course!
Eli is awesome! Take this course!
This class is AWESOME! You learn a lot about oceans, Eli is a great lecturer and leads a well-organized class, you take a fun one-day field trip to Wood's Hole, and you have a chill take-home final which makes you realize how much you learned in the class without having to stress out that much.  I would recommend it highly whether or not you are an EPS person -- there are so many things that happen in the ocean that you never really think about that are really interesting to learn about -- for example, why do waves arrive parallel to the shore on beaches, and why is there a Gulf Stream, and what makes the whole ocean circulate? etc. etc. Take this class and find out!
Great course for people interested in derivatives and oceanography. Eli is an amazing professor who really tries hard to make the class understandable and fun. Typical science class where the students will work on the problem sets together, but since it is usually a small sized class, you get to know the other students pretty well. Overall, an enjoyable class for a hard science course.
If you have the necessary (very basic) mathematical competence, you should not be worried about time consumption.
The material is difficult, but the class is excellent.  Professor Tziperman is the best, and he will do anything to help you succeed in this class.
If you are at all interested in ocean phenomena, take this class. It is very well taught and a fun class. However, expect long psets, using matlab, and long mathematical derivations. The teaching staff if extremely helpful and it is a small class environment, so you won't be left behind, but it is not a class you can cruise through. Also, there is no midterm or final test, but presentations, a field trip and take home final, so it makes you learn through different techniques! Loved this class!
this class was a great introductory course for oceanography! there were examples of many real life ways to use the calculations we learned and gave you a great idea of the things you might do if you decided to go into oceanography. the teaching staff was great and really fun to be around as well which made me excited to come to class. its a very fun and informative class!!
