Professor Knoll is an amazing individual and I am happy to have had the chance to take a class with him! Fun and unique class that was very self-guided and helped me grow as a learner. Take it if the topic of geobiology is something you are interested in.
This seminar-style class is quite interesting. Be comfortable volunteering to present, speaking for 15 minutes every other week, and speaking with the other students and Prof Knoll. However, the expectations were not as clear as I had hoped, so it was difficult to gauge my status throughout the semester.
This is probably the best class I have taken at Harvard. We read really interesting papers on issues at the forefront of modern research, and then have fantastic discussions in class every day. The grad students and postdocs who sit in offer an enormous knowledge base in all sorts of areas.
Really great class. Prof. Knoll is really knowledgeable and approachable. Really great for understanding how biology and geology interact.
This is a great class to take if you are interested in Earth history or geobiology.
Lectures for EPS 181 narrate the record of marine evolution throughout Earth history with a particular focus on the interaction between organisms and their physical environment.
Take this course if you are interested in the early history of life and want to delve into the current scientific literature.
very interesting, but it was a little too easy.
Your friends will be jealous that you always come back from lab periods smiling and excited.
If you are at all interested in the history of life on Earth, then this class is a must.  Taking this class was a true pleasure.
Taking a class with A. Knoll is an honor that no OEB/EPS student should go without. The topic is very interesting and necessary for anybody interested in the history of life on earth. The day-to-day of the course is very enjoyable.
Material is interesting and relevant.  Familiarizes students with the current debates in the field as well as being an introduction to paleontology.
My advice would be to recognize that the readings are supplementary. It is imperative to attend to the lectures first.
If you want to get an idea of earth history, this class will give you a good broad picture, which includes major events and major interactions of the earth and life.
I'm likely to recommend it because I'm really enthusiastic about paleontology, but if someone isn't, they might find it boring... it's dependent on interest in the subject matter.
Lectures are very detail-oriented and focus heavily on the primary literature. Luckily, students are not responsible for remembering all of this detail. Instead of exams, the course allows students to explore a topic of their choice in a final paper. Students lead some of the classes with paper presentations. Professor Knoll is great and seems to know everything there is to know about the material.
Great course for learning about important events that occurred during a particular period in the geologic past. Prof. Knoll is very knowledgeable.
This is a great class with a fantastic instructor. The course will guide you though a portion of life's history on Earth in detail.
This course is very enjoyable and the workload is very manageable.  If you have the right scientific background and a genuine interest in paleontology, you will have a great time.
Professor Knoll has set up a really interactive class which facilitates deep understanding of important events in Earth's history, both for experts in the field already and complete beginners.
