If you are looking to work to improve your presentation skills (style, content, stage presence), this is a really useful course.
The course is a great opportunity to learn how to communicate your specialized field to a more general audience.  It is more suitable for graduate students than undergraduates.
Take this class if you want to hone your skills at scientific communication and have a some piece of research you want to share with the world.
This class is a wonderful way to become a more effective scientific communicator!
I'd say this is a great course with a great teacher, and is especially helpful with the thesis.
A very good course and definitely worth taking.
Gain some familiarity with Microsoft office prior to the course.  This really is an excellent class and worth taking if you can.
This course is very useful in that it forces you to think about elements of style and design. Practice giving talks is also very helpful. The writing assignments are less helpful, especially if you do not have much research of your own to write about. You get out of this class largely what you put into it.
You will learn so much! Talking about how to communicate and hearing formal advice for design and writing is far more valuable than trying to just emulate others. I now know how to make paper quality figures, to create visually appealing and informative slides, and how to use tenses appropriately in a scientific paper. These seem straight forward, but doing them well is non-trivial, and this course was invaluable to me. I have used these skills for my own work and to help friends countless times already during this semester.  If you aren't confident about presenting your work, then this course is an incredible opportunity to practice and learn how to be better. If you already are confident, then you will learn new ways to draw people in and engage the audience. It's a minimal time commitment and there's no good reason for a first or second year graduate student not to take this class.
This course will get you thinking about ways to improve your communication of scientific topics and will provide you with valuable practice within various communication media.  It is useful no matter what your level of experience in communicating science.
Absolutely!
