This class is good if you are interested in the material. If you are interested you can look past all of the administrative issues there are.
First of all, this is an introductory course for the EPS department, not a totally fuzzy gen ed. There is a lot to learn for anyone that has had zero exposure to tectonic phenomena, rock types, mineral types, etc. All that said, if you have interest in geology, the planet, I thought this course was really worthwhile. 

The biggest problem I really found was organization and clarity of instructions. The labs are well designed and prepared, but sometimes it just isnt clear what is wanted. Also, sometimes it is assumed that you will just know everything that was taught in the last three lectures by the time lab comes around, but each lecture can have upwards of 20-30 new terms and concepts, so that could be unrealistic. Anyhow, the most challenging part was the field trips. TF-s will take you through most fo the material in person, but good luck trying to figure out what it wanted on your own.
The course needs to be re-vamped and a better structure put in place but the information you learn is really interesting
The class is disorganized but does manage to provide an overview of a variety of topics in geology. The lectures ranged from boring to interesting but the information you need for exams is mostly found in labs, not in lectures. I would recommend this class as a good introduction to earth sciences even though I have some issues with the overall structure of the course.
Lecture is terribly boring, but you don't have to go since none of it shows up on the tests.
The content is awesome! Overall, it's not stressful and the people are nice. You go on field trips. It's poorly organized. If you don't like rocks, don't take it.
Unless required through EPS, I wouldn't take this easy yet frustratingly disorganized SPU course until lectures are improved. If required, don't be scared, rocks are cool and the people are great!
This is a class with a lot of potential, but it's disorganized to the point of being at times fairly distracting/frustrating. Prof O'Connell and the TFs are very nice though not really on the same page. Definitely consider this class if you think you're interested in earth science, but be ready to do a lot of learning (and memorizing) on your own. This ends up not being a hard class; the problem is that it's kinda stressful in that you never quite know how lectures and the textbook and labs and such are going to connect (or not). Field trips are really beautiful (to Boston Bay and the Berkshires/Appalachians) and make some of the tedium/very conceptual stuff worth it and actually fairly fascinating.
This is an interesting class if this is the discipline you are absolutely interested in.
This class was a good introduction to geology, although it could sometimes be a bit dry/boring. Rick knows a ton and is incredibly intelligent, but it was sometimes difficult to pay attention during lectures, especially first thing in the morning. The class is interesting if you are interested in the course material. For those who weren't, it was a bit rough. Field trips were awesome, and I'd say the majority of the learning during the course happened in the field with Francis. Overall I'd recommend it but only if you're genuinely interested in geology and the solid earth.
I think the Q scores for this class are misleading. It really isn't a terrible class at all; I actually enjoyed it on the whole. Professor O'Connell is a really nice guy who I would describe as a charming pedagogue. He has a lot of information to offer to the students. Also, there are no problem sets for this class, just weekly labs which you often complete in assigned lab hours anyways, so the workload for this class is very light. The material isn't hard to grasp if you do your due diligence, especially since the TFs are really helpful and do their best to make sure this class is run smoothly. Plus, the field trips are pretty fun and the second one allows you to get off campus for a weekend and spend some time outdoors. Overall, I would recommend this class to anyone who wants to know more about the world around them.
Students that have never had any exposure to geology or earth and planetary sciences should definitely take this class to expose themselves to this field; they might even end up switching to the concentration, which absolutely spoils its students.
Required for EPS concentrators. Dependent on the staff
This is an okay class. Be prepared to memorize. The field trips are fun, as are the labs when they are hands-on (though they are three hours long and are sometimes busy work). Prof O'Connel is funny, though lectures can be dry and sometimes seem irrelevant. That being said, it is interesting to understand the macro-scale workings of the planet. Knowing a lot about rocks is valuable for hikers and climbers, and I suppose also if you just like rocks. Sarah is a great and really helpful TF.
This class is horrible please stay away for it at all cast.
Great class if you're interested in this stuff. If you're not, it's still pretty easy.
You will learn an incredible amount in this class! Don't feel discouraged after the field-trips, they don't actually expect you to know many of the things they are asking, they are just trying to push your levels of understanding. Use lab/office hours well and be ready to memorize essentially a new language.
This course is the most interesting and interactive course I have taken so far at Harvard.
This course is not very well scheduled, and at times it will feel like things aren't connected. Towards the end, you'll have a better understanding of a broad spectrum of geological concepts. It may not be cohesive, but it's an overview course. A lot of material covered, but overall an enjoyable course with little work to do outside of lab.
If you have a genuine and confirmed interest in geology or Earth and Planetary Sciences then this class will be okay for you, otherwise I would not recommend this class to anyone. It is difficult to understand the material and discouraging.
This class teaches you about geology and has very little work outside of lab. The lectures are never very exciting, and the field trips, while an interesting way to get a glimpse of how this science is done in the field, were hard to understand and connect to class and took too much time.
Be ready to be outside on our field trips!
The field trips are amazing and you learn more about how your planet formed. Also not too much time/work.
This course is enjoyable, but the work is a bit boring at times. Be sure to understand that you will be learning a lot about rocks...
This is a really good introductory class. The TFs are really helpful and great at explaining concepts, and Francis is a phenomenal teacher. Saturday-Monday over Columbus Day Weekend may seem like a lot of time, but you will get so much out of the field trip.
The course is a little disorganized.
It is a good general introduction to the Earth's lithosphere and its interaction to the other parts of the planet throughout geological time. I'm not sure how long prof. O'Connell will continue, but he is a brilliant and caring pedagogue, and has many subtle insights. Prof. Macdonald's enthusiasm and love for the subject matter is there for all to see. The course challenges the student to think about many complicated processes deeply - on scales that we are not accustomed with - but never becomes too complex or time-consuming. The course staff's dedication to teaching, the most important aspect of any course, was the most apparent on field trips.
This is an excellent introduction to geology that, as a GenEd course, will surprise you with its field trips, labs, and inspired insights. Though lecture could use some improvement, and the workload is not something to dismiss offhand, EPS 21 was a very enjoyable experience.
If you like physics, chemistry, biology, history, astronomy - pretty much any science - this course has something for you in it.  It does a great job of illustrating the interdisciplinary nature of the study of planets.  Also, if you like camping, hiking, rock climbing, and grand adventures - you should probably take this course and seriously consider a career in field geology, because that is what you do all the time.
I would say that this course has some interesting material, although it is not taught as effectively as it could be. It's not too hard, and you don't have to spend too much time on it, but it can get boring by half way through the semester. If you don't have to take it for your concentration and are just interested in the subject, I might recommend learning the material independently so you can take a more informative, interesting class.
Taking the class as someone completely unfamiliar with the material may be more of a challenge, but the textbook as well as the TFs make it completely doable.
Here's something they don't tell you in shopping week: THERE IS A FOUR DAY FIELD TRIP CAMPING IN THE APPALACHIANS. This is worth 25% of your final grade. There are no ways out, and no make ups. Just in the spirit of full disclosure. I donated money to Wikipedia after this class. Extremely simple topics were taught SO unclearly and with so much unnecessary confusion that it was shocking. The textbook and Wikipedia got me through. There is essentially no help for exams. Labs were pedantic and often seemed unrelated to the lectures, but maybe that's just because the lectures were so confusing. I have never been so frustrated in a class. Francis was manipulative and deceptive to students. Rick was nice but I could never hear him. I would highly recommend never taking this class.
This class was horrible, not because the content was uninteresting, but because it was run atrociously. It appeared as though Professor Macdonald did not think it necessary to communicate with the TFs, and as a result they were frequently unable to answer our questions regarding labs, field trips, and exam reviews. The professors also very conveniently forgot to mention that this class involved a mandatory 3-day field trip in October until long after study cards were due, and then refused make any compromises for students who were afraid they could not manage the 3-day commitment.
If you want to get into earth sciences, you'll obviously have to take this course. But I think it takes considerable effort to get a lot out of the course, including reading the text book (which often seems tangential to the material learned in class).
This class is really cool! It starts a bit slow (I'm a huge fan of the material but after the first couple weeks I was getting a bit sick of rocks) but then it all makes sense when what you learned can be applied to huge ideas that are literally Earth-shaping. The relevance to today is also impressive and surprising.
Tedious
Do not take this course  Francis Macdonald is incredibly sexist towards any girl who he perceives as liking anything that is at all feminine. It requires an unreasonable amount of prior knowledge, which you will be demeaned for not knowing. Also, the field trip is huge waste of time and takes up your entire 3-day weekend.
Though more rigorous than the typical gened, I would recommend this class if you like exploring the outdoors and learning how to put together and analyze the earth record.
Read the book when you're confused. Do a little extra research. Don't worry too much about the confusing mathematical calculations that accompany the lecture slides.
You probably have to take the course, so look forward to the field trips (which are a great way to get to the people in the course) and see if you can get Esther's section--she's probably the best resource in the class. Not painful, but do work a bit for the midterm/final. Working with others on labs is suggested. Not the best intro for someone who doesn't know much about the topic, but not the worst. The professors are decent--the course gets a bit off track after the mid-way point.
Pay attention on the fieldtrips!
This class is really enjoyable! It is a lot of material and a lt to take in if you've never been exposed to this before. However it is really fun to learn and well taught!
This was sort of a strange class in that it covered basic material, but not at an introductory level. The lectures were often hard to understand because of the amount of geology jargon used by the professors, specifically Francis. The labs were pretty good, but far too long. The field trips are cool, but unless you know what is going on prior to the field trips, you will be very confused the whole time. Overall, an interesting class, it could just use to be more organized and have a lot more supporting materials for students who do not have a strong geology background.
Not a true intro class. Expects a lot of prior knowledge and doesn't guide you well. Not much time outside of lab/field trips but they are very hard graders and the exams are extremely difficult.
This class had a lot of great potential. It just depends on how many EPS concentrators end up with you.
This class is helpful in that it is a prerequisite for many other EPS classes, but it was not terribly intriguing or informative. Almost all of my learning happened in lab and studying on my own. Lecture did little to help me.
midterm is surprisingly difficult, labs are time consuming, teaching staff is very enthused and engaging, but be meticulous about the labs and fieldtrip work you turn in
The course was fine, good teaching staff, interesting labs, but I just could not develop any personal interest for the long time-scale geological concepts we were learning.
This class is nice for something a little different (hands on)
It is an easy intro class that is also very interesting and provides a good overview of solid earth science.
The people I met taking this course are some of the greatest and most genuine people that I know at Harvard! I definitely felt like this was a good introduction to EPS.
This class is disjointed and throws an amazing amount of information at you, without much guidance on how to sift through it to find what is important and what is not. I often found it difficult to even take notes during lecture because I did not know what I should be writing down and what was simply extra. This class throws you in the deep end and expects you to swim. Which is really difficult when you have all this rocks in your hands. Most certainly not rocks for jocks. In my opinion you either need to have some type of geology background, or know that you are head over heels for the material, or it will be a frustrating course.
Do it for the fieldtrips. You'll learn a lot from your labs (as opposed to learning from lecture).
Do your best to keep up with the professors. In this course, a lot of information will be presented to you from all angles, most of which is extremely interesting. However, it may become a bit difficult trying to understand all of these new concepts and ideas. Make sure to ask questions, and go into the course with a positive attitude. You will not regret learning all of the interesting things you will learn in this course.
If you take this course, expect to do more reading than is required if you want to do well.
This is a great class, just don't fall behind on the assignments. Other than that, it's awesome. Go to lectures, too, because they don't have annotated slides and the lectures present important information.
Very interesting and not too difficult!
An excellent introduction to earth science
This class is fun and covers a wide range of topics, and you really do come away from it able to identify rocks you encounter in everyday life, as well as trace stories of greater geological events based on evidence you see in the field. There is a good blend of scientific knowledge with the history of geology as a field, giving the course a holistic feel for introducing students to geology and the history behind it (both in terms of geological history and human history). The labs are fun but sometimes repetitive, and the exam was actually challenging, so it's good to go to the review session and take good notes throughout the course - that being said, a good set of notes will basically make doing the course reading unnecessary. I liked Francis' lectures more than Rick's in general, and there were a few boring days where the entire lecture was spent deriving equations that had little bearing on the class and absolutely no relevance to the final or labs, but most of the time lecture was actually quite interesting.
It's a cool class, but they throw you in the deep end with geology jargon, and lecture can be frustrating at times. Lab and field trips are fun.
It is a fun class with great professors that are really enthusiastic. The field trips are a plus side as you get to interact with others in your class and it is a good resourceful environment.
Don't take this just to satisfy a gen-ed requirement. You need to have a legitimate interest in geology and earth sciences to do well. A math background definitely doesn't hurt either.
Take this class if you want a great overview of the field of geology. You learn a lot if you want to. Professors are great.
I am too frustrated by this class to answer this question, which should in turn answer your question. (the material is really cool -- DON'T take this class, but do get/read the textbook!)
This class can be interesting, but I think the lack of organization made it much harder than it needed to be. Students were often assumed to know difficult, obscure concepts and the fundamentals for the class were skipped. The teaching was backwards and I felt like there was very little synthesis between the different topics. Hopefully, many of these problems can be attributed to the fact that this is a new course, but unless you are willing to put in the time to read the textbook and realllly pay attention in lab, you are going to be lost.
Do not take this class if Francis is teaching it.  He is much better suited for an upper level course and is likely to overwhelm and confuse someone who knows little of geology.
This is a really well-constructed class that covers a lot of material. You'll learn lots. If you're not that into rocks and tectonics, it's a lot of stuff and enthusiasm to muddle through- the teaching staff are super enthusiastic, which makes for a great learning experience if you are similarly interested in the material. This is so so so much better than any of the introductory courses in the life sciences. So much better. Maybe it's because of the size of the class. You'll never look at a rock without thinking about its origins or mineralogy again.
This is a very fun class where you can learn a lot about geology in a short amount of time.
I'm a computer science concentrator, and I took this class just because I wanted to learn about rocks.  I had a vague idea that I might pursue a secondary in EPS, but we'll see.  In one way, mission accomplished: I certainly learned lots of cool stuff about the earth.  But I have many complaints about the class.The course has big potential to be really awesome and get people hooked on EPS, but it falls short.  Francis, who did much of the lecturing, is undoubtedly a great geologist and very enthusiastic about the subject.  But his teaching is lacking.  Everything from the structure of the class as a whole to the structure of individual lectures was ill-planned and lacked coherency.  There was a general feeling of things not forming a complete and logical story.  Some things were presented late that would have been wonderful to have seen earlier.  Too much knowledge was assumed - it was a constant catch up game to understand Francis's big words, as well as the concepts he glossed over.  Sections were good for clarifying lecture, but they often seemed like busy work.  The three-day field trip took up all of Columbus Day weekend, which I guess in retrospect was fine, but it could have been better organized and implemented.  As a participant, I feel like I wasn't properly informed about the schedule, what gear was necessary, etc.Overall there was a constant feeling of frustration among the students.  So the bottom line is don't take it.  If you have to, then go for it, but if you're looking for a fun elective to learn something just for the sake of learning it, definitely look elsewhere.
Lots of rocks. The field trips are fun but the material is not the most exciting in the world.
You should already have some background in geology before you take this class and should really have a great passion for it. The class reminds me of what LS1b is for pre-meds - the weed-out class. Labs don't correlate well with lecture and professors go through material much too quickly. Heavily math contrary to what they say.
This course is a bit disorganized and difficult to be dedicated to or interested in.  This course is NOT an accurate representation of what the EPS department is like.
If you don't think you're going to be that interested in rocks, you won't like this course. I actually ended up really enjoying it (especially the field trips), but you look at lots and lots and lots of rocks.
1. This course is a great class to get a basic understanding of how this earth works. 2. Rick and Francis are AWESOME.3. This course will leave you with more knowledge than skill.
You get to know the professors really well.
The material covered is fascinating. I wish I could make this course required for every landscape architect or VES concentrator. But right now it favors those with pre-existing scientific knowledge too heavily, and requires too much "catch-up" work for those from disparate fields.
I can definitely say that I learned a lot in this class. The professors really know what they're talking about, but I think that the labs and field trips were the most effective as far as learning the material is concerned. Be prepared to just kind of go with the flow since the professors are pretty laid back and the syllabus changes frequently.
Interesting, often confusing, but well taught.
This class is very interesting and taught by passionate professors. If you have zero background in geology however, be warned that you are thrown head first into the subject and not all of the vocabulary and basic principles are explained. Don't be afraid to ask though!
It's a neat class and a solid intro to EPS. It moves quickly and you are often lost, but you feel like you learned a lot when it's over. And this class will forever change the way you look at rocks (for the better).
Confusing and disorganized. Not elective material unless you are really into rocks. Lectures are very hard to follow but labs and field trips are somewhat interesting.
