The course covers an interesting and diverse range of material relevant to atmospheric chemistry and physics, but the midterm and final take-home exams are laborious and unnecessary - a discussion-based section would be more beneficial at a graduate level.
Brilliant class to understand fundamentals of atmospheric sciences, but expect a very heavy workload.
If you're going into any field related to atmospheric science, EPS 200 will provide a valuable grounding in the topic. The small class size meant that my questions could be answered quickly, and the TF was always willing to delve deeper into a topic in section.
An excellent introduction to atmospheric chemistry, taught by very enthusiastic professors!
This class is a wonderful introduction to the chemistry that's happening in our atmosphere.
A great first course in atmospheric chemistry.
You'll learn about atmospheric chemistry and physics but not beyond what you could pick up by reading Jacob's book yourself over the course of a week or so.
This course is fantastic for developing a fundamental understanding of the field of atmospheric chemistry.  However, be careful with your expectations because this course treads a fine line between introductory course and a more comprehensive one.
Consult the textbook if you are confused. It is super helpful!
This is a good course. You can learn a lot in the course
Asking questions really helps.
I recommend this course for any science student interested in learning more about the atmosphere.  This course provides a great introduction to a breadth of topics, and the professors have also tailored the course to present specific ideas and insights that they find useful in the study of atmospheric chemistry.
This class is great if you have any interest in environmental science of any kind
great overview of atmospheric chemistry and physics. It is a lot of material to be exposed to, but it really covers all the bases in sufficient detail generally. relevant and practical information and I found the material very interesting.
Great instructors and course material. Very useful fundamental overview of atmospheric chemistry.
This class gives a really good overview of atmospheric chemistry. The lectures were engaging. I would highly recommend it as a possible breadth requirement or to anyone interested in environmental science.
This is a very good introductory course and if you are planning on concentrating in atmospheric science, taking it is a must. I would also highly recommend this class as a breadth course for students not concentrating in atmospheric science.
It is a solid course to catch up on the basics of atmospheric chemistry before entering atmospheric graduate work, but the lectures can go by rapidly with too much information to absorb, with a lot of homework to keep up with.
I recommend this course to any student in theoretical or experimental atmospheric chemistry or dynamics as necessary for their studies.  I also recommend this course to students in other physical sciences who are interested in the science behind air pollution, climate change, or the applications of physics and chemistry to environmental studies.
This class is usefulf for chemistry students with limited background in atmospheric science and also for atmospheric science students with limited backgrounds in chemistry. I really enjoyed the course, but I was also under the impression that students who had taken other courses in atmospheric chemistry were not as challenged (and perhaps did not learn as much) as those without prior classses.
