It's interesting material, and Professor Farrell is nice, but it's just not presented clearly enough or the material is not reinforced well enough by problem sets, etc. to get  a lot out of the class.
If you are interested in climate, or how the atmosphere functions physically (dynamically) then this is a good class to take. It is a good introduction to a variety of topics like dynamics (like cyclones), atmospheric thermodynamics, cloud formation and properties, etc. There are a lot of equations so be prepared for that, but the concepts are also emphasized which is good.
This is a great seminar style class about the atmosphere which will lead to an understanding of how forecasts are made.  So applicable!
It's a small, cozy sort of class which some students may find intimidating while others may thrive.  Students need to be fairly comfortable with both physics and math before entering - I would not try to take them concurrently.  A warning: taking this will not give you the ability to forecast whether upon demand from your friends.  It is instead focused on providing the theoretical background for those forecasts.  If this is what you want to learn, then go for it.  It'll be great.
This is a really cool class if you like physics when it is applied to real world things. I feel like I understand the weather better now. However, you don't really learn to read a weather map. The problem sets take 3 or 4 hours every week, and lectures are generally good, but the final exam kicked everyone's butt this year.
It is an easy class.
Understand the difference between synoptic meteorology and climate dynamics before taking this dynamics course.
It was terrible and waste of my time.  I learned nothing.
Again, this course was a very good atm. physics course, but I was hoping to learn a little bit more about specific weather events... but I can easily get that from a book, while learning diff eq's from a book is a bit more difficult.
This is a fun, light class with a great professor that explains a lot about how the world works. It also serves as a good introduction to EPS.
This is a good class for getting an introduction to meteorology and the professor is really nice.
Good background but without a TF it's more difficult to gain understanding of lecture topics.
The class is very unique; being a 3-person class you get a lot of time to engage with Professor Farrell who knows so much about this field and he can provide a lot of realistic, practical problems associated with what you are leaning.  However, there will be times where you will be lost and you just have to accept that.  This class twists and turns through material that is likely above the level of an undergraduate meteorology class and full comprehension of material will be quite difficult.  Be prepared to get lost, but learn some along the way still.
Be prepared for small classes, learning on your own, but also a very enthusiastic professor who loves the subject.
