Do go in with an open mind to discussion anything and everything.
Take seriously the final assignment.  The exercise is truly transformative.
Excellent overview of climate system, climate change, and energy systems. Good starting point if you're interested in those issues. Not too much work except for final paper.
Good course that imparts wide knowledge on climate change, and how various energy systems affect the environment
Excellent overview of many aspects of the climate problem. Does not go into much depth.
great for fulfilling a requirement. limited course-work and only one graded assignment. for those hoping to gain an in-depth scientific understanding (graduate level) of climate change should look elsewhere. However, if you put in a lot of time and effort into the final project, you'll learn a TON about energy technologies and energy resources.
Really interesting, low work load, opportunity for discussions. Highly recommended.
If you have to take it, take it. Otherwise, wait for some changes.
This was an awesome class.  It was pretty laid back, which made for great discussions.  And I felt like questions were always addressed fairly and completely.  Dan brings a wealth of knowledge and experience which is great to be able to draw from.
Prof. Schrag's expertise is a one-in-a-lifetime opportunity to learn about energy consequences.
An interesting class, and Prof. Schrag is  extremely knowledgeable on the subject of climate change.  He explains the problem, along with its links to the energy sector, well.  But, the class gets monotonous due to lack of organization.
Great course material and interesting readings resulted in good class discussions each week. Also good mix of visual aids and guest speakers to bring variety to the lectures.
not much work at all & very interesting subject matter
This course is required for the Graduate Consortium. Interacting with Professor Schrag is worthwhile, but the course is extremely disorganized. The title and description of the course are misleading. We spent a lot of time talking about economic and political constraints on energy choices. The final assignment has little to do with the natural consequences of energy systems that the course is supposed to be about.
Anyone who is interested in climate change, energy technology, or the environment needs to do the project assigned in this class: describe the US energy portfolio in 2050 which meets Obama's goal of decreasing carbon emissions 80% from the 2005 levels by 2050. The class helps put our energy choices in perspective. Just be ready for it to be a little disorganized.
