This isn't an easy course by any means, but Jerry and Harriett are more than happy to help you understand the material outside of class.
Jerry is an amazing professor. The material is really fascinating and he knows an incredible amount about the field of earth science as a whole. It's tough material but really worthwhile.
Amazing class.  Not a huge workload, but you still learn a ton.  Rare class where you're not slammed with work but still learn a ton just by sitting in lecture.  Definitely take this class, has been my favorite at Harvard.
Jerry is not only a very knowledgable instructor, but also a very entertaining one. The lectures were very informative and leave you excited for the next class. Even if this course will not fill as a requirement, I would recommend it with enthusiasm!
This is a fantastic course that you should definitely take. First of all, Jerry is literally the best professor I have had at Harvard. He becomes personally invested in each student and always is available to talk about class or anything that strikes your fancy. Also, Harriet is the nicest TF on Harvard's campus; she is super helpful with the psets and review materials.

The workload in this class is totally bearable. You get 4 problem sets due two weeks apart and one midterm and a final project. It is not very work intensive, but you do end up learning a lot without the stress of constant work. 

Even if you think you might not be interested in geophysics or solid earth dynamics, you will find yourself thoroughly engaged and interested during each lecture. I found a whole new appreciation for earth science and geophysics in particular after this course, and plan to study the topic further while at Harvard.
Jerry is a great lecturer and the topics are well-explained. The problem sets are very relevant to what is taught in class but can be difficult at times. However, both Jerry and Harriet put a lot of effort into their class and into making themselves available to help.
Jerry and Harriet are excellent teachers. The class is very relaxed and enjoyable, but you learn a lot if you pay attention.
In this course you will learn lots of great stuff about many processes that keep the earth working.
This class is absolutely incredible, probably the best class that I've ever taken at Harvard. The teaching staff really cares about its students; by that I mean that they're really excited about the material, and do their best to provide support to the students. You cover a broad range of geophysical topics, and while you learn the derivations of a lot of concepts, you're testing on the general understanding of each phenomena. I took the class in conjunction with EPS 21 (several other students did this) and found that each complemented the other very well. Do not take the geology or physics requirements to be intimidating.
Take this class. It's literally the best EPS class I've ever taken.
It's well-taught. You will leave with a good understanding of introductory geophysics concepts. Simple mathematical laws are derived and used, but, overall, don't expect to leave with a deep understanding of the material in the course. Professor Mitrovica and Harriet are both very charismatic people who want you to do well and will help you if you are struggling in any area of the course.
Excellent class
Take. This. Class. Not only is it very easy, but Jerry is one of the coolest professors out there and really knows his stuff. He's not intimidating like some very successful professors, but if you have any question at all, he will answer it (if he doesn't know the answer, he'll probably fake it until he can consult with an expert, but he'll eventually give you the right answer).
Jerry is a hoot, and Harriet was an absolutely fantabulous TF. The course is very low-key and relaxed, and the de-emphasizing of grades allows for the class to be one of discussion and genuine learning. The end-of-term research project, though not yet completed with the end of term, is actually a great idea and cool activity I don't mind extending past the semester. It's really allowed me to understand beyond the basics of global geophysics and see what active research is going on in these subject areas. Overall, great class, great environment, fantastic department.
If you're interested in learning about geophysics, take this class! Though the scope is quite broad, the material does get into enough depth that if you're not looking to get into a bit of the nitty-gritty (read: some math), this might not be the course for you. There is no textbook, so attending lecture (and actually understanding the lecture slides) is very important. Jerry is a really nice guy, and he's also very accomplished in his field and good at explaining the material. Harriet was my TF, and she was excellent, too. I would say that this course is best for more self-motivated people: since there's no textbook you have to motivate yourself to do what it takes to understand the material...also, at the end we did research instead of the final unit. Such an endeavor is really only as meaningful as the time you put into it, so be ready to do some work on your own (if your class does research as well). The take-away: I really enjoyed this course and found the material and the instructors to be engaging.
Wonderful class! Light workload, but the material is pretty interesting and Jerry is the most awesome professor you could ever have!
Jerry is a really engaging professor, and you really get to know him by the end of the class!  He is really passionate about the field and has made some awesome leaps and bounds in research in the field so I'm honored to have learned from him.
I highly recommend this class for anyone potentially interested in this side of EPS. I took it concurrently with EPS 21 and found that they complemented each other very well, giving a solid introduction to geology and geophysics.
The teaching staff, Professor Mitrovica and the teaching assistant Harriett, are fantastic.  Professor Mitrovica is always willing to meet with students outside of class time and even to skype students on days when he's not in his office to help us with the course material and problem sets.  The class only has problem sets every other week, and so it is low time-commitment.  The lectures (which feel more like guided discussions because of the small class size) are really entertaining because the professor is energetic and often tells funny stories about himself.  He's also really willing to dive into answering questions from students, and lots of the best learning in the course came from student questions.  Overall a really interesting and low workload class that I'm really glad I ended up taking.
This is a great class.  If you are interested in Earth Science at all, take it!
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. Professor Mitrovica is absolutely phenomenal - he always kept lectures engaging and relevant, and encouraged students to ask questions and explore further. Aside from that, he is so accessible outside of class and cares so much about making sure that we understand and are comfortable with the material. If you have any interest in earth science or physics, if you want to learn about the process of how scientific knowledge is developed instead of just memorizing facts from textbooks, or if you're just sick of large lecture classes where you don't ever speak to the professor, TAKE THIS CLASS. I cannot recommend it highly enough.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard! Jerry is one of the best lecturers I have ever had!
This class is amazing: really fascinating material taught by a very kind and engaging professor. One of my favorite classes in 4 years of college.
