This course is very interesting and relevant. It is really important to know about resources and how they are used. John Shaw is a great lecturer and the class is always interesting. Don't sit in the front row though as he ends up in the aisle while he is lecturing.
Relevant information for any student. Professor Shaw is a great lecturer, labs with helpful TFs make ideas concrete. Fields trips add to understanding too.
This is a great course.  The material, the labs, the professor, and the field trips are all spectacular.
The course material is really interesting, and you learn about really relevant and important topics in energy from a geologic perspective.
I would recommend this course to anyone who wants a broad overview of earth resources and who can memorize a lot of information quickly. The short field trips during the semester are fine, the long field trip during reading period is interesting but could be made shorter, especially since a lot of people have a number of big assignments due during reading period.
Very sensible and quantitative approach to energy. Great for understanding the basic mechanisms behind energy generation and use, but also great for dinner table conversation.
You will regret not taking this course. I learned more from Professor Shaw than I ever thought possible. The knowledge is fascinating, relevant, and appeals to a wide variety of interest areas. Since this class is offered only once every 2 years, you would be foolish not to enroll this semester.
This class is lots of fun, and the material learned is widely applicable and interesting.
Energy production and environmental preservation are foundations of our civilization.  This course will introduce you to both.
EPS 109 is an excellent course that I would highly recommend.  Professor Shaw is an excellent lecturer and knows the material very well.  I left the class feeling like a really know a great deal about earth resources, the viability of the production of each major resource into the future, and the environmental impacts of the production of each.
This is an amazing class. You will learn everything you wanted to know about energy production and its environmental impacts.
The best class I have taken at harvard. John Shaw is an amazing lecturer with an insane scope of knowledge, but is also very approachable, and get this, a normal guy.
Great organized course and learned a lot. Lots of information to digest though.
EPS 109 is a fantastic course to take for anyone who is interested in learning more about different types of energy production and the environmental impacts associated with them. A very accessible class with clear applications of the information presented in lecture. Professor Shaw does a very good job of bringing in current events like the Gulf Oil Spill and its environmental impacts into lectures.
It's a hard course but you will learn a lot from it if you devote enough time.
The class is assumed to be easy... but you still definitely need to take notes in lecture and study well for midterms!
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard. There is a ton of information packed into every lecture, which makes the exams difficult but the classes very interesting.
This class is a really interesting presentation of a lot of relevant technologies.  Any member of society would benefit from taking this course; it puts our society's consumption of energy and materials into perspective.  Lectures are GREAT (John Shaw is wonderful); don't miss them!
Re-read lecture notes after each class to make sure you understand the material.
If you can't make the field trip it's a huge pain. Labs can sometimes be long and tedious, they definitely connect to the class but they don't necessarily do so at the same time the material is being caught in lecture.
This course will tell you about the different ways resources (especially coal and oil) are created and extracted. If you are interested in energy, this is great because you learn exactly what renewables are up against... along with a good bit of geology. John Shaw is a really great lecturer, the only bummer of the course is the sometimes long labs.
Great material, important for anyone to know.
Definitely take this class if you are even remotely interested in energy and the environment. It will help you develop the background knowledge necessary to have your own opinions related to this topics. The class trips are a lot of fun and you learn a lot. This was one of the most useful courses I took at Harvard!
Likely the best EPS course at Harvard.  Engaging and incredibly relevant, I walked away from this course feeling like I had truly learned something of substance.
Great class for survey course.
This is a great way to fulfill your SPU requirement. The subject matter is relevant, the workload is pretty light, and you get to go on cool field trips.
This is an interesting class with fun field trips.  The focus is on memorization of lecture material, not on content understanding.  The labs take a long time.  The class isn't set up well for students' success.  Be proactive and make sure your labs and exam scores are good.  Memorize the lecture slides-- if you can regurgitate all the definitions you will do fine.
This class was pretty good all around. It boomed in size this year, so it was quite unorganized at the beginning, but the teaching staff got their act together for the second half. The material is interesting, Professor Shaw is a great lecturer, and the field trip to Pennsylvania (to see coal mines, gas drilling sites, etc.) was very enjoyable. The labs are quite annoying and time consuming, but hopefully will be changed for the future. Also, no problem sets is a huge plus.
This class has strength and weaknesses, be prepared to accept both. Labs and the field trip are time consuming, lectures can get boring sometimes, but you're still learning a lot.
Overall, the lectures are great, and I learned a ton about how our world runs and the impact we have on the environment. I feel much more knowledgable about  everything in the course. However, beware of the labs and computers. A few took over 8 hours to complete outside of the set 3 hour lab. This is NOT necessarily the best class to fulfill your SPU unless they change some of the labs. As far as teaching staff goes, Sasha and Jacky are great TFs, but the rest are massively egotistical and make you feel stupid when you ask questions. They know a ton, but it's cancelled out by how arrogant they are. Kristian is especially demeaning.
This is a great class if you're interested in the world's energy mix, and care about learning the geology/earth science aspects of various energy sources. The class was huge this year compared to the past, and included lots of people who don't have basic EPS knowledge, so it was probably adjusted a bit to accomodate that, which is not ideal if you are an EPS concentrator but means that anyone can take it even without proper background. Work load is minimal (especially after everyone complained and they shortened labs) and it's a very interesting course.
This is an amazing class and will really give you a deep understanding of the energy issues that we are facing now. Only take this if you have taken EPS 7 or EPS 21 as it is a higher level EPS class and that background is expected of you and necessary. John Shaw is a fantastic lecturer!!
While this course is moderately difficult, it is a great introduction to how energy is produced in the world. Even when I struggled at points I still really enjoyed the material, as it is all very interesting.
Professor Shaw is superb. The course strikes a good balance between technical geology and broader issues. The labs are a useful reinforcement of material covered in lectures and the TFs are very helpful.
This is an excellent class that I would highly recommend to any students interested in energy resources.
great class and very applicable to real world experiences. Make sure you attend lecture.
This class is great if you're interesting in understand energy from a very technical perspective - it is not a ged ed in the sense that it is general and expects no background knowledge. don't just sign up for this class as a fun easy class, or you might be thrown off.
Go to lecture - they are well delivered and John Shaw is engaging. Labs are kind of long and annoying.
Take it! Labs suck, but everything else is great
It is not a gen ed. This class is time intensive but incredible informative. If you have the time you should take it.
Be ready for the Labs and a lot of PPT memorization
I took this class as someone interested in oil and gas but without an earth sciences background. Thank god I took it pass/fail. This class is fantastic for learning about oil and gas, and Shaw is an expert in the field. But it is not easy and covers and unbelievable breadth of material. You will learn a lot of great stuff, but the exams are not easy and the labs are overdone and take a long time. The teaching staff was also not very good. They were not expecting so many students, but treated non-EPS geniuses with contempt.
It's fun. Do it. Good field trips. Not too difficult, but some of the labs are long.
This class has a ton going for it. John Shaw makes a lot of practical and at times technical material fascinating with his dynamic lectures, friendly attitude, and general bad-ass life experiences. He's worked in the industries he's talking about, and knows his stuff. The information is important for any human to know; it's super pertinent to the way we power and maintain the lifestyle that we do, and we rarely think about everything that goes into attaining and using earth resources. The class also provided multiple perspectives on some of the major issues surrounding energy sources and practices, in a way that was relatively unbiased, and debunked a lot of preconceptions I had about particular industries. That being said, it's not an easy gen ed, and was not originally designed for non-science concentrators. The class nearly tripled in enrollment from past years, and there were some kinks to work out as a result in terms of logistics and difficulty of material (they realized this halfway through and adjusted a bit). Be prepared to put a lot of time into the labs, which can be long and tedious at times. The TFs are generally super helpful and awesome humans. The field trip at the end falls at a sort of inconvenient time during reading period, but it's so worth it!
A great field trip.  There is a lot of material, everything tested is covered in lecture.  The labs are long especially in the beginning.
This is one of the best courses that I have taken at Harvard to date. No matter your concentration, if you are at all interested in the environment and energy resources this class will be a good fit. Professor Shaw is one of the best lecturers I've ever listened to.
Do not take this class if you have not taken an introduction to geology class, however, if you do be prepared to do some extra reading in order to understand the material.
Very interesting subject material!
Mining and oil drilling are awesome and very interesting.  It is important to know the material.  The format of the class is not very good, but the people are nice and knowledgeable.
This was a really good course. There is no homework, but some of the labs are very long and will take time out of lab to complete. Despite there being no homeworks, the tests are very difficult and require a lot of knowledge to do well on. Super random questions so you just have to have a complete grasp of the material.
If you like the natural sciences and have it linked to economics this is the class for you.
Professor Shaw is awesome. Field trip was fun and informative too. Material is very current and relevant. A few of the computer-based labs could be a pain and take a lot of hours.
You will learn a lot of very useful information to apply to the environment today but this class requires a dedication to the topic and quite a lot of work outside of the class.
The field trip is scheduled at a terrible time. YOU WON'T BE ABLE TO GET ANY WORK DONE ON IT. plan ahead
Superb class, teaches you the basics of what anyone should know about our resource use and energy, which literally drives our entire society.
This course has been my favorite course at Harvard. If you are interested in the Energy industry, no course at Harvard will come close to giving you as comprehensive a base of knowledge in the subject matter as EPS 109. If you are dedicated to learning about energy, ignore all the complaints that people may have posted. Take this course without reservation.
make sure you care a lot about rocks on rocks on rocks, although the material might seem to lend itself to a discussion of policy or a complicated treatment of human/earth interactions, this largely doesn't happen...go check out an ESPP course for that stuff
Overall this is a great class.  It is very interesting and you are always learning something new.  However, this class will be challenging if you are not an EPS concentrator.  Also, if you have busy reading weeks do not take this class because there is a mandatory 3 day field trip (which is a lot of fun actually) during reading week.
It's really difficult if you don't have any EPS background.
Take this only if you have the necessary background (i.e. EPS 7 or 21), otherwise you will not get anything out of it. John Shaw is awesome, I wish the class had been smaller so we would have gotten to interact with him more as individuals.
Make sure to study hard for midterms and exam, and be prepared to spend a long time on some labs. But I transferred out of another SPU to take this for my gen ed requirement and I could not have learned more about an extremely relevant scientific topic. So I recommend with these reservations. I learned so much about energy and the environment. I feel like a much better citizen and a more informed voter thanks to this class. Everyone could benefit from this course.
This course is exactly as it sounds - it covers all the major environmental resources and Prof. Shaw breaks down the extraction and production processes of each one and presents the environmental benefits and disadvantages for each one in systematic, thorough, and interesting lectures. The labs can be a bit difficult, but if you put in the work, which still isn't terrible for a non-concentrator, you will get the grade. There are no curveballs in this class. And you get to go on great field trips to coal plants, hydroelectric plants, a natural gas production and drilling sites, etc. that you wouldn't have access to normally. Definitely a rewarding way to do SPU.
You need to spend time on this course. It is a technical course and some background reading is required if you are not in EPS. I had no background, but spent some extra time on it and did very well in the course.
Do not take this course.  1. Inconvenient field trips- 3 day field trip during reading week? yes. Worst timing ever for students.  2.  Long labs- the labs from the first half of the course took many people more than 10 hrs each to complete.  That's ridiculous.
Do not take this class as an elective. This course is great, but it's a tough.
Great class with a fantastic lecturer. John Shaw is the absolute  man. Don't let the ES6 pre-req dissuade you from taking the course. The material is vastly different from ES6. For those without much of a science background, I think the class is still very user-friendly. An EPS background with geology would help, but most who took the class didn't have much geology background. Just pay attention in class and take good notes. The exams are based on lecture mostly. I don't even recommend buying the expensive coursepack.
Work on the labs throughout the week. You will learn awesome information if you attend the lectures and do the reading! If your section leader is terrible get a new one. Professor Shaw is awesome!
unbelievable course take it!
Really interesting course, Johns lectures are great.  Definitely a must if you are interested in energy
Great class! Professor Shaw is a boss...such a great lecturer. Makes you think about resources we are currently using and that our duty is to use them responsibly rather than solely relying on renewables in the future.
The attempts to open this class up as a gen ed this year resulted in it being a much poorer class from an EPS perspective. That being said, I think in future they are going to revert it back to the old format, which should make for an excellent class. Professor Shaw is ever an engaging lecturer and his material is interesting and useful.
It couldn't decide whether it was a core class for non-science types or a real EPS course.  In the end, it wasn't really either.
It's a great class, but keep in mind that it is not a feel-good, eco-friendly look at the wonders of renewable energy; it is much more practical in seriously talking about the need for fossil fuels to satisfy our current and future energy needs.
Great preparation for a career in the energy sector and very interesting subject matter.
I was hoping for a class that discussed the physics of renewable energy technologies, and then viewed how practical those technologies would be in light of the current energy situation and political climate. Instead, I got a lightweight class that glossed over the science, but did not take a hard core social science look at the technology either.
Interesting and relevant material and a fabulous professor make this a completely worthwhile class.
This is a fantastically-taught, very accessible introduction to the natural resources we use on a daily basis.  Interesting, fun, and certain real-world applicability.
One of the best classes you can possibly take for concentrators and non-concentrators alike.
Fun, relatively easy, you get to play with crude oil
This is a very interesting class. The material is great and Professor Shaw is a fantastic lecturer.
the field trips are really cool and interesting!
An enjoyable way to learn some very important subject matter
This class gets a little nitty-gritty with fossil fuels.  If you aren't a really big science person you probably would not like it.
It's a great way to meet a core req, and the subject matter is really interesting and relevant.
This class is seriously cool shit.
It is an easy and fun way to get course credit, and you learn things that are really interesting and applicable to the world today.
Again, the best course I've taken during my time here.
EPS 109 is an interesting, well-taught course that provides a wealth of information about an increasingly important subject.  With energy and environmental issues likely to dominate, in one way or another, government policy and scientific research for the next century, an understanding of the business, economic, and scientific aspects of the production of energy is vital to making informed decisions as an engaged citizen.
Field trips are really fun and interesting, and Professor Shaw is a great lecturer.
Very well taught class that gives you a broad range of information about the state of energy use and the resources we are able to use to meet the future demand.
Take this class! It is so interesting and relevant. I feel like I left with a broad range of knowledge on cutting-edge issues.
This course was very, very good. I highly recommend that every EPSer take it. It seriously is a MUST. You learn a great deal at a very manageable level, and the field trips are amazing. Also, Shaw is THE man!
Absolutely loved this class. The labs and field-trips take time but are entirely worth it.
You will learn a ton from this class but it's not easy to get a good grade and be prepared to put a ton of time into it.
If you're truly interested in the subject of this class its absolutely awesome. Lectures are inherently interesting for you, labs are cool (even if time consuming), and field trips are unique and exciting experiences. you won't have many other chances to tour a gas drilling rig! One of my favorite classes at Harvard, and it's a pretty light workload too. If you don't like energy or earth resources, your experience would probably not be as positive.
The best class at Harvard in my opinion. While the material is hard and there is a lot of it, you learn about everything you've ever wanted to know about energy, both renewable and fossil fuels-based, in great detail. The labs can be tedious and long, but they do give you a fuller understanding of the topics from a practical perspective. If you don't have any background in geology, make sure to read a little about petroleum geology before taking the class, and you will do fine.
Class is very informative, but the labs are a pain.
This course really taught me a working knowledge of the various forms of energy and their relative benefits and environmental impacts.  It's a must-take if you want to be know where energy comes from and what are options are going forward.  As a junior finishing the fall, this may very well be the best class I've taken at Harvard.
This class was amazing because the content is so practical and "real-world". The syllabus covers fossil fuel extraction, renewable energies, mineral extraction, etc. Be proactive in asking prof. Shaw questions - he really is a wealth of knowledge. John Shaw talks quickly, so find a good way to take notes! Find a lab buddy if you are not confident.
Take this class if you want to to anything with energy after college. Aside from another one of Prof. Shaw's classes I believe this is the only one that really engages with the subject and I learned so much from it. But also be prepared to spend some time in labs.
A great way to learn about serious issues
This class is almost exclusively fact-memorization. This makes for relatively easy exams if you study for them. Everything on the lecture slides will be tested. If you'd like to learn about how to prospect for oil and mine for coal, definitely take this course. If you're interested in renewables, you'll learn a little bit, but the teaching staff has very clear interests and the environment isn't one of them.
The material of this class is interesting, but lectures are pointless and labs are irrelevant and difficult
This course gives a strong foundation for understanding and evaluating the way people produce energy and the many resource options we have in doing so.
Labs can be tedious. Field trips are cool, but it is hard to fit into your schedule. Lectures can be boring at times, but final will quiz you on random details from lecture that are not in the lecture slides. You will learn a lot about all of our energy resources, but mineral resources are discusses until the last week. This class does not have a lot of hard geology, but it is very interesting and will make you more informed about our energy future. I'd take it again
It was a good class overall! The material was relevant and I definitely learned a ton. Both Prof. Shaw and Joe were good lecturers and the teaching staff was very accessible. I'd definitely recommend this class.

One main reservation: be prepared for the labs to take up to double the time allotted. Not every lab was as bad (and some can pretty easily be completed during section times) but others require lots of work outside of class. The five no-penalty late days on labs will be your friends.

On the field trips: the day-long field trips were both really cool (especially the trip to the nuclear plant). The longer field trip was also really great (especially the shale gas rig!!), but if you're taking this course in the winter, BE PREPARED. I physically didn't own enough layers to keep myself warm enough on the trip. If ever in the future this course goes back to being offered in the spring, TAKE IT IN THE SPRING.
A lot of fun. Field trips are awesome. Professor Shaw is really engaging. Very manageable workload. Take it!
It's a difficult class, but a very rewarding one overall.
EPS 109 is a great and informative course with a superb Professor (Shaw). The only thing to be aware of is the extensively time consuming labs that this course has. One of the labs had me spending upwards of 12 hours on it. Other than that the field trips are worthwhile and educational.
Essentially a crash course on how energy is produced. You learn about all aspects of energy-- oil/gas, renewables, environmental impacts-- and overall I'm so glad I took this class. That said, it was painful at times; labs were unnecessarily time-consuming and long. You cover an insane amount of material, so definitely not an easy A (or an easy B!) but absolutely worth taking if you're interested in energy, no matter your academic background.  The field trip was fun and relevant, but does fall during reading period (you've been warned).
This is a great class. Makes you really think about turning on the lights and using materials. Highly recommend.  Well taught class about applicable interesting material.  Well organized and fast paced.  Makes you a better informed citizen on energy policy issues. Taught with minimal bias.
