For a class in its first year it was done quite well and it will become much better.  Everyone in biology should know this topic inside and out.
A survey of topics in human genetics that varies and depth and scope.  Tends to be more theoretical and overview-focused than gritty and practical - a more focused class may be a better option if you are looking to learn a specific technique or area.  The small group discussion format is a great feature of the course, and the faculty are great.
Overall the class was pretty good, but I didn't feel like I learned as much as I felt like I should have and thought the material could have been taught at a more advanced level.  Also the problem sets were a huge pain to organize the data before I could even begin working on answering the questions.  I  liked many of the papers we read, however.  If you are interested in human genetics it is a pretty good course and was fairly easy.
The assignments take an extremely long time and aren't extremely useful. However, the in class portion of the course is generally fun and the vast majority of the papers that are read are really exciting.
This is a good survey course and lots of interesting information is presented, but it will not provide in depth knowledge in any specific area.
Very good professors who gives very good course
great course.
A good array of leaders in the field of human genetics
This class is very easy. You just read a few papers each week. The lectures are very interesting and informative. Discussion can drag a little.
It is an interesting subject and usually small, intimate so you have the chance to meet with high profile researchers in the Genomics field.
If you are curious at all about human genetics, take the class. I actually came into the class having some reservations about human genetics, but the class did a phenomenal job at covering many different fields and approaches that rely on human genetics. The only shame is that there aren't really other classes like this that provides a smooth introduction for these fields
An excellent overview of the field with many interesting lectures from prominent faculty members. Paper discussions were sometimes slow, but not painful. Workload was low. There was an emphasis on the clinical side, but also some excellent lectures on common disease + GWAS. Not quite a must-take, but definitely worth looking hard as the material is extremely important and the course is very good.
Amazing cours and a very rewarding experience.
