This course provides exposure to a variety of topic in gene expression regulation by tracking the progression of the field through historic papers.
The instructors make this course great.
This will likely prove to be the best class I took at Harvard. Other students referred to it as the Fred and Bob show, I preferred to call it the comedy hour with Bob and Fred. However you choose to name it, they are fantastic educators and scientists, and if people like them educated more science students, the net increase in quality scientists being graduated would be highly significant.
This was one of the best classes I've taken here at Harvard.  It requires a large time commitment, and the discussions are intense, but I learned a ton from Fred and Bob.  They are also hilarious together.
fantastic instructors. this class informed the way i think about science.
Reading five papers a week requires a lot of your time, but they're worth it. The more you're prepared for the discussion, the more you'll learn from it.
This is a fantastic course, though it is quite time consuming due to the amount of reading and understanding that is required.  But it is the best paper discussion based class I've taken.
This is a great class. Period.
Bob and Fred are the best teachers possible; they take interest in developing each student as a scientist while teaching this class.
This course greatly improves my critical paper reading skills. I feel more comfortable and confident in group discussion than before. I also learn a lot from fellow students. There are a lot of readings every week, but the class atmosphere is great and relaxed (it is funny to see Bob and Fred make fun of each other). It is a great joy every week.
I would recommend taking this class, even if your field of interest/research is not directly related to gene expression.  Each week, you read historical and newer papers on a different topic related to gene expression.  You end up learning in depth about areas of gene expression that may have been glossed over in other classes.  You also learn about the origins of research in these fundamental fields and how they have gotten where they are now.  You can also tell that Bob and Fred both care a lot about developing students as scientists, and they try to design the course so that it serves to this purpose as well.  In addition, Bob and Fred are hilarious together, and they do a really good job of making the discussion environment comfortable and relaxing.
You learn so much...and Fred and Bob are amazing.
Very interesting class- the discussions were insightful and enjoyable.  It is a lot of reading and quite a time commitment, but worth it.
A great discussion course that lets you think critically and have a good time too!
One of the best courses I took at HMS
I loved this class!  I am very interested in the regulation of gene expression, so I loved the papers that Fred and Bob selected.  The discussions were very comfortable and enjoyable.  Fred and Bob were great at facilitating discussion and I enjoyed their insights on the topics and on how they approach reading scientific literature.  The student presentations were a great way to discuss a few additional topics and provided excellent presentation practice.
Probably the best course I've taken here.  Micro230 as it should be.  The workload is a bit intimidating, but it is more than worth it.  This class teaches you how to really understand papers, and how to apply examples of success to one's own work.
This is one of those rare gem of a class - Fred, Bob, and Steve really put in a lot of effort to make this class a success. Its a very fun, interesting, and insightful introduction to many different aspects of gene transcription. The class focuses on going through several highly influential papers that shaped the field covered for the week, and it really helps you appreciate the historical perspective of the area and how thinking and approaches to similar problems changed over time. Its basically what BBS 230 aspires but fails to be. If you can squeeze in time for it, definitely take the class! But make sure you will have time to read the papers assigned each week since every class is centered around them
This course is fantastic. It will take up a good bit of time as you are reading 4+ papers in great depth every week, but the discussion is so interesting and you'll get history and general research life lessons in addition to the science! The student talks at the end are useful as you'll get great feedback on giving talks in general for your future career.
Making sure they know the focus is on eukaryotes. If a student is exclusively interested in prokaryotes then I wouldn't recommend itotherwise it's relevant to just about every system (besides a really applied genetic disease & treatment focus or something).
Great to learn about both the history and current paradigm in many important fields in gene expression.
If you're considering this course, just take it. It's worth it just for the stories Bob, Fred and Steve tell. The papers are also well-chosen and important, and the discussions were fun.
Take this course. It requires a decent amount of work, but you will get a lot out of it and the class periods are actually very enjoyable (there are snacks involved!)
This class is a great one to take if you want to learn about specifics of gene expression, experimental design, and paper critique.
It's really an awesome class. You get out of it what you want to put in but there is a lot of critical reading involved that can't be avoided. A great overview to fascinating topics in gene expression and practice reading and understanding difficult papers. I'd recommend it to anyone who just loves science, science history, and good discussion courses.
The papers discussed are very interesting and the faculty is helpful, insightful, and make the class entertaining.
This class is a very good way to get familiar with topics in the eukaryotic regulation of gene expression field.  The papers selected for each discussion are excellent and the people in charge of leading the course do an excellent job.  They all come very well prepared and organized and make the discussions fun.  It is a relaxed setting and snacks are always provided. Be aware that class preparation requires a lot of time!
If you are interested in Genetics as a concentration or just generally, take this course. You will not regret it.
Because it takes a lot of time to truly understand each paper, I would only recommend this course to someone with a very keen interest in gene expression. However I think this is an excellent course for those that are interested in pursuing dissertation work in this area.
This course surveys a broad range of topics which are core to understanding transcriptional dynamics and how these processes are regulated. The organizers are very thoughtful in which papers they have chosen for discussion as many of them have lead to reconsideration of how we view the transcriptional process and the factors we view as important. After critically reviewing 40+ papers throughout the course, I have a much greater understanding about the complexities of gene regulation and would strongly encourage anyone with an interest in genetics to take this course.
If this class is offered, just take it. You are going to discuss science with the most successful scientists for 3 hours every week. Don't waste time on boring classes and take this class.
