It is super difficult and requires a lot of time for the problem sets!
This class will definitely expose you to genetic approaches in different model organisms. You will learn a lot but it will definitely be a lot of work. The course is very organized and the lectures are very good.
Take this class only if you do not have any experience in upper level genetics or did not work in a genetics lab.
It is an excellent way to learn about genetics if no background in genetics
This class is challenging, but its amazing how applicable the information is. Even if you don't fully understand everything taught by the end of a module (or of the course), you'll realize you can understand the primary literature significantly better when it pertains to any of the model organism covered in class. This was useful for BBS230 and literature searches for my own research.
I did not take BCMP, and I do not regret it; I took genetics, and I do not regret it.You will learn about 1. common model organisms, 2. some traditional AND modern experimental techniques, and 3. how to answer questions about genes and their pathways.It is not a memorization-based class, but a "logic of experimentation" class.
Probably one of the best organized classes I've taken at Harvard. They do a very good job (with rare exceptions) on going over the strengths and weaknesses of various model organisms and why they are important
This class makes you work, and the problems are not easy.  However, you will come away with a very good, and broad, understanding of model organism genetics.
Very good class to learn about genetic model systems and methods. A decent amount of work, and is helpful if you form study groups early.
Very organized, coherent class. Find notes from 2014 at cureffi.orgExams are difficult. Work with multiple friends
fun exposure to different model organisms
It really taught the basics of genetics well, particularly yeast.
Go to section! It is very helpful for clarifying material from the lecture that was confusing. Also, start on the problem sets early and discuss them with your classmates. Discussing your ideas with other people helps you to clarify what you want to say and can also be useful if you're stuck on a problem and other people have good ideas.
Unlike what is mentioned, I think that basics in cellular/molecular biology and genetics and more than welcome to take this course without spending a huge amont of time on it.
You may not like the problem sets as you're doing them, but they are the best way I've ever encountered to learn genetics
Excellent course! Highly recommendable. Professors are spectacular, content is useful and applicable, there are (light) computational workshops that are great introductions and the workload is low, especially relative to what you get out of the course.
Start your problem sets early, work together and prepare to be rudely awakened to what is graduate school.
It would be a great asset for your future research.
This course if very difficult and skills learned aren't directly translatable to your research. It really focuses on just being able to answer challenging question, not teaching the material. If it is not a required course continue taking another if you are not up to the, in my opinion, unnecessary and exaggerated difficulty. This course, if anything, is a "right of passage", but not necessary to be successful in grad school.
It's good!
Make sure your TA gives you lots of practice problems WITH good answer keys because there will be not problem-solving examples in class. Ask lots of questions during lecture and after. Start the problem sets early -they are tricky.
Take this course! Understanding genetics is important if you want to do a PhD in biology.
One of the best classes to ever take!
it's a great course, even if you've had prior exposure to genetics.
This class is very focused on genetics that will be applied in a research setting with a large focus on model organisms. It provides a very good overview that goes sufficiently in depth on a selection of topics that you feel you've learned something. Would recommend if you plan on joining a lab that genetics approaches.
A fantastic course well-run by Fred Winston. Most of the lecturers are great speakers who communicate their ideas very effectively. A must-take for incoming graduate students who didn't take undergraduate genetics, and still highly recommended for those who did. In addition to basic microbial genetics, the course covers genetics in a variety of model systems ranging from worm to humans.
I recommend this class to anyone that is interested in learning basic genetics. I don't recommend this class to anyone who feels they already have a basic knowledge of genetics.
It is a great class that give you sufficient genetics background for your future research. No more wondering how knockout mice and genetic mutants are actually generated in labs. Some of the Profs. are amazing teachers.
if you took 7.03 at MIT don't take this class
This is one of the best courses I've ever taken at Harvard (undergrad and grad).
Useful course if you plan to continue in biomedical research. You get a really good feel for the material, and the majority of the lectures are good. Also, its not too much work, as long as you attend lectures.
It is a very tough class, but the concepts you learn are absolutely critical to biology, regardless of what model organism you are working in. It gives you the background neccesary to critically read genetics literature and take something away from those papers.
Talk about the lectures and assignments with your buddies. It feels excellent when you explain these professional knowledge in a simple way, and equally good to hear those explanations.
It provides an excellent overview of various model organisms studied in genetics. At the same time it confers the excitement of genetics research by highlighting and explaining key discoveries in the field.
You learn a lot from genetics and the logic you learn is likely to help you in the future.
This course will really change not only the way you think aboput genetics but the way you do research in general as well. It is very, very demanding in terms of time and concentration, but the payoff is high and it is a wonderful opportunity.
Good to have a background in genetics in regards to various model organisms.
Make sure you understand the problem sets and solutions...  Solve every single problem that you can get a hold of.
helpful for graduate research
Take it if you do not have a solid background in genetics. If you do, skip it and look for a more advanced class.
This is a great, problem-based genetics course!
I learned a lot in this class. Great coverage of modern genetic research.
I don't understand the enthusiasm for this course. The lecturers may be committed to teaching, but the lectures don't exactly feel like there's much momentum. As long as you form a study group, this course is really not as hard as it is reported to be, even for someone coming into it with no background, like myself.
It is very important to know the techniques presented in this class, so it it a great idea to take the course and work to master the material.
Oftentimes we choose courses because we feel that, in the long run, it'll be useful for whatever research we choose to undertake. While I believe the class has given me a good basis for any experiments I might use in the future, I feel that more emphasis should have been placed on current techniques, such as sequencing, in particular understanding how to analyze sequencing results. As such, I don't feel the course was as useful as I expected (but I'm the virology program and I sure people from BBS feel differently).
Have a strong background in genetics BEFORE you take this course.
This class provides a wonderful overview of the Genetics in the most important model organisms.
This class is probably most useful to people moving into the field of biology. It provides a good historical perspective outlining how the bulk of modern genetic knowledge was acquired. For students more comfortable with modern genetics the course may seem slightly outdated and lacking focus on more modern approaches to dissecting the genetic underpinnings of biological processes.
It is not helpful unless you will be using one of the model organisms talked about...which I am not so I found the course largely unhelpful. Would have been better for me if it was organized around genetic principles, not specific model organisms.
Despite my never having taken genetics before, I found this class incredibly enjoyable and valuable. I gained a solid appreciation for the sorts of questions that genetic analyses and experiments are capable of answering and learned, in at least preliminary depth, how to design such experiments in a variety of relevant model organisms. Indeed, I foresee myself seeking to investigate this new interest of mine in my PhD work.
This class is great to get an idea of the advantages and disadvantages of working with different model organisms. Specially recommended for those with no biology background like me.
The course is a lot of work, but if you keep up and do well, you will end the semester with a very solid base of knowledge on genetics methods, organisms and approaches to problems.
Great class, highly recommend.
if you are finding it difficult, make sure you take advantage of the resources like TAs, faculty office hours and additional tutoring. be on top of classes. don't let good problem set grades make you complacent because the exams are hard.
Excellent class. Landmark feature of BBS program, absolute no-brainer to select. Run with machine-like efficiency and you'll learn a ton.
As an MD/PhD student, I've now taken many graduate level courses, and I'd like to say that this course is one of the best-run courses in terms of its organization, and how useful the section component was. I was a little skeptical at first that content taught in the course would be relevant to my future work (cancer biology), and while a lot of it was not relevant I appreciated walking away from the course with the ability to pick up a paper about any of the model organisms covered and understand what is going on, and perhaps more importantly, I began to gain a bigger-picture sense of the guiding principles behind the design of genetic screens and selection processes in any organism.
Course is well-taught and gives a nice overview of the various genetic tools and approaches for different model organisms. Do be prepared to spend some time on this course as the questions require a fair bit of thinking.
Great overview of genetics and model systems.
While many fundamental discoveries have been made in the field of genetics, the techniques I learned in this class have little relevance to the work that I will be doing in the future. Therefore, it is hard for me to recommend this class to others.
A good course that introduces you to various aspects of genetics.
Audit the course and attend the first section to get the important material and save time.
Although this was one of the most challenging courses I have ever taken, it has also been the most useful and I have no regrets about ever signing up for it.
Class was informative, but a lot of work.
You will learn about classical and modern tools in genetics using different modern organisms.
It's fun, the faculty are interesting, and the problem sets are challenging.
Great class putting modern techniques into historical perspective.
Overall, the course is good but the quality of each section is variable and the problem sets can take a long time.
Good overview of classical biological techniques. Hopefully will change to include more bioinformatics/newer techniques in the future.
This class is challenging but definitely worth it.
Overall this is a great course, the lectures are well delivered and teach you a lot about historical and modern techniques in genetics.  It provides good fundamentals for any graduate student looking to do research related to genetics.  Don't take the course however if you already are very familiar with graduate level genetics.
Foundational but not challenging.
Get ready to rumble.... This course is refreshingly challenging.
You'll want to jump right into a genetics lab!
Challenging class but I leaned so much more than any other class. It was worth the stress.
One of the most interesting and challenging courses I have ever taken. I would definitely recommend to any student who has a background (even if only introductory) in genetics, my only reason for a slight hesitation in recommending to students would be if they have no background in genetics at all. They must be willing to out in several extra hours from the other students in their class.
This course is a strong introduction to genetic analysis in several model organisms.  The content of the course is all in the lectures, and these vary in quality but peak at real excellence.  The lectures alone, however, will give far less than viewing this course as a lecture-heavy directed reading course.  Unfortunately, viewed in this light the lecture aspect of the course is very time-consuming.  The lecturers are, though, wonderful teachers and this is a great introduction to many aspects of modern genetics.
The professors for the course are all excellent; they know their material, have very well-prepared lectures, and the class is very organized and runs extremely smoothly. The instructors are all open to student input and evaluations through problem sets and exams are very fair.
I didn't spend much time on the course because I had some background in genetics (I am a mol bio major). However, there were many others in the course with no background who spent a lot of time on the material. Be prepared to learn many things from scratch if you are not prepared.Fred is amazing, and some of the other lecturers are pretty good too. But I was disappointing that the human genetics section was pretty poorly prepared this time.
Definitely worth the pain.
Gives a solid background in genetics and genetic tools.
The assignments make you think, but in a rewarding and useful way such that you can design experiments and understand results.
I would only recommend this course to those have have taken genetics before. The course does not offer an introduction to general concepts, but it is rather an extensive methodology course for those who are already well versed in the subject matter.
You will work hard, but it is incredibly rewarding and useful for research.
This class places an overly large emphasis on grading and requires a solid background in molecular biology, however you will come out of it with a great foundation in wetlab genetics that you will be glad you went through the trouble for.
A solid overview of different areas of genetics, with an emphasis on methods
It's difficult but worth it.
Read (some of) the supplemental papers, send questions via email, and do the problem sets together in a group.
Great course for learning about classical and modern genetic approaches to different model organisms. The problem sets will be demanding, but there are only four-five and you can work with your classmates.
The problem sets are fun.
The course covers a thorough, broad range of areas in modern genetics.  The teaching staff is wonderful.
To those who want to take this course with no biology background (read: physicists), it is doable, but the initial curve will be steep.
This course should be taken by people with little or no background in modern genetics. If you have a strong genetics background (e.g. in yeast, bacteria or mammals) consider more advanced reading courses in genetics. If you want to know the basics of modern genetics, but not necessarily jump into a lab and apply it, this course is for you.
Arguably one of the top two or three courses I've taken (including all other undergrad courses).  Material is covered with depth and both theory and application are shown extensively.
Despite the challenging problem sets, this is an amazing class!
This is a very good course.
The professors are fabulous and the problem solving is not only addicting, but fun.
It's very challenging, but you'll learn a lot.
Every graduate biology student, regardless of area of concentration, should take this course to appreciate the underlying genetic basis of their specialization.
This course is a rigorous introduction to modern human and model organism genetics.  It is a lot of work, consistently quite challenging, and is not recommended as a true introductory course.  However, if you have some biology background and enjoy logical thinking, this course can be extremely rewarding.  The lecturers are almost all phenomenal, and you will learn a huge amount.
An excellent course to learn genetics, even if you have never taken a genetics course before. This class also prepared me well for lab rotations by giving me the tools to think critically about how to tackle a particular research question. Problem sets can be tough but are excellent preparation for the exams. Definitely go to office hours when you can, the lecturers are very committed to clearing up any confusion from lectures.
Tough but worthwhile if you have not already had a similar course
It's a good exercise for your brain, whether you're into genetics as a possible future research area or not.
Take this course if you are looking for a genetics course.  There are other courses offered at Harvard, but from other classmates I have heard that this is the best.
A good study group helps a lot! Keep on top of the problem sets and it'll be a wonderful class.
This is an absolutely beautiful class!! Unless you take it, you'll never image such an amazing tour throughout genetics with a dazzling cast of star faculty members in the medical school!!!
Work with your classmates and friends on the problem sets. It is a great way to make friends and learn the material.
Great course overall. Will learn a lot.
This course is very difficult, but rewarding. Be prepared to put in a lot of time on problem sets and exams (two 24-hour take-home exams). Above all, make sure to go to class (lecture and section), since that is where all the material is taught (the course readings and textbook are not necessary).
Leave yourself plenty of time for the exams.
audit the organisms you plan to work with
This class is a lot of work!
It's a lot of work, and it's doubtful that you'll need to know about the genetics of more than 2 of the organisms covered in the long run, but since you have to take it for PQEs, this is a very well-structured course to take!
Good overview of a lot of basic genetic techniques.
This course is a good survey course.  However, for those without any background in genetics, it may be difficult.  Problem sets and exams can be challenging and time-consuming.
They tell you to not worry about grades and classes don't matter in grad school during your first week here.  Don't take that entirely to heart.  The problem sets and exams are difficult so devote enough time and energy to them.
It's really hard and be prepared to spend more time than you would like on it.
This is a great genetics course. I feel breaking it up into model organisms was effective, and the profs were good at connecting ideas across modules.
if you want to change the way you think biology and love logic, go for it !
The course give a great foundation on many areas of genetics, which many of us will come across in our future work.
Although it is not easy and requires quite a lot time commitment to fully understand all the materials in the class, I found it was really worthwhile to take this course. I became to have broader knowledge in genetics and became interested in some model system which is different from my previous research interest.
Genetics 201 can be brutally difficult and trying to complete problem sets caused me all kinds of misery (plus swearing in the wee hours of the morning).  I learned a lot from it, though, and I liked getting exposure to different model organisms.
Genetics 201 is an incredibly exciting and engaging course that will give you an in-depth and analytical understanding of genetics in the context of multiple organisms.
It's a lot of work but a good class to take
This is so far the best most interesting class I have taken in graduate school. It is difficult and requires a lot of time, but I generally enjoyed taking it even if some moments it was very difficult and tedious. The problem sets are a smaller percentage of the grade but don't underestimate how much time they take and how much you really have to think to answer them. The questions are not straightforward and actually require creative thinking. Working with classmates on the problem sets is a great perk of being in the class, you get to learn from eachother and bond over shared confusion and distress. The instructors are great and were able to make boring-sounding areas (such as yeast or bacteria) sound intriguing and worth studying.
attend all lectures if possible.
I think it was a difficult course, but I learned a lot from it. The course content can be easily applied to lab work in any concentration.
Very useful for learning the subject material, but it's definitely a major time commitment.
Be prepared to work through most examples yourself. The lectures provide some specific examples, but don't point out caveats, slight variations, or applicability/context identification. Work through genetics examples on your own, and seek help early in each module. Work on the problem set as soon as it is available, so you can seek help if necessary.
It gives good exposure to working with and analyzing different genetic systems.
It's a lot of work, but you learn so much.  It's easier to read a wide variety of papers.
Overall a great class.  Make sure to start problem sets early.
This is the only class first semester (and probably one of the few bio classes in general) that will really make you think, sometimes deeply, about problems.
Class involves a lot of work (especially group work) and is very difficult, but it is rewarding and the professors are excellent.
Hopefully course is re-worked a bit to be better for students
it's useful but the work required is perhaps too much.
The amount of work required for the class is too much
Genetics 201 provides students in-depth exposure to experimental genetics in several model organisms including yeast, bacteriophage, Drosophila, C. elegans, and mammals.  Even if your research does not directly involve genetics, taking this course will be critical for understanding papers that use these model organisms to make key discoveries in your field.
This class is very difficult if you've only had basic genetics (Mendel's laws, Punnett squares). It covers a lot of experimental genetic tools that you can use in yeast, bacteria, phage, Drosophila, C. elegans, mouse, and human genetics (including complementation tests, recombination/linkage, crosses, screens, GWAS, pedigree analysis). If you don't have a good background, it is possible to take this course, but you will need to work really hard and find a good study group!
very difficult course, but you learn a lot of information that is important
Must have ample time to do problem sets and should be comfortable with low level genetics
it will be a lot of work but it's definitely worth it! loved the course
Best to do it your first year.  Will take too much time from lab if not.
although difficult, its worth spending the time to get exposed to the general concepts of genetics
Hard course but you will learn a lot.
Very hard/challenging but learn a lot.
The problem sets are incredibly time-consuming, to the point that they'll seriously cut in to the time you can devote to your first rotation. Bear this in mind when deciding whether to take the class.
Great lectures but problem sets are very challenging. Recommend to students that have introductory genetics background in undergrad.
I feel that the material covered in this course in important, however, at the outset if I knew how much time the assignments would require, I likely would have elected to audit the course rather than take it for credit.
This course is more than an overview of general genetic concepts. By touching, with some detail, on the genetics of the major genetic model organisms, you learn not only the tools available for each model and how to do genetics on that model, but also you start to getting a feeling of what sort of questions you can ask and which you cannot because of the lack of tools available, or because it would be infeasible or impractical.
This course gives a nice foundation in genetic processes and methods in solving genetics problems
If you are not going to be doing genetics, avoid taking this course.
The class is a great introduction to the field of genetics and to each of the model organisms presented. It is great because it gives you a great overview of the basic questions that you can ask using bacteria, yeast, mice, worms, and human genetic data. Also, the professors are all engaging, funny, and knowledgeable about their respective subjects. I also really enjoyed the problem solving aspect of the class.
the teachers are fantastic.
The course is difficult and challenging, but in a good way.  Stay engaged during lectures, work hard with your peers on the problem sets, and you will find by the end of the course that you have learned a lot of genetics.  The material will definitely set a foundation that will give you the ability to knowledgeably read any genetics paper in the literature.
This course is quite tough, but definitely worth taking.
While challenging, this course is incredibly worthwhile and taught by faculty who truly care about the course material.
I would only recommend this course to students that have a strong interest in pursuing genetic experimentation in a laboratory setting.
It is hard, but it is a very useful learning tool.
Go to lectures, take good notes, and start the problem sets as soon as they're posted.
This is a tough, time-consuming class, but it is well-taught and definitely worth it. The best way to understand the material is through the problem sets; work on problems as soon as the relevant topics are covered in lecture.
This course gave me a strong background and exposure to genetics. The lectures by Fred Winston were especially fantastic, and one should enroll in this class even just for his lectures.
will give you more confidence in going into one of the experimental systems they taught
It's a difficult class but the only one worth taking if I had to choose between all the first semester classes (not that we can opt out of Micro 230).
this is a great class. Take it if you want to really learn genetics.
This class is a thorough and generally well-run course that teaches you all of the basics of analyzing things from the standpoint of genetics.  The material is very organized, and Winston and Lanni are great lecturers.  It gives you a really fascinating viewpoint into how this entire field works on solving problems and elucidates the principles of genetics while also covering its techniques.
Labor intensive, but ultimately rewarding.
If you want to have an immersive and awesome genetics experience, this class is great!  You'll have to work hard and it won't be as easy as most of the undergrad bio classes but you'll learn a lot and get a lot from it.  I loved it!
You can take the course if you wanna have a real good foundation of genetics, but be careful it's really demanding!
It you notice that you are struggling with the class, get extra help as soon as you can. The TAs and instructors are extremely kind and helpful.
Tough, but fair.  You will come out knowing way more than you did before.
TOugh but you learn a lot!
This is a great class to learn genetics with a focus on research techniques. The focus on different model organisms is also, in my opinion, very good. It is extremely well organised so that with a decent amount of effort you'll learn a lot. I had never taken genetics before, but still managed OK although there was a bit of a learning curve in the beginning. I would recommend doing the practice problems before doing the homework assignments, which are long but very helpful. Fred and Jenny are both amazing teachers.
It requires a large time commitment, but I'm sure the class made me grow as a scientist.
do the Psets and practice problems. very helpful
If you're interested in genetics (particularly in working in a genetics lab), take this course--it's very thorough and will be useful. If you're not interested in genetics, don't.
I think this course was really interesting and informative. It wasn't really applicable for anything I plan to do in the future and perhaps another course would have been more useful for me but I did learn things I did not know before.
This is a challenging but fun course, and was my favorite class this semester.
It is not difficult per se, but it requires you to pay attention and think a lot when solving the problem sets. Overall, the instructors are great but some are definitely better than the others.
A good intro to the fundamentals of genetics - doesn't presume very much previous knowledge at all.
Make sure to do the practice problems and practice exams. It will help immensely.
This class will definitely provide you with a great foundation in genetics, which is something you will need in practically any area of science nowadays.
Very helpful in understanding virtually any basic/intermediate topic or paper in genetics. Recommended unless you are a genetics expert already
Very challenging but worthwhile.
If you don't have a strong background in genetics, be prepared to devote extra time. The problem sets can take a long time, and the midterm exam is excessively long. Overall, however, the course provides a very helpful overview of key concepts in genetics, with a strong emphasis on experimental aspects.
It requires a good handle on basic genetics. Problem sets are time consuming and exams are dense.
The way this course teaches genetics really encourages logical thinking. Learning generics as an approach in biological research is a useful skill to have.
This is a hard class. The tests are hard, you will put in hours and hours of work into each problem set. But it is totally, absolutely worth it. This is the one class you'll use the rest of your scientific career, and if you want to teach you can't find better role models than the professors who teach this course.
This class teaches the material in the most comprehensible way possible, with well-paced chalk talks.
This is a fantastic course. It will kick your ass a bit but the amount of information you get out of it remains invaluable. Very comprehensive and thorough and will leave you wanting for more...
You will learn a lot but the exams are difficult, requires memorization (because of the time constraint).
If you're up for a commitment (partly to show up at class at Longwood at 9am three days a week), take this instead of LS1b. One of the best lecture-based classes I have taken
This class will give you a strong background in the genetics of many commonly used model organisms. It will help you to see how research is different in each case.
Genetics 201 starts out a little like drinking from a firehose, but thankfully mellows out after the midterm. Regardless you do learn a lot and it's definitely worth suffering through.
the concepts covered in this class will be very useful for identifying and analyzing genetic components of biological processes within any system one chooses to study
The course is not difficult, and it covers major topics of genetics.
You will learn a lot about four (maybe five?) of the most commonly studied organisms. Great class to get exposure to modern genetics research.
An fabulously taught course on genetics in different model organisms - really well-organized and very useful.
Hard but good
The class is well-taught and the problem sets and exams are fair.
This class is useful, but sometimes tends to focus in on details that seem less relevant in the big picture.
Way too much work for a grad school course. Going to get a good background, but not much in the way of advanced topics.
the exams are challenging but force you to really understand and learn the subject well.
the course is difficult but your hard work will be rewarding for your future research and study
Exams are pretty tough but it definitely good preparation for the fundamentals of genetics.
Very nice course preparing you with solid foundation in genetics from yeast to human, which can serve as a useful tool even in modern labs.
This course is the principles of genetics in a nutshel. It's a parade of model organisms, and a thorough understanding of each system is delivered by experts in their fields.
Not necessary if you have completed undergraduate coursework in intermediate/advanced genetics, but a very good "refresher" even if you did.
I'm not sure I needed to take this course, but it was a nice review and was still pretty challenging. A good course overall. I really enjoyed Winston's lectures and Jenni Sue Lanni was a very good lecturer as well.
Good class, but a lot of work
This is a great class to learn the fundamental concepts and experimental approaches of modern genetics in several model organisms.  The teaching in the course is very good, and I highly recommend it.
it's a great general genetics course. admittedly, i'm more interested in human genetics, so i have enjoyed the last two weeks more than the rest. i will say that i did find the rest of the course very enjoyable as well. in particular, the organization, the parallels from one model organism to the next, and the focus on describing 'seminal experiments' in the field.
Take this class even if you think you know genetics.
You get out of this class what you would expect you would get out of it.
Very useful material to have experience with. Parts learned in course will be very useful for future research and paper reading.
hard but good for learning the genetics of the main experimental systems.
well organized and well taught.  the problems sets are tough, but fair.
This class is really hard.  I strongly considered dropping it after the midterm.  I think if you are entering with my background and preparation level, I would suggest getting a tutor from the beginning of the class, and allotting a few hours every other day to study and work through problems.
Excellent class to learn experimental approaches to model organism genetics
This class was challenging and early in the morning at the med school, but it was really worthwhile.  It provides great background for understanding the genetics discussed in recent literature.
Good introduction to genetics.  Might be a dying out as a pure discipline but you can learn some very powerful techniques to augment the cutting edge stuff molecular stuff.
-good overview of model organism biology and genetic analysis-well-taught
For students who want to learn genetics, this is an excellent course.
hard class but if your interested in genetics and aren't an expert at it, the class is worth it
Make sure you have other people you can take this class with so you can work on problems together and discuss the material with them.
This is one of the most interesting and most informative courses I've ever taken. An essential course for any biologist.
A practical introduction to doing genetics experiments in five model organisms and humans. Info is very specific to those organisms, so may not be useful for working with other species. Well-taught and well-organized. Homework assignments are very time-consuming.
It's a great introduction to genetics and model organisms.
Problem sets take a lot of time so start early, but you will really understand the material after your are finished.  And ask questions!
very useful lecures and helpful lecturers, learn tremendously
Covers a lot of ground, but it's manageable.  Problem sets are a pain, but very helpful.
great course, well structured
I learned so much in this course and the professors are amazing at teaching.
A difficult, time-consuming course, but you'll learn a great deal and it's very worth taking.
If you need it then yes. I dont think i needed it.
Challenging but very interesting. I learned many things I would not have learned from any other class and it influenced how I think about biology.
You will learn a lot, but it will be frustrating at times.
Great chalk talk lectures covering genetics in different model organisms. Professors and TAs put a lot of efforts into the class.
This class was well organized and I think the most important aspects of genetics are included in this. It gives the student a great toolbox that will definitely be helpful in subsequent stages of the graduate career.
It's a fairly difficult course if you don't have much background in the field, but you'll leave with a decent understanding of genetic technique.
This course teaches both basic genetic principles as well as strategies for using genetics to address scientific questions. Both are important skills for a beginning graduate student.
Definitely stay on top of the material as the course progresses because everything builds off the foundation established in the yeast lecture series. Start problem set questions early if they involve multiple model systems (ex: after finishing fly lecture do that problem on the problem set before waiting until after the next model organisms are covered). Also I would recommend students to always go to discussion and to go to Fred's office hours! Super helpful even if you have no specific question but want to have key concepts re-explained.
Good way to get to know your classmates and suffer together. Useful, but hard.
Take it seriously, go to lecture. You'll finally get to hear from "their" perspective why people study all those funny little model organisms.
It's really hard but you do learn a lot.
The class is challenging, but definitely worthwhile.
Useful if you're fairly new to genetics but have some background.
It's a hard class, but I learned sooo much about genetics, some of which I am currently using in my rotation lab.
This is a great graduate-level introduction to a wide range of genetics in model organisms (yeast, bacteria, Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila, zebrafish, mice) and humans. The lecturers are on the whole very good and engaging, and are accessible for queries on course material and beyond. The course is extremely well-organised. Sections are professionally managed and run, and are useful in clarifying concepts and in practising genetics problems. The lecturers, TF and TAs are excellent resources.

I would highly recommend this class if you do not have an extensive background in genetics - the range of material covered means that most people will learn something new. I appreciate the fact that the course focuses on fundamental concepts in genetics, and does not dwell on book-work. The material is useful if you are intending to rotate in a lab focusing on any of the model organisms, and is very useful indeed for understanding core tenets of genetics and in developing an appreciation of the genetics mindset (crosses, mutants and beyond) towards approaching research questions.
Organized and well-taught class that helps you gain an understanding of genetics.
This is a fantastic introduction to genetics. It covers a lot of history and unifying principles that you will never pick up by just reading current papers in the field. It also includes a survey of a number of model organisms which will help you appreciate the pros and cons and unique facets of each. I thought I already knew a fair bit of genetics, but there was a lot of new material here and it was beautifully presented as chalk talks.
it's a well-organized, well-thought-out class.
The lectures are great, the problem sets and exams are very challenging but fair. Discussion section is helpful.
It is worth taking, though at some points it can be painful.
The course is more made for computer scientists, and so if you come from a molecular background then you may find answering questions on the problem sets and exams the way the instructors are looking for difficult.
Very useful to survey many model systems for genetics and learn about experimental methods
It requires more work than a few other courses, but is very enjoyable
Genetics 201 is a well oiled machine. The lecturers are mostly great, the assignments are useful, and the sections are helpful.
It's very hard, but you will learn a lot.
