Relaxed atmosphere. You get to see great researchers give talks that many people would travel and pay to see. Seeing patients brings an added dimension. If you favour a course format with more structure (e.g., problem sets, exams, etc.), or don't want to see patients, maybe not a course for you. Otherwise recommended with enthusiasm.
Great series of lecturers spanning many interesting topics on human disease genetics.
This course is a great way to learn about a number of genetic diseases. Not only do you hear lectures on the genetic basis and molecular mechanism [if known] from the top researchers in the field, you also get to meet patients and ask them about their experience with the disease.
Excellent course - facilitates discussion between clinicians, patients, and scientists. I believe the course should be renamed "From BEDSIDE to BENCH" because, essentially, doctors and patients participate in this course since they want to encourage new research in the fields of certain diseases. And they do an amazing job in motivating anyone to get engaged in it. Absolutely great course - one of the best I have ever taken - and recommended to anyone!Also, thanks to the instructors for fresh fruits, drinks, and cookies every Friday!
Great class if you're looking into medicine, especially because of the patient interviews. Take it unless you can't stay focused in a 3 hour class.
This is a great course to lean about research from the patients' perspective. It's incredibly inspiring.
A very fascinating class with not too much work.
The professors are knowledgeable but do not seem supremely invested in the course. They are of course busy as doctors but being present less than %50 of the time is unexpected.
This was the only class I've taken so far in the BBS program that had a clinical focus.  If you care about therapeutic development and are constantly trying to connect the dots between what you're doing at the bench and why it matters, this is the perfect class for you.  Meeting patients is an extremely powerful experience, and hearing from clinicians is also really illuminating and grounding.  The day-to-day difficulties of medicine can seem really far away from research, but shouldn't.  I also think this class has a lot of general interest value.  It touches on diseases, drugs, and social issues that we're all hearing about in the news every day.  I so appreciated the relevance and pragmatism of everything we were exposed to.  And many of the speakers were outstanding.
Super chill class. Don't be intimidated that this is a grad school course if you have a strong science background, because the light workload and patient visits are definitely worth it. Literally only had to do one presentation the entire semester.Would strongly recommend for anyone looking for an easy junior/senior spring class.
Easy but fascinating class. Great introduction to the clinical and scientific needs regarding genetic human diseases. Also a great introduction to faculty and current research projects within the Harvard community.
Great, interesting, very recent readings!  Great presentations, and you get to present too in journal club.  Look up terms on papers if you don't understand. That extra step helped me a bunch because although I have some background knowledge, these papers are very specific.
It's quiet inspiring to hear the patients stories. Additionally it is great to have a course bring wet lab research full-circle from hypotheses founded in basic science principles to experimental investigations to drug discovery and finally effects on patients.
I highly recommend the course. You get to hear from patients and/or their family and ask questions of them. You hear about the most cutting edge human genetics research happening at MGH and the Broad. It's best (as in you will learn and retain the most) if you have prior coursework in genetics (e.g. SCRB 150 or Genetics 201), but it's not necessary. The workload is essentially nothing other than reading for the majority of the course (a 10-page grant proposal is due at the end). This course is therefore perfect for the schedule of senior thesis writers.
Even though the material is very engaging, it is very difficult to sit through the 3 hour lecture. After the first two hours, it was hard to give rapt attention.
wonderful class!! it really connects basic science research, medical diagnosis, and patient experience. you'll look forward to going to class every week!
great course.
Be aware that the week to week content and the final project aren't heavily tied and the guidance for the final project is really fairly vague.
This was an incredible class. It was very valuable to hear patients talk about their diseases and their experiences with the scientific aspects of their disease. I learned so much about molecular mechanisms and the latest research about genetic diseases as well as experimental techniques.
Great overview of the researchers and the studies held on genetic disorders at Harvard. A unique opportunity to talk with patients about their disorders. A great opportunity for G1 students who are interested in population genetics and in studying genetic disorders to find a potential research group.
great class!
Take this course if you are a scientist interested in the medical impact of your work and in learning how to identify questions you may otherwise miss, or a doctor interested in improving the repertoire of technologies/diagnostic methods available to your patient.
It's an excellent class.  I really enjoyed the variety of diseases we covered, as well as the cookies and fruit.
You get to see how genetic disease affect and change the lives of patients.
It is a laid back class that allows people to get a background on many interesting topics with the added benefit of increased perspective in the form of visiting patients.
Amazing class, you will learn a lot through papers and presentations. Nice to get patient perspective.
This course teaches students both the science and the perspectives of patients so they can better direct their research towards a goal.
This course is a great overview for students interested in genetic disorders. Each week was both accessible, but in-depth enough to give students a sense of the field and if they are interested enough to pursue it more.
A very fascinating, immersive experience in about a dozen different genetic disorders, ranging from very rare to more common. We learned the biological background of the diseases, the current state of research, and learned about the quality of life of patients. Time outside of class was very limited to reading a few papers per week. Amazing course!
Pros:- The course has massive potential- The course is totally unique; I've never heard of a format quite like it before- The instructors are deeply invested- The speakers are world-class- The opportunity to hear from patients, physicians, and researchers all focused on a single disease each week is a phenomenal and unique opportunity to learn about all aspects of medical geneticsCon:- When I took it, the course was about 3-fold too large and filled mostly with people who either didn't care or lacked sufficient knowledge of genetics to contribute to the course
Read the articles, reviews, and any other background information on the disorder being discussed to get the most out of every session.
This is a fantastic course to apply your knowledge of genetics beyond the classroom and lab. It is really meaningful to hear from patients as well as researchers and physicians who are experts in a given disease. Every week you'll have to read one paper to prepare for class, and at one point during the semester you'll be expected to present in a group for Journal club, so it is an overall low time commitment with great reward in terms of how much you will learn from class.
Amazing course where you have the chance to interact with patients that have the disease that you could potentially study. You can see first hand what the impact of your research could be. Meets once a week and not particularly time consuming so you can add this class to your schedule regardless of how many courses you are already taking.
This course is a fantastic resource, and you will definitely get out what you put in. Make sure to do the readings each week and try to participate, and work hard on your presentation as it will essentially be your entire grade. Otherwise have fun with a new topic each week and the great patients and speakers and enjoy this gem of a course. Be careful of who is in your group for the presentation I found that dental students and others may not put in much effort, but there is no system by the course to account for that. The group's grade will be your grade, so be prepared to do extra work if you have to.
The patients are amazing and it's a very unique opportunity.
Almost no work, interesting guest speakers, absentee faculty.
This course was amazing. Three hours might seem long at first glance, but it passes surprisingly fast. There are also cookies and fruit to help keep you happy and pumped with sugar. In terms of the actual course stuff, you get the unique opportunity to hear personal stories from patients suffering from the various genetic disorders surveyed in the class. You also get to hear a brief introduction to what is known about the disorder and where the research is going from people who are working at the forefront of their field. If you're at all interested in medical genetics and where it's headed, definitely take this class!
This is was an amazing and insightful class and I would encourage anyone who is interested in medicine to take it - it was extremely motivating to see how research and clinical medicine are being combined to help patients and to understand the urgency of patients' needs through their stories and experience.
If you are interested in genetics and medicine, absolutely take this course. The format, weekly lectures on different diseases given by experts in that field, including patient interviews, will give you a very deep insight into medical genetics. Being able to learn about the biology of the disease and then see how it affects patients' lives was extremely inspiring and showed me the value of conducting clinical research alongside basic research.The course directors, Dr. Sweetser and Dr. Newton-Cheh, world-renown experts in the field of medical genetics, are absolutely fantastic, and always open to meet outside class to talk about research or to shadow them. Taking this course has undoubtedly been one of the best learning experiences in my career at Harvard.
