A really fun class that studies great anime that you can watch later by yourself. The best part of the class is section, where discussions are engaging.
I would recommend this course if you have any interest in watching and analyzing anime on a weekly basis.  Do not expect to simply watch popular anime-the class focuses on a wide variety of genres.
Definitely a great class. I was a little wary based on the Q scores from the previous year but it's a great way to fill the AIU gen ed requirement. I had liked anime before but I really wasn't that well-versed in it, and I still feel like I got a lot out of this class and was able to participate just as much as die-hard anime fans in my section. Lectures were kind of dry (I think the lecture slides should be put up on the website anyway), but I looked forward to section with Yurika every week! Also the paper and the group project were fun.
Be prepared to see some weird shit.
The course material is very interesting and the teaching staff is incredible, but you should only take this class if you plan to take it seriously.  It is definitely not an easy A, and is relatively difficult for a gen-ed.  That being said, if you engage with the course material you will find yourself looking at animation in a completely different way, and I found putting in the effort really rewarding.
This course is very interesting in exploring the differences in production and distribution.  The assignments are not difficult to complete, and are heavily dependent on student perspective/opinion.  There is no wrong way to approach this course.
AIU 53 is a wonderful, engaging, and fun class. Come in with an open mind and you will be surprised how much you will learn, and not just about anime. Readings are actually useful, and the teaching staff is super enthusiastic. Too bad Yurika is leaving, because she was a sweet-heart of a TF!
This class does not just watch anime and write about it.  There is so much more going on before the surface.  Questions like, "Why don't anime characters look Asian?" and "How has anime changed from being a marketing ploy to being an art form?" Take the class to find out.  You will be pleasantly surprised.
This class ranks among my favorite classes that I've taken at Harvard. If you have an interest in anime, definitely go for it, and if you haven't had much exposure to anime and are curious about it, I'd certainly recommend it as well. Keep in mind that the class isn't just sitting in lecture and section watching anime for an hour each- you'll learn about how to analyze anime and you'll learn about its history, and at the end you'll find yourself with a greater appreciation for it. There's a 2-hour screening session once a week in the evening as well, but if you do the readings beforehand you'll be able to see the ideas from the articles illustrated in the screenings. Try to get Yurika as a TF if she's TFing next year; she's wonderful!
Beware, they do not upload the lectures.
If you really love anime, you should take this course. You will learn alot about the history of anime. However, this course is NOT an easy one. It is difficult and sometimes it can be time consuming.
It's a decently easy class. You learn more about anime and its fan culture. I personally didn't think anime had much depth until I took this class--whenever I watch any anime or read any manga I definitely see it with a different perspective. While the subject material was interesting, the readings were often not. Lectures often helped to summarize and go over the readings. There's a lot of readings! Also, there's a lot more work to this class than you would normally expect and you would have to put in more hours as well.
This class is a very solid gen ed if you're interested in the material. Not too much work and a generally relaxed atmosphere make this course enjoyable, though it suffers a bit from a lack of focus.
Engaging professor, a bizarre array of anime ranging from nationalist propaganda to intricately designed 21st century works, and a variety of themes ranging from fan obsession, gender and the medium as a trans-national phenomenon.  It's a great class for anime and non-anime types alike, although it would have benefited from more contextual information critiquing Japanese society and culture, from a sociological perspective.  This might not be the class to explore Japan,or fulfill a Gen Ed requirement easily, but it's worthwhile as an introduction to a weird and wonderful genre.
This is an interesting class. You will likely enjoy it more if you have lots of experience watching anime, but people of all backgrounds will get something out of it.
Extremely cool way to fulfill your gen-ed requirement. The material was extremely enjoyable and you learn a lot, although it did get a bit weird during the Otaku/Yaoi topics. This course was extremely disorganized, and the exams for this course is a simply a pain and a hassle that makes you prepare a lot and tests you on a small fraction of the review guide that they give out (they only test 5-10 terms out of 100 at a point). Hopefully Professor Yoda will improve this course in that aspect.
The class was a lot of fun, but there are deceptively few assignments, so make sure to put enough time into them!
Take it if you love anime, and want to write a paper on Studio Ghibli or Evangelion
If you have interest in anime, Japan, or both, take this course.
Anime in Global Pop Culture sounds like the class all the athletes take in order to get an easy A. It's not. It is such an intellectually stimulating class. It verges on a fusion of philosophy and film theory but with a very entertaining twist because it is anime. I loved the class and I hate philosophy.  Be warned that the first half about limited and full animation is rather dry but it picks up momentum once you get to fan culture. It sounds like a geeky class but it's not, just check it out.
Although I am an anime enthusiast, I didn't get out of this class what I expected to. The screenings take up a lot of time, and the readings are interesting but I feel like the authors are just making up analysis and no one can refute them because there is nothing to draw on to refute. I enjoyed my section because of the people, but the class has much as to be desired.
the class is interesting and professor yoda is awesome. transitioning this class from a small elective to a larger gened has definitely taken its toll on flexibility, sections, and clarity of assignments, but i'm sure this class will get better and better as more feedback comes through.
Can get an A if you don't bs
Do it
Very interesting material (so definitely do all the readings) but class may be a bit confusing at times and requires you to piece things together yourself.
The readings are sometimes tedious, especially LaMarre, but the tests and papers are very fair.
Have fun with it!
This is an excellent class and that is coming from someone who never watched anime until the first screening.  You do not need to be a hardcore fan to appreciate Yoda's style and the in depth look that she takes on the medium in both its technique and message. Take it you will not regret it.
Not the easy gen ed you want it to be. It's a good film course, especially if you want to become familiar with anime that is not necessarily as fun as you would like.
If you have an idealized vision of this class being about casually watching anime and the homework being watching films, you may be hoping for more than you'll get. The class is focused on the aesthetic aspects and supplements viewings with very dry readings that take the field of "Anime Studies" very seriously.
Not as fun as the title seems--a lot of philosophical-ish type analysis, and the readings are especially dense. The midterm and final were definitely doable and fair, but the presence of a final project around the final definitely made the workload seem high for a gened.
take this class!
if i could do it all over again, i wouldn't.  probably not even pass/fail because i'd just get annoyed.  better idea: just watch random anime online.
Do not think that you will be able to relax and watch anime. This course goes beyond what some people initially think.
It's not a bad course, but it's not at all what I expected. Even though the title mentioned "Global and Popular Culture", we did not touch on any "mainstream" anime such as Pokemon, Dragon Ball Z, Naruto, etc. The most mainstream animes we saw were Gundam, Sailor Moon and Evangelion. The rest was a bit obscure. Also, don't think your homework is to watch anime. While you do watch anime once a week, it happens at a mandatory screening. So you have 2 lectures, 1 section and a 1.5 - 2 hour screening. The actual homework is reading. The final project was an essay or short story, and it had to include elements from the latter part of the course (more obscure anime like Utena, Paranoia Agent, Evangelion, Tekkonkinkreet). Also, we never watched an entire series because it takes too much time-- we instead watched a few important episodes from the series and had the rest summarized for us.However, if you're looking for a course about the (very rich and interesting) culture, history and technical techniques used in anime, and don't mind skipping around a few animes, then by all means take this class. I watch anime with a new eye now, and it was definitely a worthwhile experience, even if it wasn't what I thought it was. Not a bad way to fulfill a Gen Ed, just watch out for the midterm and final exam (yes, there was a final paper and exam) because some of the questions could catch you off guard. But overall it was a good experience and I'm glad I took it. There were definitely some interesting + surprising moments towards the second half of the course (which was far better than the first!).
This was the first year this course existed as a gen-ed. The q-guide rating from the year before was when the class was much smaller and intimate. Generally, lectures are somewhat drab and readings are atrocious, but at least you'll be introduced to anime that you have never seen before and learn to appreciate it in a different way than what you expected. Watch out for the 2 weeks yaoi though that was pretty rough.
If you are curious about anime but haven't seen that much, take this class. Some were frustrated with not watching their favorite anime, but I was happy to be exposed to the history of anime as well as new shows. Some thought that Prof. Yoda was a subpar lecturer, and I agree that some of the concepts were difficult to grasp when she clarified them.
Good, easy way to fulfill AIU requirement. This year was the first year it was run as a Gen Ed (~50 people in the class versus <10 in the past), so it had some kinks, though I expect they will be worked out for next year if offered. I really enjoyed it though I'd never seen anime before this class.
This is a great GenEd. Professor Yoda is an excellent lecturer and the anime series and films we watch are great.
It is a very interesting course, but requires analysis beyond the surface. You will walk out with more respect for anime. The workload is reasonable. I would recommend this for an elective.
It might not be what you're expecting
You don't need to be an anime fan to love this class--the material and the theory is genuinely fascinating and stimulating. But if you do love anime, then this class is sheer joy.
This class turned out to be very different from what I had imagined it to be. I didn't mind the workload (it wasn't very heavy to begin with), but I didn't see how the screenings we had each week connected together the way the professor wanted us to. Attendance in lecture was mandatory as part of our grade (participation), but they were usually just a summary of that week's readings. That said, the midterm and final exams weren't difficult, so if you need a relatively painless Aesthetics and Interpretive Gen Ed, you can probably take this one.
If you're expecting "watching anime" to be the only homework, then you are sadly mistaken. There will be lots of readings (by that i mean two a week, which is so doable.) YOu should take this class if you love anime. If you are looking for an easy class, this class is relatively easy. If you're looking for a class with no work, then nope <== also GTFO.
Fun class that is not too much work, though possibly a little more than you might expect. First essay was graded fairly strictly, so make sure you do a legit job. Study guides are very helpful for midterm and final! And prof did ultimately choose to provide lecture slides before tests for study purposes, but as often slides just consist of a picture, don't slack off with your notes.
You will watch some awesome shows!
It is a fun class but don't take it if you are just an anime fan... there's quite a bit of work involved including weekly 2-hr screenings.
Pretty enjoyable viewings. You can make the assignments into whatever you want, really. A lot of the reading material is somewhat incomprehensible.
This will be a good class for you if you are REALLY passionate about anime.
If you watched anime growing up, take this course! The assignments are fun, easy, and relevant, and the coursework isn't very hard. Highly recommended!
This class was very good, because I got to learn more about anime, which I usually wouldn't think of academically. I don't know if someone who isn't already interested in anime would enjoy the course, but if you do like anime I think  you'd enjoy the class. I feel like I can watch anime much more... intellectually.
This class is so fun and you learn so much! Courses like this are what liberal education is all about.
This class is amazing. It really highlights the importance of anime in a global context in a enjoyable manner. Definitely take this class if you are even remotely interested in anime.
This was one of my all-time favorite courses at Harvard! Not only do you get to watch all kinds of anime for class, but the readings are fascinating, and Professor Yoda is awesome and knows so much about the material. I think some of the coolest parts were learning about fan culture and how it intersects with the media and even world history, which is a lens you can apply to any kind of pop culture you encounter in your life, from anime to books to movies. I was just talking about the database model in regards to the latest Star Wars the other day! There isn't much work on a week-to-week basis, and the assignments you do have are pretty interesting. If you're a fan of anime or of anything, really, you'll enjoy it all the more. Take this class - you will not regret it!
This course is great, but it is more time/work than you would expect. The lectures are interesting and insightful  Professor Yoda knows her stuff and pushes back hard when she suspects you are not confident in your answers (which is great!). Floris and Peter are amazing as well very responsive and eager to help.
If you don't watch anime at all, or barely know what it is, I won't discourage you from taking this course but I will say that others in the course will have an advantage. I started watching anime from a very young age, so I definitely found a lot of the assignments and materials easier. I don't think anyone had a particularly hard time though, so it's an easy Gen Ed I'd recommend to anyone with an interest in anime at all.
Great class if you are into anime, not necessarily about the plot-lines of different anime but more about anime's cultural significance. That being said, it still provides some satisfaction for those seeking to experience more anime. Very easy course, very light workload.
It causes you to look at anime from a very analytical perspective.
Without a doubt one of the best classes at Harvard. The content is wonderfully chosen, and Professor Yoda shows you an insanely deep and informed perspective on understanding and viewing each series and Japanese culture more broadly. You will learn about film studies and arts and humanities and all kinds of combinations. Great discussions in class. I loved every moment in this course.
Take this class if you'd like to approach anime from a critical standpoint and understand the conceptual and practical nuts-and-bolts of it.
That it is very applicable to the world popular entertainment today.
This class is a fun way to fulfill a Gen Ed, and while it isn't extremely difficult it isn't a walk in the park either. The assignments are pretty diverse, from essays to a creative project to weekly writeups. The course focuses mainly on the history of animation in Japan and how it's progressed as a medium and less about analyzing certain types of anime, so if that's what you were hoping for it may not meet your expectations (though there's plenty of analysis too!). Try and actually do the readings so that you have a good grasp on the concepts when you get to class -- otherwise you'll feel lost. Overall, I definitely recommend it if you have to fulfill the Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding Gen Ed, or even if you just want to take it as an elective.
It's super interesting even if you don't know much about anime or Japanese culture!
It's a really fun class that allows you to discuss many social and cultural conditions (about Japan and anime) in-depth with a knowledgeable group of people.
Possibly my favorite class I've taken at Harvard. And I'm a senior.
This class is engaging and presents relevant academic discussion about anime. You can take this as an elective course which covers Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding. I highly recommend it if you've ever found yourself interested in anime.
Telling people that you're taking Japanese Anime might be a little weird at first.
This class is really worthwhile to take. However, it is a lot of work. It is not an easy-A class, but if you put in effort into this class, you will get a lot out of it.
Professor Yoda and the TFs are not only amazing, sweet people but also immensely knowledgable about the subject matter they teach. If you have absolutely any interest in anime at all, you're going to love the course! A good idea might be to get together a group of friends to split the readings up to make the longer ones more manageable, but if you take this class I can almost guarantee it to be one of the best (if not the best) in your schedule.
Use the light work load to think deeply about the material, not an excuse to blow off the class
This class is NOT light or easy, but in the best way possible. The material is brilliant, professor Yoda is brilliant, and you might be surprised what you learn about entertainment and about yourself!
How often do you get a chance to take a class about anime? Professor Yoda gives well-organized and interesting lectures. You'll sample a broad selection of anime ranging from WWII propaganda animation to the key episodes of Neon Genesis Evangelion to surreal scenes of Daicon IV. The workload is rather light, but every assignment is engaging and fun! The CAs are very helpful, and give lots of feedback on the assignment. On top of it all, it satisfies a Gen Ed! Take this class!
This class is really fun and has a wonderful environment! The subject material is fascinating and broadens your understanding of anime and Japanese culture. Definitely take this class if you like anime or Japanese culture in any way. Just be ready to read every week. It's not a lot, but it still takes some time.
You might not enjoy this class if you are a realist.
The coures is very interesting, but grading can be "random" or hard to understand.
Have a basic understanding of animation before and make sure to do all the reading and attend all the screenings
Material can get weird and if you are not into anime, then you can be an outcast in the class.
This class isn't going to be just watching anime.
This class is a super fun and interesting perspective on anime as a historical genre.  You don't just learn about anime, but you learn about the impact the genre has had on everything from cinema, to marketing, to cultural history.  Take this class!
If you are interested in anime at all or if you want to learn more about an incredible medium, this course is for you.
If you are at all interested in Anime and cannot seem to find another class that you are interested in to fill the AIU requirement, this is a great choice. Professor Yoda is engaging and insightful. The TFs are super nice and do care a lot about the class and students. There are some tough readings and a decent deal of work. The take-home exam is essentially a final paper as well. Overall still a great course!
Course is not what you would expect. Be prepared to learn more about the culture behind anime and analyzing elements of animation.
Professor Yoda (yes, you get to have a professor named Yoda) is so awesome and cares deeply about the subject. She is able to make the lectures accessible to those new to anime while also making the discussions engaging for those who watch anime/read manga on a regular bases. The TFs are also really nice and give great feedback on essays.
This was hands down the best course I've taken at Harvard, and I'm a physics concentrator. You'll see other comments that this course isn't "just watching TV," but I felt Prof. Yoda makes even the more dense scholarship (LaMarre) go down really easily. The readings were fascinating, you watch two hours of anime per week, and if you feel like procrastinating you have an excuse to watch anime "for class." The meta discussion on how anime producers and fans view themselves were also really fascinating and fun to learn about.
The essays were some of the easiest I've written because the material was simply enjoyable. The project was really fun if you wanted to put time into it and gelled with your group members (we got along well). I think if you didn't want to spend as much time it was still pretty much fine, I would not recommend that it deter you from the course.
I would also recommend that if you're interested and looking for a show to binge, watch Evangelion and/or Revolutionary Girl Utena (provided both are still on the syllabus). There's a weeklong unit on each and I thought it was really helpful to have seen at least some of the shows beforehand (definitely not necessary, but they're excellent shows anyway).
Great class, you watch anime always, super painless. Do it.
The material is very interesting and our class was very engaged with the material which lead to great discussions and classes.
Pretty easy class. Take it if you can write.
Don't be afraid to take this if you haven't watched anime before.
An interest in anime (obviously) and postmodern theory is a must.
