If you want to seriously study Chinese cinema, you have to take Professor Li's class, and especially this one. This class opened my eyes on Chinese cinema in so many different levels, and I always came out of class discussions learning something new each week. There are a lot of readings, and you have to spend a lot time watching films, but I think it's all worth it and I highly recommend this course to any serious East Asian film scholars out there.
As well as giving me a solid introduction to the critical vocabulary of film studies and a broad overview of the development of Chinese cinema, this course enriched my knowledge of Chinese twentieth century history. The workload is just right -- enough to keep you on your toes and keep you thinking, but not so much that you're drowning in reading and response papers (cf. graduate history seminars!). Li Jie is a very supportive and knowledgeable teacher. You'll look forward to class every week.
If you are looking for challenging, theoretically informed discussions on a variety of Chinese films, then this class is for you. At the same time that the seminar engages with specific media (animations, shadow play, documentary), you never lose sight of the big questions at stake (is there such thing as a uniquely Chinese cinema? What different kinds of reality can be portrayed through film? What is the relationship between film and politics?). Prof. Li is knowledgeable and accessible outside of class, but more importantly, she has important insights to share and personal anecdotes from her many experiences in the field.
Take it - it requires some work and effort but it's so worth it.
Although the subject matter may sound niche, the course works well as a window into 20th century Chinese cultural history, and as a more general platform for theoretical discussions about music and performativity in film
Learn how to analyze a film as preparation before taking this class
Read patiently and critically evaluate the analytical text; it is ok to hold different opinion with the text
