Fantastic professor, incredibly knowledgeable; highly recommend this course to anyone interested in art, design, theater at all - will think about theater/design/art in a whole new way; even if you don't like "avant-garde" theater/design, you will like it - or at a minimum find it fascinating - by the end of this course
choose it.
You don't have to be interested in set design to take this course.  The class focuses mostly on the different art movements and how they affected theater.  It's also almost like a history course--it talks a lot about the stories behind theater emerging in the 20th century which is really interesting.
I cross-registered for this course and loved it. Every lecture was engaging. Julia is unbelievably knowledgable about the material and extremely accessible to address concerns about the class and further explore topics we didn't fully cover outside of class. I highly recommend this course to undergraduates and graduate students alike.
This is a phenomenal course! Julia is an amazing instructor. Definitely take this course.
This is a great course where you'll learn a lot about theater and set design. It was truly a privilege to listen to Julia speak on these topics, and I felt like I had a lot to learn from her every class. It's not a stressful class at all, yet I learned a lot. I'd highly recommend this course if you have any interest in theater.
It's a really great course! It will definitely make you a better designer.
For anyone with an interest in theater or art history, this course is a gem. Professor Smeliansky is well-studied and extremely enthusiastic about the subject material. Her lectures are not only engaging and dynamic, but they also make fascinating connections between the field of focus (theater) and boarder cultural movements. The workload is manageable and the course cares more about genuine engagement than busy-work.
Julia and Marissa are two are the kindest, most helpful instructors I have had. Any question you may have, they will answer promptly and clearly. I would highly recommend this course if you are getting a secondary in Dramatic Arts because it is fascinating material that few courses cover at Harvard.
This is one of the gems of Harvard classes.  Julia's absolutely incredible!
