This is a great class if you're interested in the subject. The trips to NYC really make the course -- it's so awesome! Be ready for things to be a little unstructured, but overall the course is great and the material is really interesting.
This class is AMAZING!!!!! There are great discussions, and I learned so much about a field of theatre that I had previously know nothing or very little about. Ryan, Tessa, and Diane are all so extremely talented and competent that this course could not be anything other than wonderful!
Great class - it's a ton of work, particularly the final project, but worth it. Professors and TF are awesome.
I would recommend this course only if you have a background in theater. It definitely gave me a ton of confidence and knowledge in terms of understand the theory behind structure, plot, and character. The assignments also allowed for a lot of creativity, which was great. The structure of the class was a little disorganized, but if theater is your thing then I would highly recommend it as an intro to everything in theater that's not performance-based.
This class gives you a taste of everything: High profile theater makers, insider knowledge of the A.R.T., highly passionate peers, and the chance to create and do what you're most passionate about. Be prepared to do a lot of work in this course, but be prepared for it to open your mind up to all the possibilities of what you can do in theater. Just make sure you work on production histories and adaptations that you're totally passionate about! And use the resources of the teaching staff!
Great class! Good for all people interested in theatre!
Definitely an awesome course that covers a lot of topics in dramatic arts really well.  It's a great course if you are interested in dramatic literature or practice.
I strongly recommend this course to anyone with an interest in combining the academic and practical studies of theatre.  Dramaturgy is an excellent way to apply analysis of dramatic texts and theatre history in a practical manner.  This class will be easier if you have already read dramatic literature and worked in theatre, as either an actor or technician.
I thought the class was enjoyable and the material was interesting. The workload felt heavy at times proportionate to the amount of information we received in class, which was not a lot (many student presentations, movies, chats, field trips, etc.) However, it's great if you want to study theater seriously.
The teacher is delightful and provides a wonderful insight into the work done by professional dramaturgs.
This has been one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. If you want to talk, live, breathe theatre this is your class. Ryan is an amazing mentor, and listening to his experience is such an incredible opportunity. The assignments you will get are a lot of work, but give you real experience with the work of a dramaturg, and you will learn so much from them. Robert was the best TF I have ever had at Harvard, so make sure you talk to him!
This course is very enjoyable, Ryan is enthusiastic and knowledgable. Be sure to give yourself enough time to read all of the plays that are assigned, though.
It's a really fun class, with a great syllabus and some really interesting discussions. Ryan has a lot of great stories to tell and makes the class a very pleasant experience. However, the majority of the class is focused on anecdotes and on reading and discussing the texts, without much emphasis on how to approach the dramaturgical work that's required for the assignments.
Be interested.  This is not an easy class.  This is a class for people who are interested in the theater.  You don't need previous experience, but you need to be committed to learning.
This is an amazing course which you should take if at all interested theater or the A.R.T. The work required is fun and the instructor is incredible (it's a joy to hear him discuss even the most obscure theatrical topics). I would highly recommend this course to anyone, regardless of their background in the theater or desire to go into it.
There is nothing bad about sitting around a table with fellow theatre-lovers and talking about the theatre.  Ryan has a lot of insider knowledge to share.
Great class to take. Not stressful. You learn more insight into the thoughts behind the decisions made in the theater. No need to do the course book readings on dramaturgy - didn't come up at all. Just the plays from week to week.
This will be an extremely interesting class for you if you love theater. It is fantastic to feel connected to the A.R.T. season and to get a sense of what Professor McKittrick does as the theater's dramaturg. The assignments are infrequent, but they do take a good amount of time. Still, it is a fun class and the discussions are very engaging.
This was a terrific class!  It is a very relaxed class, but I really engaged with the texts and shows that we read/saw.
Great course for anyone interested in theater - the syllabus introduces you to a wide range of dramaturgical exercises and Ryan is super engaging and knowledgable in this field. Expect some weeks with very little work and some weeks with giant assignments.
Ryan is fantastic.  It's great to learn the skills of Dramaturgy from a Dramaturg himself.  I now feel I have a real understanding of what a Dramaturg does.  It was a very fun and intriguing class, and it pushed me to go see some of the great theatrical events that the A.R.T. offers!
I looked forward to going to this class every week-- the assignments were challenging in the most fun way, and the weekly workload was minimal. We got access to amazing people and productions through the ART, and it was such a treat to discuss theater with peers and a professional who are so experienced and articulate. Take this class if you're interested in theater.
Excellent class if you have a background in theater!
This is a good course, and not difficult, but I think that it could be difficult for someone quiet to succeed in.
This course may be a lot of work at times, but it is definitely worth it. The work is very enjoyable and you learn a lot.
Scheduling in time to see the ART shows can be a hassle so plan ahead.
Great class, but remember you can't see plays in the middle of the night - requires some scheduling work, but workload is light, material is interesting and there's lots to say. Might not be great with a less interesting (not the same as good) season at the ART
Take this course if you would like to develop a better sense of how to evaluate a performance. The discussions turn out to be very intriguing, and there is a great deal of autonomy since you are required to create your own casebook projects. Watch out for the workload though, it is unevenly distributed within the semester: You may need to do a great amount of work within a week, and chill for the next two reading/seeing a couple of plays.
One of my favorite, if not my absolute favorite, classes I've taken here. The material was so interesting and I was always excited to come to class. Really awesome class.
This class is interesting and it is really neat to be involved in the A.R.T.'s season, but it's hard to know how you're doing in the class or if you're grasping what you're meant to be grasping.
To students taking this course, be sure that you go and see the productions that you are assigned to see, missing even one drastically reduces your ability to discuss and participate in discussions.
This class is a lot of fun, especially if your casebook play is a play you plan on producing or working on at some point. The workload is a little uneven, but most of it is reading plays and going to see plays, so it's okay.
Take it! It's an elective that will teach you and entertain you at the same time.
