Take any class you can with Remo.
This course is truly one of a kind. It teaches you so much about how to be a good improviser while also allowing you to have so much fun doing it. This class was my sanity every single week - I looked forward to it with great enthusiasm. It's not at all difficult work-wise, but you will get so much out of it. Take this course!!
It was a great class! If you like improv or have never done improv but are interested in it, it's a good course to take. Remo is a wonderful professor and it will be a fun class. It doesn't have much work, although it's important to do each assignment and to show up in class and to rehearsal ready to participate and try your best. Make sure you put in the time and effort on the papers to make them persuasive and well-written; it'll be worth the effort and they're actually really fun prompts.
Taking this course was the best choice I made in my freshman year. It made me more comfortable in my own skin, especially in front of people. I feel more open, willing to be brave/try something even if I may fail, and I feel that my acting/performance-abilities have become much more in the moment and better overall. This class is a joy to take!
TAKE THIS COURSE! I am only a freshman, but this is by far and away the best class I have taken at Harvard. You get to play for two hours every Monday afternoon with an incredible teacher and supportive classmates.
get ready for a ride. remo's boundless enthusiasm will carry you so far, and he will teach you so much about being a productive actor and improviser. this man is a treasure - you will not only gain an incredible resource, but a valuable friend. while it was a nearly perfect class, there were times when it felt like we could have been doing more, or stayed doing similar things. remo will literally help build you into the performer you want to be if you actively work with him and let him. the man has so much knowledge and so much energy, you'll walk away floored every time.
This is such and easy and fun course! Everything is hands on and the class goes by so quickly. Remo is also just an amazing instructor and really makes everyone feel comfortable.
This is such an amazing class! Definitely audition and take if you are lucky enough to get in. Remo is an amazing professor and really cares about his students. TAKE THIS CLASS!
This is a truly wonderful class for so many reasons!It's incredibly hands-on: Unlike just about every other class at Harvard, you learn everything by doing - no books or lectures. And it's amazingly fun! The two hours just fly by. Also, Remo is amazing! He fosters such a supportive environment in which you have permission to try new things and to mess up. There was absolutely no competitive spirit whatsoever in the class - everyone supported one another. If you get the chance to take this class, I really, really recommend that you do it!
This class will push you in completely unexpected ways. Absolutely take it if you have the chance.
This class, if you can get in, is incredible. It doesn't even feel like an academic class because it's tons of fun, but you also learn and grow so much from it. Plus, Remo is one of the best teachers at Harvard, so any class taught by him is guaranteed to be fantastic.
Best class ever
I highly recommend this class! Remo is an incredible teacher and, along with the contributions of my classmates, I feel like I have grown a lot as a performer and improvisor.
This was one of the most amazing classes I have ever taken at Harvard.
One of the most phenomenal and exciting classes you could possibly take at Harvard. I met people who will entirely change the rest of my Harvard experience. Wish I could take it all over again.
If you get the chance take this class. Or take ANY class that Remo teaches. There is no one else like him!
BEST CLASS EVER. Remo is, as always, an incredible teacher, a fun teacher, and the class was a truly wonderful experience. I looked forward to it every week, I got closer to all the people in it, and I really learned a LOT about good improv. Just a gem of a class.
Take it. Take it. Remo + Tessa = best teaching combo at Harvard.
JUMP at the chance to take any class with Remo. This was an incredible introduction to improv. I was terrified of it going in, and left feeling totally thrilled by it and eager to do more.
THIS IS ONE OF THE MOST AMAZING WAYS TO GROW PERSONALLY AS A PERFORMER, STUDENT, AND PERSON, AND REMO WILL GIVE YOU ONE OF THE GREATEST ACADEMIC EXPERIENCES YOU HAVE EVER HAD AT HARVARD. It! Is! So! Fun! And I was scared to DEATH of doing improv and at NO point during this class did that rear its ugly head - I never felt anything less than totally supported and absolutely allowed to fail at my first attempts and in doing so learn and grow in a nonjudgmental space. it was AWESOME.
It was incredible and I challenge anyone to find a more happiness-promoting, growth-promoting spend a better four hours of your week.
Great class, especially if you know nothing about improv. You'll meet some friends, too!
100% take this class! One of the best courses at Harvard by far!
