You get out of it what you put in it.
This class was a wonderful part of my schedule and I looked forward to it every week. I learned a lot and think anyone interested in directing would benefit from and enjoy this class.
Marcus is great.  Find one or two actor friends who are willing to consistently come in to help perform your scenes.
Marcus is a great professor and really passionate about the learning of his students.  Definitely take this class if you are at all interested in directing for theater or film.  It is a very introductory class so just jump in!
Definitely take this class if you have never directed before and would like to, as it will set you up very well to begin directing. It helps if you are excited about the work done by the other members of the class, because if their work does not interest you, a lot of the class may be hard to sit through.
It's a great class - but it is what you make of it.
there is only so much one can learn about directing in a classroom setting, but this class does well at getting as much as possible out of it despite the classroom setting
This class is excellent if you have the initiative to really engage in it 100%. The more you put into this class and the scenes you do for it, the more you will get out of it.
This is an excellent way to improve as a director, with quick scenes that will isolate certain muscles you want to exercise.  This class offers a lot for all levels of experience, from rookie to veteran.
Stern is a gifted director, and even more so as a teacher.
If you think you might want to direct, there is no better way to start. Your peers will come from varying levels of experience, and it is exciting to see how everyone grows in terms of honing in on their directorial styles. Marcus and Julia both give incredible feedback.
Take this course, don't look back. I was an actor who was interested in directing but a bit scared of it at first, and now feel pretty confident with the art and I look forward to doing it more in the future.
This class is awesome! Marcus is such a great teacher! Definitely take it!
It's definitely a challenge, but you learn a huge amount from the prof and your peers.
This is really a fantastic course- Marcus is wonderful, and the chance to do your own work is both fun and challenging (in an inspiring way). The level of the scenes will be determined by the interest and engagement of all the directors in the course, and you will end up working with all or nearly all of them by the end of the semester.
Marcus is one of the best teachers out there and does a fantastic job creating a really safe space in which to share works in progress. This is a great place to workshop scenes from a show or movie you're working, or take an artistic risk. Julia is fantastic too!
Class is great and very hands-on, and Marcus gives amazing feedback. However, this year at least, more than half of the course was taken up by the presentation of three rounds of scenes, each based on a specific element (sound, lighting, and unconventional staging). Due to this focus, and the difficulty of finding talented and willing actors who were free during the class period, I found myself just looking for a scene that fit the requirements rather than one I was excited about directing. Therefore my rehearsal processes felt more arduous than I think they should have; it felt more like doing an assignment that fulfilled requirements and less like trying to make theatre. It's definitely still worth taking if you're interested in directing though.
This class is wonderful. Take it if you get the opportunity.
This is Harvard's best place to experiment with new material. It's a low stress course, and one of the only structured opportunities at Harvard to try out new material, test your interests, and at least try to find your voice as a director.
One of the best courses at Harvard. A must-take for aspiring directors.
Spend time getting to know actors near the beginning of the semester, plan your scenes way in advance (check out plays from Widener or Loeb Theatre Collection - Oberon Publishers and NHB are great for new works!), and try and have at least 3 one-hour rehearsals to get the most out of each scene.
This class is great if you have any level of interest in directing. Marcus tailors his comments to your level of experience, which is very helpful.
it is a great place to work on your craft/ideas
Previous directing experience is not necessary, but it was very helpful - I found I worked through many "common sense" mistakes when directing beforehand, so I could take better advantage of the class and try more advanced things.
This may be one of the most fulfilling courses you will ever take.
This class requires work to get anything out of it, however if you rehearse your scene (either on stage or film) earnestly you will receive feedback that helps you to hone your craft of directing.
If you can learn from others' work, you will gain a lot from this class.
This has been one of my favorite courses at Harvard. Marcus will give you the tools you need to be a great director, and you get to start directing scenes right away!
It's a wonderful and transformative class, if you are willing to be open to Marcus's teaching and advice. You also have to put in the hours or you won't get as much out of it.
Excellent class not just for learning about direction, but also how to work with other people.
If you think you might want to direct, there is no better way to start. If you know you want to direct, there is no better way to get better. One of the best courses at Harvard.
Marcus and Ashleigh run a fun, fascinating course that exposes students to a multitude of directorial styles and fosters both creativity and better directing skills.
Wonderful; this class allows you to explore your own brand of creativity while cultivating the skill set of a great director. It's always based in your own work, and on weeks when you're not presenting, you'll always be invited to participate in critiquing and praising the work of your peers. Marcus gives unbelievable feedback; you'll grow so much.
This is a great class to take if you have any interest in almost any form of story telling.  While it sometimes felt like assignments could have been better tailored to each student individually, Marcus gives excellent feedback and students are all comfortable sharing their work in front of their peers.
start early on your scenes and get actors as fast as possible - that's the trickiest part.
If you are interested in theater you should definitely take this class. Professor Stern is a wonderful teacher and the class was very fun!
Every minute I spent in this class felt valuable, enjoyable, and enriching. Marcus is an unbelievable resource and Jenna was a joy to work with. Supportive community, thought-provoking scenes, and a safe opportunity to challenge yourself... perfection!
Amazing class if you're interested. I learned an incredible amount from the course. These are lessons that I will surely be using in the future.
Easily one of the best classes--if not the very best--that I've taken in 4 years at Harvard.
