If you are interested in really deepening your acting ability, take this course. If that is not extremely important to you at this time, this probably isn't the place for you.
This is so fun and easy.  You learn a lot without having to do basically any outside work except rehearse a few times before you perform.  The technique is really interesting, and it works for some people but not for others, so just be open to what comes.
Scott Zigler is the man. If you have any interest in pursuing a career in theater/acting/entertainment, you have to take a class with him. He's literally one of the visionaries of this acting technique and it would be a shame to pass up an opportunity to learn from a master.
This is an introduction to acting class but Professor Zigler is able to create a curriculum that is challenging to actors of all levels.  He is a brilliant theatrical mind and he imparts wonderful aphorisms that I will use for the rest of my career.
This course is legendary. If you're an actor or interested in theatre, take this course.
Scott is a brilliant teacher. You will only go up in front of the class six times, but during those six times you will receive feedback as helpful as any youll ever get. I feel like a really grew as an actor in this course, and learned the tools of a highly valuable method. He also turned us on to a way of thinking and paying attention to other actors on stage. That said, we only go up six times all semester: typical of any acting class I suppose, but most of the time it felt like we just sat there and waited for our turn. So take this class if this sounds appealing to you. Otherwise, you will be clock-watching.
This course is outstanding. Scott Zigler's feedback is always positive and leads to remarkable (sometimes magical) improvements.
Awesome class with Scott!
This course can be SO USEFUL/REWARDING if you really give it your full effort.
This was one of the best things I ever did at Harvard.  Everytime I went to class after my MCB requirement I thought "how could I be as stimulated in acting as in MCB?" And EVERYTIME I was answered emphatically with Scott's incredible teaching and the incredible work of my peers.  I discovered a new way to look at the human experience and am so glad I took this course to learn about myself, others, and the Practical Aethetics approach to acting.
Scott is an incredible director. You might think you've gotten a scene or a character figured out, and he can completely debunk your theories and help you discover new meaning in the texts--translating that new meaning into  the portrayal of the character. The course is organized about as well as I can imagine it being, with each person doing three scenes which get reviewed and workshopped multiple times over the course of the semester, though this does mean that in a majority of the classes you won't be doing anything particularly interactive.
This is a great course if you are looking to learn an acting technique. The course is really about learning the technique and everyone definitely makes improvements by the end of the course. It gives you tools to analyze a scene and works a lot with moment to moment work.
When you're not presenting a scene, the class can be quite boring, but Scott gives incredibly helpful constructive criticism, and this class will definitely improve your skills as an actor.
Cool class. Zigler is set in his ways so if you give your opinion, he will definitely have something to say which will most likely refute it. Come with an open mind so you can fully emobdy the tecniques. It's boring when you are not performing for the class, but the class is easy.
This class is a gem! I have learnt so much about how to act and more: interpersonal relationships (Scott's witty comments), my own personality/tactics better, perceiving others and overcoming fear etc.
You'll learn more than just how to act better in this course! Scott is always available to you, even if you have questions about a scene you're doing outside of class. His knowledge is just spectacular. If you're not a big actor bear in mind that you have to learn lines, which isn't for everyone.
This class is definitely applicable to actors of all levels, and should definitely be considered by people who are interested in directing/writing as well. Very worthwhile course.
The class is super relaxed. Scott is an acting wizard and will help you grow as an actor.
You have to put in the work in order to get up in front of the class and perform, but there is a huge spectrum of preparedness that cannot really be quantified. Hours spent on coursework also depends on when you are performing. If it's an off-week there is less work but the week of performances you have to rehearse a good amount, chose a scene, read the play your scene is from, analyze the scene, etc. And how much time you spend on these things is a personal choice.
Not a life-changing course, but a solid foundation in the technique of Practical Aesthetics.
Do not take this class if you are not passionate about theater.
It is great for the soul.  Do it!
Awesome! Scott is one of the most perceptive people I have ever met. Though I had had years of previous acting experience, his practical method made me see acting in a new, exceedingly enjoyable light. I do not think you need a lot of prior acting experience before taking this class (though many who took it did). The only real prerequisites are humility and flexibility. Be ready to take critique. Scott is very observant and very honest (and very nice too, so don't fear). I found that much of what Scott taught, such as prepare thoroughly beforehand in order to allow creativity and spontaneity in the moment, cultivate a keen sense of self-awareness, and give your full attention over to the other person in order to find your genuine self, were not only lessons for the stage, but lessons for life. Thank you.
take this class if you can! It's not an 'easy' drama class but it is unbelievably inspiring. Zigler is very intellectual about the way he approaches drama and you will learn so much.
If you're interested in acting, this is the course to take.
If you have any aspirations to perform at any level during college or after college, definitely take this course.
You will entirely get out of this class what you put into it, so make sure you're taking it for the right reasons - i.e. to get some new skills, etc. out of it.
Take this course if you can get in. Scott Ziggler is a genius and handles the experience variety of the class in a way that benefits everyone involved. He also like... Invented the method and is just a genuinely really cool guy. It also made my experience a lot better that we got to pick scene partners because I got to work with people I've always respected and just never been in an actual show with. Take it is as a 5th or as the 4th in a tough semester.
This was by far the best drama class I have taken so far. It may be due to the formulaic, methodical nature of the technique of practical aesthetics, but it was a great combination of intellect, analysis, practice, and performance. Just imagine psychology, theatre, and literature analysis all at once. Not only did it help me learn how to act better, it gave me a greater insight into the plays we worked with. It's awesome to get the opportunity to work with Scott, who is part of the company that originally founded this unique acting technique. He is not only clearly an expert in the method, he is also incredibly skilled at pinpointing exactly and articulating the different things that can be worked on/adjusted to improve your performance. Not only is this class super fun and low-key in terms of workload, but you also learn a lot, which is not always the case for a theatre class!
This is a great class I would highly recommend to anyone who loves acting and wants to become a better actor, not someone who just wants a blow-off class.
Scott Zigler is terrific, class is terrific. Take it.
Practical Aesthetics is a really interesting approach to acting, and provides you with a formalized system and vocabulary to talk about the work of performing- definitely recommend
This course is so much fun and it just makes so much sense!  Scott knows a ton about theater and pays so much attention to detail that really helps you with your scenes.  Put in the effort to analyzing and working on the scenes because it really does pay off.  Definitely take this class if you're interested in acting!
Get ready to have the best part of your semester take place from 11:30am to 1pm every Tuesday and Thursday. Turning acting into an intellectual endeavor is so much fun, and that's what it is. You'll get better, and can apply everything to learn to the rest of the acting you'll ever do.
Possibly the only course at Harvard which goes so seriously into acting as to explore one specific technique, it does it very well and convincingly.
One of the best classes out there period. Not only do you learn acting skills, you learn about subtleties of human interaction.
This is the best class i have taken at harvard so far. Scott is a brilliant and unbelievably knowledgable instructor.
Scott Zigler is Merlin. The class if fantastic.
If you are at all interested in acting, take this course. It is the best acting course offered at Harvard, and it will change the way you approach the craft for the rest of your life. Scott is an amazing teacher - highly knowledgeable and intelligent. It seems as though he's read every play ever written, so whatever scene you choose, he will be able to guide you through it in context. This is a must-take for actors.
If you are considering acting or directing, take this class!
Scott is a genius. Everything he says about the method (and often about life) is worth writing down.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Scott is fantastic--so insightful and helpful. Take it!
This course was a phenomenal course! I loved all of the scenework that we had to do with our partners and I think that it really improves your skills as an actor if you are really open to self-improvement. Don't come in with an attitude or a big head because that will not make you receptive to Scott's feedback. Scott knows so much and everything he says makes sense so listen! The class can be a bit cliqueish if it's filled with drama people but don't worry about them and just focus on yourself. If you take this course seriously and really implement Scott's feedback into your performance, you will engage in an experience of practical aesthetics that will enable you to become a much more developed actor!
This is possibly the best acting class at Harvard.
This class was a wonderful introduction to the acting method.
THIS WILL MAKE YOU A BETTER ACTOR. IT IS NOTHING SHORT OF ENLIGHTENING.
This class is a total pleasure. You learn a tremendous amount about acting technique in a structured but relaxed environment. Scott is eternally patient, knowledgeable, and filled with unforgettable anecdotes.
The more you put into practicing for your scenes, the more you will get out of the course
This class is great!  I recommend some acting experience, but any one can have a great experience in this class.  You only need to put in a few hours every two weeks, but the work you do will be extremely rewarding and you will feel the change in your acting!  Take this class as a great 4th elective!
If you want to have your entire perspective on theater changed for the better, take this course.
Worthwhile for what it teaches you about how people behave alone. Scott is also incredibly smart and if you're at all interested in acting this class will make you better.
This course not only broadened by acting abilities, but improved communication skills as well. I feel so much more confident now as an actor and as a person. I recommend this class to anyone with previous acting experience, as this is not a "find your inner actor" course. Scott is an AMAZING director. You will learn a ton!
It's a FANTASTIC acting class with no exams or papers--what more could you possibly ask for?
it is a very informative and practical class definitely worth taking.  i enjoyed it tremendously, more fun than any other class I have taken thus far
Great technique to learn if you are seriously interested in theater--definitely applicable to both actors and directors. Even if you don't subscribe to the technique, it will give you a whole new outlook on action and a lot of specific language, vocabulary, and exercises to to use in rehearsal. Incredibly chill class that i looked forward to each week. Ashleigh is incredible!
Great class! Trust Scott, and pay attention while your classmates receive feedback.
TAKE IT. The perfect acting class for Harvard students - an intellectual, practical, formulaic approach to acting. The techniques in this class really made me believe that anyone can learn to act.
If you want to be an actor, you should not miss the opportunity to work with Scott. He's fantastic!
Definitely take this class. It really has augmented my acting while also giving me exercises and a clear path that I know I can take to better acting, sort of like a workout routine. It's also one of your only opportunities to engage with someone as accomplished as Scott.
This course taught me how to better understand people.
This class is SO great. Scott and Ashleigh's feedback will make you grow with every scene that you do, and it will make you an infinitely better actor. No gratuitous assignments; everything is important, but also stress-free and fun to complete.
It's a great class and Scott knows how to direct actors to be their best
Awesome class! Scott is a great teacher who always finds ways to help you improve, and you'll have a ton of fun. Thorough acting experience isn't necessary, but you should be willing to try something new and let go of your inhibitions.
This class is great! Scott is a very talented professor and Ashleigh is a phenomenal TF. Definitely come prepared to perform your scene when its your turn because thats basically how they grade you. Other than that its a great way to learn about a new and interesting method of acting and does not require a ton of work.
The first couple weeks of the course are brilliant. Eventually, however, the lessons are repetitive.
Scott is wonderful! If you are interested in acting or do a lot of it and want to learn a true method, this is the course for you.
This class is extremely helpful for actors trying out different ways of approaching the craft.
Take it.
I really felt like I learned something and grew in this class even though one term can only provide a taste of real acting training.  I will definitely look into the Practical Aesthetics technique in the future.
If you are looking for a course that departs from the normal sitting and taking notes of most Harvard classes, then this is your class. You memorize 3 minutes of a play, perform it for the class, and get feedback from the professor. Then you do it for another set of plays. Lots of fun! Just make sure you go to class as much as possible. This is purely participation based.
