I've described this class to people as "weird" not because it's bad but because it's not like any other course I've taken. It's a very personal classyou can't be detached or not engagedwhich I think is a good thing, but is not for everyone. If you're open minded and looking to be challenged creatively, then this is a great class to take (also, you'll get to know other class members well).
TKAE THIS--most interesting experience at Harvard
YES! It was by far my favorite class at Harvard. You actually have to do the work, but it is so interesting.
This class is super super interesting! If you like thinking about what it means to be a person or why we hate/love actors - take this class! The discussions are always very interesting and you get to become someone else, which was a cool challenge.
This course seamlessly infuses philosophy with performance and social life. Great for people who enjoy interdisciplinary approaches to studying.
This class is very theory based. There is a practical element (which was my favorite part), but it's definitely not an even split between on-your-feet work and lecture-style classes. Still, it's a good class and the final project is a lot of fun.
I loved this course--one of the best I've taken at Harvard. Phenomenal readings and a brilliant professor. I wish I could take so many more courses that do what this one does: combine readings, movies, and podcasts from a variety of disciplines in order to explore a few fundamental questions related to both art and humanity in general
This is one of the more unconventional classes I have taken at Harvard. The readings are fascinating and David's perspective on art, acting, and personal identity come through incredibly well via a well-crafted syllabus. Discussions and in-class activities are exciting and a nice break from other, more sedentary, seminars. Take this class if you are an actor and are looking for some intense discussion about the history and theory of acting, or if you're somebody who is interested in social theory and history who wants to give acting a try. That being said - don't expect much hand holding through the acting portion of the class, it's all very self-directed.
David Levine is an extremely interesting person and has a lot of interesting ideas but this class is a lot more reading and listening to powerpoints than it is actual discussion or practical work.  I thought the "becoming" another person would be the focus of class, but I almost feel like we hardly touched upon that during the class - it was all outside work and little under-guided.
