Helpful class to learn some general principles about acting Shakespeare. Week-to-week, you actually get to perform more than you might in some other acting classes at Harvard, which is nice. Remo gives great notes and great feedback. A bit dull to do the three most popular plays. Writing the analysis everytime you do a scene can get a bit dull, and the memorization can be overwhelming at times, but Im glad I took it. One of those classes that is a pretty solid four out of five, and mostly worth taking for the opportunity to learn from Remo.
This class is haaard but if you love acting and you *like or love* Shakespeare, this is an amazing class.  You get to work on some iconic and difficult material and really challenge yourself with different styles, but you also get a lot of agency in terms of what the performance turns into which is a great way to expand your knowledge and experience with all aspects of performance as well as acting.
Remo is a wonderful human being who will push you to produce some of your best work. Additionally, you'll learn more about Shakespeare as a Poet than you would in many English classes. A joyous experience--take advantage of the blogposts to improve your critcial thinking/writing, and it'll be even more rewarding!
Take if you want to improve Shakespeare but not to have fun or be secure in your grade
This class is AMAZING. Remo is brilliant, hilarious, and takes SO much time out of his day to meet with people individually and really make sure each person gets all they can out of the class. Absolutely incredible class.
This is fantastic class. I took it as an elective having done some Shakespeare in the past, and it improved my acting no end. Remo is a genius, I'm convinced of it. He has such a fantastic temperament. He's not afraid to push you, but he does it in such a way that you want to keep working it. The one on one time you get with Remo through this class is worth it alone. Audition, you won't regret!
If you love to act and you think Shakespeare has genius ideas or even if you are unsure about Shakespeare. This class gives you the background in Shakespearean acting that will make you more confident in speaking this more difficult text. It's a fun class with an amazing teacher.
This class is amazing; Remo is so dedicated to his students and you'll come away having grown in skills and in confidence -- and in respect for Shakespeare. Having worked with Shakespeare before, I was a tiny bit worried (from an earlier Q review) that I'd be re-learning basics, but that simply wasn't true.
No matter how much or how little you think you know about Shakespeare or acting Shakespeare, this class is absolutely worth taking. I learnt a huge amount and had a lot of fun.
It's a wonderful way to learn about the important technicalities of performing Shakespearean texts, but more importantly, it provides the chance to profoundly grow as an actor. Only take this course if you care deeply about performing and are committed to bringing your best self and to really growing and improving.
The class is a really fun way to get better acquainted with Shakespeare's works. I loved how we learned about them on a more personal level than in a cold academic way.
This is a really fun and easy class that is great if you really love Shakespeare.
This course is a fun, time-efficient way to get involved in performing and thinking about Shakespeare!
How enjoyable this course will be is highly dependent upon the teaching fellow assigned to it. Professor Geidt is wonderful, though. He's a wealth of knowledge.
Professor Geidt's comments are extremely insightful, and his sense of humor really lightens the mood of the class.
You get what you put in this class.
This class is probably best for those who haven't taken any acting classes before.  This may not be the best class for the more serious and experienced actor.
do not take this class unless it is with a different professor. Unfortunately, Professor Geidt was very very ill for most of the class and unavailable. Not his fault but the class should probably be taught by someone else.
This class is a fun way to practice some Shakespeare and requires no previous experience. There is little work, however, performances in class should be very well prepared as far as outside work and memorization. The professor is super fun.
Rehearse your scene-work at least for four hours per week.  The professor and TF can tell.
really fun! and a wonderful way to refresh yourself with theatre ! great professor, and really learned a lot
This class does not require much time at all and you get to act, but the class component is not very engaging (unless they have redone it since last year). It is mostly watching other people perform and then listening to Jeremy and Morgan critique them.
This course is pretty low maintenance, and you'll receive insight on your acting from the best of the best.
This class is a great subject and thankfully exposes you to  great Shakespearean work, be it only 3 plays. However, the class suffers from a lack of organization and a weak teaching assistant who doesn't know very much about acting.
This class is refreshing, fun and engaging. Serious actors--you may feel unsatisfied with the lack of intense acting instruction, but you will appreciate the value of performing for your peers and getting constructive, personal feedback from the instructors.  Novices--a great way to get your feet onstage! Regardless of your experience, the instructors will adapt their criticism to what will be most practical and helpful to you.
The class was a lot of fun and was a good chance to practice acting.
Take it. You will never regret it.
Jeremy and Brandon are amazing; great way to end senior year.
This class is a great way to delve into Shakespeare's text in a different way that is normally offered at Harvard. It's one of those courses that you get out of it what you put in.
It's so fun, and Jeremy is so lovely!  But it's not very intense acting work, if that's what you're looking for - you kind of get out of it what you put in, to a point.
This is the BEST CLASS EVER!!!  Amazing, fun, you learn a lot, grow a lot, and the prof is SO BADASS.
This class was so fun. It was relaxed and yet fulfilling. Jeremy is so knowledgable and enthusiastic. He is so experienced and teaches so much!
This class in fun and concrete. The discussions are the best part. Make sure to be creative with the scenes.
Take it, enjoy it, stretch your wings. Definitely ask for extra coaching on the side--fifteen minutes here and an hour there makes all the difference. Memorize your lines for the first performance, not just the second, so that you can focus in on the important stuff.Choose a very specific skill for each new scene for you to focus in on and develop. Whether voice control, body language, character development, or some other area, the point is to grow as an actor not just to get through the scene.
This is the most amazing class. If you like Shakespeare and you want to act, this is wonderful. I felt comfortable acting in front of the 20 students in the class and you really can not improve on the course material. Best class to take senior year when you want something different.
I think this was a very fun class for people with significant acting experience, and a very approachable class for those without any.
It's the most rewarding class offered at Harvard
Jeremy and Brendan are fantastic; if you are interested in Shakespeare or if you just want to act, I would definitely recommend that you take this course. Even if you have been acting for several years, you will still benefit from this class.
Take this class if you're interested in acting! Super fun!!
good to practice your shakespeare, but not much solid technique
This course is a fun time, but the wide level of experience among the students makes it difficult to get any real learning from it.
If you have no experience with acting, or are just looking for a fun and relatively stress-free class, Acting Shakespeare is for you.  But if you are an experienced actor, and hoping to seriously grow in your ability to perform Shakespeare, you will probably feel frustrated by the class.  That really isn't anyone's fault, the class just has to be designed such that all levels of experience are welcome, which means it's a really watered down acting class.  Jeremy and Annie are lovely, though.  They really care about their students, and they both definitely know what they're talking about.
Take this course! It's a super laid back way to explore acting Shakespeare. The professor is amazingly sweet and compliments absolutely everyone, so don't feel like you need any acting background. I wouldn't suggest taking it if you're looking for someone to really push you and coach you along, but it's a great way to explore bold choices on your own. If Annie is the TF again, she's a super helpful resource for notes.
The course is fun, but as someone who did not previously have an acting background, I felt distinctly disadvantaged compared to others.
Take this course. It's not a broad overview of Shakespeare if that's what you're looking for, but you'll learn a whole lot about the plays you perform and improve as an actor no matter what level of experience you have.
This class is amazing -- take it! You won't regret it. As Jeremy Geidt said in the first meeting, Shakespeare was meant to be heard, not just read. Exploring Shakespeare's works from a different angle & working with Jeremy & Annie over the course of the semester was a major highlight of my senior spring. Enjoy.
This is the most low-key class I've ever taken. That might be exactly what you want, or it might be disappointing, depending on what you're looking for.
Great class! You'll love it if you're into Shakespeare obviously, but I think you'll love it if even if you weren't into Shakespeare before this class, too. You have to be willing and able to perform in front of your friends and stage/block your own scenes in small groups.
It's a great opportunity to get your acting and your interpretation of some of the greatest works of English drama critiqued by some great teachers and, particularly if you're not a particularly experienced actor, some really great student actors (and also a chance to see them at work!) But, if you're not particularly involved in drama, there is an aspect of picking groups for scenes, and it can get kind of clique-y then.
This class is spectacular. You will grow as an actor in ways you could never have foreseen with Remo's tutelage, no matter if you are an experienced actor or facing your first time onstage. It stretches your creativity, makes you focus on storytelling, and your peers' performances will leave you speechless. Remo is a wonderful instructor, and meeting with him individually was some of the most fruitful theatrical interaction I have had.
This class offers an immensely insightful and fun exercise in growing as an actor through Shakespeare. I have gained a new appreciation for the plays and an array of techniques for approaching them as an actor.
Remo Airaldi, apart from being a directorial genius, is simply one of the most dedicated professors I have ever had. He took the time to meet each of us individually outside of class for an hour each week. I was pleasantly surprised by the caliber of work my peers brought to class each week, and the visible improvement we all saw in our acting abilities - vocal, physical, and emotional - throughout the semester. The two hours we shared together on Wednesday afternoons quickly became the best part of my week. I wish I could take this course again and delve into three more of Shakespeares plays together with this incredible crew. But alas, life goes on. Dont miss this one folks. Long live Shakespeare!
First off: Remo is brilliant. Take this class. His idea about Shakespeare is that if you can do Shakespeare, you can do anything, which definitely is true. I think I've grown so much as an actor and I've become so comfortable with Shakespeare with is an enormous gift to have. The class is really low key and simple - memorize the scene/monologue, work with him, and perform. Just make sure to be prepared when you're asked to be, work hard on the assignments, and hand them in on time. This class is so fun, so inspiring, so interesting, and so didactic. It's also amazing to get to watch peers perform, give feedback, and receive feedback for your own work. You also get to work with Remo individually, which is enormously helpful and amazing. Take this class. For real.
TAKE THIS CLASS TAKE IT TAKE IT TAKE IT
Take this course
An unparalleled opportunity to push your boundaries as a performer.  A great opportunity to work with creative, talents peers and to learn from a kind, insightful, and rigorous acting coach.
Remo is the best, you will learn so much and make good friends and have a blast.
This class is phenomenal. Remo is a great director and is wonderful to work with. The workload is not nothing (stage scenes, analyze passages, rehearsal logs, post feedback online) but for how enjoyable the class is and how much I learned, it was so so so worth it. TAKE IT!
If you're scared of Shakespeare, you will learn to understand him. If you're already comfortable with Shakespeare, you will be challenged. If you're anywhere in the middle, Remo will structure the course so that you learn as much as possible: he teaches the basic techniques of breaking down a Shakespeare scene or monologue and gives you the tools to do it on your own. And regardless of whether you can take this particular class, TAKE A CLASS FROM REMO. He is brilliant, kind, talented, and all good things.
Remo is so kind and knowledgeable, and makes sure that everyone, not just the person performing, learns from each performance. If you have any interest in acting, then you need to take this class.
This course is a rigorous introduction to Acting Shakespeare. Remo is an excellent teacher who meets you at your level and pushes you to go beyond it. This course also gave me much better familiarity with Romeo and Juliet, A Midsummer Night's Dream, and Hamlet.
If anything, take this class for the incredible personal attention you get. I found it invaluable in my development both as an actor and as a student.
Remo is absolutely incredible. He completely throws himself into his teaching and expects you to bring the same level of enthusiasm to class as he does. The expectations for your performances get greater each week because it's a cumulative process of improving our technique, but I felt really accomplished and proud of what I understood about acting Shakespeare by the final class. I found the work we did to be actually quite challenging in the sense the you have to really push yourself to grow in a way that you cannot bullshit, but also incredibly empowering. If you are in the world of dramatic arts, you can't pass this opportunity up. The blog posts get tiring, but it's really minor busy work and a small price to pay for the attention and elite training that you get with Remo.
If you have an interest in acting in any genre, you should strongly consider taking this class before graduating. You will ultimately  develop a strong appreciation for how Shakespeare's text lends itself to being acted a certain way and you will be able to hone your general acting skills as well.
If you like Shakespeare, you can't miss it. Remo is brilliant, no matter how experienced you are, you'll be challenged and you'll have loads of fun.
This is a great class to take if you're interested in learning more about how to approach Shakespeare's texts. If you've done a lot of Shakespearean acting, you might find that you've heard some of the stuff discussed in this class before. But even veteran actors can probably learn something from this class, because Remo gives very nuanced and detailed feedback.
Acting Shakespeare is the funnest class I have taken at Harvard so far. Even if you don't have much experience in acting or performance that's ok because you'll learn SO MUCH in this class, make great friends, and work with amazing teachers. TAKE THIS CLASS!!!
If you love Shakespeare, if you love Remo, if you love performing, or if you think you might like any of those things but have not had the opportunity to try, this is the perfect class. You will learn far more than you could anticipate and the environment of the class hugely supportive.
If you are at all interested in acting, especially if you enjoy Shakespeare, you should certainly take this class! Remo is a great teacher - he manages to create an engaging and low-stress environment which is conducive to learning and growth.
