I recommend this course to any and everyone. The human voice is an amazing instrument, and this course offers a chance to explore your unique voice, and uncover the many facets of it. It doesn't matter whether or not you have theater experience, this course will change how you think about your voice, and the voices of the people you interact with. Take this course. Period.
This course was essential on my path to beast rapperdom.
As a non-TDM person, I did not buy into the course until midway into the semester when Prof. Bailey started explaining why we do certain activities/ exercises. I think this course is helpful (stretching, voice exercises, watching others perform, reflections on yourself) if you put time and thought into it. In other words, you can get the assignments done and do well, but you can also get the assignments done, do well and also learn best practices for breathing and speaking. Great course to take as an elective, esp. for those who wanted to try music/ arts in college but haven't had the chance to.
This will change the way you think about speaking and your own confidence in front of crowds and audiences.
In theory, this class is amazing. Learning how to improve the effectiveness of your voice, in a non-public speaking or singing manner, it sounds amazing. However, that is not what this class accomplishes. I put in so much work to this class, and I feel as if my work did not pay off in the long run - I learned very little.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Like seriously. You don't need ANY acting experience at all, just a positive attitude. I took both Expos 40 and this class, and I found this class more useful and engaging than Expos 40, even though both are great. Although this class is labeled as a "voice production" class, its basically a public speaking class with an actor's perspective, which I think is much more useful. In Expos 40, we sat in classrooms and rehearsed our speech. In TDM 119, we had like an open room with minimal furniture to rehearse our speech, best of all there were also chairs and props to help us with our speaking and vocal production. For example when we were rehearsing our final project which was a memorized monologue, the instructors had some of us throw these cushion cubes around the room to make us get more "emotional/angry" with our text. Instructors also had us run around the room to speed up our speech and make it sound more motivational, or had people hold our feet to the ground and we try to lift our feet up while we are rehearsing our speech. I find that the "actor techniques" incorporated into the class is absolutely amazing and so useful for real life. In addition to the awesome practical techniques and aspects of the class, I learned so much from this class about breathing, vocal production, resonance, articulation, etc. I highly recommend taking the class. Absolutely fantastic and one of my favorite courses at Harvard. A true gem.
great class if you actually want to improve your speech-giving/ vocal skills (i.e. sound more confident, don't strain your voice, etc). If you don't have a goal for the semester, you will get bored during every class.
This was a fun, transformative course. I really enjoyed it and progressed a lot.
I really enjoyed this course! If you are looking for a way to develop your voice in a variety of different capacities, this is the course for you!
This course is amazing!  You gain a set of tools that you can use to improve your voice...it is also a very fun class!
Great chance to understand your voice as a body part- how to control it, how to be relaxed and generally become aware of how to use your muscles and breathing correctly. Such an overlooked part of our lives, so this is a great elective for anyone.
One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard
The course starts off a little slow because you have to get the foundations. There are a couple of times when you feel like "ahh let's move on!" in the middle of the course as well. But overall the skills you learn are useful in life.
There will be no future students. This was the last class
Teaching staff is the absolute best. They are knowledgeable and kind. However, you can't be shy! You need to bring your best to the table. Get ready to move your body, be silly, and LOUD. :) You'll surprise yourself. Caveat: class writing feels more like busywork than an actual necessity to the coursework.
If you are able to get into this class, you'd be a fool not to take it. Nancy Houfek and Ron Carlos are AMAZING. This class allows you to learn about the art of speech (which a lot of people don't know anything about) and you find out a lot about yourself along the way. Great experience overall! The reflection papers can be a tad tedious but they also need something upon which to grade us.
This class is literally life-changing. On the practical side, the techniques you learn in this class will be useful no matter where you go in life. On the more personal side, this class will really put you in touch with your body and get down to the roots of your habits. To me, the greatest part was the personal growth--what you undertake in this class is ultimately all about you, and that really gives you a new special connection with Nancy and the TFs and also with how you view yourself in general. Take this class for amazing experiences, amazing people, and amazing loads of fun.
This class can be very useful, has an enthusiastic teaching staff, and is often fun. My only warning would be that there will be a lot of low-level writing expected from you on a constant basis, which is not always helpful.
It's an amazing class without a large work requirement. But the more time you put in, the more you get out, and with enough effort, the results can be incredibly rewarding on a personal, professional, and educational level.
Nancy and the TFs truly care about your growth as a speaker and as a person. An experience driven course. NOT NECESSARILY FOR "THEATER DRAMA" KIDS. In fact, students who showed the most growth were those who had very little experience in public speaking/performance. Not a singing instruction class.
This class is absolutely wonderful! It does take a lot of time and investment, but the work is fun and never feels like work. Class and section are all about relaxation and make you a happier human. Great for actors and non actors!
You'll learn a lot about posture, breath, articulation, phrasing, etc.  You'll get more out of it if you're interested in acting / theater.  And it's surprisingly time-consuming (weekly 4-page response papers).  But overall, a great course.
It is great if you commit to it, but what you get out of this class is entirely dependent on you.
There is a completely unnecessary about of homework every week and sometimes the grading seems arbitrary.
This is a great class overall, but beware because it's not a breeze. We have 4 page response papers every week and 2 papers that are graded as carefully as the toughest humanities course you've had. It's balanced by the fact that the writing is very reflective and that you do learn how to use your voice better. You take away many practical skills on diction that will help you tremendously.
This a great class, but do NOT expect it to be a typical walk-in-the-park, as some dramatic arts classes are. There is a substantial and constant amount of work, and written assignments are graded toughly. The best way to approach it is to enthusiastically buy into the principles of the class. If you do that, you will see tremendous growth in yourself as a speaker, which is ultimately what the class is all about and bodes well for your grade, I think.
Practicing outside of class is very useful and make sure that you revisit the notes that are taken from class time.
This class is truly transformational. You will bond incredibly with the other students, test your own limits, and never think about your voice the same way again. Probably the best class I have taken at Harvard.
You're probably not going to get into this class until you are a senior, but TRY EVERY YEAR. This class is absolutely worth it. I learned so much about myself as a performer and as a human being.
If you have the opportunity to take this class, do it. It will completely change how you carry yourself, how you treat your body, how you think about your voice and how you use it.
This course was life-changing. I had no prior experience with acting and previously had trouble speaking confidently on stage, but this course has dramatically improved both the quality of my voice and my confidence in public speaking. It was incredible to see these changes in my peers, as well. You get to know your classmates very well, and Nancy and the TF's truly care about your improvement in this course. This course is amazing. You have to take it.
If you are interested in voice work, this course is very helpful. Be wary of past reviews where students remarked that the course was "the best [they've] ever taken at Harvard." Yes, the course is fun, but it is also a lot of work and can be frustrating when you are unsure what is expected of you.
Take this class. Please, take this class. Absolutely phenomenal. If you're interested in becoming a better public speaker, a better conversational speaker, a better actor or actress, a better singer, take this class.
I really enjoyed this class. Coming from a background with little performance background, I found this class doable and really helpful in helping me think about the way I hold myself and communicate with others on a daily level. No preparation is necessary, but most people in the class end up having some sort of background in performance, so interest in some aspects of singing/dancing/acting is highly helpful. This class can be challenging at times, but it will teach you to be more comfortable with your body (there is crawling) and with performing in front of a group. It will provide you with the tools to change your performance by making you aware of how you present yourself in public and giving you some basics on topics such as breathing, projection, and resonance. I would highly recommend it for anyone who wants to speak, act, sing better, or just have better posture!
This is a really excellent class. It will truly help you in every day life, and make you more aware of your breathing and your posture.
This will be among the most peaceful yet rewarding times of your week and your voice will thank you for it later!
Take this class! You will learn things that are necessary for life: how to breathe properly, how to be confortable in front of an audience, how to believe in what you are saying and have the corporal confidence and comfort to be able to deliver your message very powerfully. The teaching team is wonderful and you will always feel at ease in the class if you give your best!
This is an absolutely amazing class. Nancy, as well as the TFs, are absolutely wonderful (and extremely knowledgeable) teachers! Vocal pedagogy is a very specific area of study and is not offered at many schools across the country, so take advantage of this class while you can! You will learn everything from alignment to projection to resonance, and you'll really get a feel for how your body works as an instrument. Every week several new techniques are taught, and over time they will all begin to form a regimen for a new, better, more articulate, aligned, and resonant you! I would highly recommend this class for anyone at all - everyone can improve in how they communicate with the rest of the world, and how they understand their own self and body. Take this class if you want to be a better you!
freshman or senior, take it as it will totally alter you perception of communicating with others and your voice as a tool. I'm still feeling the reverberations from class everyday.
When choosing electives at Harvard, take courses with rockstar professors/teachers that are entertaining, fun, and leaders in their fields.  This course is fun and as practical as any other course at Harvard.  Nancy fits this category and makes the class a fantastic experience.  This class is more work than last year's Q guide said it would be, but the work isn't really hard.  There's just a decent amount of it.
Take this class. You'll think it's strange at first, you may even regret your decision around week 2 or 3, but just take it and stick with it, it's absolutely worth it. Everyone should learn this stuff and it is the break from your other classes that you desperately need.
You need an open mind going into it!
This course was exceptional. I think that it really helped me learn about my breathing and I was able to apply what we covered in this class to my outside life in performances, speeches, and even conversations. It increased my wedge of awareness so much in noticing my own vocal production as well as the individuals around me and I really appreciated our adventure together throughout the semester in growth!
TAKE IT. Just do it. I fell in love with this course the moment Nancy asked us all to crawl around on the floor. You will feel so wonderful about your body and so positive about the future. You will learn to connect to your body in a way that we normally don't (but should) in our society. If I could take this course (or something like it) every semester, I would do it! I feel so luck to have taken it, and I know that if you do you will feel the same way.
It's something completely different from any average Harvard class. It's a lot of fun and interesting for sure and I could see how the skills can really be applied to everyday life, but sometimes I feel like people in the class feel pressured to agree and go along with everything that is being thrown at them, saying how game-changing certain exercises are. In other words, sometimes it feels like people are being a little bit too enthusiastic, almost superficially...
Fun! Unlike any other course at Harvard!
This is the most practical class you will take at Harvard. Everything you learn you will take with you for life! Also, the teachers are all fantastic!
Where do I even begin? This course is really a jewel, a life-changing experience (and I'm not exaggerating). It will not only improve your speaking, but your breathing, posture, and overall attitude to life. It will expand your horizons in a way no other class at Harvard will. It was fun, relaxing, and uplifting. Nancy is amazing and it is an honor to work with her. As you can see, I recommend this with much enthusiasm and hope you are fortunate enough to get into the class.
This class will change the way you think of yourself and your communications with everyone around you.
This class is absolutely life changing.  Please just trust me and take this class.  Pretty please, I'm begging you, it's incredible!
While this may not seem like a "Harvard" course, we are ABLE to take this course because we go to harvard. So TAKE IT! It will change how you breathe, think, present yourself to others, and connect with others.
You get what you put in, for sure. This can most definitely be a moving experience, but by the same token, it can be nothing more than 3 hours a week of your life. Do yourself the favor of the former category of student.
This is the best class you will take at Harvard. I've never been in a class in which the teaching staff cared so much about us. Nancy is quite literally one of the most amazing people I've encountered in all of my life. She has given me the strength that I needed to succeed. I'm so proud of my voice now.
The most transformative class I've taken at Harvard - directly affects multiple aspects of my life (breathing, posture, voice).  The class becomes quite close, and it's been a blast!  HIGHLY recommended - not a class I'll ever forget!
This class teaches you real life lessons. You will see changes in yourself by the end of the semester. The class itself reduces your stress level. Probably the best class you could do for your professional career.
This course is a fun light class.  It is not an easy A.  It will challenge you physically and emotionally!
Probably the most relaxing and useful class you might ever take at Harvard. Not only can you learn how to speak well and without unnecessary effort, but also learn how to slow down your life and manage stress.
This class is one of those courses that will change you as a person. It is a class about self-discovery, and one of the most practical I have ever taken at Harvard. Because of its uniqueness, the class quickly bonds and real friendships develop. As I graduate Harvard, this will be one of the most memorable classes I take with me.
It was very laid back but still had very useful and insightful take-aways regarding speaking and breathing.  Many of the ideas from class could be applied to life in general, such as the idea of mindfulness.
this has totally changed how i speak and communicate. i am now stronger and clearer and i enjoy speaking more. also, the class is fun!
No other class will affect your life in every aspect more than vocal production.  What I learned in the class I will take with me forever.
This class is AMAZING!!!!
You need to be able to get past the absurdity that this course exists and that yes you will be crawling around on the ground during 'lecture', but it is really worth it in the end.
The Ocean! It's all about the Ocean.
it's nice. i enjoyed it, but make sure you know you want to do it.
