It's more of an English class. Get ready to do English class things.
This course is heavily focused on theory, reading, and discussion. While not necessarily the most creatively stimulating course offered in TDM, each class is certainly intellectually stimulating.
It's the sophomore tutorial, so you don't actually have a choice, but it's actually quite interesting. Puchner and Squibbs are a great team and both so knowledgeable and passionate about the subject matter. If you take advantage of the opportunity this class gives you to dream, it can be a great creative outlet!
Interesting readings and very learned professor but the conversations were not always helpful
The class is really whatever you want to make it in the room, because discussion is really fluid and student-driven.  The material is a balance of challenging and easier works, but overall they make you work to think about what theater/art is and can be.
Professor Puchner and Stephen are both fantastic, and you examine interesting texts and concepts. However, the experience of the course is very much determined by the in-class dynamic created by the students who happen to be in the course, as a lot of the learning happens in groups.
This class is literally a REASON to concentrate in TDM. Puchner is absolutely brilliant, wonderfully kind, and a top scholar in his field that will give you insight into canonical texts, inspiring theater, and yourself as a dramatist. If you're looking for a thorough theoretical understanding of TDM, this is your move; if you want extensive literature and reading/writing, you are probably better off in English.
This course has a relatively light workload. It is not stressful, and it is fun. Dive into your performance proposals/exercises, and you will get something out of it. This course is what you make it.
Overall this class is amazing! The discussions are fascinating, even if they do become very philosophical and heady at times. Martin and Stephen are great discussion leaders, helping us really delve into the meat of the readings each week.
