It's awesome.
This was an interesting interdisciplinary look into the historical phenomenon of magic and the witch hunts.  Section focused more on modern depictions of magic but was sometimes off-topic/unrelated to lecture and readings.  Definitely a class worth taking if you're interested in gender studies, groupthink psychology, church history, or cultural movements.  And magic of course.  The movies were also worth watching, if slightly disturbing at times.
The course is interesting. Make sure you stay on top of things for section discussion. Katie was an awesome TF.
Great class if you have a good TF.
The class is pretty boring and the final was very difficult, but it's pretty easy overall and you can get by doing little to no work
I absolutely loved this course. I learned so much about witch trials, witchcraft, and paganism, far more than any average human being would know. It might seem like the course focuses on obscure or irrelevant topics, but the forces driving the witch trials during their peak play into many other historical conflicts and still have effects on the world today. This course focuses on a portion of history that is oft forgotten and yet crucially important to understanding the dynamics of the modern world. If you don't care about that, take it just because you learn about a subject that is bound to interest, if not impress, others.
This class is very easy. You don't have to go to lecture or do the reading to do well. That said, you should still do both because where else will you get to learn about witchcraft in Iceland and throughout Europe?
A lot of reading. Not an "easy" class per se if you try to actively participate. Maybe it is if you try...
Do the readings. It will make the class much more enjoyable. That being said, this may not be the ideal class for a senior looking to have an easy spring (there's a lot of reading involved). It's an interesting class although sometimes it may feel a bit unorganized.
This class is very interesting, Professor Mitchell is an absolutely fantastic scholar and lecturer, and you learn how to look at something (witchcraft) in a new light that is relevant to a lot of modern media. Take it as a fun elective!
There is A LOT of reading for this class, most of which I found unnecessary. I thought this would be my light, fun class but ended up having just as much reading for this class as a concentration seminar I was taking - 200-400 pages per week. The beginning of the class is also slightly hard to follow before you catch hold of the themes Prof Mitchell likes to stress. Other than that, this class is an informative introduction into the study of magic in history.
This class was really fun and low stress but you still learn a bunch. Great senior spring class.
The subject is inherently interesting, and approached from a number of different angles. The professor encourages students to take different approaches to the material.
This class is really interesting especially because you get to learn about witchcraft and history in Western Europe. Professor Mitchell is so passionate about the material, so lectures are really engaging. Definitely take it if they offer it again! The readings are interesting and so are the assignments (wikipedia entry, paper, final creative project or a final). There are movie screenings.
Such a fun class. Steve and Katie are wonderful teachers. If you like dropping Harry Potter references in section, this is the class for you :)
The professor is absolutely wonderful, and lecture is always very interesting. Section/lecture has a great balance of introducing you to the history of witchcraft and the more theoretical takeaways.
This is a wonderful class that will stimulate interesting and relevant thought and discussion. Not as esoteric as it may seem at first.
Take it!
The grading was initially very thorough and difficult, but then was less so for the second assignment. Consistency was erratic.
I thought this class would be a gem, and it was interesting, but definitely not my favorite class at Harvard. It is minimal work, and I got to explore some of my own interests in relation to witchcraft which was cool. But sometimes it was not clear what the requirements were and lecture was pretty boring. Overall, really great topic and not too much work.
This course focuses only on Europe and a bit on Salem, without really touching on the spread of witchcraft away from Europe. Overall, this class is what you make of it in terms of how much you want to put into it (and also get out of it). The assignments aren't too bad, but rubrics do seem to come out of no where.
It's great if you are into magic, witchcraft etc...but you have to enjoy it more than just Harry Potter. Do a simple Google search of the history of witch craft and if that intrigues you, take the class. if not, don't.
This is a great class!  It is easy but still interesting and engaging overall.  There is more reading than necessary but it doesn't all have to be done in-depth.
A really interesting and not too difficult elective that is a great way to round out a hard semester.
interesting class, but hard to remain captivated because some weeks are unorganized. make sure to read and go to lecture.
This class is really interesting, but was graded more harshly than I expected. Don't go in thinking it will be an easy A - it definitely won't. But if you're interested in witchcraft, it really is a great class. Professor Mitchell is so approachable and nice, and he really knows his stuff.
The material is fascinating, but the grading is too hard for what is mainly an elective class. It is also a little repetitive.
This course is SO interesting! It's a painless way to learn about history, sociology, folklore, gender studies, and more. Professor Mitchell is an amazing lecturer - definitely don't skip out on that.
