Fantastic course! Deborah Foster is an engaging professor, but more importantly a spectacular person who really takes the time to know the class. This is a pretty laid back course, but you'll only get a lot out of it if you put the thought into it!
This course is incredibly engaging! You will learn how to critically examine movement in many different aspects of your life and will develop a dialogue for discussing the ephemeral. This was my favorite course of the semester! It is a lot of fun to dance weekly and you will understand yourself differently!
If you are interested in dance, this course makes you love it. The texts are very well chosen, the workshops (practice sessions) are a lot of fun and provide valuable kinesthetic experience that adds an important layer to the learning experience, and Professor Foster is a great instructor with a lot of enthusiasm for dance.
This has been one of my favorite courses at Harvard! Dr. Foster and Mila are awesome, highly-knowledgeable instructors! We had wonderful class discussions that treated the intersection of dance and culture. The ethnographical project was such a rewarding process. The class workshops are incredible and an amazing opportunity. You should be aware, there is an application process because this class is so popular. This year, over 100 students wanted to take the class, and it is limited around 23.
Professor Foster is a caring, thoughtful, passionate teacher. This class could change your life. Incredible to come into contact with so much dance, to see how vastly different one form of dance can be from another, and to learn to look at movement and bodies with careful eyes.
Intelligent discussions, very fun dance workshops, and Prof. Foster is a deeply intelligent scholar who also cares genuinely about your thoughts (and your lives!)
This is an amazing class. If you get the chance to take it, definitely do it. You will learn more than you imagine you could while having a ton of fun doing it - take advantage of the resources of this class and take it seriously!
If you are even remotely interested in dance and are lucky enough to get a spot in this course, definitely take it!  Dr. Foster is an excellent lecture and classes were always enjoyable and interactive.
This is a wonderful course. The workshops are a blast and Professor Foster is kind, thoughtful, and enthusiastic.

I think dance is an under-appreciated aspect of our culture (in academic settings, at least). The opportunity to study dance was enlightening because I have had so many experiences with dance but never studied it.
TAKE IT. Not the class to take if you're trying to  get an easy A. But so the class to take if you're trying to dedicate your time to working hard to engage with something super cool and fascinating. The class has many assignments, so you continue to be pushed to think carefully, critically, and creatively. Deborah Foster in general has a marvelous energy. There are dance workshops almost every week, and chocolate covered things that fostered a lovely environment.
It could be a year long. There's so much amazing material to cover!! Also go to office hours!!! She's so cool and it's nice to get to chat close up.
If you have a genuine interest in the field of dance, take this course. Do not take this course if you want an easy Gen Ed. This course will NOT be easy and a light load for you if you do not really enjoy the subject matter. Luckily for me, I have a deep interest in dance for many reasons, and found this course inspiring and eye-opening. Dr. Foster is an amazing person, and I feel lucky to have found a professor who actually cares about her students at Harvard. She fosters a warm, friendly environment and understands that the varying backgrounds of students can actually greatly enrich the classroom experience.
It's really a fun class. Dance workshops are awesome! Mile is really cool too
An amazing interdisciplinary course with one of the greatest teachers at Harvard.
The class was so much fun.
This is by far one of the best courses offered. It will change your life for the better and introduce you to both yourself and a group of fascinating, supportive people.
This class is so much fun, Deborah Foster is incredible, the discussions are great, you will interact with your classmates more than in most classes, and you will get to spend some of your week moving.
This is the best class that I've taken at Harvard thus far. It is physically active, intellectually stimulating, and all-around fantastic. Professor Foster has truly constructed a unique course with workshops and deep class discussions in an intimate yet diverse setting.
This is an amazing course. We had several dance workshops that were both enlightening and fun, and this class challenged my views on dance by making me really think about it and see it in relation to the culture of society. It was also a really great opportunity to work in a small class with very talented peers and an engaging and really interesting professor. Definitely a special class, and definitely worth taking.
This is probably one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. It was not only interesting, thought-provoking, and fun, but it also provided me with such a deep understanding of dance and movement as a key, KEY component of human life. I definitely recommend it.
This is a great course! Don't feel like you need to have any prior dance experience to participate; enthusiasm will take you farther than experience. It's a fun and low-work GenEd.
This class is unique and an amazing learning experience. The readings are interesting, the videos and discussions great, but the workshops were the most fun. Learning by doing is so much more rewarding than reading about dance. The guest instructors were also great and willing to answer any questions about their dance or the culture surrounding the dance.Take this if you dance, are interested in dance, wanna learn more about dance.
This class is a gem at Harvard, but you definitely get out of it what you put in. The papers and project are challenging and unlike typical research or analysis papers. The discussions are enlightening and productive, especially so if you do all or most of the reading.
This is the best kind of course: fun, not much work, but you can still get a ton out of it. I learned a lot, even when I didn't do all the readings.  you should do the readings if you can, since they are really interesting! But they also aren't super necessary to read to participate/learn from the class if you don't have a chance to do all of them, making this class a really nice one if you have a heavy work load in other classes.
This is a great opportunity to change how you think and feel about dance, about your body and the world around you. Deborah Foster is a wonderful teacher and a great person, take advantage of the chance to work with her and get to learn from her.
THIS IS THE MOST AMAZING COURSE!!! I absolutely loved everything about the course. You get to experience different styles of dance each week, and really learn about dance ethnography. This is one of the few academic dance courses at Harvard, and it was my favorite out of the five other dance performance credit courses that I've taken.
FANTASTIC. TAKE THIS CLASS.  This is such a unique way of exploring dance, and Deborah is so wonderful.
One of the best courses I have EVER taken at Harvard--and I'm a senior. Seriously, I wish everyone could take this course. Professor Foster is amazing--she knows so much about dance and she is so engaged and ready to go through the semester with all her students like one big adventure. I am so glad I was able to get into the class and to have learned as much as I have. The work is manageable, the dance workshops are so much fun, and you will leave the semester having such a better understanding of what it means to dance for others and for yourself.  HIGHLY RECOMMEND!
Deborah Foster is SO smart about this stuff. I'm seriously. Just, just take the class.
If you have the opportunity to take this class - seize it! It will be one of the most enriching academic experiences that you will have available to you at Harvard. Be prepared to be engaged academically, personally, mentally and physically! No experience or background in dance is required; however, many of peers will be trained dancers, performers and choreographers.
This class was simply amazing, everything from the reading to the workshops to the assignments. It has been one of the best classes for me at Harvard, especially in the way of expanding my very limited viewpoint on the visual arts -- most of my background is in musical arts, which involves a completely different set of senses.I knew absolutely nothing about dance coming in, and I came out with a huge appreciation for all of it's aspects. There is real room for your own exploration of the topic, which is a characteristic I find common across the few classes I have genuinely enjoyed at my time here at Harvard. Deborah Foster is also fantastic at guiding discussion and generating interest in the topic. Please, please, please take this course, if you are *genuinely* interest in dance (from either a theoretical or practical standpoint). You will not regret it!
Take this class, if you're lucky to get in. It will remind you to take time to be a feeling, moving, living body in the midst of curricular chaos. The dance workshops are eye-opening and a blast. It's easy to let the readings slide, but try to do them if you can; they represent a good survey of past and current dance theory and ethnography. Branch out on your own dance ethnography project, because the experience can be extremely rewarding if you put the energy in. But most of all, take this class for Deborah Foster. Seriously. What a down-to-earth, brilliant professor, and an all around beautiful soul! Go to tea. Talk to her. She is testament to the fact that there are compassionate people at Harvard who agree personal development is just as worthwhile and important an aspect of education as any other.
i couldn't believe it was offered at harvard! incredible!
That it is a great class to take if you love to dance, want to understand more about what dance means, and a phenomenal way to think about the mind-body divide in performance and expression
There's no other class like this. It's fun, discussions are pretty easy to get into, dance workshops are GREAT, and you get to talk about dance and learn how to talk about it in a way no other class will teach you to do. Prof. Foster is pretty baller as well.
So difficult (ethnography, creative writing), but if you are interested in dance you will learn some really neat things.
This course is unlike any other you will take at Harvard. Do it!
Be prepared to take a course that is "outside the box". The assignments and reading are not that interesting, but the workshops are quite fun.
lots of reading but fabulous workshops
Nothing like it at Harvard.  Deborah and Corinna are great! Nice, knowledgeable, and understanding.
If you're willing to work hard, then you will get a lot out of this class.
This is a very unique course at Harvard. You get as much out of it as you choose.
You will learn to consider dancing in a way you hadn't and you will gain a new (increased) appreciation for the many styles and meanings of dance.
I had originally thought that this was an anthropological dance class, but really it was more a class on embodied knowledge.  It was interesting, but in a very different way than I had anticipated.
If you are passionate about dance, this is a course you must take. I looked forward to this class every week and it never failed to exceed expectations.
A fun choice, really very different from other courses at Harvard.
N/A
It was really fun and very eye-opening in terms of dance. I would definitely recommend it to anyone who is interested in dance, or does dance, since it's such an interesting and fun way to look at dance from an academic setting! My only complaint about the course was that it was not always clear what the professors were looking for in the assignments.
It's a great class with a great professor.  The workshops were fantastic and the assignments in general were interesting.
This class is amazing. Get ready to move and be moved.
