This is your chance to get your feet wet as a slightly bewildered but well-supported ethnographer.
its a lot of work but worth it
It's a lot of work and you will probably get frustrated at times, but if you hit it off with your new group, it'll be totally worth it.  Alternatively, if you are already a member of your group, you'll look at it in a whole new light.
It's an amazing class, and an absolute MUST for anyone interested in folklore, sociology, or anthropology.  Make sure you keep up with your ethnography assignments, so you'll have something to work with for your final project!  And do the readings--they're really great!
Be prepared to have your minds twisted and your turtles endlessly discovered.
The class is a wonderful exploration of ethnographic literature and inspires you to ponder or re-think not only the group you write your project on, but also the interactions and undercurrents within of all the groups in your life.  The discussions you have in this class about the relationship between experience and expression will change your worldview.
Be prepared to either dedicate time normally allocated to other courses to this class. Since there's nothing you can do to avoid it as a Folk & Myth concentrator, it's better to be prepared.
Great course, especially for one you have to take. You will start applying the things you've learned in class to the things you see around you, even if you aren't trying to. Also, there are lots of turtles.
This is one of the best and most enjoyable classes I've taken at Harvard. It will challenge your own worldviews even as you look at other people's, and everything you read and talk about in class will be especially interesting because of its relevance to your field work.
More than merely giving you a solid ethnographic foundation, this course teaches you about people and the way they think about themselves.  From stories to dance to religion, we learn to be good observers of and participants in culture.  It's also one of the most enjoyable classes I've taken at Harvard - the readings are great and Deborah is an amazing professor.  Every class, my decision to concentrate in Folk&Myth is reaffirmed.
The readings are long but worth it. Skim amply. Ask questions in class. Learn things by experiencing them fully.
This is the class that will tell you if you have chosen the right concentration or not.
The Folk and Myth tutorial is excellent in its flexibility. For your ethnography project each student chooses their own site to do fieldwork and the topics are all different. You will learn about the ethics and methodologies of studying cultures and groups of people. It is a great class to understand how others view and navigate the world.
This class is amazing! You will get more interesting theory than any other sophomore tutorial. It's not just a lot of dead white guys, you read some excellent ethnographies and really delve into other cultures in discussion. Prof. Foster is great at leading discussion and has a lot of practice and insight into everything. The semester-long ethnography project is a really fun but academic way to put principles to practice and try to understand your own culture. Folklore and Mythology is an amazingly welcoming but challenging and interesting concentration, and all the other students and professors are so enthusiastic!
This class has been a fantastic part of my undergrad experience so far. Learning about ethnography work and reading other ethnographies can get you thinking critically about anything. You don't need to study folk and myth or have a vested interest in ethnography itself in order to enjoy this class and gain a ton from it. I look at life from a whole new perspective now. Each event I attend, each thing I watch, I can't see it or live it the same way as I did before. It's awesome.
My favorite class so far at Harvard. The readings were fascinating, the discussions were something I looked forward to every week. This is an academic experience I will always treasure and value- it has helped me grow as a student immensely.
This class alone should be worth declaring for Folklore and Mythology. It is the best department and the best people. Just do it.
This is a fantastic class! It teaches you how to analyze the world in an entirely new way! Professor Foster is amazing. She is so patient and wise. I highly recommend that you devote as much time to your final project as possible to make the most of the class.
If you get to take this, it means you're concentrating in folk and myth aka you make good choices
Take if you're a concentrator, but maybe reconsider if not as it is a lot of reading.
Long live Lowell! Long live Turtles! Folk & Myth forever! This course grants you an expansive starting line for ethnography. You will engage with styles of writing, engaging with people and places, and engaging with different audiences that you will admire, loathe, be offended by, and want to emulate in your own work. This course is immersive, and the more consideration you put into your readings, the more insightful connections you will make.
Get ready to get your hands dirty- if you love folklore and people, you'e going to LOVE this.
On the whole, the class is a terrific introduction to the interesting field of ethnography.The main goal of the semester is to produce an ethnography; the class guides you through this process with two essays and two note submissions leading up to the final ethnography. The process is very well-paced since it is spread out over the course of the semester. The weekly workload of readings is also manageable; the class centers around discussion of the readings.And Ms. Lowthorpe is exceptionally kind, knowledgeable, and helpful!
This tutorial is a really fun way of tackling some of the most challenging issues that come in the study of folklore and mythology.
