BEST CLASS EVER
it is a lot of fun--but do all of the readings
Such a great class.
As a general rule, reading seminars aren't always a great way to test the waters of a department if you're not serious but if you do want to take it, make sure to stay up on the reading.
This class is an absolute joy - every week is interesting, and the professor is very open to creativity and taking vast mental leaps with you.
Heroes and tricksters are littered throughout written literature and to explore their connections to oral literature illuminates a cultural, even historical, relevance that's worth understanding.
Students with higher energy and a willingness to participate seemed to enjoy it more.
My favorite class yet at Harvard. Every week was awesome. This course is a fantastic exploration of the trickster and hero and their place in society, culture, and the pysche. Prof. Foster is amazing and sponsors wonderful discussion, complete with hilarious anecdotes. The class includes films and other media and features a flexible final project. There is a good amount of reading, some of it dense, and you are expected to contribute in class. The work is well worth it though! I would absolutely recommend this course!
By far one of the best courses at Harvard. Professor Foster is exciting, kind, and fun to be around. The seminar discussions are captivating, not only because of the subject matter, but also because of the enthusiasm others bring to the table.
This is probably one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. The professor is wonderful, the material is fascinating (and fun), and you get the opportunity to do a creative project (if you choose to). Most importantly, Trickster will challenge you to break outside the bounds of your usual thinking and behavior.
The class is very interesting. There is a lot of reading, but the class discussions are interesting.
DO THE READINGS. DO ALL THE READINGS. The class is tremendously rewarding but only if you do the work--no allowances are made for the gaps in your knowledge when you let it slide.
Incredibly interesting course; a lot of reading but it's completely worthwhile and enjoyable.
This is a wonderful course. Deborah is a great facilitator who is extremely knowledgeable about the subject matter, but allows students to form their own opinions and interpretations of the readings. There are only two large assignments, which means that you can take a lot of time on them and really go in-depth in your research. It's also a lot of fun! And food is provided - really good food.
This course is absolutely amazing - don't take a spot away from someone else unless you're actually going to do the reading and participate.
This class is so fun!  It attracts an amazing mix of students and discussion is robust!
Seriously take this class. It was my favorite class that I have taken at Harvard so far. Professor Foster is an amazing Professor and makes the class extremely entertaining and educational at the same time. You will honestly not regret taking this class.
TAKE THIS CLASS. I looked forward to it every single week: it was challenging in an intellectual, thought-provoking way without being weighed down by unnecessary or superfluous busywork. All the readings were meaningful and interesting, and the discussion that followed from them even more so--and the papers/projects were genuinely enjoyable.
