Helpful for concentrators. The course is currently being restructured (like most of folk and myth). If Steve is still teaching it it's likely to be a little disjointed but cover all the bases with a reasonable workload.
This course is a great survey of folklore thought. The readings are very engaging, so be sure to do all of them when you can! The book reviews are thought provoking and the oral exam is an interesting experience.
This course is an excellent survey of folklore scholarship starting since the establishment of the field, all of which is useful and necessary for doing work in the department.
This class is a lot of information to take in, but it's necessary to get a grounding in the field and Steve also presents it in the most user-friendly way possible. I mostly rated this "difficult" not necessarily because the readings themselves are extremely difficult, but just because there are a lot of them.
This is a great course in the sequence of Folk and Myth concentration requirements. Look forward to it!
Professor Tatar is excellent and this tutorial really allows one to analyze the material in depth every week since it is usually small. We covered a wide variety of cultures and I learned a lot from my classmates.
Haha well you don't get a choice, you have to take it if you are majoring in folk and myth, but seriously this is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.  Professor Tatar is amazing and the material is awesome.
Do the readings. Find a nook and cranny you love and don't be afraid to speak up about it.
This is really a great course, one of my very favorite ones so far.  Look forward to it, and enjoy soaking up all the fascinating material that it explores.  I would recommend doing all the readings.
The reading can often be dense and difficult but just think of it as a bonding experience with your fellow concentrators!
This course is much more fun and interesting than you might expect from its title, and I expect the material will all be quite important when it comes to General Exams senior year.
You have to take it, so why bother looking at the Q guide?
The course isn't as dry as I thought at the beginning and really does give you a good foundation in folkoristics.
The class really does have potential, and the Professor is very nice and approachable. I hope that in the future, this evaluation and my peers' will help the committee steer this course in a new direction.
A good "great-books" course on folkloristics with a large workload.
You will learn as much, if not more if you opt to conduct independent study.
It's a good class, interesting enough, but it's a class about theory so the readings can be dense and uninteresting.
you need it. just do it.  and it's only interesting if everyone's done at least some portion of the readings, so READ.
I feel strongly that this course is on the upswing; I would not necessarily recommend it highly in its current form, but the readings and the structure seem to be in flux, and you can learn a lot from both the professor and the other students! The classroom atmosphere can be quite jolly, although a lot of time can get wasted.
