its great.....and its the only course youll take that everyone you meet will want to talk to you about
This class is a gem: one of the most fun and rewarding classes I have had the pleasure of taking.  Not only do you learn a lot about a side of American history that is typically underrepresented (traditionally feminine and domestic themes) but you get the opportunity to be creative.  I definitely recommend this class.
It is definitely a "fun" class to take, but I believe that one should go in with an open mind about what it teaches. As an offering of the Folk&Myth department, one of the most rewarding aspects for me that I found was a better appreciation for how the everyday can become part of a story-telling narrative and myth without the expectations of it.
If you're interesting in quilting -- the history, the impact on American history, and the details of how to make a quilt -- then take this class! The expectations of assignments are a little unclear, so make sure you clarify when needed, but the resources available for the class in terms of making a quilt were unreal, so if Professor Lufkin offers the class again, I would highly recommend!
I really enjoyed the relaxed atmosphere of this course.  It is very refreshing to have a professor who doesn't insist on speaking in an inaccessible way.  I wish there were more courses like this where it felt like the instructor was more interested in the subject material than in the high-falutin discourse in which it is taught!
Two thumbs up. (One thumb is punctured by needle marks.) An excellent course.
This is a wonderful class that actually teaches a skill and covers an array of topics. If you are interested in quilting or have someone in your family who does, take this class because it is a great way to learn.
Take this class! It's an awesome introduction to American folk arts and F&M as a concentration. And you get to make a quilt.
There are a lot of readings each week. It is a great, fun class! Felicity is awesome!
This is an amazing class.  Quilts are an incredibly interesting, often forgotten but important part of art history.  Professor Lufkin is brilliant and kind and brings in great snacks.  This class felt like a community which in large part is due to the weekly quilt lab.  I had so much fun, I learned a lot, and came away pondering big questions like "what is art?". Take this class!!!
One of the biggest strengths of this class is the hands-on component, which is rare to find at Harvard. That being said, the majority of class class is reading and discussion.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Felicity is fantastic and overall very approachable and enjoyable to be around. I really enjoyed getting to know her over the semester, and the small class size was great--many of us became friends!This class actually taught me a lot: Imagine AP US history, WGS studies, AfAm, art history, and a VES studio course in a blender. That's how you get this class. Fascinating topics...some weeks my inner feminist felt as if I needed to become an avid quilter to assert my womanhood like those before me! (But for real, some of these readings will alter how you view needlework and feminism--in a great way). The weekly quilt labs are fun--sewing is hard, but you learn how to do different quilting techniques and will have the opportunity to complete a quilt for a final project. I chose to write a paper instead and learned ALOT about American folklore in the process. I'm so proud of the stuff I have made and learned both with hand sewing and the machine in this class.Very glad I took this course, it was fun, I learned a new skill, identify as an avid quilter now, and overall had a nice experience and plan to quilt in the future after graduation.
While this class has a lot of reading, the assignments are relatively easy.  If you stay on task during the semester, this class shouldn't be problematic.  I would recommend starting the final project as early as possible.
TAKE IT IF YOU CAN GET IN!! Felicity is so so so lovely, and really cares that you are learning about quilts as well as learning how to make them. The final project took a TON of time during finals period, but was incredible rewarding. You won't regret it!
This class has been one of my favorites, if not my absolute favorite! Professor Lufkin is great! The material will challenge the way you view everyday objects, what you assume about history, art, and folklore. If you're interested in quilts at all definitely take it! Even if you're not its a very friendly, small, laid back but rewarding and intellectually provocative course!
A fun class, great professor, interesting topic-- highly recommend.
It's a really interesting class to learn about quilt history and how to quilt!
This class is a great time. Felicity sometimes brings in baked goods and the quilting lab is very fun. Be warned the quilt takes a long time to make!! The assignments are not very well defined and sometimes pointless, but overall a good class.
This is a great class! I had no idea there was such a rich history of quilting. The readings are really fascinating.For the final project, you should start on your quilt as soon as you can. Everything takes longer to do that you expect. That being said, there is nothing more satisfying than having a finished product at the end of the semester.
This is arguably the greatest class I've ever taken. It is light-workload, which is likely its initial appeal, but I also feel that I've learned so much, and had such an incredible time! I learned a new skill which is so useful (hello never having to ask my mom to sew buttons again!!), made so many new friends (quilting in the dining hall is like bringing in a new toy to pre-school, everyone wants to try it out!), and I made a final project that I actually feel like I want to show off! The only complaint I have about this class is that it's lotteried, so not everyone can take it! Ooh, and Professor Lufkin is the greatest! She is able to lead an incredible discussion during seminar, and is able to host a tremendous "Stitch-N-B***h" during lab!
Fun and super chill - take as an electve
Don't fear if you've never touched a needle in your life. This class teaches so many useful, practical sewing/quilting skills while also diving into the vastly interesting and complex world of quilting and quilt history. It was a joy to take this senior year, to end senior year on such a good note, and I left this class with no regrets, having learned far more than I had ever thought possible.
Take this class!!! It was fantastic. If you're interested in women's history, art history, or quilts, you will love this class. Felicity is a fabulous teacher and you will learn so much from her!
Make sure that you are prepared to put in more hours of work in the end of the semester on your quilt than you will for any other class. It's rewarding but definitely a commitment.
This class is fairly unstructured with minimal assignments. The quilt-making aspect is lots of fun if you're willing to put some time into it!
Very much enjoyed the class for the process of making a quilt. Readings are more than you'd expect, but they're mostly pretty interesting. Quilts are a great lens to understand American history, feminism, race, and complicated questions about the nature of art.
This is a great course if you like creative projects, but if you make a quilt for your project expect it to be very time consuming; it is very rewarding in the end, though.  The seminar portion is also interesting; you're really free to bring up any topic related to the theme that week.  All in all great class and I highly recommend.
This is a great class. I would recommend it with no reservations. Professor Lufkin is a funny, supportive, and enthusiastic professor and she knows a huge amount about the material. The final project is a great experience (although it takes a LOT of time, so start early) and the class as a whole is so much fun. It is a lot of reading, but the reading is entertaining and almost never dry so it's not bad at all. One of my favorite classes at Harvard so far.
This course is an enlightening approach to American history through the lens of quilt making. It was a great method of re-visiting American history and re-viewing it from a completely different perspective.
Take this class if you have a chance! It's really fun, you get to pick up a cool new skill and really appreciate the history of quiltmaking. Professor Lufkin is pretty cool, and the assignments are flexible; for the final project in particular you are free to make a quilt however you like. Biggest drawback is that you don't get much feedback on how you're doing in the class during the semester. BE SURE YOU START ON THE FINAL PROJECT EARLY, especially if you're making a quilt. I'm talking Spring Break early. It'll be a lifesaver come finals period.
Start your quilt early
This class is a great way to break outside of traditional lecture based courses at Harvard. Additionally, it provides an opportunity to do hands-on, artistic work that is accessible to all skill sets.
So fun. More reading than expected, but on interesting topics. The "lab" component was so much fun!!!
This class is awesome if you're interested in quilting or learning how to quilt and want to take it for the quilting.  The readings and discussions got a little bit dry sometimes because they really are all about quilts.  However, it was also way more interesting than I thought it would be, and there was a ton more to learn about quilts and quilting than I thought there would be.
This class is cool because you learn to quilt and you get to be creative. I found the discussions, however, to be pretty boring. You talk much more about the socioeconomic/cultural implications and meanings of quilts than the quilts themselves. In fact, we almost never talked about the appearance, etc. of the quilts. It's definitely not an art history class. There is also quite a bit of reading and the response papers can be tedious. It's a fine class, but if I had the choice again, I probably wouldn't take it.
Excellent class. It's well structured, and Prof. Lufkin is a lot of fun and a great instructor. The quilting "lab" is awesome, and learning the actual techniques we're discussing is really helpful. Also, you might not expect this, but this is the sort of class in which you really become friends with your peers. Something about sitting around sewing and chatting together really brings you closer.
This was one of the most unbelievable experiences in my Harvard career. I wrote an insane final paper and made a bizarre final quilt, not to mention my little potholder quilt that I'm still amazed I managed to finish and assemble all by myself, by hand! It's crazy to think that only a few months ago I'd never sewnI've come so far. Professor Lufkin has a genuine enthusiasm for her students and the material, and the creative liberation of the final project was entirely unexpected and wonderful.
