This class is fantastic. You get to seriously consider books you probably loved growing up. Katie was a PHENOMENAL TF!! Lectures were usually great but definitely a bit confusing--they jumped around a lot without a ton of organization. Apart from that it was perfect!
The larger class format definitely seemed to make the course worse, hope it resumes its small class format for future students. Although I appreciated the bigger size making it easier to get into the course, I didn't feel that it did much good for the class otherwise. It was one of the best classes I have taken though and it had very interesting material. I will note that a lot of time is spent in lecture on autobiographies and photographies by the authors, which was not what I was looking for.
Literally the coolest and chillest class ever. If it is ever offered again, take it!
This class is amazing!! It is so cool to explore how much of our society is reflected in and shaped by myth, fairytale, and fantasy literature -- something that we're so familiar with. Professor Tatar is a real superstar. She's so knowledgable, humble, and funny. She does a great job of integrating lots of different subjects into one cohesive course, and she encourages participation and discussion. The reading is not too heavy and the papers are super open-ended and fun to write. Definitely a great class that's chill but also very rewarding.
This is the best class ever, one of my favorite I've taken at Harvard! The material is exactly what you expect--from Hans Christian Andersen tales to Harry Potter, doing the homework always felt like a relaxing break from schoolwork. Every lecture, Maria Tatar also brought chocolate and introduced a variety of interesting external sources, from Hollywood films to modern ad campaigns to secondary scholarship that demonstrated the continuing influence of fairytales and mythic tropes on our culture. This class is relatively low stress, but high reward, especially if you do the reading. Could not recommend more highly (and may the odds be ever in your favor in the lottery)!
BELIEVE THE HYPE. This course is so unbelievably good. It is intellectually stimulating and relevant, it teaches you to think about familiar media objects in new and even revolutionary ways. Entering the lottery for this course was literally an annual ritual for me. When I got in as a senior,  had high expectations, but they were met and exceeded in every capacity.
I am SO happy I finally lotteried into this class. It is really as magical of an experience as you would expect. The reading material is wonderful you get to revisit stories you read or heard friends talk about when you were kids and look at them from a new perspective. The issues and questions that were brought up in discussions also made you reflect on and wonder about society, life, and yourself in general. The teaching staff is incredible. Professor Tatar really cares about her students and you can see it with how much effort she puts into this course (she also brought us candy EVERY lecture). Katie, our TF, was a fantastic discussion facilitator and was just as excited about reading and discussing these stories every week as we were. We also went on a field trip to watch a movie that was relevant to what we were studying at the time and had an author guest lecturer come in! Truly one of the best classes I have taken here at Harvard; I would definitely recommend you lottery for it every chance you get until you get in so worth it. May the odds be ever in your favor!
I think there is a lot of hype for this class, and I can see why with the assigned readings being so popular, but I think this class does have a bit of a "fan effect", meaning some kids are obsessed with it which make it a little intimidating for other kids who like it, but don't love it. I think that's one thing to keep in mind when deciding to take this class that I didn't realize before.
This is one of the best classes offered at Harvard. Professor Tatar will keep you engaged throughout the entire semester and you will learn things about childhood stories you never noticed.
This class will change how you think about stories and culture while simultaneously allowing you to study books you love wholeheartedly, which is sometimes a rare phenomenon in college.
This is a cool class, but I do not think this is a good representation of folk&myth classes. Other courses in the folk&myth department are so much more interesting and relevant, so I would recommend those, instead.
This class is so much fun, and you will learn way more about history, morality, and culture than you'd expect. The readings are interesting, and the lectures are not only engaging, but interactive - you will get the chance to ask questions to the Professor/audience, and give answers of your own. The sections will make you consider even more questions, and you will definitely get individual attention and the chance to examine issues you come up with.
Really great reading list. Great class/section discussions (Prof. Tatar and Katie are really smart and thoughtful and approachable). You get entirely what you put into it: it's an easy Gen Ed and so it's easy to slack off on, but it can be the most rewarding class of your semester if you actually bother to re-read works like Beauty and the Beast or Harry Potter and then think critically about them. This year, due to the increased size of the class, lectures felt more passive and sections felt slightly crowded - but it was still a great atmosphere to participate in.
This was an amazing class! Even if nothing else had been good, I would love it because we read the best works ever written.  But everything else about this class also made me happy, from the Professor to the sections (very interesting discussions most of the time!) to the chocolate in lecture to the papers!
The professor and the TFs are very nice and knowledgable in the field, but only take this class if you feel rejuvenated at the thought of listening to/ talking about diverse renditions of the Little Red Riding Hood, children's separation anxiety that is pregnant in Hansel and Gretel, the message of Alice in Wonderland, Hans Anderson's sublimation of suffering into beauty, and etc. IF these kinds of ideas sound abstract without holding out any sort of appeal, do not take this course. Don't let the highly coveted, lotteried aspect of this course precede your judgment of what you enjoy learning about and what topics actually interest you.
Definitely take this course if you can get through the lottery! It is so much fun, and you learn a lot without having to put in a ton of work.
it's an unorganized class
This is the most amazing class you will take at Harvard if you are lucky enough to lottery in. Maria Tatar is the most engaging, electric, mesmerizing lecturer. Take the trip into the world of mystery and fairytales and you will learn to view the world with a different sense of wonder.
If you're lucky enough to get into this course, you absolutely must take it.
Very chill course. Material is engaging. Lottery every opportunity you get a chance! One of the best courses at Harvard.
I had been trying to get into the lottery for this class for four years, and when I finally got in, it definitely lived up to and exceeded its hype. A lot of the works we read are probably from your own childhood and that makes it fun to engage with them. However, we prepared to do some deeper theoretical and critical analysis of the texts if you want to do well.
This class was easily my favorite class of the semester, because it provided background for all of the books I have loved for years, while also giving theoretical and analytical approaches to understanding the depth of this kind of writing.  The books we read were all wonderful, as was all of the theory -- some of it went a little bit over my head, but most of it was really enlightening.  Professor Tatar's lectures went really in depth and covered tons of material without being overwhelming, and they were always thoroughly enjoyable.  My section was also wonderful, and I loved having an intellectual forum to talk about fantasy literature and books written for children.
This class is an absolute joy. I recommend it wholeheartedly. If this satisfies a gen ed requirement of yours, that's great, but I would recommend that you take it irrespective. This class will not be a 'waste'.
The class has some great readings and amazing discussion.
Don't take this class just because it's easier than most. It's a lot more worthwhile for the kids who engage in the material and discussions, and considering 300 students lottery for only 50 spots, don't take a spot if you're not willing to at least put in enough effort to engage.
The reading selection in this course is fantastic. I never had so much fun doing the readings than IN any other course. Of course, that is to be expected since the readings revolve around fairy tales. Bringing a critical eye to these works in class and section really makes you appreciate their cultural significance and how they were shaped by their authors and time periods so much more.
Great course! I feel great about having covered so many influential works of literature in this course and have learned to think more critically about the underlying messages in the texts. Assignments do not take much time at all, and grading is fair. Lectures felt a bit disorganized to me (lots of extraneous material), but overall, the course staff is extremely enthusiastic and well-informed, and I learned a lot in section as well.
This is a truly wonderful course. The subject matter (children's literature such as Peter Pan, Charlotte's Web, Alice in Wonderland, the Hunger Games, Harry Potter, and more) is such a delight, and Professor Tatar very engagingly analyzes the materials in her lectures.The workload is very manageable overall: weekly readings (which include novels, short stories, folktales, and academic essays), one midterm essay, one final essay, a final, and occasional reading reflections. You get to pick your own topics for both essays, which make the essays surprisingly fun to write.You really get out what you put into this course. You could skip readings and still do just fine, but you will be so much more enriched if you read the novels and short stories and then actively participate in class and section.
Lecture: Prof. Tatar is amazing, and it is really so cool to talk about these readings in a lecture at Harvard. Lecture is always enjoyable though perhaps not always the most centered on a topic. Prof. Tatar also always bring chocolate!Section: Super cool to be able to discuss these readings and your own reception of them. Depending on your section leader, they can also bring a lot to the course.Readings: Harry Potter. That's all. What more is left to be said?Papers: lots of agency, and it is so cool to write about whatever you find most interestingExam: hard to study for, but very easy to anticipate if you pay attention in lecture or review the notes
This course is unlike many courses at Harvard in terms of subject matter. It is definitely a nice break from quantitative classes and allows you to revisit an important part of your past.
Even as a Folk and Myth concentrator, who has taken many classes with nontraditional material, this is still one of my favorites.  The readings really did shed a new light on what I had read when I was a child and allowed me to reflect on how I relate to those texts as an older person.  And the texts definitely did not lose their magic.  This was one of the first classes where I felt really motivated to talk in section because I the themes we were discussing were fascinating and felt personal.  Even on weeks where the readings were long, I was still motivated to get them done since they were really more comforting than stressful.
I mean, come on. this course speaks for itself. How many times can you write your final paper on Harry Potter and the Hunger Games? It will also make you rethink the stories of your childhood from before YA literature. you wont look at fairy tales the same way again. Take it, you will NOT regret it and plus it's really a gem.
If you like the materials that we are covering, you will love the class!
This class is beyond amazing! You must take it before you graduate! Readings can be a little heavy but they're all super enjoyable! TAKE IT. TAKE IT NOW
This is one of the most fun and engaging courses you will take. Don't take it because you think it will be easy, take it if you really love the books and you want to have the chance to talk about them in an academic setting.
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, hands down. The books we read were all incredible, and we had wonderfully enlightening discussions about each of them. Getting to read Harry Potter for a class was a dream come true, but the rest of the course was excellent as well. Professor Tatar is lovely and a very talented lecturer, and Christina baked for us every section.
The best class I have taken at Harvard- the material is very interesting and the teaching staff is lovely.
This is a great way to fulfill a gen ed, but I would suggest that you really love children's literature before you take it. This class was fabulous because everyone in it was so engaged and interested in the subject manner - I would hate to see it be filled with people who didn't love the material as much as Professor Tatar and Christina, because they are so incredibly passionate. But overall, this class is amazing and you'll love it!
This class is SO MUCH FUN!! You get to read and analyze your favorite fantasy novels that you read as a kid and gain a new, intellectual perspective on them--what could be better?  Professor Tatar is a wonderful lecturer and amazing person, and she really cares about the students.  Christina Phillips is hands down the BEST TF I have had at Harvard.  She is genuinely enthusiastic and knowledgeable about the material (may be the biggest Harry Potter buff I've met), very invested in her students, and an amazing baker.  If you are lucky enough to lottery into this class, take it!!
Oh my goodness. Such an amazing course. The reading is amazing, and you learn so many new things about tales that you think you know so intimately. Assignments are fair and fun (I know that's hard to believe, but trust me they are), and the teaching staff really cares about making the class an amazing in EVERY sense of the word. Unlike a lot of other classes and professors and TFs at this school, they care more about the work you produce - they care about you as a person and make that blatantly clear. And to me, that meant the world. I cannot say enough good about this class or the teaching staff in general. One of the best experiences I've had at Harvard. I could not have done this semester without it.
If you have the opportunity to take this course, do so. It will be challenging, not a cake walk. There are significant primary and secondary source readings, and assesments. You will be made to think critically and creatively. However, you will be streched to inquire about fascinating new subject matter that you will get a lot from. Professor Tatar is an excellent lecturer, and kind to boot. She is actually devoted to teaching undergraduates. The TF for 2012, Christina Phillips, is phenomenal and also adds greatly to the class. Be prepared to put in significant effort, but have it pay off.
Professor Tatar and Christina are absolutely fantastic - two of the best teachers I've had at Harvard.  The reading list is fantastic, and Tatar offers really sensitive and intelligent readings on almost all of them.  I couldn't recommend the class more strongly.  The only issue with the course is that after the lottery, the class makeup winds up being a crazy cross-section of students, so my section wound up with a lot of freshmen who were really unfamiliar with analyzing and discussing literature of any kind.  But really, take the class!
AMAZING! BRILLIANT! DAZZLING! Hands down, best class ever!
This course is perfect.  In every aspect imaginable, it exceeded my expectations dramatically.  Professor Tatar promotes amazing levels of intellectual curiosity and delivers lectures which brilliantly weave readings and theory from the wider academic world into the fabric of the course.  Christina was the perfect TF, her amazing discussions in section were valuable and most insightful.  When I think about what an academic experience should be like at Harvard, my ideal is not far from the experience of this class.  It was the best I have taken at Harvard thus far in terms of enjoyment and raw intellectual curiosity.  TAKE THIS COURSE AND DON'T LOOK BACK.  You will love it.
If you have an opportunity to take this class, take it!!!
Prof. Tatar is extremely receptive to her students' ideas and radiates intellect. Christina is an amazing TF who is not only bubbly and kind, but also extremely knowledgable and very encouraging as well.
If you have the privilege to be lotteried into this class then take it. It has been one of the most spectacular experience at Harvard for me and it really is that: an experience.
you probably clicked on this because you heard it's the harry potter class or it's a super easy and fun gen ed. all of that is true, but the real reason you should take this class is because it can be one of the most meaningful classes in your harvard education. the readings are enjoyable & it's so heartwarming to be able to read your childhood classics and appreciate them now as intellectual adults. professor tatar is such an amazing person, and she truly loves what she's doing. if christina phillips is the TF, then this class is a triple threat & you need to bribe your way into the course if that's what it takes. she's such a fantastic person, and she views you not only as a passionate student but also a human being.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, both in terms of the material covered and in terms of the people who run the course.
This class is amazing as both an intellectual and supportive center -- Christina and Maria really like hearing what you think about the literature, and really want to know you as people.
This is a college student's dream class - you will never have an experience like this again, or a class that will make you delve into how literature has formed your identity like this does.
One of the best classes at Harvard
Definitely take this class if you have the opportunity.  It's interesting and fun, and was one of, if not my favorite class at Harvard.
BEST COURSE AT HARVARD!! Low workload and Christina is amazing as a TF!
This was by far my most favorite non-concentration class at Harvard.  You will NEVER match a reading list like the one we got through EVER. I also guarantee that you will find very few people at Harvard who are as caring, versatile, funny, enthusiastic and fun-loving as Professor Maria Tatar and Christina Phillips.  They actually look like they love their job and they really want to help their students do well and learn a ton. Tatar usually led amazing historical, philosophical and literature analyses of children's and fantasy tales, looking into the authors' lives to provide background for lectures and flawlessly connecting ideas between books.  Open discussion usually dominated the sections, which Christina kept flowing beautifully and happily with open ears. She also brought baked goods to EVERY section, which somehow made the sections even more incredible.  You will love literature and, more importantly, fall back in love with the tales that pervaded your childhood.  I beg you to take this class before you leave Harvard because this is how most classes should strive to be.
This course was a wonderful opportunity to engage creative impulses and critical thinking about topics often overlooked in literature.
TAKE THIS CLASS. I had to completely rearrange my schedule to do it and now have to take annoying requirements senior spring, but I'm so glad I did. It is so cool to revisit books you loved as a child in an academic setting. The class couldn't be more fun, and Prof. Tatar is fantastic (and so stylish!). I looked forward to doing the homework for the course. Easily one of my favorite classes at Harvard. You also get the opportunity to be creative!
I solemnly swear I am up to no go: This class will forever transform your life. Give yourself the opportunity to explore the world through fairy tales and fantasy literature. Mischief managed!
It is the best class you will ever take at Harvard! JUST TAKE IT. i was so happy i thought i would die.
Very fun. Do the reading and participate actively and you'll do well.
Your life is not complete until you take this class.
Great Class! This is Christina's last year so there will be a new TF. Things might change but Professor Tatar is just as amazing. Absolutely my favorite class of the year!
This is one of the greatest classes you will ever take. Interesting lectures (though a bit unorganized for the first half of the course), an unparalleled reading list (Harry Potter, Hunger Games, Peter Pan, Alice in Wonderland, various fairy tales, etc.), and an amazing TF. The reading is fairly light and also very interesting, and you've probably already read most of the novels. A fairly short midterm essay, a final creative project, and a very straightforward final exam are really the only big assignments. The class is very low stress and section discussion, facilitated by the wonderful Christina, is always productive and interesting, Professor Tatar is great, too - she really takes into account what you want to learn about these stories and novels and brings a great folklorist perspective to many modern novels.
Amazing class with a super dedicated professor and TF. Not only did I actually learn (thought I wouldn't learn much) but it was extremely fun too.
This course was obviously the most enjoyable course I have taken at Harvard. Professor Tatar and Christina proved to be a dynamic tag team, as lectures and sections were individually terrific, complemented each other well, and were always fun and interesting. The texts we read in class were all wonderful. The assignments were fun and useful. Doing work for the class was always pleasurable. I mourn the course's loss of Christina next year - she is impossible to replace. But if you have the opportunity to take this course, absolutely do it. I completely destroyed my schedule to fit this class in and I have no regrets.
If you are searching for an EASY course, take this. If you are searching for a course that will CHALLENGE you and expand your THINKING POWERS, don't take this course. Lectures are two hours of looking at cool fotos of the author, watching disney versions of the fairy tales, and did not make me better in any way as a thinker or human being. Now it's not at all bad to watch some of, say, Disney's Sleeping Beauty, but you have to do something with that as the instructor. You have to find a way to connect the disney version to the intellectual and weighty themes you are (or should be) discussing. But instead, we are presented with magazine fotos of sleeping beauty, disney versions of sleeeping beauty, and THAT'S IT. We just move on. We are not told or challenged to think how it relates to the intellectual stuff. Also, we read WAY too much stuff and do not have time to get into the nuts of bolts of any of it. the course sacrifices depth for breadth.
This is the best class you will take at Harvard, hands down. It gives you the opportunity to delve into the stories of your childhood and understand and appreciate them on a deeper level.
This class was truly one of my favorite classes that I have ever taken at Harvard. The teaching staff is fantastic and their enthusiasm for the class material is contagious. I found myself looking forward to each weekly reading assignment. I loved discussing the books in lecture and digging deeper and thinking about these stories in different ways.
This course is simply wonderful. Trying to capture its essence in words would be a waste, so i will simply leave you with the fact that it was the best class i have taken here. It is fun and instructive and everything classes would be in an ideal world. Christina and Professor Tartar make this course stupendous.
This is truly a special class. I learned a lot more "academic" things than I was expecting to that work on a more universal literary level. This is not class where you just read children's literature for fun and then talk about it on superficial or subjective levels, which is to its great credit.
If you are lucky enough to win this lottery, make sure that no one else volunteers as tribute. For all but the fabulous Professor Tatar, this class is a once in a lifetime opportunity. Unfortunately, Christina - Teaching Fellow Extraordinaire/Potterhead/Master-baker/Mentor - will no longer be there to guide the tributes on their quest into the realm of children's literature. Sniff sniff - but have no fear! Professor Tatar's lectures are an in-depth, masterly-constructed survival guide that will cover every challenge that might be encountered on your journey. Prof. Tatar will make you critically rethink the books you read as a child, and utilize theorists to make sense of nonsense. Colorless green ideas sleep furiously, so you better hurry up and volunteer as tribute. Happy FM 128 Games. And may the odds be ever in your favor.
This class is incredible! Interesting, easy, fun, and taught by unbelievably warmhearted and engaged teachers.
The lottery's there fornot just a reason, but a plethora. The fantastic (aha, a pun) reading list is just the first of them. If Christina's TFing, just knowshe's the best TF you could possibly have. Professor Tatar's lectures are terrific, a comprehensive and fascinating introduction to a subject of which no prior knowledge is a necessity to take this course. And assignments are that rare breednot demanding, just on-point and carefully designed to actually enhance understanding of the material as efficiently as possible.
It is such a privilege to be in this class. All I can say is that if you get in, you NEED to do all of the work and treat it like a privilege. It made me angry to see people who got into this course above hundreds of others slacking or being disengaged during class.
You may think there's no way this class could be as good as it seems. It is.
Maria and Christina are some of the nicest people I've ever met! You also read some really fantastic literature. Not much more to say about it! However, I enjoyed the theoretical parts of the course less, and there is a bit of that.
This class has hands down been my favorite of my entire Harvard career! It is so refreshing to find classes like these that reinvigorate your sense of creativity! Take the course! Really put the time and  effort into the class because it is clear that both the Professor and TF care a lot about you and have invested a lot into their teaching.
This is an unforgettable, wonderful, wonderful class! It completely changes to way you see children's literature and makes you realize how relevant the works you read in your childhood are even now, as a young adult. The teachers make it a fabulous experience- truly such a pleasure to be a part of the experience.
