I think this class is only appropriate for graduate students, or perhaps for undergraduates writing a thesis on a related topic. The course is essentially a literature review of English-language articles on Chinese woodblock prints (of the 19th and 20th centuries). Unless you read Chinese, all the texts you'll study will be secondary sources, most of which are written in bland, highly academic prose. If you're thinking about taking this course, I recommend checking out James Flath's book, "The Cult of Happiness," and paging through it before deciding.
I was the only student who took the class this semester, so I felt pressured to read everything on the syllabus. I literally read every single thing. Thus, I experienced the course largely as a demanding slog through dense, heavy articles punctuated by a two-hour weekly lecture. During class, Professor Lufkin would often show a slide and ask what Author X said about the print, so I never felt like I could skip the reading. She frequently emailed me to assign extra material, and I read all of that as well. For this class, I wrote nine response papers, all of them critiques of the scholarly literature assigned that week. Before I wrote the final paper, Professor Lufkin emailed me a reminder not to rely only on the sources on our syllabus, but to cite a good range of other publications. Too weak to protest, I gave up and just started reading.  
Over the course of the semester, hundreds of powerpoint slides flashed before my eyes very quickly, as well as a few dozen prints in the MFA and Fogg collections. As a result, the only prints I remember well are the ones I analyzed for my final paper. After taking this course, I feel like I understand a little about Chinese woodblock prints, and a lot about how academics think. I spent 90% of my time looking at scholarly texts and 10% looking at images. I find this both interesting and hilarious, so I don't regret my decision to enroll. I also don't blame Professor Lufkin, who was very enthusiastic about the class, and just wanted me to absorb as much as possible. (She was very nice and brought snacks every week.)
If you take this class, take it with a few friends. If the enrollment remains low however, seriously examine your commitment to going through this body of scholarly literature. I wouldn't recommend a course like this to any demographic but the most dedicated. The prints themselves are beautiful and worthy of study. But it's a tough course with an odd payoff, and you might find more enjoyment with a different syllabus.
This course is a bit boring. Once you've seen one image, you've seen almost all of them. It began to be a bit repetitive over time. If you're an art history enthusiast, this class might be a good one for you. Otherwise, I might think it over on if you really want to do it. The response papers are also not the most engaging assignments for the course and the midterm examination is not as fun either.
Highly interesting and perspective-changing, especially if you're from a Chinese family but have never explicitly explored your own culture, the ones you've taken granted on a daily basis.
It was wonderful!
