This course is highly enjoyable and thought provoking. The readings are enjoyable and Professor Tatar is incredible. She is a wonderful professor and very open to student input.
Despite being a fun and interesting class, there were moments, such as in the choice to read Anansi Boys instead of a work by an African-American author, where I felt the course faltered in its treatment of the subject matter.  Hopefully these issues will be resolved in the future and the syllabus will focus on works created by the people and culture it studies.
Quite simply a phenomenal class. Professor Tatar is incredible and the material is fascinating.
This is a phenomenal class. Professor Tatar is kind, smart, and thoughtful of her students. The materials you will encounter are fascinating and illuminating, especially if you have been unexposed, previously. Each class hosted good conversations over snacks, and the general feel of the class is very conducive to productivity without stress. I highly recommend taking this class, and am thrilled to have taken it, myself.
This class is amazing. You'll learn a lot not only from Professor Tatar but also from other students in the class -- all of whom, in my experience, were very excited about taking the class and had a lot of outside knowledge to bring to the table. It's also a very manageable workload, maybe 100 pages of fairy tales a week and a weekly, short response paper. Also, Professor Tatar is really great at leading discussions! I would definitely recommend it!
Another fantastic seminar from Prof. Tatar. The reading list is solid, and the seminar has a family feel. Strongly recommend to Folk and Myth concentrators and non-concentrators alike.
TAKE THIS COURSE! Maria Tatar is kind, funny, a fair grader, and a legend in the fairytales/folktales world. Even though classes are pretty free-form, it's clear that she puts a lot of effort into choosing the readings and planning out what to discuss in class. Readings are manageable and diverse; over the course of the semester we read a novel, a memoir, academic essays, and collections of African and African-American tales. Beyond the readings, there are weekly one-page response papers, as well as a final paper that's completely doable and REALLY open-ended. Even though many people in the course have taken Folk & Myth courses before, it's a nonjudgemental space, and no previous knowledge about is presumed. So if you have any interest in African-American folktales, there's no reason not to take this course!
Really fun class. Prof. Tatar is a great discussion facilitator (as anyone who's taken FM128 will know). The readings are mostly compiled folktales, with a few novels thrown in. Really the only assignment is a big paper at the end.
This course was so much fun and the workload is so reasonable. You don't need anyone to prompt you to do the readings because they are really interesting. Professor Tatar is EXCELLENT.
You cannot graduate without taking one of Maria Tatar's classes. Absolutely the best non-concentration decision I made here was taking her classes. She is a genius and will change the way you think about folklore and the stories that pervade our culture.
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. It has a low workload, but it lets you delve deeply into a topic that does not get much attention. Professor Tatar is kind and a deep well of folklore knowledge. Great course
This class is a truly wonderful and fantastic escape. You actually enjoy the readings (and even open the books). It's small size makes it more of a seminar and your classmates will give a great range of perspectives which provides even further enrichment.
