Get in a section with a good leader or a friend so you know you'll be comfortable discussion topics.
LOLOLOLOLOLOL.
the cookies are the only good thing about the general sessions
Try to sign up for the section taught by Magali Saint-Geniez!
The scientific ethical issues and conundrums featured in this class are interesting and worth thinking about, especially for people starting their scientific careers.
Unless you can enroll with a good section leader, this course will provide nothing much more than any discussion with collegues or friends.
It is highly inconvenient.
The course is a poorly thought-out waste of time. It is starved for ethical or practical insight... but it's required. Have fun.
Course has no semblance of curriculum or structure. Unbelievably disorganized (1 of 3 speakers didn't show). Section is entirely at the whimsy of your section leader. Makes clear HMS doesn't care about actually training students in ethics, only in satisfying funding agency requirements.I would recommend that you leave the didactic sessions after signing in. I find bioethics issues interesting and relevant, but this class was entirely devoid of substance.
Pick George Church and Jeantine - they are the best.
It will help give you an idea of how to approach difficult, unfair, and awkward situations that you will most likely come across at some point in your academic career.
You have to take it anyway, so may as well make it interesting and be open and honest.  It's good to practice having opinions on potentially controversial issues - "courage is the first of human virtues."
The discussion sections are generally thought-provoking and a good opportunity to hear about common issues of scientific conduct from PIs who have dealt with many of them personally throughout their careers. Honestly, I would advise any future students I talk to that they should attend their discussion sections but just sign in and immediately leave the large lectures, since they are a waste of time.
This class, while well intentioned, doesn't offer any benefits other than fulfilling requirements for ethics training. The class experience is greatly determined by your section leaders dedication and ability to lead meaningful discussion as well as your classmates interest in participating. I found the large group discussions to be much more impactful than my small group sections.
I did not get anything out of the lectures, and it honestly felt like a waste of time. The course was not engaging or relevant.
Doesn't matter, you have to take it anyway.
I am sorry you have to take this class
That the section part is good, but that sometimes the lectures are a bit boring.
Section can be useful by talking about cases that may be relevant to lab life and what you may encounter.
Too bad you have to take this - it's required.
Biomedical ethics is interesting and important, don't let this course fool you!
Good forum to talk about various important and sensitive ethical issues.
It doesn't take a lot of time and understanding proper conduct of science is important for a scientist!
It's required, and depending on your section leader, it may or may not be useful.
You are required to take this course, but it isn't too bad. If Prof. Allen comes to speak again, I'd recommend even students who aren't in the course to sit in on her talk. She's awesome.
It's mandatory so you do not have a choice
I would tell them to pick a section based off of an interesting faculty member that they would like to get to know.
Don't worry about it and enjoy it
Get a section near where you work.
It's kind of silly, but it's required! You might get something out of it if you get a good discussion leader, though.
Nothing.
This stuff happens to everyone. Pay attention.
It's very easy and if you have a good section, the discussions are interesting. The lectures are boring, but attendance is mandatory so there's not much you can do about that.
It is an opportunity to discuss questions and concerns related to working in a lab. It helps one realize that many people share similar concerns.
you will have a lot of interesting discussions, but you don't get a lot of direction for what you actually should do if you're in an ethically ambiguous situation or how to avoid such situations. The overarching principles are conveyed, but the actually grey areas where people get into trouble don't really have any guidelines.
Take it because you have to. Go to the sessions and sections because it's better than writing a bunch of papers. Mostly importantly, choose a good section leader (Debbie Marks was great!) because then section will be fun and interesting!
You have to take it.
It's not that bad and the discussions can get lively.
If there were another ethics class that would fulfill the requirements, it might be worthwhile to take that one.
waste of time
it will take a large portion of your time that could be better spent conducting research or reading about ethical issues online. more ethical dilemmas in research could be found/pondered-on in the transit time to and from one didactic session than in all three combined.
sounds tedious but necessary as future researchers
Section component is interesting and enlightening. Large group lectures were not very engaging.
You have to take it so take it. Try to get something out of it but don't be too surprised if you don't.
Make sure to join a section with people you know, as close to your lab as possible. Avoid midday sections because they will make you feel very unproductive.
The ethical conduct of science is important and worthwhile, even if Harvard's effort with this course suggests the opposite.
Painful but necessary.
_
Issues that are a critical part of being a professional researcher are broached in this course.
Useless but mandatory lectures. The sections are actually interesting and useful.
It's required.  Whether I recommend it or not does not matter.
