The material is pretty boring and the assignments are a waste of time.
I would highly recommend taking this course to meet your Gen Ed requirements (esp. for US in the World). David Cutler is a phenomenal professor and his lectures are both thought-provoking and informative. Really good survey of the problems in healthcare (also good introduction to insurance if you have no idea what that's about!) Problem sets and exam grading was somewhat annoying (required specific words/ details) but the class is definitely worth it!
Interesting material, especially the global health topics.  But grading is a bit arbitrary.
Take this for the content, not for the grade.
Basically everything you want from a Gen Ed: easy, fun, and a great introduction to healthcare economics.
Grading seems arbitrary at times
If you like healthcare and want to learn from an expert in the field, take this class. Professor Cutler is great but can be boring sometimes.
This is a great class. Professor Cutler is engaging and easy to follow in lecture, and the material is probably one of the most practical things you'll learn at Harvard. It wasn't too much work outside of class, but semi-important to keep up with readings because you need to know the important ones for the midterm and final. Definitely take this class if you need US and the World or are remotely interested in the topic!!
- the lectures are very dry- the grading scheme is very strict- the course limits the number of A- and A's to approximately 33%!
This class was okay, but I wouldn't recommend it in its current form.  It's not that the class isn't interesting, but I found that it lacked consistency between its different components. Lectures were different from sections, p-sets were more difficult than the class and didn't reflect what was learned in lecture, and the exams were different (and easier) than the p-sets. I found that the "math" portion of the class wasn't really taught well, almost assuming students would know how to do it already, which lead to confusion.
Take a different intro to public health class. This one is not as good as its description suggests.
Who your TF is for this class really defines your experience in the course.
A lot of pre-med students take this class, and although it is easy, it will be hard to get a good grade
This course seemed unorganized at the beginning of the semester, when we spent a month essentially covering global health basics like those from SW 24 but the actual health care content that we covered later in the semester was extremely interesting! Cutler is obviously very knowledgeable and he encourages participation even in lecture so it's a good intro class if you know nothing about health care but be aware that at least one month of the curriculum completely overlaps with intro global/public health courses. Also, this is a (frustratingly) classic gen ed course that asks open-ended questions without specifying what they want in the answer but then take off points based on a very specific answer key in both the homework assignments and exams.
Although Professor Cutler is a very interesting person, and the information presented in the course was really important, I did not find the lectures very engaging.  The TFs were not the best, and the grading is really ridiculous.
It's really incredibly easy. I took this for my EMR, and the most complicated math involved was multiplication. If you have even basic familiarity with the international political and economic situation, or if you have ever had any interaction with the global south ("Third World," in the language of this class), you don't have to go to lecture at all. Section will recap everything you don't know about insurance companies or whatever for you, but that only comes in the second semesterthe first semester is a breeze. (If you already know a lot about insurance companies, then go to lecture first semester and skip second semester.) Seriouslyso easy.
This course should be made a *lot* harder. The topics are interesting but are presented very superficially, making this course very disappointing. The social problem and debate around healthcare was artificially reduced to a set of counteracting economic forces and policy interests, without adding any historical context to these problems, exhibiting the worst aspects of mainstream economic theory. (Nor was this lack of social-historical context made up for by more sophisticated mathematical economic analysis.) After naming concerns with various policy proposals, often no attempt was made to resolve the relative weight of these concerns using real life examples or our long historical experience with these problems. Answers were thus often so obvious that much material was almost empty of new insights not derivable from common sense. That despite the fact that the topic areas and overall progression of the course were promising.
Keep in mind the grading can be pretty harsh, but you'll a learn a lot of useful information.
This class covers a lot of topics in healthcare that are interesting and pretty relevant. Be prepared to go to lecture because notes besides the powerpoints are not provided. You will be tested on the readings so be sure to be familiar with a good number of them.
It is not an easy gen ed class...interesting and great for dinner conversations, but requires time for the readings and psets. Good info to know if you are thinking about managing health care or entering the medical field.
not too intensive, but grading is somewhat arbitrary/questions can be unclear of what is expected
EMR 20 is a class that provides you with a lot of practical information about the U.S. healthcare system - worth taking if you want to learn more about how it works!
Very interesting and straightforward material. Professor Cutler is a very good lecturer and really knows his stuff (he is definitely the person you want teaching you about healthcare). The exams are technically easy but long and graded somewhat arbitrarily. There was actually an error on the midterm that was acknowledged but points were not given back to people who lost them due to this clear error.  Much of the reading is unnecessary, so pick out the important readings and do those. However, not much is required aside from reading on a regular basis, as assignments are given every other week.
I didn't know a lot about health systems going into this course, and I feel like I am much more prepared to engage in conversations about the US health system and global health problems going forward. Professor Cutler is very enthusiastic about the material, and the entire course is structured around several main themes in health, rather than marching along any particular chronology, which I felt was a very effective way to present the material. The problem sets are a mix of problem-based and essay-type assignments, which gives a good variety in the workload each week. Also, sections are super well-organized and don't just rehash the lecture material, and they're especially helpful if you haven't taken Ec10 and need extra review of the economics material.
The material in this class is interesting and fun to learn. That being said, EVERYTHING ELSE ABOUT THIS CLASS IS HORRIBLE. The PSETs are not clear in what they are asking, and then you lose points for not including something that you didn't know you should have included. The feedback is horrible, and it takes way too long to get grades back (I'm actually still waiting on my last PSET score as I write this.). You will be very very very upset and annoyed by the grading in this class, I promise you that. Also, I was upset that there was little math in the entire course, though that might be a good thing for others.
This class is awesome. Got through with minimal work. Problem sets are not bad and exams are really fair.
EXCELLENT CLASS. You actually learn a lot of useful info about the health care system. Midterm is very hard- you have to guess what the TFs want to hear. Essay-style problem sets can be graded harshly. Ellen is a great TF! Go to office hours for problem sets.
It helps to be interested in healthcare (note, not necessarily medicine, but healthcare). Otherwise, you lose steam in this class very quickly. The class drags toward the end but I also feel that that's the part of the class that I wanted to know more about when I came in. The global perspective in the beginning was nice, but it was neither sufficient nor really what the pull factor is. PSETs are unusually difficult and sometimes disconnected from lecture material. Cutler is an awesome lecturer and really knows how to pull in from varying sources to drive home the topic at hand. I do recommend at least perusing some of the readings. It'll help, if only a little bit, especially when it's time for mid-terms and finals.
This course is really great and I am SO happy I took it. You learn so much about the US health care system and become basically fluent in the health care system after finishing the class. Doctor Cutler is super impressive (huge part in developing the ACA) so it's awesome to learn from him. The class does require a decent amount of work though. You have to do the readings because you're expected to be able to cite them as evidence on the exams.
A fascinating set of material that will give you a great introduction to the US health care system and its place in an understanding of global health. If you want to understand health care as a system and the different players (in the insurance market and the political field), this course does a great job of giving you the basics.
This class was honestly a complete waste of time. Aside from the fact that you can learn everything you need to know from this course in about a day's worth of Googling, there are numerous reasons why you should not take this class. 1) Section is a complete waste of time. It is 100% not correlated to any part of the class.2) You can do the problem sets with basic, basic knowledge of probability and skimming the lecture notes.3) Grading for assignment is absolutely arbitrary. Not only do they give you axis for what you're being graded one AFTER they release grades for that assignment, the metrics are completely subjective to the TF. Different TFs give vastly different grades across sections.4) Midterm + Final questions are usually of the form "Specify a policy for the proposed problem and use 2 examples from the reading". Like seriously? Is this high school?5) This summarizes the class very well. On the midterm you had to evaluate the equation (y2-y1)/(x2-x1) and you were given all 4 numbers you needed AND a calculator. After the exam, someone complained we had to do math we were unprepared for. This class counts for EMR. Lmfao.6) Cutler said some very questionable sexist things this semester. Don't take this class.
Super interesting class. You get out what you put in. Unfortunately, I was not a fan of the head TF. Cutler is passionate and a good lecturer.
Its a not horrible way to fulfill USW, especially for premeds. Its cool knowing the different side s of health care.
For a US in the World Gen-Ed, the first part of the course does not focus on the US at all. Cutler is an interesting lecturer and is a big fan of attempting classic dad jokes; unfortunately, the psets and exams are pretty arbitrarily graded and the curve isn't super favorable.
This class is an amazing opportunity to learn from one of the greatest minds in Economics today. Professor Cutler is extremely accessible and engaging, and very interested in helping and guiding his students, while the TFs are all very committed to making sure you understand the material well. The material may be a little basic if you have taken classes in this field before, but the questions raised in lecture by Professor Cutler will certainly help you understand the material in a novel way. Highly recommended.
This is a masterclass on one of the most important issues the country and world face, taught by a grand master in the subject.  TAKE THIS CLASS.  You come out a better citizen and better person.  I can't believe how pumped I was to go to every lecture in a class about health insurance/systems; the way Prof. Cutler presents the material makes this one of the most fascinating and morally compelling topics I've ever studied.  Wonderful class, well-organized and prioritized.
The grading is rather arbitrary, but the content is interesting - be sure to pay special attention to what your TF might want.
Learn a good bit of knowledge about the health sector, which can definitely be useful in life. But grading is done in a nitpicky, arbitrary way at times.
I really enjoyed this course. As a premed, I learned a ton about the healthcare delivery system that I didn't even know I needed to know. Prof Cutler does an excellent job at explaining the major points and debating the controversial topics. For an 1.5 hr lecture, I never really dozed off, which is a pretty unusual thing for me.
The problem sets don't really coordinate well with the lecture material so I didn't really feel like I was applying my knowledge from lecture. Little incentive to attend lecture, but the material is interesting.
You never know how well you are doing, especially because assignments take so long to get back.
This class is not very empirical. Do not take it for an in-depth study of health economics. Cutler does a great job of surveying relevant concepts and tying them into current health policy issues. You'll learn a lot about the ACA (since he did write it).
This class taught a lot of interesting and relevant material, but I would say that you should be wary of choosing it if you have an alternative because they grade very harshly
This is a great class to take if you want to be better informed about the American health care system. I am very appreciative of my ability to understand now how various insurance plans work, as well as the context for the health care debate in the United States. I did not find the first half of the class, which has more of a global health focus, to be as engaging. Professor Cutler is great and has a clear interest in his students and in tailoring his course based on feedback.
This class is fantastic! You learn a lot about healthcare from a master of the subject. I'm really interested in health insurance companies now!Also surprisingly ethically deep as a course. Trying to have an equitable, effective, and efficient healthcare system involves balancing many different considerations about trying to take care of people in literal life or death situations.
This is the BEST class I have taken so far at Harvard. Professor Cutler is interesting, engaging, approachable and so accomplished. The material is presented in an easy-to-understand way that is so applicable to life in general. Must take class!!!!!!
Talk to the TFs and ask lots of questions!  Office hours are very helpful. Do the readings they are very interesting and relevant.
Professor Cutler is a very engaging lecturer and makes this large lecture seem intimate; however, the psets are graded a bit harshly in my opinion.
Great class but curve is roughalso assignments can be frustrating as the questions are vague but the grading is very specific
This course is extremely interesting; however, grading is arbitrary and harsh. Not a necessarily easy gen ed.
This is an amazingly well-organized, useful course, that introduces you to the very complicated world of health care. It is a bit more work than your standard Gen Ed (or at least the grading is harder), but well worth it.
You will learn a lot about healthcare in a practical way. I would highly recommend auditing the course
Take this class! Healthcare is an important field in business and politics, especially today with the ACA. I think people have a lot of misconceptions about how health care and insurance work, and taking this class will give you a quantitative framework with which to evaluate politicians' claims about causes of price increases and poor health. The most interesting part of the course was that questions in the social sciences that are relevant to global health could be evaluated using experiments and regression analysis.Logistics: do the readings (or at least skim them) for the exams. The textbooks are unnecessary.
This was a great gen-ed. Cutler is a great lecture and the topics are really interesting. I came in knowing nothing about healthcare, and can now have a discussion about it with anyone except maybe experts and not feel stupid! A rare Gen-Ed that does its job really well while still having a very manageable workload.
David Cutler's lectures make this course. Almost all the other parts of it: the sections, the exams, and the assignments, are sort of annoying to do and the grading is done poorly (but this is typical of gen eds, so it isn't exactly anyone's fault). But I love David Cutler as a lecturer and despite those things, it is worth it for the material that is taught if you're interested in health economics, public health, or just want to hear from the guy who basically wrote the Affordable Care Act.
Class is graded on a curve. Cool material, but it's hard to know where you stand assignments wise
It is up to you to determine how much you get from this class. You can coast and do well, or you could engage deeply in the material and do the critical thinking presented by Mr. Cutler and actually learn.
Not only is Professor Cutler a great lecturer, but the information you learn in the class will be unbelievably useful for your life.
It's a great class, you learn a lot about the healthcare system, but beware of the grading on psets and exams
Great class; easy way to meet the GHHP requirement. Not as much math as I thought, which I liked. Overall it was really good.
Professor Cutler is very knowledgeable and delivers interesting lectures, but the class is very basic and the economic component to it is very superficial. I expected to learn way more economics. If you have only taken EC10 then you will be at a disadvantage for the paper because most people taking the course for EC credit are Seniors.
The lectures were very boring and repetitive from the readings. The economics behind the material was significantly dumbed down.
This class is very enjoyable, and I loved the fact that the lessons we learned were very applicable to real life.
TAKE THIS CLASS! If you have any interest in why good quality healthcare is still lacking in much of the world and much of the US, and/or want to understand Obamacare, this class is amazing. David Cutler is hilarious and breaks things down so well so that you can see the essential conflicts in all these controversies and decide for yourself what you think the right policy actions are. There's not a ton of quantitative analysis in the class, but when it's there it's really interesting, not too complex at all, and rounds out a really solid understanding of the determinants of healthcare, outside of the medical procedures. David Kim is also the best TF ever, and the readings for the class are super interesting. You won't regret taking this class.
This was a great introduction to some economics and policy thinking and I found the material interesting and the lectures engaging and my TF was always very accessible to discuss the finer points of the course. I recommend this course as a good introduction to health economics with excellent readings and not too much work at all.
Fairly easy, genuinely interesting. I came in knowing nothing about American health care and now feel quite well informed. There is mandatory weekly section and p-sets. The midterm is fair and grades are scaled. I recommend it as a manageable class that you can actually get something useful out of regardless of how engaged you are with the material.
I wish this class moved faster. We spent a lot of time on qualitative concepts and I feel like I didn't take away as much from the course as I had hoped. Painless way to fulfill the econ requirement but the grading is a bit harsh.
The course material is extremely interesting, and David Cutler is a great lecturer (I love his sense of humor). However, as the concepts in the class are rather simple, grading can be harsh in the sense that you don't really know what exactly the teaching staff is looking for at all times.
prof cutler had some great lectures and some boring lectures - it's the type of class where you get out what you put into it. that said, the material was engaging, and even though I didn't have the head TF (who was apparently amazing in section) I still somewhat benefitted from the section component.
This course provides a great overview of US health care policy and also the economics aspect of many global health problems.
The course material is extremely interesting, and Prof. Cutler makes you look forward to coming to lecture (quite a feat for a class that meets at 10 am!).
Painless way to fulfill an Econ writing requirement
This course, although discussing very interesting topics, is a bit more work than expected as there are many readings, and it is at times difficult to grasp the subject material because there really are no concrete answers to the complex debatable current system of healthcare. Although you do leave the course with much more knowledge about he current healthcare system and I feel that i now understand insurance companies so much more which will help me in the real world. Also, Professor Cutler truly is a great individual, and lecturer.
If you don't know too much about the health care system in the U.S. then I would highly recommend this course! You will leave the class knowing so many different aspects of the health care system that it is so worth it
Ec concentrators - beware that the section of the problem set for ec concentrators is unclear and graded harshly.
This class is about really interesting and important subject matter, but Cutler manages to make everything politicized, which gets frustrating. Granted the information is subjective in some cases, but it is far too biased of a class. Once you get passed Cutler's attitude, its really interesting. That being said, I really liked learning about health care in the US, but wish the level of economics and statistics knowledge assumed was higher. We literally spent an hour and a half learning how to interpret a simple linear regression, which, I don't want to sound snobby, but that was a waste of time.
Super painless way to fulfill your US in the world gen-Ed (and even less painful for EMR since the "math" is basically multiplication and addition). I thought the second half of the course that actually focused on what Cutler specializes in (the American health care system) was definitely the strongest part; the first half on global health was pretty scattered and couldn't say I learned too much. It's definitely not a difficult course but you do learn a lot; it's actually shocking how little everyone knows on how insurance works since that's something we'll all have to deal with pretty soon in our lives. Good for a basic intro into US healthcare but don't expect to go into too much.
Prepare to put in the work and make sure you have a liking for health systems
The grading is super arbitrary. Didn't feel like I got any feedback on my assignments or midterm, which made me decide to write the final paper instead of take the final exam. The class has a light course load which was nice, but I'm not sure I would take this class again due to the arbitrary grading.
You learn a lot in this class, but the assessments often don't reflect that.
Problems sets are very easy but it's impossible to keep up with the amount of readings, only take this class of you have a direct interest in pursuing this subject.
EMR 20 provides a nice opportunity to learn about really relevant concepts (major players in healthcare economics, insurance systems, Obamacare, etc..) in a relatively enjoyable and not-too stressful way. Professor Cutler is really cool (if you go to lecture), but you can learn nearly all the important concepts in section. Problem sets are fairly quick and easy, too, and the class has a nice option (for non-econ concentrators) to either write a final paper or take the final exam. As a warning, the midterm wasn't difficult but does ask you to reference specific course readings, so although you don't really need to do them for lecture/section you might want to at least skim them throughout the semester. Overall, this class was great way to both satisfy a gen ed and learn about a highly pertinent subject.
Cutler is a great lecturer, the problem sets are manageable, and the readings are interesting. Take this class if you have any interest in healthcare economics or even think you might!
It is really interesting subject material that is totally relevant and applicable to you right now.  The course can be slow at times, but those moments could be really great opportunities for  you to do a little bit of exploration on your own.
Not life changing, but a good course on a complex contemporary issue
The midterm focuses a lot on the readings which are not covered in lecture or really even section so you have to understand those on your own. Really interesting class though and a lot of relevance to current events, especially with what's going in our country right now in regards to healthcare reform.
Take this class if you want to learn about the ACA, beyond "is it moral/constitutional." Take it to understand how your insurance plan is going to work when you enter the real world, and don't have your parents to take care of everything for you. Take it to understand that you are being bad for society when you take advantage of your cheaper health care, and that you should instead consider the fact that someone, somewhere is paying for those meds. Take it if you want to learn about health care from the man who basically wrote all of the ACA - and it's not a biased class - you actually learn about studies showing that it might be completely useless towards improving health outcomes. Just TAKE IT!
Cutler's lectures are great - for me, this was reason enough alone to take the class. However, the unfortunate truth is that because a) problem sets usually don't actually require any knowledge of lecture concepts and b) of the term paper option, there is very little motivation for students to actually come to lecture after the midterm, if at all. That said, overall it was an interesting course that covered a lot of interesting material from a really interesting perspective.
It's a great class. Not too much of a time commitment, nor is it too difficult. Yet it's still not a time waster, and you will truly learn. It was very interesting (and timely, with Obamacare)!
Great course. Covers a lot of interesting material. Especially if you do the readings, you will learn a ton about the business and politics of health!
This class is a very easy introduction to healthcare and global health.  The material is pretty interesting, and the lectures are sometimes slow but pretty good anyway.
I call this a trap class. The material is relatively difficult, but the class comes off as really easy for awhile until you actually have an assignment
it's definitely not a math class and it's hard to figure out what they expect out of you with the problem sets and the tests
the material was really interesting, which was why it was a bummer that none of the assignments or the exams had anything to do with the material. Or even if the questions we were asked reflected material we had learned, the questions would be very open ended but be graded on such a strict rubric that was impossible to predict that studying the material would have no bearing on your grade.
0 Math in it
Interesting material, but would be so much better if it weren't a gen ed. The assessments do not accurately measure your knowledge of the material but how good a test-taker you are.
Everyone should learn material, it's super relevant!
interesting class but few gradable points to contribute to overall letter grade.
This is a great course, especially to fulfill your USW requirement. It's not demanding in a way that would affect your focus on your main concentration courses, but really pushes you to think about healthcare and public health in a new perspective. Very chill class to take for a GenEd and yet you learn so many interesting new things about our world. Prof. Cutler is an amazing lecturer, problem sets are very fair. Midterm and final were also very fair, not a bad class at all. I highly recommend it.
This class is so interesting and you learn a tremendous amount! But actually do the readings, and do not get behind.
I love healthcare economics and was really excited when I found that this course would count for economics credit if you write a final essay. However, the course was much slower paced and less economics based than I was hoping. Although I truly did learn a lot anyways and really enjoyed the course, I wish I had known about the lack of economics beforehand!
The effectiveness of the TFs and sections could be improved. Some TFs can be pretty unresponsive and unhelpful, and they take a very, very long time to grade problem sets. That said, grading can be harsh and seem arbitrary or unfair sometimes. Overall, the course is good, but I would recommend it with reservations.
This is an incredible course taught by an amazing professor and teaching fellows. After taking this course I walk away with a much better understanding of how our health care system works, its flaws, and its benefits. The readings and assignments are not demanding and you get a lot out of this class. This is a great life-class to take (I took it as an elective and am so grateful).
Generally low workload.  Lectures are dry and get repetitive at times.  However, the health care debate is a very interesting topic to analyze and the professor is one of the best in the field.
Besides the mystery of how grading is done in this course, there is nothing bad about it. You get to learn from a policy expert, and you learn the material very well if you are interested.
It's a good course taught by an expert in the field. However, I wasn't very fond of how large the class was- it seemed pretty overwhelming at times. Also, the midterm was graded very harshly... I would say unnecessarily so. That said, I came out of it with a new, more wholesome understanding of health insurance and its role in the economy.
If you're interested in today's health and the state of health care, this class is a must. I learned more than I would ever thought about healthcare and the fundamentals behind it all.
Professor Cutler has an evident passion for health policy and genuinely seems to want to facilitate discussion amongst students. If you have any interest in health policy, I would definitely recommend this course.
Just don't take the class. It is not a lot of day to day work at all but unless you are extremely interested in global health and are willing to deal with the random bs they make you put up with it will not be worth your time.
This course is a great introduction to get a basic understanding of the US health care system. The workload is very manageable, and no economics background is necessary to understand the concepts.
This is a good E&MR class for those not math-inclined. The math in this class isn't too hard and, more importantly, it's relevant to your life. You learn skills that help you understand the pricing of health care and understand how you can make the most of insurance.
A great perspective on the US health system from a professor who is undoubtedly an authority on the subject.  Suffers from the usual growing pains of a large gened, but ultimately a good experience for anyone seeking a better understanding of the history of medical systems, health insurance, the Affordable Care Act, or any other topic in US health policy.
Prof. Cutler is overly proud of his work. In class, we would frequently go to the website of a health organization and, lo and behold, it was a self-plug by David Cutler. For example, during lecture he would go to the Mass Health website and scroll down. As students, we thought there'd be some form of important information, yet the only point was for Cutler to point out that he's on the Mass Board of Health Directors. There were many other examples of this; for example, he spent an entire 1.5hr lecture name-dropping (think Obama, etc.) and displaying his own papers, for which he had to point out that unsurprisingly, he was first author. 

The course was very interesting in the beginning, and it was my favorite class going into the semester. However, a combination of poor teaching staff and vague assignments made me very frustrated by mid-October. The TFs are very disconnected from the course and sections were disorganized (some TFs also had very strong accents that made them hard to understand). The final paper (for Ec concentrators) was also ridiculous in its requirements. Head TF David Kim required you to use data to make a meaningful contribution to the medical field by either 1) finding a dataset and running unique regressions from anyone else in the field, 2) building your own dataset, or 3) conducting a systematic literature review on a health topic that is publishable and makes a unique contribution to the medical field. For one, datasets are very difficult to come by, and very few people even knew how to use Stata. Two, building your own dataset takes years. Three, we're not medical students or Ph.D students, so how can you expect us to understand the nuances of clinical trials and expertly compare them?

Expect your grade to be a coin toss.
way exams and answers are written are completely separate from the class, need to do the additional readings and also learn what they want you to write and how they want you to write it
I took it to fulfill EMR, and it is not a bad way to do that. There is very little math, only some general economics-type concepts and very few, (and short) problem sets. If you are generally interested in healthcare policy, Professor Cutler's lectures are somewhat interesting, though very broad and general, and the class attempts to cover way too much and therefore does little very well.
Take this course if you're very interested in health care policy. The course spends a long time on health care history/policy and not that much time on empirical methods, which I was hoping for.
If you are at all interested in learning about health care both around the world and in the US take this class! I learned so much that will be so useful in life, which I can't say about most of my classes. Also, Professor Cutler literally wrote Obamacare so you are learning from the best.
Not a lot of work. Very painless USW especially for the more math/science inclined.
the exams are pretty difficult, need to know the details of the lectures, and think critically; may include some stuff not extensively covered in section or lecture
Attend lectures so you know the focus of the course. The readings are moderate but won't be helpful if you don't know the key takeaways of the lecture.
Decent course with interesting topic.  Lectures are good, assignments are not always math based, in spite of an EMR designation.
While this class is minimal work, it is not an easy A because there is a lot of subjectivity in grading. That said, the material is very interesting and important.
They baby you on some clear ideas, neglect some that are important on exams, and generally do not run the class well. Yet, lectures were interesting and you can learn a lot from them and Cutler. Also half of the readings are from the New York times haha
Nice and easy way to fulfill USW requirement. Material is somewhat interesting, but lectures can get long and tiring.
The lectures are surprisingly engaging and Cutler has a wide range of actual experience designing healthcare policy that makes the course more interesting.  If you are taking the class for Econ credit, beware of the final paper.  It takes quite a bit of time and is difficult to do without having taken metrics or the sophomore tutorial.  Otherwise, very painless way to fulfill requirements.
It gives you a very basic understanding that is useful in navigating a world dominated by healthcare.
Although this class lingered on some topics, the material was not only relevant, but taught in an enthusiastic way by someone who is at the top of their field. It is an easy class, but a great way to fulfill a gen ed requirement that teaches you something meaningful.
This class, for what its worth, requires not much work. If you are taking it for Econ credit, the second half of the course effectively doesnt mean much for your evaluation. That being said, I am SURE you can find a better option than this class. This class was one of the more frustrating experiences in my academic time at Harvard. The class was incredibly disorganized, with no structure to any of the assignments and little real tie between the assignments and the material. The class was not economic enough nor empirical or mathematical enough. The tests were completely arbitrary. My TF could not speak english. And Professor Cutler is too caught up in his own ego to provide a fair analysis of the business and politics of health.
You learn a lot about health insurance / health care systems / the ACA, though it's a lot to cover in one course. Try to keep up with each unit/important readings so you don't get confused/bogged down when studying for midterm/final.
Fascinating guide to health care from a leading expert and one of the best professors I've encountered at Harvard. Take it! Also, to address a concern I had coming in--I have absolutely no economics background and found the course quite accessible
Readings are necessary for the exam and therefore should be done. Problem sets are not very difficult. Lectures are really interesting -- Cutler is GREAT.
Though there isn't much work involved during the semester, it's not worth taking.  I really did't get much out of this class, having taken global health classes before.  I wouldn't recommend it to Economics concentrators as there is very little economics involved, and the grading is very confusing.  Helps you get familiar with the health insurance market, however.
If you want a corse that combines all elements of gen ed, then take this. Seriously, it should count for ethical gen ed, study of the past, etc. There's just so many themes in this class. You will come out of it a better person and a more knowledgeable one. The class is easy, but you will learn a lot at the same time.
It is extremely disorganized and there are plenty of other health courses that are much better.
easy gened, useful to learn about health policy and insurance, but not always the most exciting
Easy class, but keep in mind that it's an intro course
The section component to this class was irrelevant, and didn't help my understanding of the material.  Overall I thought David Cutler was an interesting and compelling figure, but the administration of the class left me with an overall negative experience.
You'll get a nice introduction to the health care system of the United States, albeit a strongly one-sided view.  Professor Cutler, a proponent of Obamacare and former advisor to President Obama, will impart his own beliefs about the health care system either overtly or implicitly (e.g. via the readings).
Only take this course if you don't know anything about global health or health care and want to learn the basics. I didn't know anything, so I thought this course was really refreshing! I'm not sure how much my friends who are pre-med liked it though...they seemed bored.
The course is really interesting and eye-opening and the readings are fun (especially the NYT articles and some of the scholarly articles). You don't need any background in economics and you can pick up some statistics along the way. Professor Cutler is a great lecture, funny with lots of experience, and you have a pretty good idea of the problems in health care and some potential solutions. The exams and half of the psets tend to be vague and sometimes don't have correct answers, which is hard to study for and do.
You will learn a lot of important and useful things about health care and insurance.  Good EMR for humanities. Lots of reading but you can get away with not doing most of it.
You NEED to take this class if you care even the slightest bit about health, economics, or politics...so basically everyone needs to take this class!
I found out a hate global health with this class. However, I don't believe it was because this class, just an opinion I discovered during this semester.
If you're interested in health policy and insurance, the second half of the course will be really interesting to you! The first half is more focused on global health that you can get at any other global health class but the second half is really what makes this course so special. This course is really good at learning about insurances and health care--knowledge that we need to know in the real world and cannot get anywhere else.
It's not terribly easy. But it's a cool class and you learn a good amount about health and healthcare and society.
This is a solid course for garnering a useful understanding of the business side of healthcare, as well as understanding the current problems that affect the system.
Professor Cutler is really nice and really smart.  The class is not too difficult but I came away learning a lot about healthcare systems and health insurance.  Really glad I took it.
take only if you are interested in the lecture material. there is very little math, like almost none so don't take this as a math course. problem sets are easy.
Very boring, very inconsistent grading
Easy to listen to, actually enjoyed lecture! Great was to fulfill an econ elective and actually enjoy the class.
It's an interesting course, and obviously David Cutler is a very prominent figure in the healthcare community (ACA). That being said, it was very easy to take the course as a joke and never attend lecture and simply do the problem sets every two weeks.  I perhaps would have enjoyed it more had I taken it more seriously and had the time to really learn the material, but it's an easy way for humanities majors to fulfill EMR and an easy way for science/math people to fulfill USW.
Very interesting look and how health care works, one of the more practical classes taught at the college. Teaching staff isn't great and section is a big waste of time. Its a good class, but not great.
The subject matter is great and very fascinating; the class was just alright. I didn't feel like I got much out of lecture - mostly just from doing the readings. The class was definitely easy enough, but not as challenging/rigorous as I would have expected.
This course was really engaging; Professor Cutler is a great lecturer. I would recommend the class to anyone interested in public policy.
This is a great intro to healthcare class if you're looking to get a broad idea of how healthcare works in the U.S. Professor Cutler is an engaging and prepared lecturer. It was a really good class!
This is a great course! Professor Cutler is really engaging and gives great lectures, and it's really great to get his perspective since he really is in the thick of health care policy in the U.S. The psets are really manageable and it's an especially great class if you're trying to get your economics writing credit--you don't get many guidelines or restrictions on the term paper, but it's really nice to have the chance to write a lot about something you're really interested in. The class on the whole will change your understanding of health care here in the U.S. and around the world. Definitely take this course!
This class was a good intro into healthcare and all the issues surrounding the field. The workload is pretty low, and as long as you due the readings, the midterm/finals aren't bad. I did the term paper for my econ secondary, and they give you a lot of flexibility in your topic (which can be a good or bad thing!) Overall, low work class for an econ/gen ed req, so I would recommend this class if the topic is at all interesting to you!
This was a very interesting class that can be very relevant to the world of health care today.
This class is great if you have an interest in health care policy.
Make sure to do the readings on time. For the weeks that I did skip the readings, I found that I got a lot less out of lecture that I could have otherwise. The readings give you the ability to engage in discussion during lecture and section, and provide a framework for you to build off of.
Professor Cutler is absolutely hilarious, and the material and discussion in class was really fascinating. The concepts were all really easy, especially if you took Econ or Stats at any level before, but what was a lot trickier was that the questions (except for the quantitative ones, which unfortunately there weren't much of) were so open-ended and at least for the first half of the semester, we had no clue what the point breakdown was that they were looking for. This was fixed though second semester, and it also fulfills US-W without necessarily having to write any essays! 

If you're at all interested in healthcare (or maybe even if you're not), I highly, highly recommend this class as I really enjoyed the discussions and material. If nothing else, you should take this class for Prof. Cutler.
This is a great class to fulfill a gen ed or if you are just looking for a great class. You will learn a lot of interesting material and professor cutler is a great lecturer.
You do not need any specific background.
The course material is really interesting and very relevant to your lives, the lives of your families and of society in general. Lecture essentially goes over the readings, so if you do those you should be able to follow lecture easily (or just listen in lecture). P-sets are not very challenging and overall the course is not very time demanding, but it does help you explore healthcare and introduces concepts of economics that are really useful. I recommend this course.
Really, you should take this course to become a more educated citizen. I admit that I really disliked the class for the first half of the semester, but then I began to realize how much I was actually learning and how relevant the subject material is to current national and international conversations.
Great class! Especially if you have a econ background but don't want to take it for the ec requirement / are just taking it as a general elective.
This class could be one of the best classes at Harvard! Unfortunately it is severely hindered by the focus on making students' lives incredibly stressful. The grading expectations are NEVER made clear and points are subtracted for unknown reasons. Cutler is great though and by far the only reason to take the class
Take this course for sure- especially if you are premed and want to be a more informed citizen about health care. The first half of the course is especially interesting, while the second half is more economics focussed. You do not need any prior economics training. Would highly recommend writing the paper- it is a really cool way to explore an interest you have.
problem sets were graded very tough, but interesting material and a great alternative economics class
Although "The Business and Politics of Health" taught by Dr. David Cutler sounds like a dream come truth to any future physician, economics, or health policymaker, be forewarned. This class is not worth your time. Professor Cutler is renowned in his field, yet an ineffective lecturer in the classroom. He has virtually no control over his TF staff either, as there were such inconsistencies in section instruction quality and grading of assignments. The midterm is also an unacceptable assessment of student performance in the course. As a student who had attended every lecture and was familiar with every reading, performing below average due to not providing precisely the answers on the midterm exam that were desired was infuriating. Problem sets seemed straightforward, but if you are taking the course for economics credit, note that the additional problems were terribly worded. Section was extremely weak as I mentioned, and assignments were not turned back in a timely manner. Head TF David Kim is quite full of himself, and does not know how to interact with students via email. The saving grace of this course is the term paper / final exam option. The term paper truly gives you the chance to go in depth into a topic of your choice, which I found edifying. In sum, do not take EMR 20, and instead spend some time reading a healthcare economics book (or Cutler's own work) on your own time.
Could be very frustrating for those who do not find the material interesting and who do not like the lecture style
It's a pretty good course, but you may not learn as much concrete material as you expect to. Also, who your TF is will really affect your impression of the course, so hope that you get a good one!
it is a great genED, a relaxed class and you learn a lot about the healthcare
Take it, as it's a good class. Interesting from a global health perspective and an economic perspective. 

Just be warned about the grading--it's not a GPA killer, but it is very arbitrary and section-dependent.
Really chill class where you learn a lot of interesting stuff about the healthcare system. Reminded me a lot of SW24 the first few weeks but really turned into a class about the healthcare system which I liked more.
This class is actually a really good choice if you're at all interested in health care in the US and covers a good variety of topics. There's some basic math concepts and it's probably really easy if you've taken ec before, but even though I hadn't, it was still easily understandable. Professor Cutler wrote some of the ACA so of course the class is biased towards his own opinions and views but he also does a pretty good job of emphasizing that health care is an extremely complex topic and that no one solution is the best. The lectures can get a bit dry sometimes, and section wasn't super helpful but I enjoyed the class overall, more than I thought I would (I took it for the Global Health secondary and as a gen ed). There're only six problem sets total, one midterm and a final or research paper and other than that, you really don't have to do much work (reading the articles is not necessary as the same things are covered in class). It definitely made me interested in going in to health care in the future.
Taking pass fail is definitely beneficial of impartial grading
EMR 20 is a wonderful introduction to health policy and provides a survey of both global health policy as well as domestic/American health policy, though there is more emphasis on improving healthcare in the United States. You should be aware that this is very much not a quantitative class- even though it is empirical and mathematical reasoning, there is very little of it. It is much more about learning how to approach healthcare issues from multiple policy angles. David Cutler is a fantastic professor- combines policy and academia really well.
This class is really interesting and teaches you a lot of relevant information for life!
Great class, the readings and lectures are interesting and the assignments are easy.
Good way to fulfill your USW gen ed. Generally interesting and easy, but extremely disorganized (especially section) and sometimes he misuses statistics to support his views.
do the readings
As a pre-med student, I received a phenomenal introduction to the complex system of US health care through this course. Read the articles as they are fascinating and help to solidify the concepts in your mind. Highly recommended!
-The class doesn't require much work, but the work (especially exams) is graded harshly. Overall I enjoyed the course, but I felt like the class was very superficial in that we covered a lot of topics quickly and rarely if ever spent too much time in anything. I understand that is the nature of gen eds, but still.
TAKE THIS CLASS. The best class I've taken at Harvard. Professor Cutler is such an expert and does a great job teaching this class as nonpartisan as possible. This is one of the few classes at harvard that actually prepares you for life. TAKE IT.
This course is interesting, but beware of the lack of clear directions and somewhat arbitrary grading. The midterm & final was also hard to study for. I took this course because I needed a US gened, and I'm not entirely satisfied with my choice. Don't take it unless you are at least somewhat interested in health & economics, since there are some premeds and econ concentrators who also take this class.
Super chill but so interesting! Definitely go to lecture, section is whatever
First off, Professor Cutler is truly an expert on the health care situation and I learned a lot from attending his lectures. That being said, there seemed be a disconnect between the lectures and any kind of problem sets, midterm, final exam/paper. Solely from the perspective of wanting to do well in the class, it was much more important to attend section than to attend lecture. Taking the class for economics credit was interesting; literally no economics is taught in this class, it is almost as if the teaching staff is saying, "Well, if you want to take this class for economics credit, you probably know all there is to know about economics, so we're going to ask you hopelessly vague extra economics questions on all the problem sets that weren't even remotely covered in class." I really liked the material and the lectures, but the TFs took forever to return problem sets and the midterm. Grading on problem sets was inconsistent. Due to the structure of the course, students opting to write a term paper instead of a final exam had literally no incentive to show up to lecture after midterm. Problem sets due every other week meant the workload was very light.
Keep on top of your readings. The midterm is not easy and if you fall behind on the readings it will pile up!
Although this class was an easy way to fulfill the ec concentration requirement, I would not recommend it. The lectures and sections just got terribly boring after the midterm.
This course is very manageable. Make sure to spend some time actually doing the readings as having a clear understanding of the reading materials will not only solidify your understanding, but it will also put you in a better position to do well on the essay section of the midterm or final (if not planning on writing a paper). The course is taught well, and your understanding of health care will be greatly enhanced from a policy and an economic perspectives.
I learned SO MUCH by taking this course--frankly, there was so much that I found interesting that I'd take it (or a related class) all over again. Just be careful, because there isn't always a direct connection between learning interesting things and getting a good grade. I think this is a prime example of a class where you could get the A if you concentrate on getting the A, but might walk out without having learned very much. (Conversely, it's also totally possible to walk away feeling like you learned a lot and are excited to have done so, but without having earned a top grade.)
This course is an easy general education course, useful for students who have otherwise busy schedules. There are quite a few interesting things covered in the material, but it is generally quite light.
Only take it if you have an interest in healthcare - otherwise you'll likely be bored of the material. If you're interested in healthcare, this class covers very relevant topics, especially on the current US healthcare system.
Extremely relevant to current healthcare debate and very interesting.
I think this class is very interesting; Professor Cutler is a really fun lecturer and has an awesome dry sense of humor. It is very organized, he is very knowledgeable and you will learn a lot from this class.
take advantage of having Prof Cutler! I didn't and I regret that
Dr. Cutler is so sweet! He really cares about the topic and students' developing a similar interest in health policy.
A very interesting overview of the American Health System from an economic perspective. No previous economics knowledge necessary. Definitely recommended if you have any interest in what is currently going on in healthcare in this country.
Great way to learn about healthcare
The course is certainly beneficial if you want to learn about health economics and U.S. healthbpolicy. However, I felt like the lecture was not very well organized. I got most out of the readings instead of the lectures.
This class gives you a great overview of health policy. You start from learning about global health topics and then move towards health reform. This class was especially relevant to all the ongoing news about Obamacare. Cutler does a great job in lecture and incorporating the current news.
Take this course only if you are interested in health and policy.  I took the course because I wanted to learn more about the health care debate (and form and support my personal opinion) and because health care is such an important topic in the US today.  However, I only found the lectures, readings, and assignments becoming a drag.  Some of the material is interesting and some of it is downright boring.  I did learn a lot, but definitely not enough to form and back up my own opinion on the US health care debate.  I wouldn't take the class because the assignments are easy or because Cutler is renowned; one should only take the class if they are genuinely interested in the material otherwise it can easily become a pain. The lack of organization and mediocre TFing doesn't help either.
Lecture material is fascinating and the workload is light. All of the quantitative material (linear regression, discrete utility maximization) is kept very basic and is easily accessible to anyone. I highly recommend this course, especially if you have yet to fulfill US in the World!
this class is really biased, and everything is graded arbitrarily. Little work to be done and fairly easy material, but this class sucks.
1) A lot of what you get out of this class will depend on your section, because readings don't feel that incorporated into the lectures though they do come up on exams, so having a section that discusses the readings alongside the concepts is really important. 2) Cutler's anecdotes and stories and experiences relate the theory to real life very well, so that's quite interesting. Esp. in the year of the Affordable Care Act, this course was really applicable to current events.
Dr. Cutler is great.  While he is super knowledgeable about United States health care (pretty much authored the ACA), he is helpful and prepares fun lectures about health, economics, statistics, policy!!  Dorothy is an amazing section leader, and makes difficult concepts glass clear.  You learn a lot in this course!
This course is really interesting material but the course is really dry. Very few people attend lectures.
Professor Cutler is a big enough reason for taking the class.
Not a math-heavy E&M class, much more policy oriented. There is not that much ec material besides moral hazard and adverse selection. Great material, Professor Cutler is brilliant.  Sections and lectures are a mixed bag. Overall, a solid class on healthcare.
The course itself covers fascinating and relevant material, but make sure to request guidance from your TF on any assignments and the final paper. These assignments feel really unrelated to what we're learning in class and how we're learning it.
good but study well
Great class! Learned a lot about the healthcare system, its inefficiencies, and potential ways to create policies that can solve those issues. Workload isn't too bad, though the final paper can take you awhile depending on your topic!
The information is very interesting and relevant.  If you don't have a background in economics the exams are difficult.
Very interesting course -- general overview of main issues in public health, more on the domestic side. Cutler has a dry sense of humor.
EMR 20 is one of the best courses I have taken in my four years at Harvard! Prof Cutler is an expert in the field and he discusses a great range of topics. EMR provides theoretical topics that everyone should know (health reform, the political debates, challenges of health aid) as well as practical skills for analysis (regression, economic analysis). Problem sets and exams are very manageable and can be interesting/fun to complete. I highly recommend this course to all students for EMR, economics, or as an elective.
Perfect balance of interesting and not-too-hard - a great economics/public health class for people interested in those topics but not too familiar with them
For me, this was a painless way to fulfill the USW Gen Ed requirement. If you have a background in basic statistics or economics, it will be even easier for you. Assignments are no-brainers and the exams are straightforward as long as you kept up with the readings. The material is interesting for someone who has never had a class on health.
Definitely take it if you have any desire to learn about the US health care system. Professor Cutler certainly knows this field well and is an established giant in it.
Definitely take this class if you're interested in learning about the way health care fits in with the economy. We talk about all sorts of aspects of health care, like quality, spending, access, and international comparisons. It was also super cool to hear Prof Cutler's views given his involvement with the ACA.
Some of the lectures can be a little dry / obvious, but the course does a really great job of synthesizing really crucial ideas in global health and domestic health policy. Professor Cutler has had a huge influence on the creation of ACA, and his personal experience and ability to explain sometimes-complex ideas in health policy piece-by-piece makes for an unparalleled learning experience. TL;DR - take the course for the professor.
This class provides an insightful first-hand view into some tremendously important issues in current health related events. It was well taught, and especially pertinent this year, during the very time the Affordable Care Act went into effect. Professor Cutler was one of the main instigators of many of these reforms, and so it is interesting to hear his perspective.
This is a really awesome course, especially if you're somewhat quantitatively minded. The lectures are both informative and interesting, and Cutler's teaching style really makes you think about some of the hard issues in healthcare.Also, the problem sets are VERY easy. There's 6, and they usually took about an hour or two max. That said, they're usually actually interesting, and are a decent check on whether you're grasping the material. Also, the readings aren't really necessary to do (lecture covers almost the same material it seems), so all in all it's a pretty low workload course.The exams are a bit tougher, and definitely take some studying. But as long as you've been going to lectures and have studied, you should be able to do pretty well. The grading on both psets and exams is sometimes a little funky, but again, you should do fine, especially on the more quantitative stuff where the grading is more consistent by nature.
The class is interesting and painless, but beware the arbitrary grading on tests
The material was presented well and the assignments and exams were fair, but I found that during lecture Prof. Cutler was a little one sided. Naturally, since helped to write the Affordable Care Act, his views tend to be very liberal, and as someone who identifies as conservative I found this class to be uncomfortable at times.
Not a lot of work required. Keep up with readings before midterm to avoid having to read everything the week of the test. Psets were easy.
Easiest class I've taken at Harvard, very topical, and pretty interesting. Prof Cutler is a good lecturer, although there's really no reason to go to lecture. The teaching staff are really bad. Don't expect to get PSets back or get feedback on the midterm. Grading is essentially arbitrary because the course is taught at a middle school level and everyone in the course (I hope) can do addition and division. They will randomly take points off your exam essays, and you will have no idea why and no recourse.
Great look into the systems of health care, especially here in the US. I regret not actively participating more, the class is more discussion oriented than one would imagine. If you don't want to go to lectures, it is possible to grasp the concepts off the slides alone, but lectures do help put everything in context.
The research project is not very structured but it is a really interesting experience for those wondering what economics research projects are like.
This class has the ability to be very interesting if you do the readings and go to lecture. If you put in nothing you will get very little in return.
For those interested in health or health care, I would definitely recommend this course because this course provides a good basis for understanding or clarification of the health care system from many "vantage points."
Material is easy. Showing you know the material is strangely difficult...If you love ObamaCare you will love this class. If you realize Obamacare is not God's gift to the world, you won't.
Very interesting and currently relevant class.  Lectures were interesting, especially during the first third of the course when we talked about global health.  Problem sets were quick, very thought-provoking, and fun, and section was great.  You should know that David Cutler literally wrote the Affordable Care Act, which I didn't find out until the first day of class but which was one big reason I decided to take the class.  What could be cooler than learning about healthcare in the US and the ACA from the guy who wrote it??  Despite his obvious politics, Republicans/people who don't support the ACA should be assured that Cutler goes to great lengths to be impartial during lecture, and welcomes opinions on both sides of the matter during in-class discussions.
Cutler is great! He has so much personal experience in the medical economics, which makes for really engaging lectures. I highly recommend it to those who are interested in getting practical approach to medicine. A course that medical schools should start providing as well...BUT a downside is that the tests focus on math and econ problems that are not really taught in lecture and are briefly covered in section.
The "optional" readings aren't actually optional, you are expected to know them for assignments and the midterm. Topics in the class are really interesting so its a nice way to fill an ec or gov requirement.
Make sure you get a good TF.  If not, switch.
This is a pretty straightforward course. The readings are by-and-large interesting, and the lectures are really strong - I would highly recommend attending all lectures. Professor Cutler is also very knowledgeable, and it's fun to hear him talk about his own political experiences.
Not too difficult, especially if you are taking this course for economics credit (as well as for the writing requirement). As far as econ writing requirement courses go, this is one of the easier ways of fulfilling it. And technically, if you are doing it for econ credit, you write a research paper instead of taking the final so you don't really need to show up to lecture after the midterm. Some of the grading is arbitrary by TF - some grade harder on problem sets and random points are taking off the midterm if you didn't cite readings (even though the questions don't ask you to), but overall it was fairly straightforward and grades will probably be normalized my TF. Professor Cutler is a big deal and knows his stuff but is definitely invested in students' learning.
The material covered is interesting and more importantly, relevant and useful!
Great class taught by a fantastic professor who is extremely involved in healthcare legislation in the US. Although the class leans more than liberal, it is very interesting and teaches you a lot about the ACA and current state of the healthcare system.
Learn about health care! learn about the U.S! Be a good citizen! The course is not bad.
This class is a decent introduction to issues in healthcare and healthcare policy. The lectures and the readings in the first half are pretty good. When it changes to discussion of issues in current healthcare systems, the class drags.
This is a great class for anyone interested in in learning about or working in the health sector in the United States. The course covers a lot of material and helps students appreciate the problems of America's health system and better understand provisions of the Affordable Care Act. Professor Cutler is extremely knowledgeable about the subject matter so he definitely makes the class worth taking.
You can get almost the same thing from another better designed course like USW 11 or a grad school class.
A really painless way to get a requirement done, you will benefit most from doing the reading and going to lecture, but you can definitively get away with not doing a lot of work and still get good grades.
Exams are nothing like lectures--studying doesn't help that much. Underwhelming--surprising given the interesting material and the mind of Cutler.
some good/relevant material, but it's not really that enlightening or engaging
This class gives you a great overview of healthcare systems. Professor Cutler is a great lecturer. There is not too much work, but make sure to do well on the assignments that are given.
Good introduction to concepts of health and health policy. Don't expect too much math or economics as course is more focused on learning about trends, different arguments, and politics. But that said, material is still very interesting and useful. I learned a ton coming out of the course.
midterm is tough
Fairly good Gen Ed overall. Material is interesting and assignments are manageable and fair. Tests are surprisingly difficult, however.
Good class to fulfill a secondary, but less interesting than other Econ courses.
The material was very interesting in many ways. Professor Cutler is definitely enthusiastic about the course and he will make you enthusiastic or amazed as well. However, don't take this class for empirical reasoning GenEd.  US in the world,yes it is worth it.
Good class.  The material can be dry at times, but I found it overall very interesting.  Great if you are considering a career in the health field.
This is a very enjoyable course with interesting and important content that is not all that difficult to understand.
most intellectually stimulating course i've taken at harvard but be prepared to work
Do not take this class unless you are very interested in Health Care or love economics. Otherwise, stay away. The teacher is knowledgable but dull and lectures go slowly.
Awesome class. Don't feel daunted if you haven't had economics or stat. They do a good job of explaining everything at a beginner's level. But, if you have had econ and/or stat, that by no means means it will be boring for you. Prof. Cutler is a great lecturer and a friendly person, and he does a great job of engaging the entire class, even though it is a lecture.
grading isn't necessarily arbitrary- if you know your readings and can do the math portions, you should be fine
Readings aren't really discussed in lecture which is nice, but they are key for the midterm (good thing is you incorporate them as you want). GREAT WAY TO FULFILL AN ECONOMICS ELECTIVE IF YOU ARE LOOKING FOR A MANAGEABLE/INTERESTING ONE.
Material and readings are interesting. Lectures are generally good, but they get tedious after the first hour (90 minutes are totally unnecessary given the amount of material that gets covered).As with any core, prepare to deal with picky grading and poorly designed exams where the amount of stuff you write matters more than the quality. For the problem sets, unless you use the exact phrasing they expect, you will probably lose points. For instance, you can say that a CI tells you that a coefficient is insignificant - but unless you say explicitly that the confidence interval does not contain 0 (even though you've mentioned it before in your homework and it's clear that you understand what this means), you will lose points. Section was quite helpful.
this class was awesome. loved the material, and loved the quantitative tilt on things. cutler definitely has a lot of experience (first-hand) in the field, and that shows. it's really cool to hear about all his stories about working in health policy.
The lecture material is really interesting and so relevant to issues today. Cutler is good lecturer--he really likes it when people talk up in class. If you haven't taken an ec class before, you may have to do a little bit of extra work because the problem sets don't really prepare you for exams. That being said though, there isn't THAT much ec and it's pretty simple and straightforward to learn, so don't let that deter you from taking the course! Workload was pretty light and I learned a lot.
If you are an Econ concentrator, you have no reason not to take this class. It's interesting, relevant, and far easier than anything you'd find in the Econ department.
very interesting material on something I knew very little about and the material isn't too difficult.
Material interesting; problem sets not that difficult; class and section well managed; but final exam somewhat difficult and not particularly reflective of the material taught over the semester
This course is a great way to learn about health care for anyone that is interested in the topic. You don't have to have a lot of experience in the field but some economic background would be helpful. Readings don't really play a large role in the course until the midterm so it is easy to fall behind on them but they are important for the tests. Problem sets weren't too time consuming and were pretty fair based on material covered in class.
Grading in this course depends largely on what TF you get. Try to build a good relationship with your TF to learn his/ her grading style.
This course may be good for Econ students, it may be surprising for non-ec students to take it thinking it is a Gen-ed and then a few weeks in to it, finding that the class is full of econ students.
Although this class is listed as an EMR, there was very little math involved.  Most of the mid-term and final was essays and policy analysis.  Also, the grading for this course is all over the place, so be prepared.
This class was a great way to become well-versed on the topic of healthcare reform, and was very timely in that sense. Downsides were that the class did not seem to be completely nonpartisan and that tests were graded rather arbitrarily.
DONT TAKE THIS CLASS!  You do learn about health care economics, but the grading in the class is quite arbitrary.  Also, professor cutler is not a very engaging lecturer, to put it extremely leniently.
This is a great class to learn more about the health care system. It moves a little slowly at times, but is not too difficult and is on a very interesting subject matter. This is a great way for science students to fulfill their United States in the World requirement.
This is a good foundational course for health policy.
It's a good class.  The material is relevant and practical.  The workload is light.
a really good way to do emr or usw
it's pretty cool but depends on your interest in the material
A background in economics/ familiarity with the health care system really puts  you at an advantage.  Try to keep up with the readings or else you'll be cramming way too much information in last minute
A really great class if you want to learn the basics of the American health policy and about health around the world.
Grading is very arbitrary on exams.
The class has very interesting material, and I loved the sections, but the exams were difficult. Although the class satisfies the EMR general education requirement, the class isn't extremely quantitative.
One of my favorite courses at Harvard. But if you have taken a class on healthcare before it is probably very repetitive. It seems very entry level, which is why I enjoyed it. If you have experience, it would probably be extremely easy and boring.
take only if you are interested in the subject
The title of this course is deceptive; its not the business and politics of health...its the economics of health.  Those students who have already taken ec-10 and other economics courses were at a huge advantage.  The material is a good overview of global health and interesting topics of health economics.  However, it really isn't a gen-ed course: half of the class are economics concentrators.
David Culter may be a big deal but his lectures are incredibly boring and I don't feel like I came away from the course with any new insight or perspective on healthcare in America
While there are parts of this class to iron out, the subject material is extremely interesting. The healthcare debate is very central to our lives and this class gives a great introduction to all the different aspects affecting the debate.
This class was interesting because it was so relevant but lectures were pretty boring and grading was frustrating
If you think healthcare reform and analysis is an interesting topic, I would definitely recommend the course.
This class is by no means math intensive.  Rather, I think it should be noted that its taught more like a social analysis course.
It was a very interesting class. The lectures were a bit dry at times, as well as some of the readings, but overall it was very interesting.
It's not at all quantitative (i.e. the quantitative part was essentially phoned in), but you will get a deeper understanding of the health care market in the US.
Take a different health class if you are actually looking for an interesting public health course.
Great chance to learn about health care from someone who is deeply involved in the process.
Taking this class is a waste of an opportunity to get an education at Harvard.  The course does not present material that is interesting in a compelling way.  Furthermore, class participation that includes some students participating 10 times per lecture by interjecting comments that are lengthy and unnecessary in order to boost their ego does not contribute to the class room or my education.  This class was an extreme disappointment.
This is an introduction to health class, not an economics class.  Take it if you're interested in health, know nothing about it, and hate math.  Don't take it otherwise.
I would take this class if you need to fulfill the writing requirement for economics or want a class with a low workload. It is boring and you have to put up with people who constantly want to add unnecessary comments to the lectures, but it's easy.
This class is much more about your writing skills than your empirical/quantitative reasoning skills.  You should take the class if you like debating policies and feel confident about your ability to write in that way.
Cutler really wants to encourage discussion in class. If you speak up, be able to answer questions.
There are about 4 short writing assignments and 4 more traditional psets. The midterm was hard, and I chose to write a final 20 page paper instead of taking the final, which was not bad.
The material is very interesting. Watch out for the exams--the class is easy but the exams are hard and the midterm is worth as much as the final. The questions are vague but they expect specific answers, and the grading is very harsh. Professor Cutler pauses a lot when lecturing and asks a lot of rhetorical questions.
This is an easy way to fill the EMR requirement.
This class is not an easy way to fill a requirement.  If you do not have any ec experience, DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS.  It will be hard for you.  The problem sets and weekly work is extremely doable, but the examinations are challenging.
It's alright, but be prepared for some of the annoyances of a gen ed class. In particular, the exam grading is obnoxiously nitpicky.
The class is a bit all over the place - there isnt really a focus on either econ or quantitative methods. The grading is a bit arbitrary but its an easy class for ec concentrators
Great, interesting course.  However, the grading is very subjective and one sided.  The exam questions will ask very open ended things, but then the grading will look for specific answers that are not clearly related to what they asked for.  Watch out for the grading.
This class is very interesting and helps reveal a lot of the problems with our current medical system and challenges in overcoming them. However, for the most part the information is presented in a very loose manner: the framework that holds a lecture together can be difficult to understand, concepts can be brought up without prior adequate explaining of them, and (while there is a good deal of uncertainty as to what should be done about the healthcare system) discussions are often left very open-ended.
If you are interested in healthcare and are not a hardcore Econ concentrator, take this class
You could save time and money by buying Cutler's book and reading it instead of taking this class.
Lectures are not terribly exciting, but I felt more informed about our healthcare system when I left then when I came in, which I suppose is good. I wouldn't recommend this class to people who are not economics majors.
This class is not engaging or interesting, it is very slow paced.
This is a great course, very interesting, very thought provoking, and one in which you apply economics instead of just learning about theory.
It's a great course filled with very interesting material taught by a professor who has first hand experience.
This course can be quite interesting when Professor Cutler lectures on his opinions, but the exams tend to be quite arbitrary.
The professor's teaching style leaves certain elements to be desired. Very idiosyncratic and you just don't get that much from each lecture.
Be prepared for very poor grading. While you will get an okay overview of the U.S. healthcare system, do not expect anything more as the lectures are truly superficial.
Dont be scared away because its an EMR class, there is NO actual math :)If you are interested in health policy this is an excellent class, not a lot of work at all, but very very interesting and you will learn a lot. You should definitely take this class!
This class is extremely informative and the material that I learned I will be able to apply to real life.  Cutler is a very good lecturer, well-prepared and well-organized, and the problem sets are extremely manageable and not too time consuming.
You don't get much feedback, so it's hard to tell what you're doing right or wrong, but the material's interesting enough.
Class of 80% Ec concentrators and 20% premeds. EMR gen ed without many numbers, but a number of ec-stat concepts. Liberal bias. I learned a fair amount but lectures drag on longer than necessary. Exams sometimes have kind of random grading criteria. Very interesting subject. But if you're not so much interested in applied economics and more interested in health policy, I would recommend taking SW 24 or US 11 instead.
For people with no economics, it's a good class. For people with economics background, it's a bit boring. Also, the beginning is a lot on global health and there is a significant amount of writing involved.
The subject matter is interesting and very relevant for every day life but the structure of the class is very frustrating.
If you are really interested in health care (not just health insurance) and health in general, this might be a good course for you. The lectures are boring and often unnecessary to attend as all lecture notes are posted online. Don't bother doing all of the readings - choose selectively. The policy analyses are a pain in the neck and incredibly dull. Deals more with the "politics" than the "business" of health - not a lot of economics emphasized.
This is the most practical class I've taken at Harvard.  It's great!
It is a good and non-math heavy way to fulfill a quantitative reasoning core. It takes a more inclusive approach to the QR core, including government, critical reasoning, and economics. Although for non-beginners who are very familiar with either economics or social policy, it might not be as interesting.
This is a very interesting course and courses like Business and Politics of Health is why no universities is comparable to Harvard because of the subject matter and the professor.  This course is definitely a good introduction to healthcare for those who are interested and the topics are always interesting.
The lectures are great, although Professor Cutler is a little distant.  Everything else is quite below par.
This course will introduce you to a lot of concepts in health policy. But it is frustratingly unclear, the quantitative aspects are watered down, and it is generally reduced to memorizing little facts about health policy for the entire semester. The topics are varied, but the course lacks overall cohesiveness. David Cutler is also underwhelming as a lecturer - you will not get a lot out of the lectures. Finally, be prepared for arbitrary and somewhat harsh grading. Overall a frustrating experience.
Manageable and interesting; the best way to fulfill the stats requirement for Social Studies and learn from a famous professor.
This course isn't very quantitative, and the exams are heavily writing-based.
Despite the fact that it is an "empirical and mathematical reasoning" class, counts for economics and has problem sets, there is very little math involved. Economics concentrators - don't expect to learn any economics.
Excellent class and excellent professor.
I can't believe this counted for QR. Definitely take this course. Perfect for the non-math inclined
