Ned is great! Really delightful to take a class with him.
This course is a great way to fulfill the EMR requirement. Professor Hall is absolutely amazing at teaching logic in a way that is accessible to all student, regardless of their background with deductive logic. The work is reasonable, and having non-graded p-sets really takes pressure off of you. Instead of worrying about getting great grades on the p-sets, you can really work with the material, and take your time until you understand it.
This is a very interesting and fun class. The material is rather easy and Ned is an AMAZING professor (seriously rock-star-level professor). It's impossible to not love him! He really cares about each student and learns everyone's names. He really wants you to learn and pass this class. He is an amazing lecturer and a very nice and pleasant person in general so you will definitely enjoy this class.The material is very interesting. It's probably unlike most things you've seen before but it's very entertaining and easy. The only downside is that this class takes a lot of time (three lectures, one section, and one quiz each week). And personally, I prefer a weekly problem set to a weekly quiz. I feel like I would have learned a lot more that way but overall, I'm happy I took this class.
This is a great gen ed! More time consuming than most, maybe, but Ned and the teaching staff are outstanding. The course is structured to incentivize real learning, as opposed to busywork or dumb assignments. You are graded on how much of the material you learn. This means that there aren't really shortcuts or easy outs, so don't expect to be able to breeze through. There's no way to do well on the quizzes without studying for them, but you can retake them all multiple times, so there's no pressure to do well the first time.
This is an awesome class to take, either as your EMR requirement or purely as an elective. You learn a ton, and you get to think in a really unique and different way. It was definitely a challenging course, but there was a lot of support offered along the way, so as long as you took advantage of the TFs and Ned as resources and put in a decent amount of effort, you'd do well. Ned and the TFs (Anya and Ewa) were also so fantastic - amazing teachers, kind and supportive people. Can't say enough great things about this course.
This is a great course for filling EMR or for learning about logic -- it obviously caters toward people who have no experience with math or logic, but it remains interesting and fun. Ned is perhaps the best professor I've had at Harvard -- very dedicated to the class and to the students. He puts together really good psets, is always available and friendly, and takes care to know each student individually. He makes this course what it is. The subject material is interesting and very easy to grasp if you have a mind for it. If you don't, the TFs and Ned are always available and willing to work through things with you.
I loved this class. Ned is a great professor and really wants to get to know the students. There is a strict attendance policy as well as no electronic policy, and this forces students to engage in lecture. The psets are like puzzles and are super fun to solve. I recommend this class to anyone who loves logic puzzles and wants to think about the implications of what they are saying.
This course is amazing. Ned and TF's are great. You will learn a lot, but the work is not busywork. You will be challenged to think more logically and the things you learn will also be useful in other aspects of academics. If you like puzzles and problem solving, this class will be more fun than work.
Exactly what you would expect out of the class
This class teaches you to think about language and logical structures in a completely new way, such as how to realize when an argument is bad, or not even an argument at all.  When my family or friends ask me to explain philosophy to them (as I am a concentrator), I like to say that it all boils down to logic - math with words - and I can't think of a better course that exemplifies just that.  This course will help you to better analyze just about anything you read, and all the logical puzzles and riddles are pretty fun to boot.
Most amazing class you will ever take at Harvard. Incredibly difficult content.
Given the teaching staff I had, this was a fantastic class. The material is engaging, Ned Hall's lectures are interesting and involve lots of student participation, and Ned and the TFs, Ewa Bigaj and Anya Yermakova, were available for every possible question in section, in office hours and for private meeting times. The format of the class - optional P-Sets that are designed to train you for the weekly quiz - is pretty good, too, since you can manage your work. Make sure you start those early enough to be able to ask your questions - but if you bomb a quiz, it's not the end of the world, since you get a retake on each one. This system makes sure that, if you put in the effort, you will really learn the material. One thing, though - those weekly quizzes end up structuring your week, so make sure you can put in the effort and balance it with your other classes.TL;DR - If you have any interest at all in the logic of our day-to-day speech, if you want to be able to evaluate arguments in academic and political settings, and maybe, just maybe, understand a little bit more about capital-T "Truth" - TAKE THIS CLASS.
"Fun" is the best adjective to describe this class. Professor Ned Hall is possibly the most congenial person on the planet and his enthusiasm for the subject knows no bounds. Learning the rules of deductive logic will literally change your thought process. It was really cool to catch myself using generalizations and to realize that almost everything I say or think is really a conditional statement. This class requires a fair amount of initiative on the part of the student. Homework isn't graded, but doing it is necessary to do well on the quizzes. Keeping up with the book and going over slides on your own is a must to really be on top of the material.
This is a great course. It teaches formal logic but also delves into how language can be misleading. It enables you to think about broad questions about humanity in an organized, systematic way. Ned and the teaching staff are enthusiastic and helpful.
I enjoyed this course a lot. Its fun. Logic is almost like a game. It reveals to me the ambiguities in everyday language and makes me think more clearly. It gives me intellectual challenges but when I quickly figure them out, its not difficult and still feels rewarding. Ned and the TFs are awesome. They are very helpful and are always there to answer questions and support you. Courseload is actually not heavy, though not very evenly distributed, but its flexible, and you can pace your own schedule. Friday class and quiz time is a little annoying if you want to travel away from campus but its still worth it. Ned really cares about the students. He also makes great cookies.
challenging, but in a different way. will expand your mental capacity
I had had this course recommended to me by a couple of friends, and I took it as an elective. It ended up being one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Formal logical deduction is a really cool (if admittedly somewhat difficult to figure out how you'll apply in the real-world as a non-math concentrator) skill to learn, and it was really fun. I personally found the course to be fairly easy. The mandatory lectures and quizzes are 3.5 hours a week, but other than that only the first week on truth-functional deduction took more than an hour or two to learn the material outside of class. Ned is a fantastic lecturer, and I am in awe of the dedication he has to all of the students in this class. It's a 90 student gen ed and he learned all of our names in the first couple of weeks! The amount of dedication/memorization skills that requires is unprecedented for me with a Harvard professor. He admittedly tends to go on long tangents during lectures, and the lecture often has a lot of disconnect with the material for the homework and quizzes, but most of his tangents are really interesting and the material is doable outside of lecture anyway.All this to say, take this course! Be it to satisfy your EMR or just as an elective, it's the type of random course you want to be part of a liberal arts education.
This was an amazing course! It's challenging, but you are going to get all the help you need. Be prepared to invest some time into doing psets: If you are able to answer all questions on a pset, you should get a high score on the quiz that week. Attend at least one section every week and make sure you don't fall behind on the material, as it's quite hard to catch up. If you just want to cover a requirement, or you are easily frustrated by not understanding stuff straight away, or thinking analytically is hard for you, you may not want to take this course. But if you love puzzles, want to get more order into your thinking and learn how to develop absolutely bulletproof arguments, you will love every lecture.
While it may not be a class that you need for any concentration, it's more than worth taking. Ned Hall is easily the best professor I've had at Harvard so far, and his passion for the material improves the course immensely. It teaches you a skill in logical thought that will serve you well in any field and in life in general. Whether you're looking for a manageable yet interesting class to satisfy EMR or are a math nerd like me looking for more ways to indulge your interests, it's hard to go wrong with this class, and I have yet to talk to anyone who didn't like it.
This class is great. It is a great and painless way to fulfill your emr gen ed, and it's also a great class for people who enjoy math and thinking logically in general. The workload is fairly low; the 10 quizzes are not stressful and there is plenty of opportunity to do well.
This is a must-take class!!! Professor Hall is incredible, as were the TFs! I've never seen a teaching staff put more time and effort into its students than this one, and though the material is not always easy and seldom intuitive, you have every opportunity to learn it. You will spend a lot of time on this class in order to really learn, but it's really gratifying when you finally understand a concept. Plus, Professor Hall bakes cookies for us every Friday. TAKE THIS CLASS, you will not regret it!
You think its not going to be difficult but then it gradually gets more difficult over the course of the semester. Prof.Hall is very invested in making sure students know the material. Definitely take if Prof.Hall is teaching.
This class is fantastic. Ned is one of the best professors I've had, and he and the rest of the teaching staff are really devoted to making sure students feel supported in the class and have all the resources needed to succeed. Logic is a really interesting field that will affect how you think about rhetoric, discussion, and how to think. That said, this isn't a particularly easy class - you have to actively put in the time to learn the material each week.
I don't think you could go wrong with taking this class. The entire teaching team, from Ned to the TFs, is extremely supportive and always willing to go above and beyond to make sure each and every student understands all of the concepts. The structure of the course, with is based around the weekly quizzes, allows you to stay up to date with all of the material, and the retake system allows the material to be constantly reinforced. If you're the type of person who likes to put effort into classes and be rewarded for it, this is the class for you. Also, if you like cookies, Ned's cookies make the weekly quizzes completely worth it.
Ned is great; go talk to him as often as possible.
Constant work (but by no means an unmanageable amount is required). If for nothing else, take this course for Ned. He will restore your faith in Harvard professors and Harvard in general.
Take this class. Do not even stop to think about not taking this class.This is what all gen eds should strive to be. Completely applicable to all students, no matter concentration or future plans.
I have yet to encounter a professor who thinks more about pedagogy than Ned. This course is rare for a GenEd: the material is novel, challenging, and rigorous, but the class is not too time consuming. This is how GenEds should be.
It is a very interesting class to take. It is not that much work in terms of producing output, but it will force you to engage in what Ned calls "intellectual struggle." However, if you are like me and think more courses should bear geared to real learning and not work production, then I definitely recommend you take this class.
Ned Hall is the biggest reason to take this course. I've never met a professor who cares more about his students, and Ned is very intentional about assigning work that maximizes your learning. Also makes delicious cookies every Friday.The structure of the course (no required homework, weekly quizzes that count for 70% of your grade, optional sections) is really well thought out, and no matter how much effort you put into the course, the structure ensures that you'll get something out. One of the coolest parts of this course is the internal culture. Ned talks a lot about academic integrity/helpful learning environments, and the course embodies these values. The course has an environment of no stress and cooperation, which feels totally different from a typical Harvard course.
Take this class if you want to understand the import of logical structure of language to how we argue. It is a fair bit of intensive and complex logical computation, but the teaching staff is incredibly helpful and committed to making the class accessible to everybody. The structure of the class in some ways makes you keep up with the material throughout the semester with weekly quizzes, but in other ways leaves room for you to slack off because problem sets and sections are optional and you can retake quizzes. Take this class if you think you will be able to motivate yourself to take advantage of everything it offers. I thoroughly enjoyed it and would recommend that you shop it at least!
Ned is amazing and really loves to help out. Such a great guy and really made me want to learn materials. The talks about current events were so inspiring, fruitful, and stimulating.
Although the lectures are at 10 AM on Mondays Wednesdays AND Fridays, AND there are weekly quizzes, Ned Hall makes the course a sublime experience. He puts on display his capabilities to facilitate a course that is often difficult to conceptually grasp and maintains truth of the concepts while acting as a medium for the ideas. This course explicitly and successfully teaches logical concepts such as validity, truth-functional statements, equivalence, and implication. When applied to personal life, the course helps distill the truth from anything that isnt and allows each student to see the beauty of clarity and truth in the transmission of ideas. The course draws upon our common ability to reason, without bias, for the sake of truth, and has definitely been my favorite course at Harvard so far because of the content, its applicability to everyday life, and Ned Hall.
This class is great! Ned is awesome, it's interesting Material, and I'd recommend it to anyone who's interested!
Ned Hall is amazing! Definitely take this class when he is teaching it (from what I heard, it's not as great a course in the off-years when the other professor teaches it). The teaching staff really does all they can to assure that you both understand and succeed; there are so many opportunities to excel, and you will learn useful material to more perspicuously understand language and its logical structure (also there are cookies on the quizzes every Friday (Also there are quizzes every Friday; take that as you will)). All in all, the class was a lot of fun to take and I would recommend it to anyone.
This is a great class. You'll learn a lot and Ned will make sure that you get the opportunity and all the resources to grasp the material. Definitely recommended for anyone who'd like to brush up their argumentation and writing skills for a future career in law or the like.
This course is a great elective, gen-ed, and concentration requirement.  Honestly, just take this class.  It's great.  Lectures can get slightly boring at times, but then you can just sit back and listen to your amazing peers speak about logic and philosophy and how these two subjects intertwine.  Ned is fantastic, as are the TFs.  They all really want you to succeed, and will do everything in their power to make this happen.
Ned is a great professor so if you can take it with him, definitely do that. Go to section and do the psets and you'll do fine. If you dont understand something, go to Ned and he'll clear it up. The course is great but make sure you stay up on work and re-take quizzes if necessary! Overall, I loved this class and even though I found it difficult I enjoyed learning the material.
The class may start off a bit easy, but be sure to take advantage of these early weeks to really cement your understanding of the material, because it will only be built upon in future lectures.
The teaching staff for this class is excellent. When I asked for help, I got it. When I didn't understand something, Ned, Ewa, or Anya would work with me until I understood it. I think that as long as you ask for help, it is impossible not to do well in this class. I came away feeling like I have a very strong grasp on the basics of deductive logic. I feel smart!
Ned is an amazing guy and the teaching staff is excellent. The weekly quizzes can become difficult, but Ned and his son make them much better by giving cookies to the students. DEFINITELY go to section. My schedule prevented me from going to sections, and so my performance in the course suffered. If I could go back to shopping period, I probably wouldn't have ended up taking this class had I realized how un-"optional" the sections really are. That being said, this class added a lot to my semester and I had a great time getting to know the staff. Ned truly is a superb professor and person.
This is one of the very best classes that I've taken at Harvard. I took it as a way of getting out of a math class, and I'm so glad I did, because it was truly a phenomenal course. Professor Hall is an unbelievable lecturer, probably the best I've had at Harvard, and the subject matter is, for the most part, fascinating. If you're looking to fill and EMR requirement, are interested in logic or philosophy, or just want to take an amazing elective, then I couldn't recommend this class more highly. Do be warned, it's quite challenging and will require a good deal of work and hard thought. That said, hard work and asking questions are rewarded, and the teaching staff genuinely want you to get a good grade if you're doing your best.
I strongly recommend this class even if you have taken or are taking a math class and don't need the empirical reasoning credit. Ned is an incredible professor and he brings cookies every Friday. This is a mentally stimulating and challenging course that is extremely rewarding.
The quizzes are mostly taken straight from the problem sets, Ned is a lovely professor.  He bakes you cookies!  Great class to fulfill EMR if that's what you need.  Keep in mind the professors switch every other year.
The class definitely requires a good mount of effort and work to understand the material, but overall it's worth the effort as you will come out of the class learning a lot about how logical arguments are formulated.
Ned and the teaching staff are truly amazing, but this course is simply too difficult for a Gen Ed requirement. It will feel frustrating to put in so much time and effort into a course and not always see it pay off. That said, an easier version of this course would be fantastic.
It's not an easy course, but it's definitely very possible to do well if you're willing to work.
It teaches you how to think and the professor is a very nice guy.
Be prepared to do a large amount of work for this course. The course is set up to help you if you are struggling, but you will have to put forth an effort.
Do the optional p-sets!  Take advantage of the optional sections and office hours!
Only take if you have enough time to spend at office hours every week.
Practice!
Don't take the course unless you already like formal logic. The course is very technical and the EMR requirement can be fulfilled more easily elsewhere.
Take this course. Easy enough to get a great grade but challenging enough that you actually learn about the material. But don't take it if Mark Richard is teaching it.
If it's not Prof Richard (with all due respect and without intending anything personally) then I recommend this. [That's a conditional statement, by the way.]
More than most classes, I think this class lends itself to the "you either get it or you don't" style of learning. It's hard to say what sorts of people will "get it", but I imagine those who are more science or philosophy oriented will fall into this category. That's not to say you can't do well as a Freshman thinking about doing English (just to take a random example). This class has all the tools to help you do well, and it isn't graded a curve per se, so everyone can do well. The advantage of this class is that you can put in as much effort as you want. The homework is optional but extremely useful for quizzes, so you can always do well on quizzes if you spend time understanding the homework!
Do not take this class if you're looking for a simple way to fulfill the EMR gen-ed. It is not worth the hassle and work. You get very little from the class, but spend a lot of time doing the work.
If you enjoy the professor and aren't familiar with most of the material already, by all means take this class.
This class is great!  I loved the material.  However, it could be taught a lot better, I really didn't pay attention in lectures at all.  But really, the material made it all worth it.
This is a great option for students who are considering concentrations in Mathematics and Computer Science.
This class is extremely useful! Not too time consuming, but fun and helpful for building critical thinking.
This course is tremendously interesting, though there is a huge amount of material and it moves at a quick pace. There are weekly "quizzes" that are, in fact, not quizzes at all, but rather two-hour exams that are rigorous and require extensive preparation. If you are willing to invest time and effort, this is an excellent course. I would not, however, take it as a way to fulfil the EMR GenEd. You will be frustrated at points, but will thank yourself at the end. As a bonus, Prof. Richard is a funny guy and makes class light-hearted with his jokes.
This class should serve as a warning to not place too much emphasis on previous years' Q guide entries. The professor this semester changed almost the entire course. The quizzes were immensely more difficult than the prior year, and there was a huge disconnect between the material in lecture and the quizzes. The quizzes were unyielding. They were supposed to take about 30 minutes, but a large number of students used the entire 2 hour period on Fridays to take the quiz. This course was supposed to be a Gen Ed but certainly didn't feel like it. That said I do feel like I learned Logic well (but only because of Ronni and Diana, a.k.a. the BEST teaching fellows at Harvard). I'd recommend to take with Ned Hall if he's teaching it, otherwise only take if you truly enjoy logic and are okay with a challenge. 

Additionally, here are my comments regarding Mark Richard:

"Let me preface this by saying that Professor Richard gives amazing lectures. I absolutely adored every lecture, especially the divergent lectures about philosophers and their differing interpretations of logic (Professor Richard and I both share a love of Bertrand Russell, arguably the greatest philosopher of all time). 

However, Professor Richard created the most inane, difficult quizzes that were almost completely unrelated to the lecture material. This course was supposed to be a Gen Ed, but he had us doing incredibly hard proofs on quizzes (seriously, one proof on a quiz took me 45 minutes and 30 lines to complete). This was not advertised for the course. I put a lot of time into this course and attended many sections and office hours; however, I still found myself confused each quiz. The questions seemed to not so much "test our mastery of the material", but rather to purposefully deceive us. 

Also, the grading for quizzes was, in my opinion, unfair. My worst quiz I received a 76. This was dropped (thank god!), but it was (in my opinion) an unfair score to begin with. I missed 3 questions and lost 8 points for each one. One of the questions I simply forgot to introduce a negation to a quantified sentence. Another question I forgot to clarify that the "x" in my paraphrase was a person. And the third question I forgot to specify a minute part of an extension (but otherwise my formula was correct). I fail to see how this merits a 76, specifically when I correctly answered so many other questions on the quiz. Perhaps if I would have had more time then I wouldn't have lost points, but either way the quizzes are created and graded unfairly."
If Richard's teaching it, don't take this course. I thought logic would help me construct arguments and think more rigorously outside the class. In reality, you stop using the English language in any meaningful way a few weeks in, and focus on how (what feel like incredibly esoteric) logical languages work. Richard made lectures painful, in that his explanations only ever made things more obscure. He can't relate to students at all, and in lecture would make mistakes and get himself confused to the point that you couldn't stay focused on what you were actually supposed to be learning. He didn't seem like he wanted to be there, and made me not want to be there either. And because he seemed to only put in the minimal effort, I did the same.
For philosophy concentrators, this is not a bad class to take to fulfill the logic requirement. If you already think analytically, it will be too difficult to adjust the symbolic logic used.
The subject matter is interesting, but doing well on quizzes requires a lot of individual work and some of it just feels like random chance. The professor is clearly knowledgeable but sometimes lectures are very poorly organized and the class as a whole suffers from a lack of clear connection between vague concepts covered in lecture and the concrete applications you will be tested on.
I would definitely recommend taking this course. It is a great class to take even for people who are not concentrating in Philosophy, especially if you have a somewhat quantitative background. The TFs are a great resource - be sure to go to section and to reach out to them if you have any questions!
Take this class with a different professor than Richard.
I took this course because I read the Q guide from the previous administration of the course and was impressed by the comments and reviews it received; I was sorely disappointed when I found that very little of this praise applied, except for the teaching fellows who continued to be incredibly invested and helpful.  The positive reviews of previous offerings of this course leads me to believe that EMR17 could be a great experience in the future so I would not rule it out but only if it has been taught by one of the professors who taught it before 2014. Ronni and Diana were GREAT TFs-- the best TFs I've had at Harvard because of their dedication to compensating for the lack of clarity in lectures and the errors in the homework answer key that was submitted to the website. I did not think that the effort that I put into the course was reflected in my performance in the course; the quizzes often did not match the material that was emphasized/covered in the homework assignments. I've never given a course below a 4 on the Q guide so my experience in this course was especially disappointing.
If you are a logician at present, take this course. If not, and you want to learn the systems of deductive logic, do not take this course. It prioritizes students who understand the subject matter intuitively, grades are based only on quizzes/exams, and psets/section are optional.
This is a fine course, especially if you're interested in philosophy or computer science or even math. The material is pretty interesting if it's your kind of thing. It's not an 'easy' way to fulfill your EMR GenEd though. Prof. Richard is pretty terrible at teaching this class, so DO NOT take it with him unless you absolutely have to. Other professors should teach it going forward, and if they do, it should be much better.
I would recommend the class but, honestly, only if a different professor were to teach it. Again, TF's were wonderful, but they shouldn't have to carry the class.
Deductive logic is an excellent class, and I'd recommend with enthusiasm. I took this as an elective because so many friends recommended it from years before. I wasn't disappointed at all. This class applies the logical reasoning you learn in math and cs classes to language, which is quite astonishing. This is also a wonderful class if you hope to be a philosophy concentrator. One piece of advice is that contrary to other classes, this class is one where it's good to start the hws late. I would work on them the day before the quiz. The reason is that there's always mistakes with the proof checker website so by the time it's the day before the quiz, these kinks will have been already worked out. Otherwise, working on the hw early may lead to hours on end staring at the computer as to why your answer doesn't work, when it should. Have fun!
Good, low-stress class.  The material is relatively straightforward and can be very interesting.
Excellent course for developing logical thinking skills. For instance, it is a course that I would recommend someone take first before enrolling in a higher level math class (100 and above). For this class provides a solid foundation on the logic employed in these classes.
They require you to go to class, and then the professor spends half the class trying to figure out where the typo is in the powerpoint. If I had actually paid attention rather than browsed the internet, it would have been excruciating.
Take this class when someone besides Professor Richard is teaching! The p-sets are short, easy, and optional, the weekly quizzes are easy, and the curriculum is fast-paced but packs a lot in; however, Richard can easily confuse people with his explanations, especially those who don't have a logic-oriented mind. Also, if Diana is a TF, don't attend her section; she also isn't very good at explaining things.
If you're looking for an easy GenEd, don't take this course with Mark Richard. If you're looking for an interesting and slightly challenging GenEd, you probably shouldn't take this course with Mark Richard. If mathematical reasoning is an intuitive activity for you and you'd like to immerse yourself in its nuances, you might want to take this course. At times, Mark Richard's lectures could have been described as "circuitous," "largely tangential," "unnecessarily convolved," "spiraling," and even irrelevant. It's obvious that Mark Richard loves the subject that he teaches, yet when this leads to abnormally high expectations for his students and gives the impression that he's more interested the philosophical complexities of language and its semantics than any concrete benefits his students might receive from his course, it can be rather trying. Although he's a very nice guy and often makes funny jokes, he seems to either (1) have been committed to making students prove their deep understanding of the material or (2) have been disconnected from the reality of his course, in which many were struggling. Unless your ability in this area is beyond that of normal, reasonably intelligent people, quizzes will not be "relatively easy to complete in an hour," as the syllabus for this course advertises. Unless you understand the nuances of the material in a shockingly comprehensive way, the final will most likely be an unpleasant experience. In sum, don't take this course unless you are interested in a GenEd of stratospheric rigor.
Listen well, all of you. 

Youd think logic would be easy since its, you know, logical. Youd be wrong. 

You deserve a fair warning that this class might very well chew you up and spit you out. You have to be constantly vigilant that youre keeping up with the material and mastering every step of it along the way. Individually, each new section of the material isnt actually that hard at all, its just the pace at which youre expected to master the material that makes the course challenging. 

*The Book* The textbook (Goldfarb) is actually surprisingly clear. Though techinically you dont even have to read the book to survive the class (I stopped reading it all together half-way through) I highly recommend you do so, and that you do so BEFORE lecture. You do not want to be hearing the material from the Professor for the first time in lecture because its nigh impossible to follow lecture like that. Also, for those of you who havent discovered this already, if youre using Goldfarbs textbook you can easily find a pdf of it online for free, so dont bother buying it and then lugging a physical copy around all the time.

*Quizzes* Now, keep in mind this only applies if Professor Richard is teaching the class.  The quizzes are not quizzes. They are tests. Any quiz which takes two hours to complete is a test, if you ask me, and you have one every single Friday. Richard says he designs the quizzes to only take an hour, but that you have the full two hours if you need it. Thats nice, except these are by no means one-hour quizzes. I (and much of the rest of the class) consistenly needed the full two hours to finish, and many many many of these instances were extremely close-calls as to whether or not I would finish on time. If you figure that a final takes 3 hours to complete and that these quizzes take 2 hours, please trust me when I say that you need to prepare ferociously to survive them. 


*Homework* They say the homework is optional, and technically it is, but it is absolutely NOT optional if you value your life. Professor Richard said he designs the homework to best prepare you for the quiz. On the one hand, no information that wasnt on the homework will show up on the quiz. HOWEVER the quizzes ARE ALWAYS MUCH MUCH HARDER than the homework, and so the homework is not always an adequate preparation for the quizzes. Fair warning. Ask Richard for harder homework. 

*Section* Again. They say section is optional, but thats a lie. Go to section. Go to section twice. Go to section thrice. You neeeeed to see the material in action from the TF if you want to survive the quiz. Do it. You will only thank me. 


Now. I know the class must sound scary at this point, but I should say that I actually had a blast. Sure, the paralyzing anxiety of the quizzes will drive you mad every Thursday night as you scramble to stuff your brain with last minute preparation, but I have to admit that theres a small, masochistic part of me that actually enjoyed the struggle. Its quite fun because technically everything is logical, and each brush with frustration is actually making you a more rational and reasonable thinker. The answer is already there, you just have to find it. Also, if Ronni is your TF, praise the gods. I can say with absolutely certainty that I would not have survived the class without her. If shes not teaching it your year, you need to contact her (Ronni Sadovsky) and ask her for her materials. That is all. Good luck.
Do all the Psets!! If you don't it's easy to fall behind quickly. Also get to know Ned, he is a really approachable, lighthearted, caring professor, and definitely worth getting to know while you're at Harvard.
It's impossible to not like the course with such an amazing and enthusiastic teacher and the extremely helpful and inviting TFs. The course material and the PSETs etc. are structured in a very systematic and organized manner which makes it easy to follow along (even if it might look like it's a lot of work on paper - it really comes pretty naturally if you listen in class and go to section). Perhaps not relevant to everyone as logic is a particular topic that people outside of the philosophy or science departments might find to be interesting but not applicable to them - but still a course I think most people would enjoy.
This class is a blast. The professor and TF are wonderful and fully dedicated to helping you succeed. The tempo is quite high, keeping things interesting, yet if you need a helping hand the Professor and TFs are super super approachable. As an indication of how dedicated they are -- the professor himself baked us cookies to eat during our weekly quiz EVERY WEEK WITHOUT FAIL.As to the content -- this course is admittedly abstract, but it's a really fun course centered around thought problems and reasoning. It will have you reasses your view of language and give you theoretical tools with which to model argumentation. The psets are have an extremely positive feel to them due to the joy of finishing tricky problems. The quizzez can be quite tricky but are entirely fair.Take this class as a neat elective. It's refreshing to have a class so different form all your other ones. And it fulfills the math Gen Ed requirement if that is something oyu are anxious to get rid of :).
I took this class to fulfill the EMR requirement and to take a class with psets for homework instead of essays or reading. For some of my classmates, this class completely revolutionized the way they view the world. Perhaps due to the nature of my high school math classes or due to my default way of thinking, I didn't walk away from this class thinking very differently. However, because of Ned Hall's being an excellent professor, because of the awesome study groups, and because of the psets' being almost fun at times, like puzzles, this was a very enjoyable class.
This is a fantastic course that is best understood as a semester-long mental workout. It will challenge you to be explicit about your reasoning in argumentation and analysis. Professor Hall is also a great lecturer and keeps the class engaging and interesting. This is a great course that requires zero background knowledge and will help you become a better thinker.
I have taken many enjoyable classes at Harvard, and I have taken many worthwhile classes at Harvard.  This class is the very best combination of those two things!  It is utterly enjoyable, and very much worth taking.  You will walk away with a new appreciation for truth, and a better understanding of how to effectively explain a truth and/or how to follow a string of arguments that others use to arrive at truths or non-truths.  The teaching staff is phenomenal.   Professor Hall knew everyone's name by the third class, and he never turns down a question.  He also bakes great cookies.
If you think you might be even a little interested in logic, TAKE THIS CLASS!! I just took it as an elective and it ended up being so worth it. That doesn't mean it's not hard, because I got pretty frustrated with the difficulty of the material sometimes--it's logic, you can't really bullshit anything--and I still found it so valuable in forcing you to really critically think in a way you probably haven't before.  It's not time-consuming but requires you to really think and focus, Ned makes it really fun but still challenging, and the way they format it (weekly quizzes) definitely works even if it may get scary sometimes.
A solid introduction to logic.
It's hard but fair.
Do it! Everyone could use some logical nollidge.
Taking any class with Ned is a literal must--that man is a real educator, who is clear, smart, funny (in an endearing, nerdy way), enthusiastic, and so damn dedicated to us. Also, he bakes fresh cookies every Friday for the quizzes. Don't take this class with any other professor--please don't!
You have to take this course. Ned is a delight, as were Ronni and Doug. This class is actually a useful class; you won't memorize a list of facts for a final soon after to forget them, but actually train your brain to think in a critical, analytical, and systematic way. You can practice your creative insight in deductions and have fun with knights and knaves. If you want to learn how to think, not what to memorize, take this course.
This is very beneficial in developing a structured thought process when attacking arguments one is exposed to in everyday coursework, conversation and just life in general.  Do not be fooled by circuitous reasoning any longer.  Ned is an awesome professor who everybody can learn from.  Great approach to life and to this course.
Take it if Ned Hall is teaching it. Awesome material, easy, etc. Only annoying thing is that some of the other students aren't that smart and slow the class down a decent bit.
This class panders to humanity majors. Expect to experience the wonders of hearing about how "grade inflation is a form of civil disobedience" from your classmates in discussions. Logic's pretty cool, though.
Ned Hall is incredible! His lectures are captivating, his assignments are challenging but doable, and his cookies are unbelievably good. He also picks great TFs. Don't worry about the weekly quizzes--if you do the problem sets (not mandatory), and go to one of the four weekly sections (your choice; also not mandatory), and go to office hours if you don't understand something, you will ace every single quiz. Logic is hard. But the safety structure in this class is too strong for you to fail if you put in the effort.
You'll love it.
This is one of the best-taught courses I've taken at Harvard. The lectures are fun but never frivolous, the weekly quizzes mean you actually absorb the material as it comes at you, and I always felt prepared for quizzes and assignments. The Friday morning quizzes are painful, but Ned and Theo are excellent pastry chefs, which makes up for it.
The teaching staff was great - very knowledgeable and friendly, very good at explaining concepts and easily accessible outside of class.  I really liked the optional pset/quiz grading structure of the class as it allowed me more flexibility in learning the material (i.e. if I felt like I had learned the week's material then I could spend time doing other stuff, and if I didn't, I could review the pset thoroughly with help from Ned, Doug, and Ronni).  That being said, I didn't feel like this class wasn't that hard.
This is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Ned is a fantastic professor who knows how to communicate complicated ideas clearly. If you're at all interested in philosophy, logic, or critical thinking, definitely take this.
This was the most fun I have ever had in a course at Harvard. Ned and Ronni and Doug are all super lovely. Ned bakes you cookies every Friday (and they are amazing). The material is so much fun--if you liked the puzzle-y aspect of algebra, you will really enjoy logic. The course is a significant time commitment: 3 hours of class a week, plus 0.5 - 1.5 hours of quiz every week. The psets also take a long time. I took the course with a close friend, so we would study for the quizzes together, which made the course more do-able--I would recommend this if possible, but the material isn't so hard that you NEED a friend in order to be able to do it. Ronni and Doug are also super super accessible and are constantly holding help sessions. Honestly, if you need help, there are resources available at every moment, seeing as there are question-websites. There's also this great collaborative environment in class where no one is afraid to be wrong and there is a spirit of open questioning inquiry--Ned is a very very skilled teacher.BEST WAY TO FULFILL YOUR E&M REQUIREMENT!! :) do it
If you are interested in learning how to think logically, you should take this course. However, the material learned in this course is not directly practical. If you are interested in fulfilling an EMR gen ed or taking a philosophy class, I highly recommend taking this course.
This is most definitely an intensive intro class, but one well worth the effort. I regret not putting in the effort I could have at the beginning, but I believe that an appreciation for the class grows as in progresses. The problem sets, though not mandatory, are definitely useful for the quizzes as well as a gauge for your understanding of the material. The class is well-structured, Professor Hall and company are both knowledgeable and open to questions and providing the help you need, which make what may seem like a dry course go by smoothly. (and there are cookies...many, many cookies)
This class is a ton of fun. You will definitely reconsider how you think about communication and language. Great way to satisfy EMR! I would highly recommend this course to anyone with an interest in philosophy, language, and puzzles in general.
This was my favorite class at Harvard, hands down. The professor (Ned) and both TFs (Doug and Ronni) invested a lot into making this class great. Sometimes you get classes where the teaching staff seems apathetic. This was the opposite. There are a million reasons to take this class, which I won't list, so I'll offer reasons you shouldn't take this class:1. Mandatory class (I actually liked this because it motivated me to go to class when I would have otherwise skipped)2. Grading is based entirely on weekly quizzes and a final exam (Again, I actually liked this, but some may find it intimidating)3. Difficulty (I did not find this class particularly difficult, but if you are not normally a quantitative thinker, this class will not be a breeze)I recommend taking the class either way, but if none of these concern you or apply to you, you should without a doubt take this class.
In terms of teaching staff, this class is literally a real treat - Doug, Ronni, and Ned are all star logic teachers. You get help from them on all psets, they bake you cookies on the weekly quiz days, etc. Lectures are as painless as they can get for an EMR class, and most of the time they're even really interesting because Ned is such a great discussion leader. The material of the course, however, leaves something to be desired. It would have been better were it more applications-based, and if we'd been able to cover more stuff. But you do still come out of the class with some fundamental tools of logical thinking, which is valuable.
If you do not want to take a logic course but have to, this is the one to take; if you do not have to take a logic course but are merely interested, this is the one to take. Can't ask for more considerate/engaged instructors.
This is a fantastic class. It's not particularly difficult, the quizzes are based directly on the psets so if you finish the psets you will ace the quizzes in 15 minutes. The teaching staff is also incredible - Professor Hall is one of the best at Harvard, and he brings homemade cookies to the quizzes on Fridays. You really can't ask for much more in a class.
It's a course with interesting subject matter that is very well taught. For me it was a great introduction to the philosophy department.
For the most part I liked this class. Ned, Ronni, and Doug are awesome, hilarious, so nice, easygoing, and really good at explaining logic concepts. There's no midterm; just a quiz every Friday, and the lowest 2 quiz grades are dropped. Also, Ned makes cookies for ever quiz. The powerpoints are also pretty good at explaining lessons (better than Goldfarb's book). There was also a solid attempt at trying to make the course relevant to real arguments. The only thing I didn't like was that occasionally the material was kind of boring or difficult to grasp (especially logical paraphrasing), but maybe that's just me.
TAKE NED'S VERSON (no offense to Prof. Goldfarb, but cookies and a great professor...now that can't be beat)
It sounds different from anything you've ever done before, but take it, because it's so worth it. The teaching staff is incredible and so helpful. But go to section, even though it's optionalweekly sections were so helpful in mastering the material.
Before enrolling in this course, ask to see what changes have been made to the structure of the course before enrolling. If the answer is "none", I would not take this course.
The reason you take this course should not be because you wish to avoid math. This is a difficult class and you need to be prepared for that.
So much fun! This was a gentle yet solid introduction to abstract reasoning (think dots and structures). Professor is witty and his lectures were great. Marc is an awesome tf who knows his stuff cold and can explain things really well. Exams are fair; budget your time wisely. If you like solving puzzles or are simply interested in giving your brain a fun workout, definitely shop this course! Possibly the best course I've taken at Harvard (ever).
If you want to learn a new way to think and approach the most difficult logic problems (which, you'll realize, is almost every problem), take this course. Be prepared to work, though.
It is a great class. makes you think much more logicallly about any subject. The great thing about the way goldfarb teaches it (and the textbook) is that you get an appreciation of the tight connection between logic and language. the first half of the course is easy, the second half is more difficult. also, godlfarb is awesome
I genuinely enjoyed doing the P-Sets and even taking the exams, and Professor Goldfarb is so quirky and fun and knowledgeable. This is really like learning how to solve riddles and understand the implications of language. It's fun and challenging! Mathematically, it is sort of like algebra, with no numbers at all.
Great class but be ready to work.
Deductive logic problems can be very entertaining if you like that kind of puzzle. However, don't be mislead by the class' placement in the Philosophy Department. This is not a class where you will do a lot of thinking about the world or even how the logical principles you're learning apply to it.
This course gets challenging very quickly. I personally struggled quite a bit towards the end. The trick is keeping up, attending every office hour possible, and reading the textbook rather than going to lecture.
If you are interested in the subject matter at all, you will learn a lot and likely feel rather satisfied. But if you just want a gen ed credit or don't really feel interested in learning about complex logical concepts you might be frustrated.
This class seriously makes you think. It's pretty tough, but very rewarding  even though it may not seem like it at the time.
(I highly doubt this will be published, so I'm just going to go all-out with this one.)  In lecture one day, Prof. Goldfarb decided to speak a bit more candidly than usual.  He talked about how, in the past, students who were "math-shy" thought that Deductive Logic would be a good option for them with which they could get their Quantitative Reasoning requirement out of the way without having to deal with numbers.  He smiled when saying how hordes of these "math-shy" students came to take his class only to realize that this class was even more quantitatively difficult than other explicitly math-oriented classes.  Of course, Prof. Goldfarb thought he was being funny, and he was, in a way.  To me it was a dark kind of humor, because I knew that Prof. Goldfarb was talking about people like me when using the term "math-shy" (by which he meant people who didn't like or were unskilled at math).  What made this reference so weird was that Prof. Goldfarb was talking as if there were no such "math-shy" people in the room - he was counting us among the responsible ones who came to lecture every day and who were not having too much difficulty.  Of course, I went to lecture every day, and his lectures often didn't help me understand the material we were responsible for.  I should have dropped the course while I had the chance.  The lesson from this is DO NOT TAKE this class if you know you are, as Prof. Goldfarb put it, "math-shy."  Take something more straightforward, like Stat 104 or something.  Logic is an opaque discipline that makes no sense to me, and I have realized this too late.  I don't even know what I learned in this class, if anything.
I only took this class for the professor and he was phenomenal but I really couldn't understand the material.
The beginning of the course seems easy enough, and the material makes sense while giving you a good perspective on it. Following the midterm, however, things go downhill. You cannot fall behind, or you will not recover. The material is incredibly difficult, and even with the TFs it is hard to understand. If you find even the vaguest concern over something, you had better make sure you fix it soon, as it could make or break your grade on the final when the smallest error can make you lose a great amount of points. You'll find yourself questioning whether or not you can really think logically, as this course is called Deductive Logic. You are not alone, but frankly, that shouldn't be the case.
This is a difficult course but really fun if you're interested in logic and philosophy.
:)
Deductive Logic is fun for math and language- lovers alike. Asks us to think about the logical building blocks of language and think twice before writing another sentence. Do we write what we mean? Do we mean what we say?
This is difficult class to take as an elective, but one that is also pretty rewarding. It's the type of class that is simultaneously fun, tricky, and rewarding in the moment and very cool after the fact. You realize how much you've learned after you're done with the class.
This class is hard but very satisfying once you start to really understand the material. Goldfarb's lectures are very frustrating (I found them almost incomprehensible), but the book is very well written, and you are able to essentially teach yourself from the book. The course is very theoretical - not a whole lot of emphasis placed on how to use logic in anything beyond the class. It's fun though if you like mathematical proofs (the logical deductions which you build up to the whole semester are basically like proofs). Don't take it if you're not willing to put in significant effort to understand shit.
It's not that difficult if you take the time to learn the logical rules thoroughly. You'll need to ask your TF a ton of questions, though.
Take this class with Ned Hall if you can. Goldfarb is so smart that his presentation of the material is often inaccessible and over-complicated. I've heard that Hall makes the material sensible easy to understand.
I would recommend Deductive Logic to almost anyone.  It is not extremely difficult, but at the same time you do learn a good bit about the formal structure of logic (especially proofs).  For those that have not had any experience with logic, be prepared to spend some time early on in the course developing an "intuition" into the subject; without it, the course could be a bit more difficult.
It's an extremely difficult course that would be nearly impossible to pass without a great TF.
Great course! Perfect for new/prospective CS students who aren't quite sure if they're up for CS121 or CS124.
I would say to perspective students: if you are at Harvard and especially Ned is teaching this course, you cannot not take this course (unless you have aced Math 55). Take this course and 20 years down the road you would say to your kids that you took this course at Harvard especially with Ned! I would STRONGLY recommend this course to everyone!
This class is FANTASTIC!! Ned is terrific! It is very manageable, there is help whenever you need it/want it, it is fun, Elizabeth is great too! I had not one complaint with the course all semester.Take it. Especially if you're interested in CS? I can see how it would be super helpful for taking even CS50. It's great.
A rigorous but not overwhelming introduction to formal reasoning.
Can be challenging at times. Quizzes are once a week, so be sure to keep up on the studying and the problem sets. Ned Hall is a legend. Elizabeth Miller is wonderful as well.
This course is hard but totally worth the effort put in. Ned is an amazing professor and Elizabeth a wonderful TF. It'll open your eyes to the bizzarre world of logic and dabble a little in philosophy too.
I'm not sure you'll use this in everyday life, but it does help you analyze language.
I think I would recommend the class by saying: "EMR17 is a fabulous course that will help you think if you are not interested in philosophy or esoteric material though consider carefully.
This class is great. Ned is a really awesome teacher, Elizabeth is too. You will have to do work every week, some weeks a lot more work than others.  Class (at least in 2011) met on fridays at 10AM, which was kind of brutal.
take it if Ned is teaching it.  i can't imagine having taken it without him.
If you have to take logic, take it with Ned Hall. The course under him was EXTREMELY fair, fun and reasonable. He brought cookies every Friday (!), made quizzes very fair and the grading system straightforward, and is really just genuinely interested in having you learn things without any of the usual administrative, bureaucratic, needlessly competitive stuff that is present in so many other courses. Great course. Logic is always hard, but Ned and Elizabeth (the TF) are really excellent at being accessible, helpful, fair and reasonable.
This class is a lot of work and very difficult for being a gened. There are easier ways of getting rid of the E&MR requirement. Tough grading.
If this course is taught by Ned Hall (or at least if whoever is teaching it is using the new course website designed by Jackson Kernion), then take it, it'll be awesome. Logic is so cool.
Professor Hall is by any measure an excellent teacher. He made the abstract subject matter entirely accessible. Administratively, the class was a delight -- the problem sets were presented through an online "logic engine" that permitted you to check your answers immediately, the quizzes could be challenging but the grading was fair and even generous, and both Professor Hall and Elizabeth were always accessible and eager to help either in person or via email. Partially as a result of how smoothly the class was run, I was never frustrated about an unfair grade, etc., so I was able to focus all of my attention to actually learning the material.
This was easily my favorite class freshman fall. My knowledge of logic was greatly improved, and I had a great time while acquiring the knowledge that I did.
If Ned is teaching this class again, I really recommend it. The material can sometimes be dry, but it's also challenging in a way that seems to have been "exciting" to most people in the class, miraculously. The class feels a little like a mental workout, but in a good way. I loved feeling like taking this class was an "experience," and I would wish it on anyone!
Professor Hall is great.
This is a rather easy introduction to deductive logic. The notation is a bit difficult to fully internalize, but that was the only barrier to understanding. This class makes clear just how slippery and unclear the English language is. It was fascinating to see how little of what we say actually means anything and how this notational system you learn in this class tries to capture that meaning.
Professor Ned is one of the best professors at Harvard period. He is an incredibly sharp thinker, has a witty sense of humor, and bakes cookies for you. And if that isn't enough, Elizabeth is the best teaching fellow I know. She is super nice, competent, and incredibly generous with her time. Class is graded fairly (and easily for those who are good at logic). If you like brain teasers, you'll enjoy this class.
Prof Hall has completely transformed this class.  You still have to be very logical thinker, but Prof Halls makes that surprisingly easy.
A lot of work, and hard, but good to take with the people who were teaching this time.
Definitely one of the best classe I've taken here. Professor Hall is an incredible teacher who makes what could be boring material and makes it exciting and fascinating. Logic is also very applicable to pretty much every other field - the class will take work, but it'll be fun and absolutely worth it.
Ned "Bonesaw" Hall is the man! A fun and rewarding class, taught by one of Harvard's finest teachers.
Take it. People are so so nice.
Interesting, but doesn't cover a whole lot of material.
Relatively painless way to fulfill logic requirement, and I can also see this course in general being a great way to fill EMR. The tools it gives you are useful in all fields.
Professor + TF both incredibly nice.  They each learned all the students' names which was cool.  Class interesting.  Professor witty; kept class enjoyable.
Fascinating stuff, but be prepared for very challenging material.
This is a good class for providing a background in formal logic that is widely applicable in many fields (semantics, philosophy, computer science, etc). The lectures got much better this year with Ned taking over.
IT'S SO FUN TAKE IT!!! Ned is super helpful and so is Elizabeth and the lecture slides make a lot of sense. If you don't want to take a class that meets on Friday mornings don't take it because there are quizzes every Friday, but I thought it was super worth it because it was so interesting and cool.
This course is a great introduction to logical concepts. With the wrong professor, this course would be boring, but Ned always made lectures engaging. He and our TF were both incredibly patient and always made themselves available-- they really care about helping each student not just understand how to do a problem, but to understand the fundamental concepts behind the problem.
Logic with Ned Hall is the best way to be introduced to an important subject.
