Best language course I've ever taken because the instructor has designed the pedagogical materials herself and cares for each student's unique needs/interests.
This class is fantastic! An excellent follow-up to Modern Hebrew B but also a good course for people with some Hebrew experience. You can easily feel your reading, writing, and speaking skills improving over the course of the semester. The workload is pretty light and definitely manageable (no more than an hour of homework per night, usually way less), but of course you get out of this class what you put into it. Irit is one of the best professors I have ever had and makes the daily classes incredibly enjoyable.
Irit is great! You'll almost certainly have a good experience learning with her.
This course is a great way to increase one's knowledge in Hebrew, from a great teacher who helps to engage the students with the language
You will never have a better teacher than Irit.
Irit is an incredible instructor and person. That we can talk about world news on a weekly basis in a meaningful way and in Hebrew is a testament to how good her teaching is.
Irit is a really great teacher, and you'll learn more in this semester than in the entirety of the first year--you'll go from being able to speak a tiny bit to really having an extensive ability to create sentences.
This is by far the best language course I have taken at Harvard (and I have sat in four separate language instruction courses). Dr. Aharoni is not just an inspirational instructor - one who is patient, kind, loving, and generous with her time -, but she is also like a mother for all her students. She is sincerely interested in every student's development, linguistically and personally! Moreover, this class has been inspirational for me insofar as I can now see how another Semitic language is taught and, thereby, better improve my understanding of how to instruct Arabic myself. Lastly, I believe that Dr. Aharoni's class is the perfect experimental chamber for debating ideas about how to improve the world around us, especially regarding the situation in the Middle East (of which most students in this class are aware/with which they are personally concerned). Dr. Aharoni facilitates dialogue, which is at least a beginning.
The number of assignments was quite high, Irit is absolutely fantastic though. I doubt there is a better way to learn a language at Harvard than in the format Professor Aharony presents.
Irit and Osnat are wonderful. The class can be very difficult and you may feel overwhelmed, but you will be able to succeed as long as you take things one step at a time and express any concerns to Irit.
Really great way to learn a language proficiently in one semester. I greatly expanded my vocabulary and improved my grammar.
Irit is the best. Most caring professor at Harvard. If you are considering this class, take it with no hesitation
I would HIGHLY recommend this course. The environment in Irit's hebrew class is one-of-a-kind. There is a warm spirit around class, a real sense of community -- you feel like you know Irit and the other students and feel comfortable making mistakes in front of them in this new language. Irit incorporates culture into the class through songs and short stories. You both learn the language AND are exposed to Israeli and Middle Eastern culture at the same time. This course offsets the nature of larger lecture classes very well. It is also a nice change of pace to many of Harvard's classes. While you learn a lot of Hebrew and have to do the work, it is clear what is expected from you and you will not feel like you are in over your head.
Irit is wonderful, wonderful, wonderful. Take the class to learn modern Hebrew, to learn about Israel and Israeli culture, to spend some HAPPY time in a class where people smile significantly more often than most Harvard classes.
This is a demanding class, and if you have not studied Hebrew for several years at high school, then be prepared to allocate a lot of time to work to keep up.Having said that, this is a truly excellent class and certainly deserves the energy required.
It was the most fun class I've taken this semester; the music, short stories, and poems are worth it by themselves, and Irit is the sweetest teacher you could ask for. Take it!
I think this is one of the best language classes I have ever taken for three main reasons: Irit supports and challenges us at the same time, a rare but, I think, vital combination; Irit introduces us to the world and culture of the Hebrew language, consistently noting that learning a language is more than simply memorizing paradigms; and lastly, the warmth I feel in class from Irit and many of my classmates is unlike any I have known at Harvard.
This class is so fun and fulfilling, I recommend it hands down to anyone interested in learning more about Hebrew.  We learned an impressive amount of grammar, vocabulary, literature, and culture, via an assortment of stories, discussions, songs (yes, we sing! and we enjoy it!), movies, and text put together by Irit herself.  But the best part about the class is the amazing welcoming and supportive environment that Irit creates.  She really builds a relationship with each and every one of her students, and in the process, she turns what can frequently be a stressful or embarrassing process of learning a new language into a truly empowering experience.  No joke, Irit is the best!
Best class I have taken at Harvard. Irit is amazing. Truly cares about her students and it is such a pleasure to be in her class. You won't regret taking this class at all.
Irit and Osnat are, hands down, the most caring, patient, enthusiastic and friendly instructors I've had at Harvard!
This class is a lot of fun.  You will work hard, but you will also learn a great deal.
Amazing class! Highly recommend it
TAKE IT!!!!!
Irit is one of best professors you can have at Harvard.  This class is so fun, and you will emerge not only a better Hebrew speaker, but with many friends, as well.
Irit is both an amazing teacher and person.  She genuinely cares about her students and the material.  While she is friendly, approachable, and fun, she is also extremely serious about her work.   This was one of the best language courses I have ever taken.
This class was incredibly fun, and certainly improved my Hebrew. You get out of the class what you put in, and doing the work helps you practice the language.  Irit and Osnat are a blast.
This course is an absolute pleasure to be in. The teachers care about the students' progression in Hebrew. It reminds me a bit of high school where learning was more individualized and fun. The course meets every day, which ensures that we are constantly practicing what we've learned. The material is varied (songs, readings, poetry, etc.) which complements the basic grammar lessons. I feel confident that I can conjugate and understand any verb in the active voice after this course. I have also marveled at how much I can now understand from the Israeli music I have already listened to.
It's really fun if and not too much work if you're interested in learning Hebrew.
Hebrew is a beautiful language, and the teaching and attention I have received is probably the best I have had in college.
This is a great way to expand your Hebrew vocabulary and increase your fluency, but it takes work.
This is a very fun class.
An amazing language class with an unbelievably awesome professor!
Irit is the nicest professor imaginable.  In this class we talked about current events a lot with the goal of being able to read newspapers.  Sometimes we talked about Israeli culture and Jewish holidays, too.  We learned a lot of Hebrew grammar.  It was fun, and not too hard.  Also, because it's a relatively small class (about 14 students) and meets every day, you get to know the professor and other students pretty well.
It's a lot of work, but it's worthwhile, especially if you took Hebrew B.
Great language taught by a great professor.
