I feel like I left with a great grasp of hebrew grammar and I learned lots of vocabulary.  With Irit's positive, friendly approach, there is really no better way to learn Hebrew.
If you're interested in learning a lot about grammar, this is the class for you. If you're more interested in Hebrew literature it's not.
Don't expect to be babied in this class; the professor respects students and expects them to be up to the challenge of learning Hebrew like adults.  The pace is quick; a lot of ground is covered. Very few handouts.  Don't expect your spoken Hebrew to improve rapidly.  But your understanding of grammar will almost certainly improve.  All in all, an indispensable class for intermediate students who wish to continue to advanced modern Hebrew.
The class wasn't always enjoyable. I enjoyed learning Hebrew and improving. But I didn't always want to be there and didn't always feel comfortable.
This class is fabulous. I adore Irit and Mishy and the lectures are just so much fun. It doesn't feel like class at all!
The professor and tf are wonderful
Best way to wake up in the morning
I would say Irit creates a wonderful teaching environment and that the class has a lot of fun. Hebrew is a wonderful language to study at Harvard.
This is the best language class you'll ever take.  Even if you've already got a full course load, take Hebrew with Irit as a 5th or even 6th course.  It's really more like a fun extracurricular.  I always look forward to class ... and you'll be amazed at the end of the semester how much you've learned.
An easy language to learn considering how relatively new it is. Highly recommend, Irit's awesome!
Best class at Harvard! A lot of fun! Great teacher!
Irit is unbelievably amazing -- take this course to continue learning Hebrew and enjoy all the great songs and movies.
Take this course!
This class is incredible. Irit came to class every day with so much enthusiasm and passion for the subject and the topics we were discussing that everyone else looked forward to class too. She is an amazing person and I learned so much in this class- not only about the Hebrew language, but about Israeli culture and writing- that I will carry with me for the rest of my life.
This is a phenomenally fun course with incredibly dedicated and fun teaching staff; a great way to better understand the language. One small disclaimer: the majority of the work you're expected to produce in this class is written, and speaking is the hardest part of foreign language acquisition, so do not expect to improve much in your spoken Hebrew.
Amazing class! So much fun to learn with Irit
This class is awesome, particularly for anyone hoping to take a stress-free class and learn much about Hebrew and Israel.
The course is an excellent way to become better acquainted with the Hebrew language and Israeli culture.
This is the the best class I've taken at Harvard, with absolutely the most fun, caring, and patient professors. Irit and Osnat have become more than just professors to me - they are mentors, friends, and almost family. They put 100% of their efforts towards the students and our wellbeing and progress.
It's a great course.  Be prepared to work (because there's a lot of it), but it's totally worth it.  And Irit is fantastic.
Beginning level was great, but each semester gets better and better!
This may be auxiliary to others but, to me, the most important thing about this course is that you become a part of a Hebrew-learning family that persists for the undergraduate years and beyond. To say that the professor and teaching fellow 'get to know' the students is a vast understatement of effort, enthusiasm, and knowledge that the faculty contribute to the course. Other professors should audit this class to understand what it means to know a student and invest in him or her in a lasting way.  Hebrew everyday was the most fun because I was learning with friends / family. Concretely, I am very happy that Irit is so flexible with deadlines. This being a class that meets everyday, there are sometimes inescapable commitments that arise, and I love that I am able to turn in work when it is convenient for me. I do not think that this detracts from the level of effort I put into the work. No student does homework in order to receive a grade (homework is ungraded) but we do homework because we respect our education and we respect Irit. I feel that I learned a lot of Hebrew this semester. It's impossible to remember everything, but the vast amount of material means that you will walk away with an amazing knowledge of Hebrew even if you just sit in class and absorb passively. I loved the introduction of slang this semester. To me, the most important thing about taking Hebrew is being able to speak in a relevant manner with people my age. I know this isn't the case for everyone, but I think the course is very well balanced between modern, traditional (texts), and artistic Hebrew.
Dr. Aharony is, by far, the best language instructor I have had. It took me whole year to reach this conclusion - perhaps a bit out of a sense of loyalty to my previous top language profess or -, but at the conclusion of both semesters, I myself cannot believe how much I have developed linguistically, intellectually, and personally. Dr. Aharony cares for the whole person, the whole intellectual being that is a Harvard student, be they undergrad or grad. She is able to balance different language levels in one class with ease. Yet this pedagogical skill is not flaunted outright. Rather she conveys her qualification through love. Love of the whole person. Love of the student. Though this may sound cliche for the unsentimental American mind, it is the truth. Dr. Aharony lives by love and teaches by love. She even includes this philosophy/Weltanschauung in the poetry she chooses for class analyses. And that is what makes her so much more the most outstanding language instructor I have had. Dr. Aharony's love for her students, her love for the material, her love for culture and literature is a daily lifestyle. She cares, whereas so many other instructors leave their emotions, their humanity once they walk onto campus. Moreover, Dr. Aharony has changed my academic focus and path. Coming from a similar language field, I have always been aware of the tense politics that haunt anyone in Near Eastern Lang/Lit studies. Crossing the 'academic aisle' is difficult if one starts out in another regional language. The field is, in other words, balkanized. Dr. Aharony is not ignorant of this reality, but she somehow transcends its politics, transcends the pitfalls and traps of 'correct' ideology. This is an equally important component for me because - for the first time in almost a decade of being a student of the Middle East -, I feel that I have had real discussions about the modern history and future of the region. Dr. Aharony facilitated this because she teaches out of love for her students. She sacrifices herself and, for that, I have not only advanced as a student of Hebrew, but I have advanced as a human thinking being. This is no exaggeration and I gladly offer - if asked by the administration - to attest to my experience in person. In short, for anyone who wants to learn, to live, and to love a new language, Dr. Aharony's course is for you and you will exceed. That is a guarantee from a graduate student who has spent is life learning languages.
Irit is an amazing, amazing instructor who cares about each of her students deeply. The readings only get better as you go along. This class is much more than a language class.
excellent teacher, but the class requires a lot of independent work and regular revision. It takes a lot of time to keep up.
Irit and Osnat are caring, warm people who want you to have a good experience in the class. However, you may feel a bit disorganized unless you set some of your own structures for how you want to study the material.
You learn a remarkable amount of Hebrew in this class, and the class itself is enjoyable and not too stressful. The teachers really work with you to make sure you succeed.
Irit and Osnat are simply two of the most caring and dedicated professors I have ever had. This is so much more than just a language course. In addition to teaching the normal components of a typical language course - vocabulary, grammar and speaking skills - Irit incorporates aspects of Israeli music and literature, Jewish history and thought into her lectures, covering an astounding amount of ground in the course of a semester. It quickly became clear that this class was not just a group of students, but a community of curious people interested in developing their Hebrew language skills, deepening their understanding of Jewish heritage, and strengthening their connection with the state of Israel together. This one will stay with me through Harvard and beyond.
There is no class like Hebrew. What begins as a class becomes a family. Irit does an amazing job. In one year, you gain exposure to the grammar of the language in full. The environment emphasizes individual expression in Hebreweveryone is asked to speak often, but there is no cold calling or external pressure. I could not be happier with the course.
Morning class with Irit will increase your happiness a little bit each day, and at the end of the year you will realize that you were a happy person thanks to her.
Don't take as an easy fifth class, it will require work. That said, Irit is amazing and you are bound to dramatically improve your conversational skills.
This class is so much fun. Irit is an absolutely incredible teacher!
Brilliant teachers; fun and engaging lessons; warm and welcoming atmosphere in the classes. We learnt a huge amount in a year and had fun every day doing it. Couldn't recommend more highly.
For those interested in the fundamentals of the Hebrew language.
This is a fantastic course. You'll really learn Hebrew vocab and grammar - and so much about Israeli culture from the readings and class discussions. Irit and Osnat want you to learn, succeed, and enjoy. If you decide not to take this course - you're simply missing out.
Irit is amazing, and this class is simply the best!
Irit is the best language instructor I've ever had and cares about each student's experience in the classroom and his or her life outside the classroom. Her varied use of pedagogical tools advances the students' knowledge of and comfort with the language.
This is a fantastic class. If you enjoyed Modern Hebrew B, you will enjoy this. And if you didn't take it but have some decent Hebrew knowledge, you will also love it. Either way, your Hebrew will improve a ton. Irit is an incredible professor (the best I have had at Harvard!) and cares so much about her students. Osnat is a wonderful TF who will make you look forward to section every week. Daily class may seem like a lot, but it's totally worth it to learn Hebrew and be taught by these two.
The class is fantastic with a great teaching staff who makes learning fun and productive.
