This is fantastic class! Remo has an incredible gift for helping students improve their acting, no matter the level at which they begin. Taking this is a very enjoyable experience. Be aware that you will do a non-trivial amount of work, both on written assignments and on preparing/improving your monologues. It does not have the lightest workload of Dramatic Arts classes, and that will ultimately be to your benefit.
This class is INCREDIBLE -- it's so helpful if you want to pursue acting professionally! Remo is absolutely wonderful, and he's so committed to helping all of his students; he meets with everyone one-on-one to rehearse every monologue that you perform in class, and is super accessible. It's amazing how much everyone improves with his feedback. You'll leave the class with about 5-6 monologues that you can use for a professional audition. So helpful, and so fun!!
Remo is absolutely fantastic. If you have any interest in acting whatsoever, you need to take this class. If you've never taken a class with Remo, you need to take this class.
THIS CLASS IS AMAZING!!! If you love acting, take this course. Remo is the most wonderful teacher and takes SUCH an interest in everyone and really makes sure that you're doing your best work. You'll spend a lot of time preparing for this course but it's monologue work so it's SO fun and such a rewarding experience. Seriously. Take this course if you can.
There is not a single professor at this school who invests the time and energy in his students that Remo does. He meets with students outside of class on a weekly basis to work on monologues and his dedication is absolutely incredible. Learning from him is a an absolute privilege. Take this course if you can. You'll learn so much about the audition process, how to choose and cut a monologue, how to act off of and draw focus from a person that doesn't exist, and how to perform in front of your friends (which may be the hardest part). You'll get out of it what you put into it. It's so much fun.
Remo's class is an incredible experience--a small group of incredibly talented actors working very intensely on a lot of challenging material. Remo is phenomenal--he goes out of his way to meet for hours on end with everyone in the class, and creates such a warm, collaborative environment. I will say only consider taking this class if you are really committed to seriously working on pieces that you hope to use in the future, especially in a professional setting. It is weirdly a lot of work--fun, challenging, artistic work--but there are weekly meetings with remo, meetings with partners, a lot of paper work, memorization, and you emerge with six monologues, which is quite a lot. if you just want to casually try your hand at acting, I would recommend something like practical aesthetics!
This is the single most useful class I have taken at Harvard in any department. It actually gives you the skills necessary to become employed as an actor after graduation, as well as teaches the theory and language of performance.
Take this class. It's impossible to say how fabulous it is and how amazing Remo is as a teacher! Take it!
This class is an amazing opportunity to give intense attention to a range of audition-ready monologues with Remo (who is great) and the other people in your class
Any student interested in acting or pursuing a career in theater should absolutely take this course.
If you don't feel comfortable with choosing, performing, or auditioning with monologues, take this course.
This is a fantastic class. It has taught me so much about selecting, preparing and performing monologues, and given me confidence as an actor. Remo is a fantastic, caring person, and if you have not taken a class with him do so immediately. This class has been one of my favorites at Harvard, and I wish I could take it again.
The amount of time that Remo put in for us all was incredible, as was the amount of time her demanded that we put in. I felt held to high standards throughout the entire semester from him and from my peers. The opportunity to practice reflection and giving and taking feedback and revision of our own work based upon that feedback was especially unique. Know that the work to find speeches will not be done for you (except maybe for stealing other people's monologues after the class?) The work that we did in this class moved me not only toward confidence in how to audition, but in how to act in general. The work we do with Shakespeare at the top of the course informs the way we grapple with all the rest of the semester's material. Remo has thought so carefully about every assignment. It's amazing to practice giving and taking criticism. This course is great for actors AND directors. TAKE IT TAKE IT TAKE IT TAKE IT.
This is an amazing class! If you are passionate about acting then this is absolutely the course for you.  Because of the way that the course is set up, you will be able to really identify your strengths and weaknesses as an actor, and will find strategies to improve the weaknesses.  You'll also be able to read a ton of plays and find monologues that you feel fit you personally.
Definitely take this course if you are lucky enough to be offered a spot.
If you're looking to have an acting CAREER, you need something like this.
This was an extraordinary course mainly because of Remo's incredible gifts as an artist and as a teacher. His guidance, passion, and commitment were invaluable and I feel that I grew immensely as a person as well as as an actor.
Remo is absolutely incredible - TAKE THIS CLASS to have terrific coaching sessions with him and great feedback from the class every week. By the end you have 6 very well prepared monologues that you can take with you to any audition. Great class
It's an outstanding course. The most worthwhile course I've taken at the college. Such a rare opportunity to grow as a performer. Working with Remo is such an unbelievable opportunity, he is one of the most inspiring, exciting, passionate, and caring teacher and person I've met.
If you have ANY interest in pursuing a professional career in theater you NEED to take this class.
One of the greatest and most rewarding classes I have taken. An absolute must in the dramatic arts department! It's quite a bit of work but so worth it.
