Depends on whether you have an interest in theater. Could take a more advanced course, I think.
This class is great. If you want a basic introduction to acting, playwriting, and directing look no further. Professor Zigler might not ever learn your name but he knows his shit.
This class was really great -- I enjoyed taking it and both Prof. Zigler and Christian (our TF) were fantastic.
Wonderful class if you're interested in theater.
This is an awesome class to take if you are interested in Drama and want to get your feet wet.  A lot of the material is basic, so it is appropriate if you do not have any prior experience.
DA101 gives an overview of major theatre directors, theatre movements, and elements of putting on a production. You get an inside look into a number of contemporary theatre pieces and learn the vocabulary associated with live performance. It is a great class that allows the traditional academics of Harvard to merge with a more creative side.
Take notes when you watch the plays, as you will have to write papers on them, and probably won't remember everything.
This class is amazing!
Fantastic introduction to the theatre world.
The lectures were a little long, and some of the reading was dry. It was good that we talked about different aspects of theater.
It is rather fun and informative--plus you get to see a lot of plays!
fun diversion if you enjoy theater, but may feel like a waste of time if it's not your thing
You must have a passion for theater or an interest in learning about theater. The professor is boring but the class itself is interesting and Sara is very sweet. If you don't have a passion for theater Professor Zigler will put you to sleep.
The class is great, the professor is excellent, but the section is grueling and poorly run.
This class is very good. Even though the plays you see each year are varied, Zigler helps students extrapolate so much from them that you'll never be left in want. Do note there is a fair amount of writing assignments though, which popped up toward the end of the semester.
The more serious you take the course, the more you enjoy it.
The plays were very enjoyable, and the lectures are interesting
I took this class because I wanted to opt out of a class with a heavy workload that I was enrolled in. The reading sometimes is rather pompous but it's a good intro into drama. Also it's a great way to become familiar with Harvard's theatre community!
Low time commitment, very interesting material
It's easy and sometimes interesting, but somewhat dry hard to get "into".
If you like theatre but have never studied it formally, this is the perfect class for you.
Really interesting subject matter! Basically going to plays and analyzing them, learning how to write about theater, discussing the ways in which various theatrical effects/techniques can convey meaning.
I would recommend this class especially to people who don't know a lot about theater or the ART going into it. It's definitely a great introduction. Being a "theater person" myself made this class a little redundant, however, it was still definitely enjoyable. Definitely a manageable workload, the papers are fun and not at all troublesome. Prof. Zigler is incredibly knowledgeable, though a little bit inaccessible, but Jenna is absolutely amazing! Section with her is wonderful and incredibly informative
This class is definitely a fun way to safely explore an interest in dramatic arts. The lecture can feel a bit long and the class isn't very structured but it is an overall great experience. Jenna is a blast to have for section and she makes all the learning a lot of fun. Easier class and you get to see a lot of shows!
This is a great class for people looking to get an introduction to theatre as well as for theatre veterans who are new to various types of theory.
