One of the most amazing classes I ever expect to take in my life. Time stopped when I went into this class, and I would forget the outside world for the here and now. Things would happen that would be like magic. Take it take it take it X 100.
this is a great class for people who need to learn how to work with others with out getting overbearing or detached. it challenges you to be potentially politically incorrect in your acting but in a safe environment that allows for challenging questions about society, the self as well as performance. Adrianne is so nice , supportive and funny!
It is truly a fantastic way to learn not only about how you work with others in an acting environment but also about yourself.
If this course is being offered next year, for crying out loud take it. Of all the dramatic arts offering at Harvard, this class taught me something incredibly unique: How I can make theatre in an empty space with no resources. The class empowers you transform classrooms, alleyways, corridors, elevators, ANYTHING, into a live performance space, and provides you with the skills and tools to turn that space into a meaningful performance for an audience. The first 6 weeks feel odd and ridiculous, but then, all of a sudden, something falls into place and it's beautiful. Anyone with any remote interest in theatre should take this class.
This class is a fun, safe way to experiment with the incredible possibilities of theater.
This course is not very stressful, which is a great perk, but it is also just a very fun (often hilarious) look into theatre and how to work with others. As Adrianne told us at the beginning of the course, sometimes the product you will create will suck, but that is part of the collaborative process, and sometimes you find nuggets of perfection, many of which brought tears to the eyes of the performers and audience members.
I'm a senior, and this class was easily one of my favorite classes at Harvard. It was so much fun, and it made me realize just how creative people can be when pushed to push boundaries and collaborate together. My only complaint was that we didn't have enough class time.
If you're looking for a fun and easy elective, this is it. Some people in the class also got a lot out of it as actors or directors, but I was not among them. It felt like summer camp, which was great for senior spring, but also made me slightly guilty given the tuition my parents are paying.
This is my favorite class I've taken at Harvard!  Adrianne is amazing, the course is amazing, and the projects are amazing!  You learn so much about yourself, theatre, acting, and your classmates.  You also learn very valuable life skills for collaboration that can be used over and over!
This is easily one of the best courses I took in my four years at Harvard. The mini productions put on as assignments in this course were easily some of the most interesting works of theater I saw produced on this campus. If you can, take this class, and take it when you have time to put it into practice here! Don't leave it for senior spring!
Really fun, atypical course.  Gets you moving, thinking, and experiencing.  We really bonded as a class.  Some of the assignments are crazy and weird, but just go with it, and it will make sense later.  You have to be willing to go out on a limb, artistically, to get the most out of this class.  But I learned a lot more than I expected to from this class, and gained a ton of practice creating theater on the fly, working collaboratively, and composing pieces.
