This course is simply amazing. It is the best course I've taken at Harvard.
It is one of the most fun classes you will ever take at Harvard guaranteed.
It's an excellent introduction to acting, and incredibly fun.
Take it, you won't regret it. Tell Tommy what you want/feel and he will be responsive to where you want to take the class.  Work on the flexibility of your imagination.
It's awesome.
Great teacher and TF, incredibly interesting and unique.  Learn a lot about yourself you didn't know already.
You should absolutely take this course.  It will challenge you in ways no other class at Harvard has and it will truly educate parts of you that you have not yet even thought about.
I think this was the perfect senior spring course.  Each class was unique and I learned practical things about how to present myself and grew as a person and joined a community and had so much fun and really enjoyed it.
This is the best class at Harvard. You learn something that you cannot learn in any other class and get to know a great group of classmates.
You would be lucky to be lotteried into this class.
One of the best classes at Harvard. Take it!
This is a low stress, high reward class. As long as you show up and participate in the FUN activities you will do well!
best course you will ever take at Harvard - really allows you to think differently and creatively, and interact with those in your class.
This is an amazing amazing class that I would recommend to anyone. Don't be intimidated by the audition or think that you have no chance in getting it. Everyday was really a 90 minute play time (almost like recess) where the entire class had fun together, laughed, and learned at the same time. The most significant thing I took away from the course was to let go of my inhibitions and not be afraid of failure or how other people will judge my actions. I learned very quickly that being so worried about trying to do things "well" or to be "funny" or to not mess up will paralyze you and destroy your creativity. By the end of the class, I was able to listen to my instincts and act upon them hesitation or fear.
If presented with the opportunity, take this course. Not doing so would be a mistake, I guarantee it. This course teaches more about communicating and thinking creatively and spacially than any course I've taken at Harvard.
If you have room in your schedule, or even if you don't, AUDITION FOR THIS CLASS! I auditioned on a whim, when I just went with a friend. At the very least, I thought I'd get a fun story from first day of shopping period. I'm so glad I went with her, and so glad I was able to take this course. It is definitely unlike anything you'll take at Harvard, but will also stretch you in ways other classes do. You'll find yourself stretching your right brain a little bit, letting go of inhibitions, and just having a ton of fun. Tommy and Leslie are awesome, and seriously make this course special.
The most easiest, most fun, and most enriching class you will ever take at Harvard. You really learning to let go of your inhibitions and allow yourself to think in a creative, artistic way that you haven't done before. It will help you in acting, public speaking, comedy, and countless other things. It is also the closest I've ever been to the students or teachers of a class in all my time at Harvard. Please take it!
TAKE THIS! SO FUN and INTERESTING! PERFECT SENIOR YEAR CLASS AND TOMMY IS AMAZING.
best class ever. be prepared to grow and become a more creative, more intimate human
This is a great class for those who want to play but also to focus on knowing yourself and others, to improvise and to communicate through space and character rather than only words, to interpret scenes and reality in new ways.
This class is fantastic!!! Everyone should take it. Best class at Harvard. So much fun, the people are great, Tommy is great, and you get to really experiment and let loose.
It's one of the best classes of taken at Harvard, a must for any aspiring actor!
This was my favorite class at Harvard. Some of the exercises may seem trivial or silly but once you buy into this class you learn a ton about yourself, about working with others and you realize that Tommy is a genius.
Haven't we said enough...
Best class I took at Harvard!! If you get in it will be an incredible experience!!! The prof is THE MAN!!!
If you are able to get into this course, you are crazy not to take it.  As a graduating senior I can honestly say Best class at Harvard.  You have fun, not stressful, and really bond with the group of people.  So just try and audition for it and get creative :)
This is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. Hands down. We went from a random scattering of 20 people, to a super tight group of friends by the end of this process. I learned way more than just things such as staging or pace  I learned confidence, social dynamics, and how to look at life in new ways. I cannot emphasize enough how highly I recommend this class. Audition no matter what. Do it. DO IT!
Where to begin with this class. This was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. It taught me things about myself that I did not know before. This classes pushes you to be comfortable outside of your comfort zone.
Tommy's the best. Take it. It's fun.
Go and audition! Just give it a shot because if you get in this course will change your life! It's so much fun and I learned more about myself than I ever could have in a boring lecture course!
Great class!  If you're looking to exercise being right-brained, definitely take this class.
You should definitely audition for this class. It is so much fun, and really helps you become more confident. Professor Tommy is unconventional, but effective and you won't regret taking his course.
Great opportunity to get out of your head and into your body. Teaches skills that will benefit you throughout life, but in a fun, enjoyable setting.
This is, and I do not say this lightly, the best class I've taken at Harvard. Tommy's lessons are as useful for the stage as they are for all parts of life. This class is seriously perfect.
I would recommend that every student audition for this course at some point. Yes, it may have a light workload and appear to be a "fluff" class, but don't underestimate its value. Drama is a powerful tool because it teaches us ignore our inhibitions, even if only for a moment. In this class, you will learn how to boldly demand the attention of an audience and be comfortable with the idea of being an object of attention. This class gave me a better understanding of interpersonal dynamics and left me eager to explore the world around me in a more creative and imaginative manner. Plus, it's good fun.
This course is phenomenal. Incredibly fun while showing you a new way to understand art, performance, and how to interact with each other. Tommy is AMAZING and totally makes the course - if there is a short list of classes to take before graduating, this is one of them!!!
If you do not take this class, your Harvard experience will be incomplete.
This is one of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard.  Tommy is fantastic and is such a great teacher.  He creates an amazing environment in the classroom and I loved meeting new students through the class.
I can guarantee that this class will be one of if not the most ridiculous, hilarious, enjoyable, and, most importantly, memorable classes you will ever have the privilege of taking while at Harvard.  Just do it.
Tommy is an unbelievable teacher.
This is by far the most fun class I have taken in college -- probably ever, actually.  Tommy is wonderful, and it's amazing how quickly everyone in the class becomes friends.  We really did form an ensemble that worked together with ease.  If you get the opportunity to take this class, don't pass it up!
As everyone else says, this is just a wonderful class.  Acting experience or no, it allows you to take a fresh perspective of the art under the guidance of a professional actor.  It sometimes feels like learning how to be a kid again, but kids have the freedom of mind, acuity of observation, and lack of inhibition that an actor needs.  Its a tremendous amount of fun.  If you are fortunate enough to be offered slot, take this course.  One quick note: when auditioning, be yourself, and really listen to the people you're auditioning with.  No one likes a loudmouth me-monster - just be genuine and a team player, and I think you will have a much better chance of getting in.
Great class.  A lot of fun.  Unlike anything else you'll take at Harvard.
AWESOME!
It is worth it just to get to know Tommy who is WONDERFUL!
This class is so much fun and the activities you do each day in class push you to use your imagination, to be more creative, and to see the potential for creativity you have in your own self. I would recommend this class for anyone interested in drama or theatre or who just wants to improve their confidence acting (or even speaking) in front of a group of people!
TAKE IT BEFORE YOU GRADUATE!! Best senior spring class ever!
Without a doubt the greatest elective at Harvard. Take it your senior spring if you can, but be aware that an average of 120-150 people try out per year and only 20 make it. Try out every year if you can, because there were a fair number of underclassmen in our class this semester. This course, if you can make it through the audition, will certainly change your physical and mental perspective of yourself--without any of the stress and pressure of a typical Harvard course. Take it.
AMAZING! Take this class.
This class is so incredible! You actually do work hard and learn a lot during class time, but it is a nice complement to a hard semester since work outside of the classroom is limited. You'll become good friends with your fellow actors and Tommy is the best!
Take it.
YOU MUST TRY TO TAKE THIS CLASS!!! IT IS UNREAL!! YOU WILL NEVER REGRET FOR A SECOND IF YOU TAKE IT!!!  Tommy is an amazing teacher and the group of students in the class is really special.  In fact, we are all getting together tonight (you get close with the other peeps).  Don't be scared about the audition- there are a lot of people there but you can't get in if you don't audition.  One of my absolute favorite classes at Harvard- I never wanted it to end.
Tommy is an amazing, kind, and knowledgable instructor. Bonus points if Tyler is still the TF as well.
Tommy is a lot of fun, and he knows a lot about art and theater in general. I never felt that I was just "taking an easy course" - I left class every day with something interesting to think about
It'ss not really a class. It's a series of improv sessions. Great fun, definitely.
One of my favorite classes freshmen year!
The best class I've taken at Harvard.
This course will change your life, if you let it.
Such fun!
Tommy is the best teacher I've had at Harvard.
This is an amazing class. It's not like anything you've ever done and probably won't be like anything that you're expecting. Be ready to really put yourself out there. If that idea scares you, that's more of a reason to take the class. You'll come out a better person for it.
Be ready to explore knew and sometimes weird aspects of acting, but also to have the time of your life.
This course was the best I have taken at Harvard. One comment I saw when I was shopping was "you'll come out of this class happier than when you went in every day" and nothing could be truer. Tommy is amazing. Take this class if you have the chance!
The class is excellent. I learned so much about acting, but also about Chekhov. This class really expanded my knowledge as a humanities major in ways that other classes had not. Definitely take the class, you will learn so much and have fun too!
Awesome gem! Tommy and Colton are friendly and welcoming instructors. It was everything I would have imagined an acting class to be like, and there's no work except reading a few plays throughout the first half
Best class I've taken at Harvard! Also so much more fun than my premed classes! Tommy is hilarious and Colton is wonderful! My class ended up becoming really close outside of the classroom, and overall it was a really positive experience. If I could take the class again I totally would! Take this class! Don't be alarmed by the audition, just go for it if you're at all interested!
This class is super fun and a great way to try something new. Tommy is a hilarious teacher and really makes the class an energetic part of your week. Highly recommend for anyone.
FANTASTIC CLASS HANDS DOWN FAV AT HARVARD GET OVER YOUR FEARS AUDITION AND ENJOY THIS MASTERPIECE OF A COURSE
Extraordinary class with a low workload. Prof. Derrah helped me think a lot more about performance and staging.
This is a really fun course. There might be less time on conventional "acting" than you might expect, but you get to know everyone else really well and do get some good pointers out of running the scene. The open audition was pretty daunting our year at least, but I'd definitely recommend auditioning and taking the class if you get in.
I recommend this class to anyone who has an artistic sense, not just actors. This class is great at pushing the boundaries for your comfort level without feeling stressful. Tommy is one of the best teachers I've ever encountered: he cares deeply about his students and he loves to teach. Useful even if you have had acting experience. One of the best classes I've taken here at Harvard.
This class is phenomenal, and both Tommy and Colton are great teachers.
This is THE best class I've taken at Harvard. We legit just played games for the first 2 months of class (ninja, musical chairs, dance parties, etc), and the last part of class was going through scenes from Chekhov, which was also an incredibly cool experience seeing Tommy redirect scenes and transform the meaning of a scene. Tommy is also just a hilarious, awesome, and really sweet person too, plus all of us in the class got quite close to one another by the end.
This course entails so little work, yet gives you a lot, especially if you're interested even remotely in acting! The class becomes a community by the end of the semester.
It's a wonderful class! Would highly recommend taking this to anyone interested in acting!
Take this class if you can. Even if you've taken other acting classes and you think you are advanced beyond beginning acting, take this course.  You'll learn more from a great professor.
This class is a lot of fun and basically no work (except preparing a scene towards the end of the class). Most classes are very low stress, and some of them are very fun. You will probably get to know your classmates significantly more than in the average lecture class (though perhaps still not as much as you might hope for unless you're all motivated to). The segment of the class in the last third when we act out scenes from Chekhov plays was extremely fun, interesting, and rewarding. Tommy gave lots of useful feedback that taught us all many cool techniques or things to try. However, I felt that there were a few too many classes that didn't have a clear purpose and I found myself wondering why I was rolling on the floor, dancing, or walking aimlessly.
totally delightfully marvelous
This class balanced my stressful workload. While three hours a week is not insignificant, the closeness you feel and the freedom gained from improv, being loud and self expression is incredible.
Hands down this is one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. I consider myself very fortunate to have taken this class because it's so perfect for senior spring. Minimal work outside of class (except for preparing for the scenes you'll perform near the end of the class), lots of fun and hilarious improv games, and an absolutely amazing professor. I highly recommend anybody who gets in this class to try it out!
This is more than just an acting course - you will learn to embrace new challenges, be vulnerable, and be creative in a very new and different way. Class was always fun and refreshing. It's a very physical course as well. Awesome!
amazing course; definitely auditio
Love this class! Really helps you to reconsider how you view acting and encourages you to think out of the box
Take this class if you can!! It's incredible and I walked out every day feeling happier than I was walking in. It is the best kind of class you can take senior year. Tommy and Lee are wonderful and you gain a lot of valuable life skills. Don't be intimidated by the audition and just have fun!
This is the most enjoyable class I took in college.  Tommy is a fun and knowledgable leader, and he manages to make acting approachable, emotionally challenging, and immensely engaging.
This class is amazing. Tommy Derrah is an amazing instructor and the relationship the class built with him felt very genuine and not forced. This is a great class for someone that wants to start acting but doesn't have initial confidence to start performing. Derrah makes you perform so much in class that you'll learn to be confident you can perform even in front of your peers.
This class is amazing. Tommy is the most incredible actor and is so patient and hilarious. The class focuses a lot on acting using space and your body, so don't expect to be doing improv games all the time but it's a ton of fun and you get to know everyone else really well.
