if you want to gain a better mastery of verbal and non-verbal presentation and composure, learn how to act, and learn the fundamentals of comedy, you will enjoy this course.
Really fun! Something a little different than the average class at harvard.
A fun class that will teach you to be a better actor.
Will Lebow is a comic genius.  You'll learn a lot from him.
Such a fun class!  Take if you can, it's really different from other classes I have taken at Harvard.
Just be ready to wake up early and be outrageous. Will's a fun teacher to be around and you'll no doubt have fun, but some of the work can be unfunny so you have to make it funny yourself.
The course is fun, and does teach some basic pillars of comedic acting-- but I did not feel that I grew in any significant way as a comedic actor.  It was apparent that the instructor did not take much interest in our progress, and was not really prepared to teach something so intangible to a group of such varied experience levels.
This class is really easy. It's an extremely low time commitment and is really fun. However, if you're looking for an intense experience that changes the way you've always approached comedy, look elsewhere. I, honestly, don't think I improved very much from this class.
Be ready to break out of your shell! Do not hold back in this class - it is all about exaggeration and playing with real intention. Audition - do not be scared. It's so much fun!
This is a fun, easy class in some ways that will nonetheless challenge you as an actor and really teach you great things about comedy acting and comedy in general. Mr. Lebow's awesome. Christina is great too.
This is a great class!  It's a lot of fun to work on the scenes and do acting games with other people.  The class is easy because there is not a lot of workload (a few light readings of plays) but you need to be ready to take risks in class.
It is not so much a comedy class as it is a basic acting class. The instructor is a very good actor, but go into it expecting a basic acting class. Should be called "Acting" rather than Comedy.
Definitely sign up if you want to learn more about comedy. Note though, that contrary to what things may seem, this is NOT a class in stand-up - it's formal theater
The class was at times frustrating because I didn't get to work on my scenes as often as I would have liked, there was hardly any accountability in the class for being prepared, and you're more likely to feel good about your performances if you remember that it's easy to go too big and then have to pull back your intensity than it is to be very nuanced and subtle and then have to raise the stakes.
Memorize your lines and come to class. Easy A.
It's fabulous. Show up, memorize your lines, and work on following the comments you get.
Be prepared to be challenged in new ways. And be good at memorization.
Very easy but not much opportunity to learn about acting, beginner-level
This was one of my favorite classes that I've taken at Harvard. Creating comedy with peers, friends, and peers who became friends was a consistent joy through the semester. Zigler is kind and funny and this class truly felt like a good use of my time.
This class helped me feel more confident about my skills as an actress, and I'm glad I was able to experience that with such a wonderful, devoted professor.
In my three-and-a-half years of Harvard, never have I, honestly, taken a more rewarding class. Professor Zigler is professional: he has more than extensive knowledge of the guts-and-gears of comedic theater; he is capable of dealing with performers experienced and inexperienced alike; and his feedback on performances are exhaustivehe seems to know exactly what an actor needs to do to improve a scene, and offers these improvements clearly. As a result, I have never felt myself improve more as an actor.As for the material learned, it is simply fascinating: I came into the class knowing little to nothing about dramatic theory, but the information is so refreshing, I found myself engourging myself with it. How cool is it to be able to watch a show and be able to think, "Hey, there's a joke here they could have made here" or "Haha, that there was funny because they did such-and-such"? And Zigler loads the class with material important for those interested to continue acting, such as scene-writing and stylized comedy.Finally, besides the six days you perform in class and the handfull of pure lecture days, the rest of your time is spent having your classmates make you laugh as they perform; what better way to spend your semester? I got to meet some of the most kindhearted, genuine, talented, and plain hilarious people through this class, whom I am now proud to call them my friends.Overall, when I look back upon my college career, the classes where I grew the most were the ones where I got the greatest direct, personal exposure to the professor's knowledge and experience. In this respect, this class towers above the rest.
This course was so much fun! Professor Zigler really knows what he's doing, his feedback when he is critiquing scenes is extremely focused and helpful. Not only do I feel like my own acting has improved over the semester, but I have learned a lot from watching other peoples' scenes in class, and it was also just really entertaining to watch other peoples' performances. Overall a great class
This class is everything you dreamed--you will learn the tools and formulas to be a better comedic actor, and start to really understand the mechanics of what makes a performance funny, even if you think you knew before. Scott is a master of the trade, and gives the most helpful off-the-cuff instruction I've ever seen. This class is usually filled with vibrant, funny people and was the highlight of my week.
Don't be afraid of the audition and just try out! You will learn so much and your perspective on comedy will change forever.
Gave me great background on comedy writing and acting. Teacher was amazing at viewing a scene and coming up with specific moments that needed improvement and he was always right.
Zigler is a savage. This class is absolutely LIT. Take it fo sho. (You'll actually learn a lot about comedy and performance!)
This course is so much fun. You really really learn to develop a critical eye through which to view comedy acting.
Please take advantage of the opportunity to work with Scott.
Reservations being you have no idea what your grade will be which can be really unnerving
It's super helpful in learning how to mechanically create a comedic scene. It's also pretty laid-back and great when you work on your scene. Great class - awesome if you're interested in comedy, specifically in plays. We also got to write a sketch and get feedback, which was awesome.
Ziggler is a genius. You learn, you write, you watch, you laugh - and every single day he amazes you with his insights. It's absurd. As many classes as you can take from him, take. You leave infinitely improved, no mater what your original level of skill. His attention not only to nuances of performance but to facilitating a more sophisticated and practical knowledge of comedy on stage is invaluable for anyone who is interested in pursuing the medium in any capacity.
This class was very fun and when you were not performing it was very laid back and you got to watch everyone else perform.
Great comedy work - definitely more in-depth than I thought it would be.
Scott Zigler is brilliant and deeply respectful and a great director. Getting to work on a scene with him is wonderful. Especially when you ask for him to put in time outside of class (which you should do!!! it might seem like hes not that invested, but he just has a lot of students to work with, and so wont volunteer to go the extra mile unless you ask for it). Also, the more prepared you as a student come in (as per usual), the more you get out of your time working on a scene with him. Be warned, though, students spend most of the time watching other students be directed and frankly, it gets hard to continue to remain attentive after a while, even though the professor is doing excellent work. On top of that, when you do get to work with him, it feels like there is nowhere close to enough time to really play as much as you might like. Also, it was possible to completely check out and not be called out for it. I get that it isn't only the teacher's responsibility to make sure students are paying attention, but i also don't think an hour and 15 minutes of the class should go by without 3/4 of the class having to have been paying attention.
This course is supremely fun! If you're into comedy and have a spare class, it is a must-take. Scott is always available to you, even if you want to talk about a project unrelated to the class such as a play you're doing. The types of comedy covered are broad. Highly recommended. Scott is a fantastic teacher!
Be prepared to take initiative and look for your own material. This can be the hardest part of the course, but it is the most rewarding since it introduces you to so many plays.
You get what out of this class what you put into it.  And it is SO much fun.
It's a fun way to learn about the nuts and bolts of comedy acting, as well as get a taste of comedy writing.
This class is so much fun! It's not too time intensive, except when it's your week to present your scene, but Scott is an amazing teacher. He clearly knows what he's talking about and sees every possible opportunity for a joke that there could be. No opportunity for comedy is left unturned!
Great class.  Scott's really smart, and you will become a better all around actor by taking this course
