This is a great chance to work on musical theater directing skills in a low-stress environment and gain valuable feedback.
This was a one of a kind class, so it will likely change in the future. Working with both Marcus and Diane presents two very accomplished directors to learn from, and to practice directing skills on both musical theater scenes and contemporary drama scenes. Think about what you are doing -- this is not a class to be taken "just for fun"
Your ideas will be challenged in the best way, so don't go half way with your preparation. Really be ready to defend every moment of your scenes.
Two amazing professionals who are willing to share their knowledge with undergrads = win.
This is one of those opportunities that Harvard puts into its Alumni magazine
If you're interested in directing for the musical theater, definitely take this class. It combines elements of Marcus' directing class with the expertise of Diane's career in the musical theater. Musicals present many additional challenges to those faced in straight plays, and learning from Diane and Marcus has been invaluable in my career as a musical theater director. I found myself directing a musical alongside taking the class, and I applied so many of the concepts and ideas I learned to my own rehearsal process. You will also learn a bit about the world of professional theater, which I found fascinating. I would recommend this class wholeheartedly.
This is an absolutely incredible opportunity, that given the chance, you should definitely take advantage of. Diane and Marcus are two incredible directors, and the information I learned from then drastically improved my skills as a director.
This class is a fun and practical introduction to directing musical theater. It can definitely be challenging at times, especially because the class lacks much formal structure so a lot of the real "learning" comes from feedback on assignments. It is exciting to work with Diane, especially as she shares insights into the work she's doing concurrently, and Marcus is an incredible teacher who really makes the class worthwhile on his own.
A class like this is an incredible opportunity.  Diane is an incredible and accomplished director and Marcus is a truly gifted teacher.  Together, they made an awesome pair and I really learned a lot.  The best part of the class was being allowed in Pippin tech rehearsals.  That observation, in addition to Marcus and Diane's feedback, was invaluable.  Don't take a class like this unless you really love theater and have experience directing, acting, etc.
The teachers are great, and it's nice to be able to put up your own work. At times you feel a little restricted by the material you're required to use, but it's still a good class.
the opportunity to work with both Marcus and Diane is awesome. Given the emphasis on musical theater there is pretty much no class like this. It's a pretty high pressure environment. Be prepared to defend your work but also open to making changes.
