it was a lot of fun, very easy, and rewarding on alternating weeks. i only wish that there was a more institutionalized way to learn from others while they were performing.  I felt that each of our 'workshops' existed in isolated spaces, so that I wasn't really building off of what someone else learned but rather starting from scratch.  That's the only criticism I have
It's great b/c you get to do a lot of work, but there are also weeks (sometimes two in a row) where you have nothing to do.  It's always interesting to watch the other scenes.  At the same time, it's really more of a scene work class than a class where you learn specific technique.
Don't be fooled.  A big name in the department doesn't mean a brilliant professor. Sometimes people are well know with basically no merit. It happens.
I think your experience in this class depends on what kinds of acting notes you like to reserve. Marcus tends to be abstract in explaining things, so if that works for you, by all means, take this class! It will force you to find material, which I have always struggled with.
You're probably going to take this course because there are so few acting courses at Harvard, but I honestly did not have a good time. Took it because I got in, but felt uncomfortable and confused the whole time. Feedback is inconsistent in quality, there are a lot of assignments, I have no idea how I did, may like acting less after this class, not the best TF, not very fun.
This course is a pretty straightforward acting course. It's fun but there's also a lot of down time in terms of watching other people work. If you put a lot of work into this class, you'll get more out of it. But if you aren't ready to rehearse a lot, then it's not really worth your time.
solid acting class. Doesn't feel like there is enough class time to really dig into the work, but Marcus is efficient with notes, which helps.
Marcus is a great professor and has such helpful critique. He is aware of every detail and helps you achieve more specificity with each run of the monologue/scene.
