This class is awesome. Don't treat it as a joke. INvest in it. You can get a lot out of it, whether you're an aspiring actor, preparing to teach next year in front of a daily audience of kids, or myriad other purposes. This was my favorite class this semester by far!
Good drama class if you just want to do scene/monologue work
It's kind of boring, but easy. Improv games are fun.
Lots of fun, hardly any work.  Not going to get much better as an actor, though.
This is a great intro/intermediate acting class with one of the best actresses in Boston. A great opportunity to get to know someone who has found success in the field and hear what words of wisdom she has to offer.
It's really easy and has no work, so take it if you're going to need something easy in you're courseload. Otherwise, don't.
It is an especially good class for seniors who are interested in taking a class that is still engaging but does not fit into the formula of papers, written assignments etc.
It was a very interesting course; I enjoyed the class atmosphere and the respect I received regarding my performances.
Super chill.
It's a great class to take your acting to the next level and ex[lore new ground and nuance in your acting work.
This is a fun class that does not require much out of you in the way of time, however I think you will have the opportunity to practice your acting skills and become a better actor.
This class is relaxed, fun, and interactive, and the instructors are great and you will grow to be close to your classmates. However, it is somewhat unstructured. Either way, it is a great way to explore characters and scenes as an actor.
If you want an easy and fun class this is definitely one to take. If you are hoping to dramatically improve your acting this is probably not the class for you.
this class is very interesting and you will learn useful talking skills
While this is a nice, relaxed acting studio course, it is not anything particularly special. If you are really looking to expand your repertoire or be exposed to new techniques, this is not the course for you. If you are looking for an easy class where you can try out a monologue from a play you've always considered doing, it's perfect.
Karen is a lovely person and a great actress, but don't expect to do much in this class. Certainly an easy class if you're an actor and want a filler class, you can pick whatever you want to work on probably, but don't expect to get much work done on it in class. You pretty much do the bulk of it at home and just play games and warm up in class. And you just do one monologue and one two-person scene during the whole semester.
This is a fantastic senior spring class. It gets you up on your feet and acting throughout the semester.
