It's fun and Remo is the best!
If you take this course, you will learn so much about yourself and your interests. It will be your most difficult course if you apply yourself, but also the most rewarding. Self-exploration through the dramatic arts is not an opportunity that comes around every day at Harvard.
This course has definitely improved my acting. Everyone in the class brought something knew to the scenes we performed. Chekhov was challenging and surprisingly fun. Remo is one of the best and most committed teachers I have met at Harvard (and in my life).
If you want a solid scene study course at Harvard, this course is the way to go. Don't get scared off by "Chekhov." This course is more about the acting than the texts, and the subtext Remo helped us find in Chekhov could have been found in any script. If you want to grow as an actor, get directed by one of the greatest acting teachers at Harvard, this course definitely should be a top pick. It'll make you happy that you chose to do a Secondary in Dramatic Arts, that's for sure.
MUST-TAKE FOR ANYONE SERIOUSLY CONSIDERING ACTING.
This class is phenomenal. Your acting will improve so much because of the amazing Remo - you won't find anyone else at Harvard like him.
Remo is truly fantastic and if you are planning on pursuing a secondary field in Dramatic Arts or if you are interested in acting or Chekhov, definitely take this course.
What a great stress-buster! You will learn so much in this class. What a great way to start the week.
Remo is an awesome teacher, and remarkably supportive and kind. He makes an effort to really get to know you. This class has a small workload, so is great as a fifth class or something to balance out an especially busy semester.
Remo Airaldi is undoubtedly one of the kindest and most helpful instructors I have had at Harvard.  He very clearly cares about his students and wants to help them grow as actors and as people.  This is not quite a beginner's class, but it is very accessible.  Be prepared to memorize and perform a short scene about every two weeks.  It is an acting class, but one focused entirely on building acting and scene interpretation skills through Chekov's plays.  I fully recommend the course.
This class is fantastic. You will probably learn more about yourself than about acting, which says a lot given that your acting chops will improve radically. Remo is knowledgeable and an all-around great guy, and May is undoubtedly one of the most amazing people I've ever met.
Remo Airaldi is a great guy and runs a very fun, chill course.
It is ridiculously fun, and you will learn so much!  Also, there is so much class bonding that you will enter as a group of strangers, and leave as a family.
This class is a fun introduction to acting, using a couple Checkhov plays to draw monologues/scenes from.  You do not need any prior experience, and the class will definitely help with being natural when acting.  Through section, we also experimented with different mindfulness techniques.  Remo gives great feedback and keeps the class very chill.
Different from other acting classes at Harvard in that it is more holistic. Emphasizes emotion, body movement, projection, warm-ups over scene analysis or moment-to-moment/Meisner.
This class is amazing, especially if you have never studied acting before. The material is interesting, the supplementary texts are very helpful, and the instructors Remo and May are SO AWESOME. It is a very relaxed, fun class where you learn a lot from both the teachers and your fellow students.
A lot of fun.`
Fun and easy, Remo is a sweetheart and Marshall (if he returns) is also extremely thoughtful.
The teacher was wonderful, there was very little work, and my acting was improved.
An easy class, a good acting class for someone with no experience, but certainly not one in which anyone with experience will leave much better than they came in. Remo is very nice and I am glad I got to meet him before I graduated.
It's fun, and Remo is the man.  If you are looking for a great acting course with minimal work, take "Acting Chekhov."
It is really challenging but don't let the translations or tough acting style get you down - if you love acting you NEED to take this class!  Chekhov is an important playwright to be familiar with if you are interested at all in theatre, and this is the best way to get to know his work as well as how to properly act it, while improving your acting ability in preparation for other styles as well.
Remo is just amazing. I try to take every class with him because he is so excited about what he teaches and so available to work with students. I always learn so much from his classes. Small class where everyone gives great feedback. Also, a new way to look at Chekhov, which we can often think of as depressing and boring, but trust me it's not!
Any chance to work with Remo is one you should take: he is the undisputed king of theatre pedagogy at Harvard, and a wonderful human being to boot. Chekhov really forced me to pull back my actor's affect, and I am grateful for having taken the course.
Remo gives a lot of personal attention and feedback (which is AWESOME). It was definitely a lot of Chekhov, so if you don't like Checkhov, this class would be tedious.
Everyone will tell you that Remo is a fantastic instructor - it's too true. But also know that your class will be critiquing you, and by the end of the course, you'll feel like a team of people all driving to make one another better. And be aware - this is a substantial time commitment.
Take it, it'll be good for you.  You will improve some aspect of your acting guaranteed.
If Chekhov isn't your thing, you can still get some great training out of this course.
Take this class if you have the chance. Remo is the man!!
This is an absolutely fantastic way to hone your skills as a realist actor and a wonderful introduction to Chekhov's work. Remo is an absolutely brilliant teacher, and his feedback and the feedback from other people in the class will really force you to grow and improve, but in an extremely warm and friendly environment. Also, if you have the idea that Chekhov is sad and boring, this class will change that. Remo knows how Chekhov is done best, and this class helps you see the humor and vitality of his plays.
If you're interested in theater and / or acting, absolutely take it. Remo is one of the kindest teachers I've ever had. He is kind, eloquent, and being able to work with him on a weekly basis is such a joy. This is a straight up scene study class and you get to work on some of the greatest, most important plays ever written. go for it!
Chekhov is a specific and highly realistic style. If you're into high-drama Elizabethan-style works, challenge yourself by taking this class and studying one of the great writers of subtext and subtle human nature.
Remo is without a doubt the best acting professor on campus.  If you want to become better at the craft, then you want to take a class with Remo.
The class is a lot of fun and helpful to your acting.
Remo is amazing - friendly, super helpful, and extremely accessible. I didn't know anything about Chekhov coming into the course, but I learned to love the subject matter. My acting also improved a ton. DEFINITELY take this course if you're interested in acting!
Remo is terrific -- if you are serious about improving your acting, you can definitely learn a lot from this course. (It all depends on how much you put into your scene work.) For those who have never tried their hand at Chekhov before, I can think of no better introduction.
I would tell a student that he or she has to be proactive about getting better and rehearse as much as possible. He or she should definitely delve into the readings as much as possible.
