This class is both incredibly fun and incredibly exciting.  Learning design aspects (mostly lighting and set design) in a setting that is NOT designing for a show keeps the pressure down, but it is still a lot of fun to do.
Its a great course you should take it
Really laid back class with fun, creative projects. Unlike most other classes at Harvard in a great way.
very different than most classes you'll take at Harvard - in a good way.
Its pretty chill and the projects are fun.
If you want a relaxed class that provides you with an artistic outlet, this is the one for you.
This is a great course to take if you  are interested in theater, but have never really thought about design before. The course taxes part of your creative brain that in typical interactions with theater is subtly absent.
The design and presentation skills taught in this course are applicable to many other areas  besides just theater design. The course is fun and informative.
It's a great chance to go through multiple design processes in a semester and hone your skills and critical thinking as a designer. The practical component of it is great and feels very unique, even within the Dramatic Arts courses. Also, the fact that we do multiple kinds of design in this course is great and really rewarding.
This is a great overview of set design and its process.  It can't go too deep, but I feel like I left with much more solid lay of the land than before I enrolled.
Drama 136 is a fun course that allows you to explore in an academic setting what most students are only able to do extra-curricularly.
Fun, Exciting, and something different.
This class is really easy and allows you to get a good overview of the theater set design world. I did wish that we had done more hands on work perhaps actually building a set instead of doing so many little conceptual assignments and slideshows. Michael knows his stuff and is really laid back so the class isn't stressful but I thought that it would have been more exciting if we went past just interpreting a text and making a model to actually working on construction.
sometimes this class feels like you're just making stuff up... but if you actually put some thought into it... you can get something out of it.
This is  a great course where you really get to be creative. Michael is also awesome.
This is a fantastic class
Very helpful if you want to know the process of designing a stage, or if you are interested in literature or theatre. It helps you think from a designer's perspective.
It's like a hidden gem in the course catalog. I'm very glad to have gone in with a completely empty mind as I had no clue what the class was really about until the first day.
stay on top of your work
This class is interesting if you want to know about set design from afar. The class will not teach set design but will teach the basic elements of scenography and stage design.
If you don't come from a theater background, leave your assumptions about set design at the front door of 29 Garden St.
This class is incredible! Sara is a wonderful teacher who always makes herself available, even though she is at MIT. The readings are always fascinating and really help illuminate the actual practice of scenography that you engage in with the assignments.
