This class is a great way to introduce people to directing, cinematography, editing, etc.  However, It is a LOT of work at times.  Take that into account because you will need to spend lots of time in the editing rooms, filming, finding actors, developing scripts/stories, etc.  But it is totally worth it!
This class was an incredible experienceit exposed us to virtually everything we needed to know to assemble short film projects, and it was remarkable. Sometimes it felt scarily intimate as we dissected each others' projects again and again, but the end result was worth the struggle. Amazing.
This is a great class if you are interested in fiction film. It is a LOT of work and the projects take up more time and effort than you initially expect them to, but the end result was really rewarding and Marcus and Alfred are wonderful teachers!
This is a fantastic course- you will be challenged and find the opportunity to express yourself creatively in a supportive environment. Take it if you want to learn about film-making in a hands on way.
Lot of wasted class time but at least you get to learn how to use camera and AVID media composer
This class might be called "Directing Film," but it really should be called "Movie-Making 101." You will screenwrite, cast, produce, direct, record sound, film, and edit. It is an ideal intro course for film, much more practical than many theoretically inclined VES courses. Unfortunately, there are very few spots and a very large applicant pool, but don't let that stop you from throwing your name in the hat. Just be sure to interview for other VES courses as well.
AMAZING COURSE!!! 2 Genius professors! A great intro to fiction film!
This is an excellent introductory course for anyone interested in filmmaking and storytelling. The assignments and feedback were thought-provoking and I came out of the semester with a much deeper appreciation for and understanding of the various considerations of filmmaking.
This is a great course to learn how to tell a story cinematically! Marcus, Alfred, and Max all give great and differentiated feedback which is very helpful in giving ideas in how to develop students' projects. The course does require a lot of time and collaboration but is very rewarding.
A great time-intensive course that allows you to dive into fiction film making with great teachers. If interested in film, this should be a very hands-on approach to learning.
