This class is not difficult, but extremely fun and interesting.  If you love learning about theatre, this class is a great choice.
we need more courses like this one, take advantage while you can
This class was definitely one of the most interesting classes I have taken at Harvard.  When they say "contemporary" they mean "contemporary post dramatic".  I totally understand that this class is not for everyone as it treads the line between theatre and performance art but I think if you are interested in this class at all then take it.  It is also a very low time commitment.  There are optional readings and then a few short required readings.  Then there is a longer paper in the end.  That's it!  Definitely take this class if you are thinking about it.
This class is awesome. Very low workload, but very exciting materials. Professor Sacchi knows so much about contemporary European theater; picking her brain is an amazing experience.
This was so different from any other Dramatic Arts class that I've taken here. It really opened my eyes to theater from abroad and changed the way I look at what qualifies as theater. Also, the final project is super cool - you get to make a magazine!
For anyone interested in widening their understanding of theater, performance, and their possibilities, this is a gem of a course. Professor Sacchi is extraordinarily knowledgable in this field and an interesting lecturer. The workload is very manageable.
INCREDIBLE course -- one of my favorites I've ever taken at Harvard. This course exposed me to some of the most fascinating, innovative, visually striking, provocative, and influential theatrical pieces I have ever witnessed. Annalisa does an exceptional job curating the conversations in section and is clearly very intelligent, exuberant and kind. Very light on outside work, but class discussions are highly engaging.
If you're interested in theater and are looking for something very different than what's produced commercially in America (or if you're interested in contemporary performance) this is the class for you. Each week you'll examine a new piece (or pieces) from a contemporary European director (or company) and discuss its conception, execution, and ideology. Annalisa has access to videos of performances you won't be able to see anywhere else, and you will learn a lot about the direction in which experimental work is heading, as well as gain analytical skills for analyzing new and avant garde work. I'd suggest starting your final paper earlier than later - Annalisa is great about reading your drafts and giving feedback if given enough time. I would highly recommend this class.
