This class is an absolutely phenomenal class. Try out and if you are able to get in absolutely take it, especially if you have no previous experience. As a senior this has been hands down one of the best classes I've ever taken and absolutely a new experience. Each class was an adventure. The only comment is that there is no grade guidance.
This class was my absolute favorite class this semester. The class is small, and you become very close to each other. You learn many different theater exercises, and there is lots of dancing and physical movement and improv, you get very comfortable in your own body. TAKE THIS CLASS.
This class is incredible. Absolutely take it if you have the chance. In an environment completely driven by control and structure, having the opportunity to take a class that emphasizes freedom is both cathartic and life-changing. This class helped me to embrace my love of the creative, and made me realize that maybe the "conventional Harvard path" just isn't for me.
An amazing course. Truly one of the hidden gems
This course is awesome, Tommy is a great teacher and he makes his classes very fun.  There is very little outside work, and classes seem to fly by.  If you're at all interested in acting or improv, this is a great course to take.
This class is absolutely amazing and a must-take for anyone even remotely curious about acting. I had so much fun in this class.
This class is FUN! It kept me sane this semester. It could easily be taken as a fifth class, because, even though you learn quite a bit, it is entirely effortless. No work outside of class, and in class wasn't "work" but the highlight of my week.
You MUST take an acting class before you graduate Harvard. Specifically this class - especially if you have no acting experience. You learn the essentials of life, which is the opposite of what Harvard teaches you: that is to STOP THINKING and just be yourself :)Tommy is a real gem. A class you'll never forget.
Great class, learned a lot about working on the spot and working in front of people.
Whether you love acting, hate acting or have never acted before, take this class.  You will not regret it.  I actually wish that I had this class every day of the week.  Tommy is an incredible instructor who creates a comfortable and fun environment.
An absolutely fantastic course. A class that you will be truly enthusiastic about showing up for every Tuesday and Thursday.
It helps you grow as an artist and is really fun.
TAKE THIS COURSE. Tommy is a spectacular instructor who really teaches you how to observe, imagine, and apply. It is a lot of fun and not a lot of work outside of class. You will look forward to class every day.
Amazing, amazing, amazing class.  So helpful for acting, and for drama and humanities in general.  Tommy is an inspiring teacher.  Do not pass this one up.
This class made me so much better at public speaking and doing impromptu presentations.
A very easy clas,, and you have fun and get some inspiration for coll stuff to think about and try out, in drama and in life. One major downfall is that you get no grade feedback, so that can be scary.
This class is a welcome break from text-heavy courses. You'll spend the class on your feet, trying different improvisations and games to better understand your body in performance.
The professor is wonderful and very sharp, but you may walk away from the class unsure of concrete examples of what you learned. Abstractly, however, there is much to be gained from the class.
This course is so much fun. You get to meet and befriend a variety of talented students interested in the arts at Harvard while also getting to interact and learn from Tommy Derrah, who is just awesome. Do it!
