This is a great class if you are interested in learning the basics of directing and spending time working on the details of your craft (whether it is video or stage). The more work you put into it, the more you will be able to take out.
You will get everything you put into this class. Marcus is a wonderful, respectful and intelligent teacher. You will benefit more from his comments the more time you allot yourself to rehearse and think through your pieces.
Marcus is a great professor and the class is a blast if you are interested in directing. If you enjoy theater, there is no better assignment than getting to work on scenes and basically go wild with your creativity. Not a lot of work but not necessarily easy - will require you to think hard about your directorial choices.
This class is very valuable for anyone interested in theatre.
This has been one of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard. Marcus really encourages you to think creatively and to explore your interests through your artwork.
As I've said many times, the best thing about the course is Marcus's feedback. He is very thoughtful about all student work and he is incredibly helpful. He is a wonderful resource. Also, the course is a chance to try working in a medium that is new to you (theater if all your experience is in film, or film if all your experience is in theater).
This was a great creative outlet for me and I learned a lot about myself as a creator of art. However it requires more work than you might expect. With the best pieces we could tell that people put in a lot of time and effort. Also, if you are looking for a Directing class that teaches you how to work with a script and direct actors, this is not exactly what you are looking for. That said I have no regrets taking this course and I did still learn a lot about Directing.
There should be many more courses like this offered.
This class pushed me harder than any I have ever done before. I think it was extremely valuable and necessary, and I wish I had the chance to take it a second time, not because the first went poorly, but because I feel like continuing could only help me learn more. The only wish I had was for more time to develop and work and more critique in the classroom.
Take it seriously if you want to get something out of it.
TAKE.  THIS.  CLASS.  There are so few other classes like it at Harvard.  It is emotionally and mentally stimulating and all in all fun.  Shira is an amazing person to know and she will support you throughout the process.  Just take it!
The class is a must-take for anybody who's interested in directing. I found the material engaging and the discussions lively. Given that it's so heavily discussion-based, whether or not you take the class should depend most on who else is in the class with you, as the material is great regardless. You'll spend a lot of time with your classmates, either as collaborators in each other's assignments or as conversationalists in discussion.
THIS CLASS IS AMAZING!!! There were only 5 people in it the year I took it, which created a really close-knit community. We could trust each other to be supportive of others' work, and we really got to know each other. Also, everything you learn is super interesting. Each director you study is so unique and has such different ideas about theater, yet they're all connected. It's absolutely fascinating! TAKE THIS CLASS!!!
This class is incredible. If you are at all interested in theater, and especially if you are interested in directing, you should take this class. It will vastly expand your horizon and make you think about theater in a new way. Shira is an inspiring professor who makes the class an open and fun environment. In the 10 weeks you are not presenting, it is little work but the 2 weeks you go, it is a huge time commitment. But the time is worth it because you will see the theater you make evolve in a good way.
This is a fantastic directing course, and a worthwhile endeavor for anyone interested in continuing in theater in any capacity. It introduces important developments in theatrical practice over the past 75-50 years that are unavailable in other classes at Harvard, and is therefore crucial for those who would like to pursue theater professionally. The formal innovators studied in this class have had a formative influence on all major theater work today. Shira is an excellent directing teacher, and you will gain a lot as a director by forcing yourself to engage with the at-times challenging ideas that many of these directors present.
This course is cool if you are REALLY into avant garde theatre. Otherwise, there is not much to it. The course stuck very close to the avant garde and didn't stray into any other type of theatre; there is a lot of reading and not much learning of how to actually direct a theatrical performance.
This course is a very good introduction to avant-garde literature and theatre directing. However, it is very open-ended and the value of the course largely depends on effort on the student's part. It does give a lot of freedom as students don't learn a method of any sort but come in with their own work which is then critiqued.
Such a wonderful class. It does to some extent depend on who else is in the class, but for my class at least it was a great group and Shira is an amazing teacher who cares about her students and is deeply knowledgeable and thoughtful about theater and its influence in the world.
It's great class. Shira is an amazing instructor and generates a lot of excitement about each artist. Just know that you're taking a class on experimental theater. The artists are weird, and the pieces that you produce are also weird.
It's a fun class, and it's really cool to see everyone's work and it's evolution throughout the semester. Final projects especially are an incredible experience, overall an amazing course, particularly as an introduction to TDM.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, and more classes should seriously be like this one. Shira is one of the most kind, open, and positive instructors I've ever had, and you make great friends and grow very close with your classmates as collaborators and fellow artists. The feedback is also incredible, and you always feel extremely safe and open to criticism and work from your peers. Don't enter this class lightly, but expect a great deal out of it if you put the time in.
If you are a theater-maker, you should take this course whether or not you are interested in the avant-garde. It will challenge you and inform other parts of your practice that are not experimental. Also, it's a really caring classroom environment and just a really restorative and creatively satsifying way to be spending your time.
This was a really amazing class that gave me the confidence to direct, where I had previously had no experience. I think the only drawback is that I'm not sure how someone without any experience in theater would be able to succeed in this class. The class sort of assumes a lot of knowledge from students as to how theater in general works. Students are very free to be creative on their own projects, but I think without that prior knowledge, I would have felt a little lost. In general though, I would highly recommend this class to anyone who has done theater and wishes to hone their directing skills.
During weeks when you are not presenting the time commitment is not too much just reading), but be prepared for two weeks when you have to have a lot of rehearsal for your presentations.
This class is super fun and really helps you to learn about yourself in theater! However, it does require a lot of time and effort, so don't take if you're looking for an "easy" theater class.
