Although you speed through the readings, the discussions you have in class and section are incredibly rich and offer a lot to think about, not just in an academic sense, but personally too.
This is a great course if you are interested in getting a grasp of many of the great world religions. In our ever increasing world, it is important to understand the faiths that drive many people, and the best way to do that is by reading what their scriptures say. However, the texts are hard, and often long, and there is a lot of secondary material you should be reading. If you are already in heavy reading courses, this class might be too much. You should be prepared to spend many hours reading if you really want to get the most out of the class.
Religion 13 is a solid introductory course to religion.  Lectures were occasionally difficult to follow, and I would have enjoyed more background on the various religious traditions rather than just focusing on the texts, but overall, I did learn a great deal.
I have never taken a religion course before and now wish I had enough time left to get a secondary. This was an incredible course with a very knowledgeable teaching staff interested in you and the subject matter. I felt like I got a fantastic introduction to the world's most seminal religious texts, and learned how many of our "classics" can be read in a religious light.
This is an enjoyable class that truly walks you through the main tenets of each text. It's a great introductory course.
Each week you will be asked to read either excerpts or the entirety of a "scripture" or a "classic." The readings can be long, but if you are interested in the material it is worth it. Additionally, Graham's lectures are very informative and really help build your understanding of the texts. A great class if you are interested in reading, discussing and writing about some of the texts that have shaped peoples and societies throughout human history. Graham is also very passionate and knowledgeable in every single lecture which makes every week interesting.
Take it! Not a huge time commitment and super interesting.
You get to cover an incredible amount of information with a very knowledgable professor who gives great lectures. Course is very well organized, and the assignments are helpful without being incredibly time consuming.
This class is very thought-provoking and really increased my awareness of the diversity, complexity, and power of religious traditions around the world. The texts we read are fairly difficult, but if you put effort into understanding them (for me, this mostly happened in section) then they are incredible. My TF, Greg, was great at making us think about all the different themes in each one and how they might relate and shape someone's worldview. My biggest struggle with this class was in lecture-Professor Graham is funny and offers a wide range of insights into each tradition, but his lectures can be hard to follow and I often found my mind wandering. That said, you can make up for trouble understanding lecture by doing the readings each week-they cover the same material. Overall, this was a great general introduction to a range of religious traditions that gave back as much as you put into it. It is possible to get by each week with only a cursory reading of the text, but doing so would be a huge waste of an opportunity. Devoting energy to breaking down the complexities in the material is a very rewarding experience that leaves you feeling both enlightened and closer to the various cultures you study.
Harvard lore tells a legend of how every once in awhile in a time of shopping period chaos, a course will arise, reveal itself instantly grab you and , bringing in a new perspective on the study of Religion. This course is of course a representation of the supreme indescribable Course of which all courses are derived from. I shopped Religion 13 on a whim because I really needed a class, 13 is my favorite number, and my adviser told me to just check it out since I was frantically searching for a class to fill in that empty space, and it was one of the best decisions I ever made. It was my favorite class this semester. hiihehe I would advise you, if you are serious in studying religion, to take this class before enrolling in the religion sophomore tutorial. I did it in reverse, but it is easier to understand the theologians and philosophers you learn of in the tutorial after you get the gist of the religious and spiritual traditions (or lack thereof) that inspired them. Together these can constitute a very comprehensive background, introduction and initiation into the Study of Religion. We study texts from many traditions east to west, texts that are not scriptural but employ religious dimensions, texts that are only a small part of a massive canon. We also spend a good time deconstructing our conceptions of religion and scripture and actively participating in a scholarly discussion of scriptural and classical texts and there is no place to better do that than in a Harvard classroom. Prof.Graham is also an incredible teacher, and his stage presence is amazing. As a comparativist, I strongly believe that limiting yourself to only one religious tradition does not open you up to understanding the religious and spiritual dimensions of the world as a whole. Even if you have a more focused interest that one may be targeted towards one particular tradition, it is very crucial to at least have a basic foundation on the various world religions. This class does exactly that and I think anyone who has a slight interest in studying religion, just interested in reading religious texts  or wants to try something fun and different, this definitely is the class for you.
A great introduction to anyone hoping to study religion, but is unclear about which disciplines they are interested in. There are many courses offered that focus on one faith, but this is one of the few in which you will be able to read broadly and put the different texts in conversation with each other. Truly a valuable class to take to understand the world better, even if religious studies are not your future.
It's interesting if you like religion. It's also not too much work.
Professor Graham gives great lectures while also giving student the opportunity to give their opinion in class discussions. I received really great feedback on all of the writing that I turned in.
So much to say. First of all, both the professor and the TFs (Axel and Josh) were just amazing. There's really nothing I didn't like about this class so it's probably more useful to you out there if I say what I didn't like so much. Honestly, the class is really easy. Not that I'm complaining. I actually appreciate how easy the class was because it was hard enough that you had to prepare but easy enough that you could ENJOY preparing. I find with most classes that the terribly high academic expectations just suck the joy out of the learning process, but with this class it was different. The texts are supposed to be savored and enjoyed, and I feel like the low-key low-stress atmosphere of the class was really conducive to that. I'd actually say I learned more from this class than I would have if it had been harder.
Take this class as an intro to religion! Really thought-provoking and not too much work.
Great class - one of the best at Harvard. Professor Graham and the TFs are awesome and although there is a lot of reading, it's a great survey course to learn more about different religions and get exposed to world literature.
This class is a wonderful survey. The professor makes the lecture feel small and intimate, which is nice.
Superb reading list.  Professor Graham is a scholar and gentleman, extremely kind.  Workload very manageable, materials very interesting, exams very fair.  A great course.
You read amazing texts and the professor gives great lectures.
This was the MOST AMAZING CLASS! It was possibly the best class I've taken at Harvard. The professor and the TFs are amazing, the material is fascinating, and the assignments are both doable and teach you tons. Definitely recommend!
This is such an amazing class, a lovely survey of scriptures and classics and an interesting discussion of what it means to be a scripture or a classic.  It really had opened my mind in my study of religion.  It's a great class for anyone though.  The teaching staff is also amazing.  Prof. Graham is so smart and sweet, and the TFs are great.  For sure take the course.
This class is super rewarding for anyone considering the comparative religion concentration but isn't sure exactly what in that they would like to study. It takes a lot of focus and brain power-- switch between religions and countries every week is a lot! The writing assignments are not difficult at all and are helpful in reviewing the material. Professor Graham is so knowledgable about every subject the course tackles. His lectures are packed with information and sometimes hard to follow but the handouts that go along with them are helpful to keep up and to review for the final.
Taught by great professors and TFs, this class is great because it covers so much material that is really good life knowledge, even if you aren't into religion. These are major world texts that are good life background. While there's a lot of reading, it is all presented in a manageable way and it is very small which is great. Prof. Graham knows everyone in the class.
This class is a hidden gem and one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. You get to engage with important texts from around the world and discuss them in really small sections thanks to Professor Graham's magical power to secure extra TFs for small section sizes as the former dean of the divinity school.
