Very interesting. Professor Ahmed is a good teacher, with good discussions. The reading list may look overwhelming, but just skim to know the author's main argument. Most of it involves learning the vocabulary terms in context, and the readings provide background.
A breadth of topics important to premodern and modern Islam, and significant and rigorous depth to the areas we discussed.  I particularly enjoyed the engaging discussions about philosophy in lecture and each day felt like I walked away with a massive amount of new knowledge, thanks to Professor Ahmed's spellbinding teaching style that he brought to every single lecture, which was utterly amazing.   However, there were a lot of factors that led to significant amounts of stress in the course, namely the midterm worth 40% of the grade, and the final worth 60%; we had no way to gauge grading before the midterm that was very harshly graded, and we were in the dark about the final until we walked into it on the last day after having had an emergency review the night before because so many students were confused on the content and structure of the final (which encompassed 6 units of many many Arabic vocabulary and complex philosophical debates). Very stressful, but a lot learned.
You get out of it what you put in. The readings are excellent, and devoting time to them is very fulfilling and educational.
It has a lot of reading, but somewhat unnecessary.
The professor clearly cares for his subject and possesses an interesting take on Islam. The class will open your eyes to the complexities within the religion and in that sense, is an excellent class. However, be wary of the class's grading structure and the occasional disorganization of the lectures.
This class is very disorganized and the lectures are very esoteric and hard to follow. The quality of the class heavily rests on the quality of the TF, as most of the information is learned in section. It also requires a LOT of reading to really stay on top of the material (though you don't necessarily have to do it all). The class also only has a midterm and a final and the grading is really arbitrary, so don't take it if you care a lot about your GPA. If you're very interested in ancient Islam, Islamic philosophy, Islamic law, and Sufism and your'e willing/able to put in the time to keep up with reading, it may be a good class for you.
great survey course of many different aspects of islam--definitely worth taking. not a huge time commitment and very interesting!
This course is very helpful in establishing a base level of knowledge about Islam. However, be prepared to do many readings which do not seem to integrate with the course, and do not expect that lecture will explain everything.
You will learn a lot! A LOT. And it's worth it. Don't be afraid of the reading load. The professor and TF will tell you what to focus on, and if you skim the rest you'll be fine. The professor seems to enjoy terrifying us, so if you don't mind that in class, you'll be fine. I thought it was completely worth it, because I really can't remember when I had so much information just handed to me in the simplest form. Especially the topics are so hard to pin down, I really appreciated the class.
This class is too unnecessarily confusing to recommend.
