Marla is one of the best teachers I have had at Harvard. She does incredibly work and is inspiring to her students.
the class was so interesting. I looked forward to doing the reading for this class every single week, and loved the final project. it was a ton of work but I also felt like I got so much out of it and am now excited and ready to begin thinking about my thesis. Our class discussions on the material were so engaging and I walked away every week with a new understanding of the novel we had discussed and even more questions about how to conduct my own ethnography.
This class is an excellent introduction to ethnography. Marla is an incredibly insightful professor and simply a wonderful person. I SO enjoyed the opportunity to conduct personal research, though it admittedly stretched me outside of my comfort zone. This will absolutely be one of the most memorable classes I've taken at Harvard, because of the ethnographic research project.
This class requires a lot of initiative, but it is fascinating to see religion played out in real life and study it academically.
This class is billed as an introductory religion course, but in reality it assumes a level of familiarity with anthropology that most undergraduates starting out in the study of religion probably don't have. Doing field work can be a great experience that pushes you past your boundaries, but it also takes up a lot of time. Additionally, some undergrads can hold their own in a class full of grad students, but if that would make you uncomfortable, you should not take this class.
This course was great for me because I was taking it for my thesis, had already started the project for the class as a result, and was able to write a chapter for my thesis as the final paper for the course. Thus, other people's comments might be more relevant for people looking to take the class because I did not find the workload to be too much, but I think others felt that the time commitment of the research on top of the readings for the class was too much. I enjoyed being in class with grad students from the divinity school because I got useful feedback on my thesis, but again, I think some of the other undergrads might have felt differently, since a lot of them talked about being overwhelmed. I would recommend reading the other comments because they're probably more applicable. That said, I thought Prof. Frederick was very nice and approachable (though kind of busy and less available because she was finishing a book this semester).
This is a great class if you're interested in anthropology, religion, or if you envision using ethnographic methodologies for your own research. The course is work intensive, but you come away with a better understanding of what it means and what it takes to do qualitative fieldwork, including interviews, field journals, and theoretical notes.
This class was very fun and interesting and had materials you will want to read repeatedly. The teaching staff is hilarious and you and your classmates will bond over inside jokes by the end of the semester, even with the interesting mix of ages and interests.
It's an experience you can't get in most other places at Harvard (then again, I have a quantitative major and wouldn't know).  Doing an ethnography was incredibly enlightening, rewarding, interesting, and fun!  I got to learn about a religious community that I formerly knew almost nothing about.  The readings can be hefty some weeks; my failure to finish all of the readings (or even close) hindered my ability to engage in classroom discussions, but I'm generally bad in discussions anyway, and I'm an incredibly slow reader.  If you have no problem reading & discussing, though, you're good to go!  Oh yeah, and the teaching staff are excellent; very knowledgeable, resourceful, professional, organized, and friendly!
This course gave me a lot of confidence in my ability to produce interesting original research. Until the last 1/3 of the course I was doubtful about how helpful or worthwhile ethnography is, since we discussed a lot of critiques of the method, but when it came around to writing my own paper, and beginning to see how I can interpret data to make meaning, it was like a hundred lightbulbs going off. I felt really connected to the people at my research site, and it was a pleasure to be able to write about them in an academic way. I would encourage anyone taking this class to study something that interests you. Get started early with research! You will love yourself in the end.
Be ready to dig your heels into fieldwork.
This class requires a good amount of work outside of class, but it's an awesome class--one of my favorites!
This course is so much fun! If you choose a topic you love and really keep up with the assignment benchmarks, you will have a great time creating your own project!
This was an amazing class! Professor Zeghal is an amazing teacher with some really cool experiences. I was really excited about coming to class to share my experiences in the field.
This is an excellent course! The opportunity to work on a final project and exchange group feedback in a small setting was fantastic. The classes were dynamic and engaging; the readings and discussions had a good balance of theory and practice; and the instructor and teaching fellow both had comprehensive experience in the subject. Highly recommended!
I would highly recommend this course to anyone interested in learning about ethnographic methods and conducting a small ethnographic project.  Unlike other courses on ethnography offered at the university, this seminar clearly addresses how to approach interviewing, observation, reflexivity, the Institutional Review Board application process, and converting one's field notes into a written paper/book chapter.  The structure of the course is also a great exercise in articulating, exchanging and refining ideas in the context of the academy.
This is an excellent class for anyone in the Study of Religion. It fulfills your intro religion class requirement while also qualifying you to do an ethnographic thesis (win-win!). Reading is about a book a week, and for the final project you get to do an ethnographic study right in Boston (super cool and exciting)It is also, beyond that, really informative and fun. You also become really familiar with the IRB and get your ethics training certificate, so it puts you one step ahead of anyone else at the college. Mara is a great teacher and a truly lovely person. She offers accessible and really insightful help, even for questions outside the class. If you go to her office hours, you can even meet her adorable dog, Cortez.
Only take this if you are genuinely interested! you learn a lot and come out really knowing better how to approach ethnographic work, but the independent project you engage over the course of the semester is a significant time commitment, as is the final research journal, so be prepared to devote yourself to that.
