This class was amazing. Earth-shattering, mind-boggling, world-blowing. As somebody who was raised Catholic, a lot of the rhetoric was familiar but had no meaning or grounding in history. I FINALLY UNDERSTAND THE BIBLE! Or rather, have a lens through which to analyse and discuss the bible. This class is something every single human being should take. It is very self-conscious about its impact in the contemporary world. Professor Nasrallah forces students to look at contemporary debates: hobby lobby, gays, virginity, evangelical churches, and helps us think about these issues more critically.  Simply amazing!
This course does not go very much in depth in new testament text. It involves a lot of discussion and reading about historical CONTEXT and modern CONTEXT. And because so many subjects were touched, they weren't gone very much in depth. But it starts some engaging thought and conversations about the new testament.
Professor Nasrallah is great: a wonderfully sweet person, and a committed teacher, who will make time to meet with you if you ask.That said:This class looks like an introduction to the critical study of the New Testament; it does some of that, to be sure, but has an undue focus on how the New Testament is to be interpreted in modern times, in order to make it say what we want it to say, given our modern, "enlightened" sensibilities. That is interesting and important - but that's not what an introductory class about a religious text ought to be about. There ought to have been a lot more focus on what the text itself has to say, and how it came to say those things.As to format: lecture was pretty good, section was pretty useless and usually cut short - it was theoretically to be held in the last half of the second of the two lectures every week, but was in practice often cut short, and there didn't seem to be any kind of plan for what to do in it.One ENORMOUS problem with this class is that, besides one paper in the middle of the semester and the midterm, it's almost impossible to know how you're doing in the class, since grades are not released (response papers are graded on a somewhat nebulous check plus-check-check minus system).
