I took the class as an elective, simply because I find religion to be a fascinating subject.  We got to talk about some very cool traditions like Buddhism, Jainism, and African religions, but it seemed like a very large part of the course was geared toward philosophy or the methodology of studying other religions, with less emphasis on the religions themselves.  For example, a lot of time was spent talking about individualism versus communitarianism, and also about how biased people are when studying other cultures.  I had expected more emphasis on concrete similarities and differences between world religions.  You should know this going in.  Also, the readings were pretty difficult sometimes.  However, there was not a lot of work overall, and the professor/TF are both very friendly and knowledgable.
Know that this class has more of a philosophical angle than you might expect. Really great to take with a friend for purposes of studying, talking through papers, and discussing the topics of the course just as exciting things in life!
it is a good survey course...probably should be taken in your early years since it is a gateway course...Don't wait until senior year, since there is material and content that would benefit other areas of study here
Prof. Roantree is an awesome teacher, and absolutely brilliant. It's neat to know you're learning under someone who will most definitely be important in her field sooner rather than later.
This class is super thought-provoking and awesome. Professor Roantree does an excellent job of getting everyone to question their biases in discussion.
This is a class where you do the readings at home, and then are "quizzed" on them when you get to class. It's a different way of learning, where there isn't much lecturing, and a lot of discussion. It leads to an interesting class environment, but also a lot of imprecision as to what is the right answer to each question you are asked. This makes studying for a final exam more difficult, and can be a little frustrating when you are left to decipher difficult texts on your own.
This class is more like a philosophy class--you learn about different religious thinkers, but you do not learn about the religions themselves. If you're looking for a class on comparative religion, don't take this.
This is a great idea for a class, but it is really poorly executed. The professor was really disorganized, and the discussions were not well-facilitated. I felt like they jumped around to huge topics but didn't really get into the meat of any of them. Sometimes I felt like the TF (and sometimes even the professor) was reading the readings along with us, and knew about as much as we did. If you're looking for a comparative religion class, I'd say take Diana Eck's instead.
It's more of a philosophy class than a religion class, still very interesting though
The material is great, the class is small, and the workload is reasonable.
Look up your professor beforehand-- in a small, discussion based class like this, you will want a professor you connect with.
Good course.  The readings are sometimes rather randomalso, they are sometimes light and sometimes very heavybut they are all very interesting.  The small class size is a great advantage.  Good paper assignments as well.
