Though not nearly exhaustive, this course will introduce you to a wide variety of scholarship on 'religion' whilst demonstrating the contentious and diverse nature of the disciplines that have formed it over the past 150 years or so. This is not a course about 'religions' - it is one that is primarily concerned with what - if anything - is the 'field of religion.'
Since this course is required of all first-year doctoral students, one cannot truly avoid taking it. However, one should do so with full awareness that the discussions are unstructured and free-wheeling (which is both a positive and a negative) and the readings are often slogs (with moments of clarity and insight).
The concept of this class is fabulous. I love that I have a class with my cohort and knowing the history of the study of religion is of critical importance. I have reservations about how well the learning of this was put into effect, and how everyone was very reserved about talking because we didn't know what the others knew or didn't know and didn't know any common ground on which to meet each other.
It is worthwhile, as it opens up questions that will probably continue to be relevant throughout the PhD program, gives you familiarity with texts that are important in the field, and, best of all, connects you with your fellow students.
Take this stuff seriously-- it will come up again and again
Embrace the opportunity to read important texts in the development in the field. Anything else is gravy.
I would recommend the course if Amy Hollywood was teaching it.
Contact the professor before the beginning of the term for a copy of the syllabus. Use the summer to read through the material so you have a strong foundation when the term begins.
The course provided an excellent opportunity to engage with thinkers and theories that are applicable across all subfields of the study of religion, and to become comfortable and connected with the other members of your cohort.
Everything depends on who conducts this course. Fortunately, Graham & Patton make a fine pair.
Get ready to READ!
Well, it's required, so you might as well have a good attitude about it. (I actually mean that. I think it's one of the reasons I enjoyed the course as much as I did. Most of us decided we were going to make the most out of it and as a result we didn't hate each other at the end.)
The proseminar is a notoriously weird course and a tough one to teach for any number of reasons.  It's tough to cater to the different types of students, it's tough to deal with students who are new to the program and to one another, and it's tough to figure out what corpus to read.  I've heard from a student a couple years into the program that the proseminar is always crappy, and that's part of the way that Ph.D. and Th.D. students bond with each other.  Maybe that's true, but I do know that about halfway through the course, it actually got pretty good, and I got to understand the minds of the instructor and my fellow students.
Take the course seriously, regardless of whether your advisor tells you it is a waste of time or not. Listen to what people in a different area of study than yourself have to say and make a real effort to see yourselves as members of the same department.
Great foundation for understanding the history of religious studies
In order to make these scholars relevant for you, always be thinking:"How can this scholar's ideas work for me?""How can this scholar's ideas make my scholarship better?"This helps to free one from the Sisyphean task of learning all the details of a scholar's arguments, and worrying about the small stuff.
It's a lot of work, but necessary and useful to prepare for dissertation writing.
I would say basically what I said above in my very lengthy answer re. possible improvements to the course.
While it is unlikely for a class of this nature and breadth to be unproblematic, this class is a great opportunity to get your feet on the ground in your first semester of the doctoral program in terms of establishing background in the field, getting to know your piers, learning how to manage a large work load, and getting to know professors in a different fields (in my experience it is very nice having relationships with professors in other areas)
