This is a great introductory class for Judaism and well taught. Professor Levenson is very accessible outside of class and I enjoyed him in lecture. I think at times there is a bit of circuitous talking in class and its hard to know what the main points are.
If this class is offered again, definitely seize the opportunity to take it at all costs. Getting to know and learn from Professor Levenson was an absolute joy and privilege. Few professors actually take the effort to connect with his or her students on such a level, and Professor Levenson fostered a very close community among our classmates. The content was very interesting, too -- it's a rare opportunity to study Jewish theology and religion under such a brilliant, compassionate, and humorous man.
Professor Levenson is a genius and the material is fascinating. As someone who knew nothing about Judaism coming into the class I grew to have a deep appreciation for the religion and people! Far from a history class, the class is broken down into sub categories that all respond to and build from each other. For example, the topics of Messianism and Catastrophe as Counterstatement are two of the seven discussed. Class time itself was really fun and interesting, Levenson has a way of making an hour and a half discussion about Rabbinic Judaism interesting with his quirkiness that I grew to love. I highly recommend this class!
Professor Levenson is a font of knowledge when it comes to Jewish theology. He has a propensity for going off on tangents, but he does a great job of commenting on important matters of theological debate. Take this course if you want a low workload introduction to Jewish theology that goes into more depth than the Hebrew Bible.
Best class. Take this, you will learn so much about Judaism (and Christianity) and Professor Levenson is a wonderful teacher.
This course is a bit off the beaten track, but please, go forth, for dual treasures of enjoyment and education! His Eminence, Professor Levenson, provides a sensitive collection of primary and secondary literature and - by philological subtlety, spiritual wisdom, and humorous anecdote - illuminates and animates the archetype of scripture in the Western world.
This class is absolutely incredible! Not only is Professor Levenson so engaging, funny, and brilliant, but the materials you read and the connections made in class are truly amazing. This was one of my most favorite classes at Harvard. The intimate setting also made the class all the more enjoyable.
