Professor Asani is a man every student should get to know. Extremely knowledgable in his field and takes time to work with each student individually. The course is more difficult is you have no back ground in the material, but you get the most out of it this way as well.
The more you know about Islam, the more you can gain from this course.
Listening to Professor Asani is a treat--he is so knowledgeable, accessible, and wonderful to talk to!
A fantastic class, I learned a lot of information that I think is really useful in the modern world, also improved my writing. There is a lot of reading, but Professor Asani is amazing.
I would recommend this class to anyone who wants to learn more about Islam, specifically in the South Asian context.
This class misses the mark significantly. Professor Asani is very nice, very smart, and very sweet, but the class just isn't worth the stress. Weekly 2-3 page response papers were returned 5 weeks late with very few comments. I never felt more comfortable with them, always nervous. Readings are changed significantly, due dates are pushed back, etc. at midnight two days before class. In class, the first hour is a recap of the previous class, then 20 minutes of actual learning, and then 40 minutes to awkwardly discuss the reading with peers who rarely understood it. Very frustrating to read as much as 200 very dense pages and then never understand it. Unfortunately, I would not recommend this class.
You should have some background before going into the class regarding Islam
Take this class because Professor Asani is one of the best professors in this area that you can get to know. The depth of his commitment to the course and to his students reflects in his willingness to engage to make you a better learner. If you want to gain some perspectives on how to think about religion in a South Asian framework, this course does a great job in covering many aspects that add to your toolbox.
The class discussions are great and the readings are really interesting. The class jumps around a lot and is pretty ambitious in its scope, so be prepared to learn a lot in a very short amount of time.
You must be very interested in South Asia and Islam to take this course. Otherwise, it will be very dry: Professor Asani does not dumb down the complexity of the cultural and historiographical questions in the course, and this is all for the better. That being said, this is not a typical Gen-Ed in the sense that having no background knowledge would likely be a big hindrance to comprehension and sustained interest.
Prof. Asani is incredibly enlightening, patient, and passionate about this subject, which makes for a thorough and solid course for anyone interested in anthropological Islamic or South Asian studies. There's a ton of reading, and the response papers are completely open-ended yet there are inherent expectations for a deep exploration of the theme each week, so it's a difficult course for the non-humanities-inclined. Still, Prof. Asani works hard to meet with his students and balance the needs of everyone whether they have no background in Islam or are graduate students, and you learn so much and really open your eyes to personal identities and stereotyping thanks to this course.
This is a really fascinating lens through which to look at Islam, and I am so glad I decided to take this course, even given my limited background.
I enjoyed this course because I was interested in the materials been covered. The course is well structured, and Prof. Asani makes great effort to know his students and helps them tailor what they want to take away from the course.
Learning from Professor Asani is such a treat!
This class has changed the way I think about the effect religion has on culture, politics and society. If you at all interact with religion in scholarship, the skills you learn in this class will help you have a more complete picture.
This class truly teaches you about the world and how religion is still a huge cultural force behind culture and society, both past and present.
The topics of this course are very attractive and intriguing--however the work load is absolutely overwhelming.  There seems to be a lack of focus and the course touches upon a plethora of topics but at a very shallow level--it would be more interesting and beneficial for learning if the course took a slower pace and the time spanned covered was decreased so as to allow a better comprehension of the important issues.
This class is Fabulous! Take anything with Ali Asani!
The class is interesting, but a bit disorganized.
Ali Asani is a wonderful professor and this course is really well put together! Take it if you are interested in Islam or South Asia at all.
This class changed the way I think about religion.
For those interested in South Asian Islam, this class is necessary.
One of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Maybe the best.
