An excellent senior year elective. Good way to sum up a Harvard career.
Everyone at Harvard should take this class before graduating. It is very well taught and very insightful.
Doc. Shoe is the best and learning about Harvard's history is fascinating
Doc Shoe teaches a totally wonderful class. He is diligent, bright, and engaging, and his lectures are brimming with great stories from Harvard's past and actual relevant historical themes. It is a privilege to take this pretty famous class and I highly recommend taking it while you're still an underclassman so you learn about Harvard while you're still here. There is a lot of reading and you have to be engaged in it for section, but it's worth it.
One of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.  You will not find a professor more engaging or personable.  A great way to learn not only about Harvard, but also about a religious history of the United States.
Professor Shoemaker is amazing. He really cares about students- get to know him!! You will learn all sorts about how Harvard came to be the way it is today. Everything has changed so much. The research paper is awesome- you will get to explore the archives and learn a lot about something you care about. Everyone should take this class! I took it pass fail as a fifth class and am glad I did.
TAKE THIS COURSE!! This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. Doc Shoe is an INCREDIBLE professor and the workload is manageable. You will learn information and skills that will help you in life and help you impress your friends. I give it my highest recommendation.
Start the research paper early. You will be required to visit the archives and do a substantial amount of research there, and this SHOULD NOT be left for the end. Don't do it last minute.
This course was very interesting.  In my opinion it is a great senior spring class because it is something you can only learn at Harvard and the workload is not that heavy.  Professor Shoemaker is great!
Best and most important class I have taken at Harvard. Attending Harvard is such a unique experience and this class gave me a greater perspective on my experience here.
Awesome class! Fun and interesting, with not too much work. Makes you appreciate Harvard and opens your eyes to the history around us.
One of my favourite courses ever! Come for funny, entertaining lectures, learn tid-bits of fun information to drop at dinner parties, or to learn about ethical/moral decisions Harvard's leadership had to take in the past, or to just better appreciate the college you're at! The Q for past years mentioned hard grading, but really, if you do the work, it is really fair, and the work isn't very much. Taking this course definitely made me more aware of what has gone into making Harvard what it is right now (be it in terms of education policy, or admissions, or financial aid, etc.), and made me a consciously better student.
I learned a great deal in this class and not just about Harvard's history; I also learned how to approach primary sources with a hermeneutic of suspicion while trying to avoid present-day relativism. I enjoyed sharpening these research skills in this class, especially under the tutelage of Doctor Shoemaker.
FAVORITE CLASS AT HARVARD
This class is so fun, and every student should be required to take it! You realize how much you don't know about the amazing history that the college has, and begin to appreciate everything around you a lot more. The work is enjoyable and Shoemaker is the best!
This course is so fun. Dr. Shoemaker is hilarious and so passionate about Harvard History. The only ones who struggled were those who did not go to class.
Without a doubt the best course I have taken at Harvard. The material is really interesting and really changes the way you look at the institution at which you will spend your undergraduate years. Furthermore, Doc Shoe is the greatest professor I've ever had - I genuinely would like to spend time with him outside of class.
Professor Shoemaker is a legend!
Really great class.
Shoemaker is amazing! He knows everything about Harvard's history and is an amazing storyteller. He is also hilarious.
This is a very fun course, and you'll learn a slew of trivia facts to entertain friends. Don't be fooled by the fact that it's in the religion department - that's just because the history department stupidly said no. Rest assured, this is no religion course. Is it the most useful subject? Of course not. But it's no more useless than whatever else you're considering.
Dr. Shoemaker is an extraordinarily interested lecturer who is a very fair grader, in the sense that this course is not an easy A.  Harvard's History is absolutely fascinating and Dr. Shoemaker discusses the subject with such passion and enthusiasm.
I found this class enormously tedious. The lectures are an oversimplification of ideas that could be far more interesting and nuanced than how they are presented. The class is also quite parochial. And, the grading is completely arbitrary. I went into the final not knowing my grade and I worked on the response papers each week with little confidence on how I could and could not improve.
I LOVED this class! It gives you a completely new view of Harvard and how special this place is. The research paper and small project give you a chance to use the archives and delve into one aspect of history that you find particularly interesting.
This was probably the best class I took in my four years at Harvard! If you're interested in Harvard (you probably are because you go to school here), this class will really help you understand the foundations of Harvard and how they affect how the institution functions today. Take it as early in your college career as possible so that you can benefit from the knowledge gained while you're still around here!
An absolutely amazing course. It was so interesting to learn the history of the University I have the privileged of studying at. Harvard has such a rich history and there is so much information out there about it. Also, Professor Shoemaker is the best. Simply put.
Every Harvard student should know something about this university's complex history before graduating. Harvard has been at the heart of some of the world's most challenging conversations. Don't spend four years here without appreciating what made this place what it is.
Every student at Harvard should take this course before they graduate. Dr. Shoemaker has done a truly marvelous job at constructing and carrying out a course with the appropriate breadth to cover the diversity of Harvard history while also ensuring the appropriate depth so that students walk away from the course with tangible knowledge of specific events and personalities throughout Harvard's history. Moreover, having an understanding of Harvard history really allows one to be introspective and to think reflectively about one's own Harvard undergraduate experience, and what it means to be a part of this institution. I think that students will find that so many of the themes throughout Harvard history resonate very powerfully with our contemporary college experience. This is one of those rare classes that is exciting and fulfilling both academically and personally. It is my sincere hope that this course is offered again, and that Dr. Shoemaker teaches this course, because every student at Harvard should have the opportunity to take this class.
This class was one of the most interesting classes that I've taken at Harvard. It's a great class to take pass fail.  If you go to lecture you will do fine on the exam.  The readings are dense and there are a lot of them but you don't need to do them.  Dr. Shoemaker is a great lecturer.
This is one of my favorite classes at Harvard! Definitely take it as a senior, you'll appreciate it more knowing your days are numbered here in Cambridge. Also, don't be afraid to reach out to Doc Shoe he was very responsive to any questions.
There's so much about Harvard that you probably don't know, and so this is a must take during your time here. Dr. Shoemaker is so enthusiastic about the subject, often telling his own stories from his research. It was also really cool to spend time researching in the Archives, as that's probably not something you'll do much otherwise here.
Interesting course but know that it's a bit of a limited view point for approaching Harvard's history. Section was a blast though.
beware- this class requires a lot of attention to detail and a large amount of work towards the final.
This was the perfect course with which to end my Harvard career. Dr. Shoemaker is an engaging, wonderful lecturer who has a clear passion for Harvard's history. This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard.
TAKE THIS CLASS! TAKE THIS CLASS! TAKE THIS CLASS!But seriously, this is the best course ever offered at Harvard.  Dr. Shoe is the best professor at Harvard.  I think you get the point.  This class should be required of every Harvard student.  You really develop a whole new appreciation for Harvard and learning about its storied history from such a charismatic, funny, intelligent, witty, engaging professor is an experience that I wouldn't trade for anything.  I wish I could take this course every spring.  I would be surprised if this course wasn't lotteried in the future and became more popular than Ec10 and CS50 combined.  If you don't take this course while at Harvard, I feel extremely badly for you and I'm very sorry.  To conclude, Dr. Shoe is the coolest, and you should take this course.
It's a great course. The material is interesting and I think it's very important and eye opening to know the history of this place. The professor is great, really friendly, approachable and fair. One of the better courses I have taken.
TAKE THIS CLASS! It really did help me appreciate harvard in ways i couldn't have imagined. Our school's history is fascinating and the harvard we know today is so different from what it was.  It is a good class for thesis people because most of the grades are after break, but you still should go to class (they're fun though!) because there aren't lecture slides/videos. Also be sure to go to the archives early to start the research for your paper. I had to switch topics a bunch because of lack of good archival material and the archives have tricky hours. This being said, it's so cool to look through archival documents! Definitely use Dr. Shoemaker to run ideas by because he knows what works and what doesn't.
Whether you are a freshman who is just adjusting to Harvard and still awestruck by being 'at Harvard' or you a senior who is looking forward to commencement, this will enrich your experience while here. It will make you understand the long tradition and history that you are a part of, and inspire you by learning about some of the impressive figures and characters who contributed to that history as a student or administrator. Take it!! The long paper may intimidate you, and this is not a "gut" a "gem" or a "snap," but you can really pursue whatever topic interests you for your paper and will get a lot more out of this than you will from many other elective courses.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It is absolutely one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard; people make fun of the fact that only Harvard would have a class on the history of itself, but it's an incredible opportunity to learn about the school we all go to and how it became what it is today. Learning about how Harvard evolved with America is also just so cool, and Professor Shoemaker has some great stories (hopefully he'll have two Radcliffe lectures next year, because those were some of the best ones). Professor Shoemaker is also the nicest, funniest professor, who clearly has so much enthusiasm for the course material, and it was an absolute pleasure to take a class from him. If you're like me and spend most of your time doing problem sets, I'd recommend pass/fail-ing it so you don't have to stress about all the writing, but the workload really isn't bad at all.
This was a really fun class! Professor Shoemaker is really passionate about the class, and learning about Harvard's past is interesting and makes you feel connected to its past.
I would say that it is  a fun course and you look at Harvard in a whole new way. The lectures are great to bring parents and friends to and Professor Shoemaker really tries to bring the history to life. There is a large portion about religion at the beginning of the course and it can be tiring to talk about. However the readings are fascinating , especially Morrison and anybody who appreciates Harvard overall will enjoy this course. Take it in the spring to relax and have fun!
the one page papers will challenge you a bit but its a cool fun elective to take, put in a little bit of effort and you'll do well
This is not as easy a class as I think some people expect, but it definitely is a worthwhile one and I can't imaging having graduated from Harvard without taking it. Dr. Shoemaker is a wonderful professor, and I learned as much from him about Harvard history as I did about what it means to be interested in history. He also gives great instructions & feedback on writing assignments, and is very available as a professor. By taking this class you will learn not only what kind of legacy you're a part of by attending this school but also what your education means and aspects of American history that you may not have fully known beforehand.
ALL HARVARD UNDERGRADUATES SHOULD TAKE THIS COURSE!!! Well taught, and good, useful information that will make your time here more meaningful! Do the readings each week and contribute in section--that is an extremely important portion of your grade that is easy to let slide when other classes get busy some weeks. But doing the readings will make lectures and discussions much more interesting and will make preparing for the final much easier!
This is the single best course at Harvard- but that does not mean it's easy! Be prepared to be challenged to read critically, write in an argumentative manner and learn complex theological theories. If you are willing to be challenged, you will absolutely stand to benefit immensely from this course.
This course was a phenomenal way of making Harvard's history alive. While taking this course, I found myself looking around the campus and having a whole new appreciation for its three hundred year history. Shoemaker's passion, much like his cheerful and jocular personality, was contagious!
The first part of the class is very boring. The last part of the class that pertains to modern day harvard is more interesting.
This is only a good course if you are looking for something that requires minimal effort. It isn't intellectually interesting or challenging at all, and the lectures and readings presented no arguments. The only interesting component was the final paper, when we could actually discuss substantial material.
This class is wonderful! If you are expecting an easy A you will not get it here, but you will definitely love the course.  The readings are not too bad and section is very engaging and informative.  This is probably one of the only courses were I really looked forward to going to lecture each week.
If you want to know anything about where Harvard comes from, definitely take this course! Also, definitely get started early on the final paper!
This is a fantastic way to bookend a college career at Harvard. Dr. Shoemaker is engaging, funny, and has unbelievable stories. It is fantastic to learn about the Presidents for whom Harvard's houses are named, and a 10 page research paper is only slightly painful, but teaches you a lot about archival research. The class starts off boring (the religion/non-President information are not interesting), however, and Dr. Shoemaker is not always clear about what he expects for response papers, which is very frustrating. However, overall the class is worthwhile, fun, and an awesome experience in the end.
Don't get trapped by this class. Take it pass/fail if you're looking for a gem.
Dr. Shoe is wonderful. Glad I took this class, but would probably take it pass fail if I was to do it again! Take it!
This is a very fun course. Make sure you follow along to truly get the most you can get out of it. While Dr. Shoemaker isn't an easy grader, if you put in the work, you will succeed in this class and get a lot out of it.
This should be required. There is so much more to this school than we know and appreciate merely by going here as students.
I cannot recommend this class more highly.  It is a perfect course. Dr. Shoemaker is one of the best professors I had during my four years here - he is incredibly committed to his students. The material is fun and engaging. Dr. Shoemaker's lectures are always enjoyable. The workload is light, but be aware that there are high expectations for the research paper and final exam. In short, this class will be what you make of it, but it has the potential to be one of the best courses you'll take at Harvard.
Phenomenal class. Incredible syllabus, excellent lectures, and a useful emphasis on historical and religious scholarly method. Makes you appreciate growing close to and keep a critical distance from the history of Harvard--both good things.
It's super chill and interesting to learn about Harvard history.
Take this class before you graduate! You will come out of it with priceless knowledge. The grading can be kind of unclear, but overall it's a wonderful course. Doc Shoe gives awesome lectures and responds to emails/questions promptly.
This class is interesting, but is not necessarily a guaranteed A--you still have to work hard to write a good paper and participate in section. That being said, it's a great elective and you'll leave having learned a lot about the school you attend!
If you are taking a class pass/fail as a senior, this class may be more work than you anticipate so just reconsider. However, when you actually do reading and go to class, it is pretty interesting.
One of the finest I've taken at Harvard. Doc Shoe is a fantastic, engaging lecturer. He provides great content alongside humorous anecdotes and thought-provoking philosophical/theological debates. Definitely manageable with a typical semester course load. Assignments (final paper, presentation) are enjoyable - In choosing topics, I encourage you to find something that you care about. I think everyone at Harvard should take this course, as it gets at the heart of why we come here in the first place.
This is one of the best courses I've taken during my four years at Harvard. This school needs more people like Doc Shoe--one of the most knowledgable, humorous and approachable lecturers you'll meet. The final paper is very rewarding, but make sure you put the time into it.
This is a really fun course. Shoemaker is so engaged with and excited by the material. Final paper and going into the Harvard archives was actually pretty fun!
Taking this course deepens your understanding of Harvard as an academic institution, as a place where students have learned/grown for centuries, and as an agent in a broader context of American history. Dr. Shoemaker knows so many stories about Harvard and will also be an excellent support when you go on to write your own (super cool) research paper on Harvard's history. It changes the way you look at your House, different buildings around the Yard, the relevance of Gen. eds/concentrations, and really all aspects of your Harvard life (so if you're ever trying to push agendas of change e.g. for unregistered single-sex social organizations, or for name changes, this is the class to take to make sure you can spot when history repeats itself. Knowledge is power!)Downsides might include not really knowing how you're doing in the course throughout the semester (it's very end-weighted, so you need to work very hard on the final and final paper).
Prof. Shoemaker is so passionate about Harvard's History. He has many entertaining anecdotes to share. Loved the class and as long as you do the work, the class will be great. 10/10 recommend.
Great senior year elective. Dr. Shoemaker's lectures are fascinating and funny. Research paper and exam both graded fairly. Don't expect riveting conversations in section; most people are there to slack off, and there are a lot of pass/no pass students.
I really enjoyed this class, not just for the cocktail conversation tidbits but for how the class provided an overview of religious history and then showed how it related to a specific example--Harvard. The class moves away from religion at some points and discusses other aspects of social history and the history of education. My research paper did not pertain to the history of religion. Don't be put off of taking this class because it requires one 10 page paper. A lot of classes require 2 5-page papers and a midterm, and they're probably less interesting than the primary sources you deal with here.
The class was truly enjoyable and enriching. I looked forward to lecture every day because the material was interesting and Prof. Shoemaker delivered it engagingly. The final project lets you research your topic of choice in the archives, which was a unique and fun experience. I would highly recommend!
This is such a wonderful class and I definitely recommend taking it. Shoemaker is SO interested in his students and what they do at Harvard and is a really easy person to connect with. You learn cool facts about the college and it's especially a nice way to round off your career at Harvard if you are a senior. Low work commitment too!
This is a great class to take in addition to a heavy workload, or maybe even pass/fail. It won't demand a lot of you but will give you the opportunity to learn some interesting anecdotes!
TAKE THIS COURSE. I think all Harvard students should be required to take this course because you'll learn so much about Harvard that tells us more about the institution that we're a part of today.  The grading is not super easy, and make sure you'll have time at the end of the semester for both the paper and the exam.  Doc Shoe is one of the best lecturers and most accessible instructors I've had at Harvard.
It's "easy" in the sense that most of the work is at the end of the semester (a paper and a final), but beware, Dr. Shoemaker is insistent that he curves the class to a B/B+it's not an easy A.
Everyone should take this class before they graduate. Professor Shoemaker is INCREDIBLE, and the content of the course is so relevant and interesting. You'll learn all sorts of cool things to impress your friends with, and you'll have a greater appreciation for what it means to be a student at Harvard. This is an elective you should be making room for in your schedule; it's so worth it and one of the best classes I've ever taken.
Take this if you haven't gotten a chance to visit the Harvard Archives yet.  The response papers are easy (completion graded) and the material is fascinating.  Grading is varied and can be on the harsh side.  If you're a senior, pass/fail is a great option.
This is a great class that will teach you a lot about Harvard and help you make sense of the of your time here!  Disclaimer: the grading on the final paper can be somewhat harsh (I personally was taking the class pass/fail so this was not much of a concern).  Lectures are genuinely entertaining, and for the final paper there is a lot of leeway to pick a topic that is meaningful and interesting to you and really explore it deeply.  Overall, a thoroughly enjoyable class and one I would recommend - especially to seniors.
Great way to end your Harvard career as a senior.
This is a very interesting (though perhaps somewhat narrow) history course taught by an enthusiastic and engaging professor. It was a very small workload, and every assignment allowed choice and encouraged creativity. Because there is a large group of students who take the course pass/fail, there is a bit of a lazy vibe in the course; this is my only complaint. It's a crime to go to Harvard without an understanding of its incredible background. Take this course!
This course will give you a terrific primer on the history of this fine institution. The primary sources are quite remarkable and the final, archival paper a great opportunity. If you are an intellectually engaged student, however, I caution you about this course. It is often full of seniors or generally lackluster students who do not do much work, do not contribute anything, and generally leave you doubting how in fact these students were even admitted to Harvard. It truly can be frustrating at times how painful the section can be because most students simply did not do the readings.
The material in this class was fascinating. Every Harvard student should take this class.
If this class is offered, take it without hesitation. Shoemaker is one of the delightful, engaging, and knowledgeable lecturers I know. Academically, the class is laid back, but it means that students are genuinely interested in listening and taking notes at lecture and researching interesting topics for the final paper. It's an elective - it's not supposed to help you towards anything. Harvard's history is surprisingly fascinating, makes for good bar talk (with other Harvard people) and gives you context for your education. Especially at a time when many of Harvard's traditions and founders are being re-examined.
This class is fine.  Not a ton of work but also way more than advertised.  Lectures were relatively boring, and I think Doc Shoe is way better in small settings.  That being said he is a very nice guy, and I think it'll be a relatively easy good grade.
This is an absolutely wonderful class! Definitely take it to learn fun facts about the school you go to!!
This class was a fantastic choice for an elective! The content was pretty interesting, and I appreciated walking away with a solid understanding of the school I attend- would especially recommend for seniors. The workload was also very manageable, and Dr. Shoemaker is an engaging and personable instructor.
One of my favorite classes at Harvard! A great senior spring class! Make sure you go to lecture because there are no lecture slides or videos posted of the material!
I didn't find the material that interesting and there is more work than it says on the syllabus. Taking it pass fail isn't bad though.
One of the most engaging, entertaining, knowledgable, charismatic and well dressed professors I have had at Harvard. It is an interesting course that shares the school's history through the lens of religion.
THIS CLASS SHOULD BE TAKEN BY ALL STUDENTS - a unique appreciation for the school with one of the best professors I had in my four years here.
Fun yet interesting and rewarding class. Took it senior spring, would do again!
This course does not require much work at all, but is hard to motivate yourself for. It is a history of harvard, so provides interesting stories, but isn't particularly relevant to anything else. The professor cares deeply about his subject matter, and is always available for questions etc. but the assignments weren't well communicated always.
This class is a really fun, relatively low stress elective. Many people take it pass fail, but if you take it for a grade be sure to stay up on the reading. It is very easy to slack off because so many other people are relaxed about the course as pass fail students, so when it is time for the final its hard to turn it around.
This course is a fun way to learn about Harvard's history.  Professor Shoemaker gives engaging lectures and the sections are fun!.
I really enjoyed this class!! It definitely got more interesting as the semester progressed and we got into more current day material, as I felt lost in the beginning of the semester at times. This class does have work though! So don't think you're getting off easy, although a lot of senior springers do take this class.
You shouldn't graduate from Harvard without learning about the institution where you spent some of your most important formative years and gained the worldliness to become a success.Dr. Shoemaker is amazing, the readings are doable, and the assignments aren't too bad
