any globally-aware person should hit this piece
If you devote enough attention to the course material, and remain engaged during lecture, you are sure to have a very beneficial experience.  I didn't miss a single lecture since I found them so enrapturing.
This course was lacking in substance and coherence. I felt that every lecture was a complete waste of my time and that leaving the course I knew just as little about many non-Western religions as I did coming in. I feel like the course massively undershot its goals.
The class improved immensely by doing the readings, though it is possible to get by in section and lecture without having done the reading.
This class is interesting, but the professor is more interested in some religions than others, a fact that is obvious through her lectures.
This class is an amazing introduction to the 5 major world religions: Hinduism, Buddhism, Christianity, Judaism, and Islam.  Professor Eck's pluralist perspective provides a wonderful conduit for understanding each tradition in its unique theological and cultural context while also examining the many religious interactions that are important to today's world.
This class could be quite interesting, but it generally is too vague.  Diana Eck would be great in a smaller setting talking more specifically about concrete ideas, readings, and issues.
This class is an important, interesting, useful class.
Take it! it will change your outlook on modern religions!
Religion 11 is a great class as long as you understand that you're not only looking at these traditions as a set of rituals and beliefs, but as a way of life that changes the way that their adherents look at the world; you need to understand those perspectives more than you need to understand the rituals and beliefs themselves.
If your expecting to learn about the teachings, tennants and practice of these religions don't take this course. If you want to learn about the debates and conflicts within and between them then this is for you.
I would tell them that I was sorry I wasted one of my electives on an all together unengaging and disappointing class.
This class will undoubtedly be one of the highlights of your undergraduate career if you choose to take this class. I recommend it without any reservations whatsoever.
Professor Eck is a fantastic lecturer and is actually interested in student feedback. The sections are interesting, the TFs are knowledgeable, and the reading is actually interesting. I would wholeheartedly recommend this class to anyone interested in world religions, and probably even more so to someone who might not be, because religion is such an major issue on the world stage today.
I think a course that examines the major world religions is very important for understanding cultures across the globe, understanding what's going on with political and social issues of our time, and understanding to become more tolerant of others religions.
Although Prof. Eck is a good speaker, I didn't enjoy the lectures very much because they were often disorganized and too many broad generalizations. However, the topic is so important so I am glad that I took the course.
While this class is attractive because of its subject matter it is poorly administrated and can often times be really frustrating.
don't get behind on the readings!
Very applicable to many of the major issues facing the world today. Very interesting course material.
It's too broad of a course, and therefore very limited in scope.  You'd be better off taking intro courses in the specific religions you are interested in.  This won't help you figure out which one that is.
I would tell students that this is a definitely a thought-provoking course. However, if students are looking to really understand the heart of each religious tradition, I would probably steer them towards other courses. I would also make potential students aware that this course seeks to make a case for theological pluralism.
Do the readings.
It will give you a great perception of how nuanced and yet universal the different world religions are, but will teach you little factual information. I believe this is a very important course if you want to grow as a person but less important if you're looking to learn facts and history about different religions.
There are lots of readings to keep up with throughout the class, so that is the most difficult component of it. However, the readings are interesting, applicable to one's own life, refreshing, and enlightening. The class is a non-biased, fresh way of looking at 5 major religions. It expands your world view without being controversial or emotion-provoking. Rather, it is thought-provoking and balanced. It is an exemplary religion class.
Take this course! It is very important for a well-educated world citizen to know about different religions.
Make sure to do the readings. They are the backbone of the course.
A wonderful religion class that talks about what really matters about religion in today's world instead of antiquated creeds and doctrines.
REALLY FANTASTIC!!!
This class provides a good overview.  Eck is rather general, but still helpful.
A great survey of the major traditions in the modern world as taught through modern thinkers and events.  The course provides plenty of extra components that lift it above the average course - panels, movies, current event pieces all add another level to the material and make it more engaging and interesting.
Shouldn't be taken unless you have a definite interest in religion
Good, but a lot of work. A bit bland at times. But you might get great speakers in class like Karen Armstrong!
You are not going to get information about the major religions and their tenets. Rather, you are going to get the opinions of TWO thinkers in each religion, which are in no way representative of other voices within those same religions. In fact, this is less of a course about religions, than it is a course about two thinkers from each of five religions - and how all of these thinkers are alike in many respects. Lectures are also rather confusing and at times disorganized. However, it does paint a positive picture of religion and carries an important message, but I believe that message could have been provided just as well in a week, rather than devoting an entire course to it.
