This class was one of the most interesting ones I've taken. Don't be intimidated by the mix of Divinity School and undergraduate students! The teaching staff is good at accommodating students with all backgrounds. It was certainly eye-opening to examine apocalyptic situations in different religions and cultures, see how they overlap and differ, especially because of the impending Mayan Apocalypse, which is really nothing to fear. The readings, take-home midterm and final are all manageable but it was slightly frustrating that not all the required readings and movies are available online or accessible by any other means. I felt like the teaching staff got lazy towards the end of the semester, stopped updating the website and readings and some of the lectures were poorly organized, but guest lecturers were always a pleasure and I'm glad I took this course :)
This is a really interesting class with a light workload.  You'll get a lot more out of it if you do the readings, even though there aren't many assessments of whether you're actually keeping up.
The topics are incredibly interesting, however the heavy presence of grad-school students makes section participation very difficult and feedback on exams seemingly more critical
It is very easy and SO incredibly interesting. It exposes you to readings that provide answers to better understand the human condition. Take this class and DO NOT feel intimidated by the grad students in the class. They offer new perspectives to learn from and want to hear from you too. Take this class, you won't regret it!
Terrific class.  Don't expect brilliant section discussions, but Professor Carrasco's enthusiasm for the topic is infectious, and his lectures are excellent.  Not everything on the reading list is brilliant, but everything is interesting and entertaining.  Definitely take it if you're at all interested in apocalyptic narratives or religious belief systems.
Take it. It's real good.
This is one of those courses that force you to reconceptualize your world. The readings are fantastic and incredibly fascinating, although they can be a little long, but you just need to know when to skim/skip. Carrasco is also a great professor - he almost preaches when he speaks and it definitely draws you in. He has also rubbed elbows with several major scholars, and he brought in several great speakers for our class.
Profe. Carrasco is a phenomenal lecturer who brought the often dense readings down to a very understandable level. The concept of charismatic authority is fascinating.
This class is easy and really fun, and the lectures are interesting. Take this instead of a freshman seminar or if you have some extra space in your schedule and are looking to learn some unique stuff  with little effort.
The class has a light workload and is interesting. You should take it if you need an interesting class that is not heavy on readings.
This is an interesting class if you're interested in apocalypse and it does not require a large amount of work. That being said, Professor Carasco is unpredictable and liable to change his expectations throughout the semester so be aware of that!
It is a great course but has it's strange moments. Then again, the apocalypse is a strange thing
Not a very intense or difficult class academically, but if taken advantage of could allow for serious personal growth.
I would say that this course was not what I was expecting it to be. I thought that the course material and lectures would engage me more but they didn't. That being said, the best way  (I think) to identify if this course is right for you, is to read the syllabus. The reason is that the lectures are directly derived from the reading, which is always nice and doesn't always happen at Harvard. If you like the authors, then you'll be more engaged. Also the evaluations for this course are not too difficult, so if you stay engaged, you can do well.
