Great class. Take it and do the readings.
Very useful introduction to the tradition for interested students who know a little but want to learn more and put what they know in context
this course is a lot of reading if you choose to do it all, would not advise taking it with another course that requires a lot of reading
As a non-Christian, this course was fascinating and a great introduction to an important part of Western cultural history that I have not been very exposed to.  That said, many people in the class are highly observant believers and walking the line between engaging in academic criticism and feeling like an outsider can be a challenge.  Doable, but a challenge.
Whether you are religious or not, this course provides a phenomenal introduction to the history of religion that anyone remotely interested in philosophy, theology, or history would enjoy. The teaching staff is excellent and is more than willing to assist with essays at any stage in the writing process. This class has relatively little work with only two essays and a final exam, which shouldn't scare you because Professor Lamberth's goal really is to help you learn and show what you know. The final is very manageable and reasonable, especially if you have kept up with the readings, but as long as you review the passages that are discussed in class and in section, the final exam should not be an issue. The strategy I would recommend if the readings become too much for you is to skim them the night they are assigned and then go back and review the important passages brought to attention in class. This is an extremely satisfying course that provides an excellent introduction to Christianity and theology, but even if you aren't planning on taking another religion class past your Culture and Belief Gen Ed requirement, this would be the one I recommend.
This is a great class. I thoroughly without hesitation or reservation recommend it.  I was Christian myself going into it, but I learned a ton I didn't know and it has transformed my faith.  Even if you are not religious you will be fine because I had several friends in the class who were not and they were often the ones who contributed most to discussion because of their unique perspective and curiosity on things.  Take it!
There is a lot of reading for this class that you might be tempted to skip, but you can get so much out of this class, no matter your background, if you really apply yourself.
This class is one of the best I've taken at Harvard. Prof. Lamberth is the best teacher I have ever had here, better than most big name professors. She teaches with enthusiasm, and I always come away knowing more than I expected to learn. The course is accessible to everyone, and the readings are really manageable. 
This is a great introduction to Christianity, even for religion concentrators or very devout Christians. I learned so much about the history of Christianity, even having grown up in a Christian home. 
The course material was varied and interesting. A great option for C&B!
If you are genuinely interested in Christianity, this class is great for learning the history of the faith. Interest in the subject material will motivate you to get through some of the more difficult readings. If you take interest in the class and do the readings, you will learn a tremendous amount.
There are a lot of readings, but do not be intimidated. Just make sure you get the main points if you don't have time. If you have time, read them; they're great. Professor Lamberth is an incredible lecturer, and sections were wonderful. This class is very reasonable, not stressful, relevant to life, and a whole lot of fun. Don't hesitate!!
This is an excellent overview of Christian history, the readings are amazing and well-selected and manageable, Professor Lamberth is an amazing professor not to mention human being.
An interesting class for both people with little to no background in Christianity and for those who do have such a background. The readings can get a little long and dense, but it's not absolutely necessary to do them all or even most of them to do well in the class, although it is much more rewarding if you do all the readings.
This is a really good course if you're looking to fulfill your Culture and Belief requirement and/or if you are interested in learning more about Christianity on a historical and theoretical level. Professor Lamberth is very enthusiastic about the material and always seems excited facilitate discussion and hear student perspectives.
Prof. Lamberth is great. she is very enthusiastic and you can tell she really cares about students and teaching. the material is really interesting too. not too much work. at times though she will fall behind schedule because of the scope of material we cover.
This is a real gem of a GenEd - an interesting, useful topic taught in a depth most undergraduates won't have seen before. It also is taught very well - lectures are very engaging and assignments are actually fun and useful.
This class is awesome primarily because of the teaching staff. Professor Lamberth is an engaging lecturer and has a tremendous amount of care for her students. John is also an amazing TF and made section a ton of fun. I think this class also attracts a lot of interesting people from a very diverse background.
This course is fascinating, definitely worth taking. Only drawback is that there's more reading than you originally think.
This course is a wonderful introduction to the Study of Religion at Harvard. Although the focus is really the history of Christian thought, there are detours into other traditions and areas of study. There is something for everybody, and it helped me discover and narrow down some specific areas of interests of my own. The lectures and sections were engaging and really helped me make sense of the texts. This is invaluable, since some of the texts, especially the later ones, contain dense philosophical language that is somewhat daunting for those unfamiliar with the discipline. Whether you need to fulfill a Culture and Belief Gen Ed, are seriously interested in the Study of Religion, or just curious, I would thoroughly recommend checking out this course.
You need to be committed to reading a lot of early writing!
I came in to the class not only because  Dr.Lamberth is a wonderful professor but also because I wanted to learn more about Christianity since I am not Christian and I ended up having so much more fun with the readings and writing papers than many of the Christian students did.  Most students expect it to be a bible study class which it is not, and the readings are really interesting and touch on many topics like philosophy, history, anthropology and sociology and their relation to Christian thought and Christian history. I loved the idea that the class gave a lot of freedom of analysis and provided a secular teaching of Christianity. This is the only place where I can write a paper on the androgyny within Jesus Christ and get compliments for it. If you are taking this for your major/secondary then you are all set but if you are doing this for a gen-ed then be prepared to work hard because this is not a joke class where you look at pretty pictures, be prepared to read the wildest of Christian thinkers in addition to the more conventional ones. Most importantly, have fun with it because it is meant to be a fun class.
If you are interested in the history of Christianity and how things we have today came to be, do take this course! If you are interested in philosophy and debating things like free will and life after death, also take this course! The professor and TFs are incredibly helpful and passionate about the topic. The class is run to encourage discussion and provide a relaxing atmosphere for students. You will definitely have a good experience in this class.
It's a great class.
The material is great and the class is very manageable, but definitely do the readings before class because Professor Lamberth frequently has discussions about the content from the lectures and the readings.
This course is good, but unless they change the structure, that is, change the length of the lectures from 1.5 hours to 1 hour, it becomes turgid, and the material becomes overwhelming. While the material is dense (this is not a bible studies class, it is a Christian Theology class), understanding is challenging and rewarding.
This class has a fascinating topic, although sometimes it can be lost in the sheer magnitude of the scope of the class.
This class broadened my knowledge of Christianity and exposed me to arguments that I had never before considered.
You need to be interested in the course to follow tightly
If you're interested in theology, this is a great class to take with a likable lecturer - just be sure you're ready to read a whole bunch.
If you are interested in learning about the history of Christian doctrine in a general fashion, over the past two millennia, definitely take this class. It is very rewarding, but resist the temptation to not do the readings -- not only will reading before class help in appreciating the content raised up during lectures better, it will also make preparations for the final exam less daunting.
Great Course!
This class is much more a theology course than it is a history course. You won't learn why Constantine adopted Christianity, rather you will learn what his theologian contemporaries thought the nature of Christ was.
It is important to note that this is an introduction to the theology behind the religion starting from ancient times going up to today.
This course offers a broad overview of Christianity over its 2000 years of history.  Professor Lamberth is a great person to get to know and she is very accessible outside of class.  I think that this class will only continue to improve, but I highly recommend that you keep up with the readings.  Studying for the final really allowed me to tie everything together and realize how much I learned about Christian thought.
The class is not as focused on the practice of Christianity as one would assume. After the first two weeks, the class delves heavily into theology with a lot of primary texts which can be quite boring if that's not your area of academic interest. There is an interesting week on quasi-contemporary liberation theology at the end of the course however.
I didn't realize how historically rich the course was and the vast timeline we would cover.
This is a great course for those who wish to learn about the history of Christianity and view the Bible as a literary work. It is very interesting to see why prophets and saints such as Paul wrote the way they did and how his tone changed depending on the target audience.
The lectures are quite hard to understand if you don't already know the material well. Although the material and readings were interesting, there was a lack of organization which made the lectures even harder to follow.
This was a great course all around, but the person behind it really made it what it was. Prof. Lamberth brings a palpable passion to lecture that is contagious. She really wants you to do well, and if you are lucky enough to have her for section, count your blessings. She brings an inimitable knowledge base and energy to weekly discussions that facilitate nothing but a series of intriguing and engaging conversations. Overall, the material is interesting and Prof. Lamberth is phenomenal. Take it definitely.
