Professor Madigan is very engaging and the material is fascinating.
This is a good survey course in content, but the professor is uninspiring.
You'll learn a lot in this class with little stress. Just make sure that you are interested or at least think you are interested in the history of Christianity. This course is exactly as advertised; that is, it's all about Medieval Christianity and does a great job teaching it.
If you enjoy medieval history, political intrigue within the Catholic Church, or reading about the lives of saints than this class is for you.
If you're interested in Western Christianity before the Reformation period, this is a broad, interesting course surveying the 1100-1500s by dividing the period in a fairly chronological manner AND into the important CONCEPTS/TOPICS through which the periods can be analyzed.
This class is completely painless and really interesting.
This was a good and painless way to learn more about the Church during the 1100-1500's.
This class actually got me to learn the subject material without a great deal of work.  By not emphasizing grades, but by providing excellent lectures and manageable tests, this class may have actually been one of my best at Harvard.
An incredible class (and really not too much work!) for anyone who wants a more thorough knowledge of church history. Professor Madigan is an incredible lecturer and person.
Kevin Madigan is a great professor. If you want to learn about this subject area, he is the guy to teach it. He also has some fun stories from his times in Europe traveling to the sites of various historical events and still standing buildings. If you want a better view (and more historically accurate view) of medieval Christianity than 'everything was backwards and they killed a lot of people during the Crusades and Inquisition,' then you should take this class. He takes you on a journey through the various players from Popes to kings to monks who in many ways shaped the modern world.
A great introductory course! If you have any spare time, if you are at all interested in church history, or if you just want a cool senior chill-out class, take this course. Heck, even if you don't have or want any of those things, take this course. Everyone should take this class. This class is awesome, Professor Madigan is awesome, and even Lynch is awesome.
If you want to understand not only the history of the Church, but also the power that Christianity had in the minds of Medieval European Christians and how they conceived of the world in the context of Christianity, take this course. Professor Madigan brings Medieval Europe alive in class; lectures are super enjoyable and he is always cracking jokes.
This .course provides an opportunity to learn. Do the reading, ask questions, you'll learn and get answers.
