Take it if you are sincerely interested in developing a multidisciplinary approach in your thinking on a very pertinent topic. The readings had a bit of everything - political science, critical theory, sociology, etc. all structured around the core topic of intellectual history of Islamist thinkers. Professor Zeghal is great, and really gets into the talking about the exciting, cutting edge questions that still need to be answered. The workload is fair, and consistent throughout the semester. Recommended!
Take the class if you would like to understand Islamic thought in relation to politics.
If you are interested in this topic, read everything provided (twice) because there is a lot of useful informtion, and she presents it in a fashion that better prepares one to understand the issues of today.
Malika Zeghal approaches political Islam in the tradition of French and Wester political theory and to this end the perspective is useful in understanding Islamism, but unhelpful in furthering one's knowledge about Islam as a religion, way of life, jurisprudence etc.
This is a really interesting course. I would just caution students who have no experience with Islamic studies or Middle East studies because some of the material might be over his/her head. Also, you have to do most of the readings to participate in class discussion.
Professor Zeghal is an amazing teacher, so intelligent and supportive. You will come away from this class with an excellent understanding of political islam
This class is great if you're a graduate student familiar with Malika Zeghal's work or an undergraduate with interest and past coursework in political Islam, but if you only have a cursory interest in the material, I suggest you stay away. Professor Zeghal has a very strong command of the material, but her presentation often comes up short. Lectures did not have a powerpoint and often turned into long-winded diatribes that made the hour and a half long lecture unbearable. Zeghal also clearly wanted a discussion based lecture, but that was impossible due to the size of the class. The readings were long and expensive, and most were not covered in section or in lecture. Having to read an entire book for the book review on top of the extensive readings was a pain, but the final research paper was rather painless. Overall, I'd give this class a pass.
If you want a course of Islamist movements, this is the course to take. Professor Zeghal is a fantastic lecturer and the material is very interesting. Strongly encouraged to do all the readings or skim some of them to take the most out of it.
This class is a very helpful overview of the history of political Islam. The readings are interesting and well-chosen, if a little over-extensive.
Very hefty amount of reading, but you learn a LOT about a very timely subject (and particularly a lot about the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood, which is what the course really focuses on). Professor Zeghal is really good about engaging the class in discussion and encouraging class participation during lectures, and there is no busy work, only meaningful reading and writing. Not exhaustive, but effective.
This course is a fantastic overview of the history of political Islam. If you are interested in the subject, you should not pass up this course!
Dr. Zeghal is brilliant. If you have the opportunity to take a class with her, definitely do. She is extremely knowledgable and passionate about her work, thoughtful and always available to students outside of class (her office hours fill up very quickly though so sign up early). She encourages questions and values every student's contribution. Great class.
The problem with this class is not the professor or the readings--it's the mismatch between the professor and the students. Teaching Political Islam in the 20th and 21st centuries through primary texts is a brilliant approach, but it is definitely an academic, rather than diplomat-preparatory, approach. Also, the readings are ridiculously long.
It's a great course, but if you have no background knowledge of Islam, make sure to wikipedia it before taking the course.
While it does provide a solid background on political Islam, the lectures are often tedious and the assigned reading is excessive and often not covered in class.
This course helps you with a basic framework to analyze not just Islamic political movements but other political movements based on religions as well. The discussion would also be helpful in understanding the impact colonialism had on the social, religious and political landscapes of the colonized countries.
Take this class!! Malika Zeghal knows absolutely everything about this subject. You'll get a well-rounded look into Islamism and Islamic politics that will really help enlighten you about what's happening in the world today. Lectures are brilliant, sections are great, assignments aren't overwhelming.
A great opportunity to study with a specialist in this field and to nuance your understanding of Islam and Islam's role in politics. There are a lot of assumptions about this topic that are easily taken for granted.
Professor Zeghal is not just an expert on the subject matter; she is THE expert. If you're interested in Political Islam for any reason, you should abdolutely take this very rewarding course.
TAKE this class if you love analyzing and engaging with history at a very deep level. The most intellectually stimulating and rewarding Gen-Ed I've thus far taken.
Excellent lectures, fascinating readings.
This class is amazing. The material is very interesting and the professor is a great lecturer. If you are interested in Islam and the Middle East, this is a great class for you!
The professor doesn't show enough respect on what you think about the paper, rather, she only wants you to write it in her way.
The way in which Professor Zeghal and the teaching staff teach about what may deemed controversial is clear and very well signposted, with structured lectures and sections reading with primary sources first and foremost.
If you are already interested in political Islam and what is happening in the Middle East, or if you know nothing and want to learn about it, this is one of the best classes you'll ever take. Professor Zeghal is a fantastic professor; she really makes sure students understand the thought processes of the different thinkers and is always willing to talk with students outside of class. Mary and Lulie are both excellent TFs, and even as someone who had studied some of these thinkers before, I learned a lot.
This is an incredible course, one of the best I've taken at Harvard! You leave this course understanding so much about the different interpretations of Islam, starting from the Muslim Brotherhood, all the way to ISIS. The lectures are incredible. I believe everyone at Harvard should take this course to learn more about Islamic interpretations.
This class relies a lot on the primary sources. It is really nice to see the evolution of Islamic thought, so it is important to make time for the readings in order to get the most out of the class.
TAKE THIS CLASS! I cannot believe how much I have learned about Political Islam: its origins, its key thinkers, its influences, and how it has become the way it is today. This class is so key for everything that is going on in the world right now with Islam! Also, Professor Zeghal is an absolutely wonderful Professor! The fact that she and the TFs let us have the liberty to analyze the primary sources by ourselves is also an opportunity that we don't often get in college. You will not regret taking this class!
This class gives you a nice survey of Islamist thought throughout the past two centuries. It is nice to see the patterns that emerge and identify said patterns in current groups in the news (e.g. ISIS).
This is a really wonderful class to take if you have any interest in Islamism and Middle Eastern politics. Professor Zeghal is a good lecturer, and the contents of her lectures are great. They are thorough, delving into a lot of questions and issues. The sources you look at in this class are very interesting and the teaching fellows are great. Would highly recommend this class.
This wasn't a bad course, but wasn't as good as it could have been. I feel like it was made less interesting and complex as a result of becoming a Ged-Ed course this year. The best part is Professor Zeghal's lectures, which could be be great, especially when they engaged with more complex ideas. There just wasn't enough engagement with ideas in the course though, as too much time was spent explaining the basics and doing a very basic-level analysis of the language. I would strongly recommend this course for those with zero background in political Islam (this really is something worth learning about if you haven't), but would perhaps encourage those who already have some interest and knowledge in the area to look elsewhere.
Excellently done course on an incredibly important topic. Professor Zeghal's lectures are highly interesting, the texts are carefully selected, and the sections are thoughtfully carried out for once. All this makes for a pretty engaging academic experience that nicely introduces Islamism and its intellectual antecedents.
The class provides an interesting and engaging way of learning about one of the most important bodies of ideology in history.
Its a good overview of 20th century Islamic political history. But note that there is quite a lot of reading, especially for a Gen Ed class.
This class is a great opportunity to learn about political Islam through the actual words and ideas of the tradition's thinkers, writers, and activists. The class is flexible and allows you to focus in on the parts of the course that you find most interesting. Professor Zeghal is a great teacher and responsive to students.
This class ia an absolute dream.  The teaching staff is so wonderful and definitely cognizant of the fact that this is a gen ed.  The material is very interesting and manageable.  Would absolutely recommend!
It's pretty easy and can be interesting.  If you need it for Gen ed or just an elective it's a pretty good choice.
Great instruction and useful information. Worthwhile general education credit.
Very straightforward, you learn a ton, lectures are great, assignments are not hard.
This class, in my opinion, is important for understanding the role of religion in politics in general. However, for anyone interested in the Middle East this class is a must.
Take this class! You will be so much more knowledgeable about such an incredibly important are of the world -- the Middle East. Mallika is an awesome professor too -- gives really engaging and important lectures
Amazing class! If you're looking to better understand the history of Islamism, this class will do that and more. Not too much of a time commitment, but a lot of interesting discussions both in section and lecture.
The course covers incredibly relevant topics.
A wonderful GenEd in a relevant and fascinating topic! Professor Zeghal's lectures are great and the primary source reading is really interesting.
This course is excellent in the sense that you can learn a lot of materials from diverse perspectives - sociological, political, ideological, personal, etc. The materials are also extremely relevant to what is happening right now in the Middle East with the extremist movements. The lectures can be a bit dry.
This is an excellent course which has the potential to become even more excellent- proportionate to the amount of time you invest in doing the reading and research!
Take this class! It is so interesting, so relevant, Professor Zeghal is amazing, and you will learn SO much
This course gives an incredible overview of some of the most important Islamist thinkers -- and the material is highly relevant to the current political climate. Make sure you read the brief bios of all the philosophers in Princeton Readings book -- it's the whole course in a nutshell.
A hidden gem. This course gave me hope that Harvard still has a commitment to open-dialogue, about issues facing our world. We put down our stigmas and approached primary texts with open eyes. This class was a fantastic example of the importance of reading texts, rather than just taking the media's opinions at face value. The results were exhilarating. The TFs are incredible, research project was a great scholarly experience, and the readings were selected very well. Even if you don't take this class, I'd suggest getting access to the translated readings because they are so great. I took this class because I needed a Societies of the World gened, but the lectures and sections were some of the times I most look forwaded to each week.
Everyone will love it, whether you come from the sciences or humanities.
This is a great class for anyone who wants to learn the ideological context of the middle east's current situation. The reading is manageable and interesting, and the research paper is as enjoyable as it is rewarding.
I think Islam and Politics in the Modern Middle East is an incredible course to deeply engage with the theories of Islamic and Islamist thinkers over the past two centuries. It presents many political, social, and cultural perspectives of the relationship between Islam and the State in different countries throughout the Middle East. The readings and section discussions of the course will leave you thinking and wanting to discuss the issues further even after you leave the classroom.
You can't make an intelligent statement about ISIS or immigration until you take this course.
Definitely take this course. Great material, Ari is the best TF, and the paper was actually fun to write. Not a lot of work at al. Meets a gov concentration requirement.
Fair assessments and interesting relevant material.
This class was very interesting and comprehensive.
This is a great course. The work isn't overwhelming, but it will keep you challenged and engaged throughout the semester. Anyone who's interested in becoming versed in the world of Islam and politics (even just for conversational relevance) should take this course.
What a great experience! Professor Zeghal has put a lot of time and thought into making the class awesome. It is a great way to learn about the history of political Islam and how its roots have grown into the present day. It also teaches you that political Islam is not monolithic. There are many, many interpretations of Islam and this course will introduce you to various movements in their diverse forms.
This is a great gen-ed. The work is manageable and the readings and lectures are mostly enjoyable.
This class is incredibly engaging. The professor is an amazing scholar with a deep appreciation for her studies that spreads to her students. You will be very engaged in each discussion and be left with many questions that you will seek answers to.
Amazing class! I learned so much, and the lectures were extremely interesting. Could not recommend this class enough.
I would strongly recommend taking this course even if you have already completed your SW gen ed requirement. This course is a wonderful gateway to better understanding the roots of how Islam and politics interact, especially considering how deeply involved the US is in the Middle East and considering how rampant Islamophobia is in the West. I don't know of any other intro-level courses that help you understand the intellectual genealogy of ISIS and al-Qaeda. Professor Zeghal is a wonderful lecturer as well.
Fantastic Class. This course has changed my perspective on Western society and has made me reconsider my focus field within my concentration. I highly recommend this course to anybody -  you need no background knowledge regarding the Middle East.
Follow the lectures, do the readings, and go to section. If you do these, you'll be well prepared for all the assignments in the course. Also, start on your final paper early, and you'll do well.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. If you are at all interested in the role of Islam in Middle eastern politics and the issue of violence in islamist movements this is a must take class. Professor Zeghal is an expert on the issue and is an amazing resource. Class could have done a better job showing main stream muslim opinions but overall amazing course. Some people said they felt lost due to use of Arabic terms but they provide glossaries and definitions for all the terms so if you learn them you'll be more than fine.
this class is amazing and really widens your perspective on middle eastern politics. especially growing up in the US, a lot of the media we are exposed to oversimplifies or doesn't tell the full story. this class has definitely made me a better and more thoughtful global citizen.
Lectures were interesting and the course staff were very open to helping out. There were only 3 quizzes and a semester long paper so the workload was very doable
SW54 has been my favorite course at Harvard thus far. I had initially thought that my understanding of the Middle East and its complex geopolitics was grounded in knowledge and fair judgment, but this course has shown me that said understanding is far from perfect. SW54 has allowed me to view the politics of the modern Middle East with a discerning eye and has allowed me to make better sense of the events that we see on the news today. Even if you have fulfilled your Societies in the World GenEd requirement, take this course because the things it teaches you are indispensable in our current political climate.
SW54 was an amazing introduction to understanding the complex relationship between Islam and politics. The teaching staff was incredible and the material was great. The readings were very manageable and very interesting. It was really refreshing to read so many primary sources rather than overly scholastic interpretations. There is only a few quizzes and one writing assignment that are both very reasonable and engaging. This is definitely a low workload gen ed with seriously interesting content!
This class is amazing! Definitely one of the best classes that I've taken at Harvard. Professor Zeghal is an amazing lecturer. This course was very well-organized. Section was great as well-- instead of being a reiteration of lecturer like section is for most classes, section for this class was devoted to primary source analysis-- which I thought was really cool and different
Easy workload, as long as you complete the relevant readings. Lectures are sometimes only loosely related to the course materials, but were otherwise interesting.
The material is SO interesting, and I've never loved reading in a class so much before this one. The material is also so relevant to what is happening today and helps you understand the reason for certain events.
If I had to choose 3 courses to recommend to every Harvard student, this should be one of them. Professor Zeghal presents the material thoroughly, digestibly, and unbiasedly. We get a comprehensive understanding of the history that has lead to the modern Arab world by reading the primary sources, not through secondary, opinionated sources. The work is very doable -- quizzes are manageable and prepare you well for the exam. The paper is fun to write because you get to choose your own subject. I HIGHLY recommend it!!!!!
Just do the readings, go to lecture and topics that seem intimidating are way more manageable.
This class is really interesting and not too much work. It also should count for a Gov Elective, so there's really no reason not to take it if you're gov. Good material throughout and really only one big paper, which you have the whole semester to do.
It's more work than I had hoped but really cool. Wish I could have learned about more mainstream Muslim perspectives.
Professor Zeghal is the best source for info on the discussion of Islam and Politics. The TF's are super friendly and the readings are long but worth doing.
Excellent course on the evolution of Islamic political ideologies! Professor Zeghal is so knowledgeable and presents the material in a clear and cohesive manner, and has a great grasp of the macroscopic arc of the course. As she makes clear in the first lecture, do not expect a survey of the history of the Middle East or even a tremendous amount of the class devoted to current political events - the course focuses much more on tracing the genealogy of Islamism through the most important thinkers of the past century, but this knowledge is even more invaluable in understanding the Middle East today.
This course is phenomenal. Professor Zeghal is a great lecturer - her lectures are organized, structured, and dynamic. The readings are interesting and the subject matter is topical, relevant, and gives you a much deeper and more intricate understanding of Islamic Movements in the Middle East - a very important topic to understand during our current political moment. The assignments are interesting and, simultaneously, the course expectations/grading processes are reasonable and clear. The TFs are also all very engaged, passionate, and knowledgeable. Overall, an incredible course - I'm so glad I took it and it changed the way I look at Middle East politics. I would highly, highly recommend this class.
great gen ed. not much work but you learn something new.
Take this class!!! It is seriously one of the most engaging and informative classes I have taken at Harvard. Out of all the classes I have taken this semester, this is the one where I can confidently say I have really genuinely learned so many things and feel more confident discussing the subject matter and its relevance today. This class is exciting and fun and also, helps you with your writing! It is definitely not a hard class.
This is a very interesting class! Not a "gem ed" but definitely a worthwhile class to fulfill the society and the world requirement! Also very relevant and well taught.
This course gives you a great understanding of the situation in the Middle East over the past 150 years. You will come out of this class knowing more than expected but it does demand a descent amount of work and time to be put in (coming from someone who rarely takes social studies courses).
This class teaches you so much about a really important topic. There are so many misunderstandings about Islam and politics, and this course really helps you get to the truth. It is also not very difficult.
The course is great - very engaging lectures and sections. I enjoyed writing my research paper. Loved the course!
Professor Zeghal is so great at explaining different concepts, works, etc. It's an incredible opportunity to read the material written that fueled the current politics of the Middle East. Understanding the various thinkers and theories that have led to what is happening on the world now is truly mind blowing.
This is one of the rare classes that deals with Islam and how it affects politics and philosophy. It's a great introduction! The teaching staff are also very supportive and fun to be around.
Absolutely take this course!! Professor Zeghal directly ties the material to really important  Islamist groups in current events (e.g., the Muslim Brotherhood, ISIS), and the readings are always super interesting because it's almost all primary sources. The quizzes are super chill and have extra credit, so it's not hard to do well in this course!
Keep up on the readings!
This was a super interesting class, and Professor Zeghal is an amazing lecturer.
Take this class. It's incredibly eye-opening, especially with regards to the events that have been happening in the Middle East recently.
Professor Zeghal is great and conveys such enthusiasm during her lectures. Primary sources are very interesting and prepares an individual to have an intellectual discussion about Islamist movements with both academics and the general public too. A very informative and insightful class if one is willing to do the readings.
The more you put into this class, the more you will get out of it.  On the surface, you will leave with a basic understanding of names of groups, histories of certain figures, and the Muslim Brotherhood.  If you ask questions and pry your TF's, you will leave with a rich interpretation of many events and groups, such as the Iranian revolution, or even ISIS and the Taliban.
Though there are lectures on Al Qaeda/ISIS at the end of the course, this class is less about contemporary events and more about the foundations of Islamic political thought. The focus is particularly on Egypt. I think this was a very effective way to learn the material.
This class requires a lot of reading in subjects you will most likely not be familiar with. That being said, the quizzes/paper/final exams are not very difficult to do well in.
This course is amazing!!!! So well done. I learned so much.
Made me a better citizen of the world and able to engage in discussion on relevant issues. The project was very rewarding as it was self-driven and in any topic that interested you. Professor Zegha is very passionate and the TF's are very knowledgable and acessible.
I definitely recommend taking this class, totally reasonable workload with minimal stress and I learnt a great deal at the same time.
If you speak Arabic and have a general knowledge of the history of the Middle East (Egypt and Iran specifically), then this is probably a great class.  As someone with no background knowledge, classes frequently made little sense and I did not understand the Arabic words used (nor were they adequately explained).  The lectures were difficult to follow as they moved very quickly, and the readings were very dense.  The one thing I liked about this class was the independent research paper because I got to focus on a topic I was interested in.  The rest of the class was honestly really hard to follow, which made it quite unpleasant.
This is has been my most favorite class at Harvard so far. Mostly because I am personally incredibly interested in the topic and we covered material that I deeply affect me, however, also because I believe that discussion on the topic is necessary. I think that the class is taught very well and the teaching staff does a great job.
I loved this class. So interesting and definitely takes some work but not terrible.
This class is amazing. Lectures and sections are very engaging. The reading is not too much, and the paper in the class is very manageable and actually interesting to write. This is a great introduction to Islam and politics, and will broaden your overall perspective. I would highly recommend taking this!
Excellent lectures, you will learn a lot in a class that is not difficult.
There are a lot of courses at Harvard about the Middle East. You can study the region from a historical, political, and even an anthropological perspective. I argue that you should take this course (understanding issues in the Middle East through an Islamist lens) because the other perspectives (historical, political, and anthropological) can be gleaned without guidance. However, the religious angle and the context for the rise of religious movements and ideas are best learned by reading primary sources and discussing things through a course.
This class is a great way to learn about current middle eastern politics. It's not a religion class, although we do discuss the way religion impacts political movements
