This was the most pointless/frustrating course I have taken at Harvard.  It sounded interesting (and was at first), but it became increasingly disorganized.  It delved into some topics/issues in considerable detail (if you would like to spend weeks discussing oral suction in circumcision, this class is for you).  However, it did not end with many profound conclusions or explore broad themes as well as most courses do.  Readings and lectures often did not seem particularly relevant.  Classes were often cancelled, sometimes with little notice.  This meant that some topics were never addressed and, in my view, reflected a general lack of professionalism in teaching.  Furthermore, many issues were presented in a one-sided fashion and teachers (especially the TF) inserted their own opinions excessively, in my view.  Lastly, this course is on religion and law but is (at least currently) taught by people with backgrounds in religion, not law.  Thus, be prepared to have your legal analysis read by someone who may know little more than you do on the topic.
The Moot Court was really great, but did take away from some of the focus on overall content.
The moot court assignment is awesome!
Material covered was awesome. Teaching styles and approaches were fantastic, too. I felt as though a lot of prior legal knowledge or exposure was assumed in this course. They were awesome about bringing down all the political and religious matter to generally accessible levels for us, but not so much with the legal components. The syllabus kept changing almost on a weekly basis and that was a bit frustrating. It was also hard to know what they wanted from us in our assignments, but that's probably because there were no clear concrete examples since it was the first year being taught. With a little tweaking and solid syllabus organization, this class has potential to become a staple here at Harvard, so don't give up on it just yet!
Very relevant material and great professors!
This is a really fascinating course that will challenge you to consider certain rights and values of the U.S. that you may take for granted. The workload is very manageable and the professor is great!
This class needs a little bit of restructuring, but I am confidant the Prof and TF will implement needed improvements. If you are interested in religion and the Constitution, this class will give you a lot to talk about. The final project is a mock trial in the Ames Court Room at the Law School - the project is a ton of fun!
This is a really great course. If you have an interest in religion, American history, politics, or all of the above, I would definitely recommend it. Plus, Professor Roantree is great.
This will be a great course in the future. It went through some growing pains this year, but I would expect it to improve the next time it is taught. As it was, the Moot Court was a great experience, and the course as a whole was a pretty good introduction into Supreme Court cases for someone like me who hadn't looked at any in depth.
This course is just the right combination of lecture, section, and individual project work. We learned a variety of material, from religious history in the U.S. to reading cases from the Supreme Court. The final project, a moot court where we argued an actual case about religious free exercise before other students (who acted as the Supreme Court justices), was a great exercise, and I definitely took a lot from it. I also love the re-write policy that Professor Roantree has; it gives you an opportunity to really improve your writing (and your grade). If you have any interest in American government, the Supreme Court, or religion, I definitely recommend this course. You learn a ton about the Court and about the judicial system as well as the role of religion in contemporary (and historical) America.
This class was one of my favorites since I've been at Harvard.  Professor Roantree is an excellent teacher, and you get to study the intersection among religion, law, politics through a variety of mediums.  The Moot Court activity that you prepare for during the semester and take part in at the end is incredibly engaging and fun.
If you're interested in pursuing a legal career or are just interested in the intersection of law and religion I highly recommend this course.
really great exploration of history of interaction between religion and law in united states
This class is fantastic!  The discussions will keep you thinking outside of class about religion in America. The reading is always interesting and light compared to other classes. The Moot Court project sounds intimidating at first, but it was structured so well that it ended up being the best and least stressful group project I've ever done. Go to all the lectures -- this should be easy because you won't want to miss the topic!
This is a great class, and I really enjoyed learning more about the topic and I think it is very relevant regardless of concentration. Very meaningful stuff, and I'm glad I learned and meditated on the role of religion in American life.
The class is interesting but not extremely well organized.
If you are interested in the law and the way that the 1st clause of the 1st amendment has informed, been interpreted and used in U.S. history, take this course.
Great class, and the professor is so insightful! Just listen to her perspectives and the way she frames her questions -- clearly a very astute academic.
A great course if you are in any way curious of the role of religion in America.
Great class! I wish I had come to the Religion department sooner.  Very interesting class and great preparation for anyone thinking about going to law school.  One of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard, I couldn't recommend it more
Prof. Roantree is absolutely great! Plus, learning about religion through the lens of law in the United States was truly fascinating, (not much on the politics end though).
It is not quite what you think it will be!!! I expected much more about politics, especially modern American politics, than this course offered. It was largely about the Supreme Court, which, while interesting, got old after the tenth First Amendment case. The mock trial assignment is cool but is not a good enough reason to sit through dull lectures. It was really unorganized--lectures were cancelled a bunch of times, sometimes the head TF lectured and the professor didn't show up, etc.
This was the first year the course was offered but I still think it's a great way to get rid of the US in the World gen-ed. The only main paper was a ~5 page one, and we had to do weekly response papers for moot court as well (second half of the semester). The cases were definitely interesting but didn't require an overwhelming amount of reading. Just make sure you know the main points of the cases since the professor will cold call you. Hoping that the class becomes a little more focused and organized in the second year.
The moot court part of the course was fantastic
Dr. Roantree and Max are awesome!! Take it just for them. Also, politics and religion is such an important issue currently and it is insightful to hear about the history of the two's dynamics.
This class is fascinating and really touches on important topics regarding American public life and the legal process. Take this class-- you'll likely not get a chance to be exposed to this material again.
This is definitely a fun course to take even if you are not a humanities person! I think the issues that we tackle in the course are important and need to be addressed!
This is a very exciting class which very successfully bridges the arcs of American political and religious history. If you have even a little interest in this topic, then this class will not disappoint.
Absolutely loved the class - the teaching staff is phenomenal, the subject matter is fascinating, and the moot court project was very fun and engaging.
Great course!  Really enjoyed the way Ofrit taught it.  Engaging, insightful, exciting.
Can be very interesting. You definitely would get more out of it if you have some religious knowledge. Also the assignments were cool, especially the moot court.
If Ofrit is teaching this, you should absolutely take it. She is hilarious, and very relaxed. If you enjoyed Con Law this is a good class to follow up with, and the moot court is a great capstone to the course.
Really interesting course and Ofrit is an amazing lecturer. Definitely take it if you have the chance.
Dr. Liviatan is fantastic, a ball of energy, really interesting thoughts on religious legal issues. I like the sociological perspective as well.
This course is fun and interesting, without a heavy workload, and you'll learn a lot about a very relevant topic. The Moot Court at the end of the term is quite enjoyable and a nice break from the papers-and-exams finals period (and this is coming from someone normally averse to group projects). Don't worry if you haven't studied law/politics/religion before, as the professor will make sure you know what's going on.
This class was a great 'chill class' which does not require much reading, and is really mind-opening to anyone even vaguely interested in the subject of comparative religion. I do not know who will teach it next year, but if it is either Professor Roantree, or Liviatan, I recommend it!
Engage with this class! It's a lot of fun and has the potential to teach and expose you to topics relevant to today's political arena
Professor Liviatan was fantastic, especially for having come into a third of the way through because the original professor was ill. She emphasized critical thinking and connection drawing from history and sociology as well as law.
This course was untraditional, but in my opinion fantastic. I will say that the beginning of the course (with Professor Roantree) was completely different than the second half, but I liked the second half so much better. It taught me a lot about law and history in the United States, and the blurry lines that exist to separate the American government from its religious history. It points out a lot of current religious discrimination that I would have otherwise never even thought about, and the papers were challenging, but attainable even for someone who did not have background knowledge. Class session was difficult to follow, mostly because the discussion was not ever directly about the readings, but I still found class interesting, and Professor Liviatan is both hilarious and extremely knowledgable. However, the best thing about the course was the final project. I have never liked group projects, and they are normally enormously difficult to make happen, but section for this class was used to bring the group together to work on it. It was a fun way to learn about the Supreme Court and to think critically about a hypothetical religious case, and I ended up learning the most from the research and preparation that was required leading up to the event.
Ofrit is a great lecturer and the material is interesting, but with the professor switch, it was a little muddled. The moot court isn't very structured and the TFs/Prof assumed the students had legal knowledge which made it difficult if you didn't. Interesting course and not too much work for a gen ed.
Religion 50 was a very interesting course and I learned a lot--I especially enjoyed the opportunity to learn how to read Supreme Court cases critically and closely and to understand the different considerations driving cases regarding religious freedom. However, I felt that the class discussions were dominated by just a few individuals and the moot court exercise, while well-intentioned, was implemented with groups that were too big, limited guidance, and an inflexible case.
The effectiveness of the class depends on the level of background knowledge and enthusiasm among its students.
This course is very engaging and exciting. I would definitely take this course if you even have the slightest interest in law. Further, if you just want a course that will challenge you to think in new ways, this is it!
It's a very specific type of class, and it will serve most people as simply gen-ed / elective, and so the people I would recommend it to would have to be a very specific type of person - but it's a great class for people whose interests align with it! (and doesn't take too much time)
This class is really interesting. The readings and court cases really made me think about what role religion should play in public life. The discussion was often one-sided with a predetermined conclusion. I feel the class would be better if it were kept to a smaller size. The moot court was quite interesting, although it was difficult at times because the groups were so large.
Definitely take this class! Ofrit is the most enthusiastic and brilliant professors I have had so far at Harvard. The moot court will be one of the memorable things you'll do academically at Harvard. Especially good if you're considering going into Law or want to become a judge.
This was a great course for the USW gen ed. As someone interested in questions of religion in American law, I gained a great deal from this course in terms of my understanding of such topics, and would definitely recommend it to anyone with similar interest.
This is a good class. The moot court is super fun and definitely the best part of the class. Lectures can be frustrating sometimes because I often felt misunderstood by the professor and usually ended up feeling dumb. Often she would ask questions that you would only know the answer to if you had studied social studies extensively, which was frustrating because it had nothing to do with the readings. But the work load is not too bad!
