When Professor Roantree decides to lecture, it's usually pretty great. She provides insight into the readings and asks pertinent questions. However, at other times the class is too participation-oriented. This is a good class if you want to learn in conjunction with others.
It is an incredibly interesting class but there is a fairly large amount of reading.
Great material, but this year it was quite disorganized and lectures became a bit of a joke. Low workload and you'll learn something.
Don't take this class unless you like theorists like Marx, Weber and Locke. Also, be prepared to come out of the class more confused than you started. That is the nature of the material, but I found this frustrating.
The subject matter and the case studies in this course were very interesting, but overall, I felt the course lacked organization.  Some topics received much more attention than others, and I believe we tried to cover too much given the amount of class time there was.  With that being said, this course is still fairly new, and Professor Roantree is very caring and accessible.
Great professor, great TFs, interesting topic, not too much reading, engaging assignments and staff!
The course seems unfocused at times, but to me, as I had had few encounters with religion before, it was really eye-opening. The course is less about the persistence of religion and more about analyzing different ways in which the secular relates to the religious. This relationship is analyzed in several different models and case studies and leads you to think about the assumptions underlying your own views of religion.
This class is fun and exciting, especially because it relates to current events very well. This course gave me a new perspective about international relations, the role of secularism in the modern world. This class is also a good mix of theory and real world case studies if that is what you are into.
Easy and enlightening.
The course has a title that is seducing, but it doesn't really teach you much about the relationship between politics and religion. Neither lectures nor assigned readings actually does the job of explaining the role of religion in international politics.(They are simply lectures explaining some assigned reading, not critically engaging you to think about the relationship between religion and international politics) However, because the role of religion in international politics is not studied much in any field of study, if you really want to learn about the role of religion in international politics, it won't hurt to take the course.
This class isn't very difficult and covers very interesting questions and material. It is, however, a little disorganized. Hopefully this will improve with time.
You learn relevant information that help you to look at the world in a different way/through a different lens
This class is very easy, and I learned a few interesting things, but Prof. Roantree was very disappointing. She missed many classes -- either cancelled lecture or let one of the TFs lecture, and seemed pretty unprepared generally. I wanted it to be more rigorous, and it felt like kind of a joke class.
This is an interesting and worthwhile course that gives students a new perspective on religion and international conflict. It really makes you question what religion is and how it relates to governance. Be aware that the course focuses on theory for the first two-thirds of the semester and only discusses case studies during the last third.
For someone with no background in this area who has not read any political theory or philosophical texts, this course is hard but not impossible. The papers are not easy but are rewarding academically. The professor is awesome and great to get to know one on one, but her lectures can be hard to follow and unclear at times.
Really cool class that teaches you not only about the role of religion in politics around the world, both through theory and case studies, but also the very different ways what it means to be religious is conceived around the world.
This is one of the few classes here that is extremely straightforward. What you see is what you get. If you want to not only learn about the how religion has impacted international politics in the past, but also be able to evaluate the role religion plays currently and in the future, this course is extremely valuable!
Solid course--you'll learn a lot in lecture, and the material is clearly presented. You will be fine with little to no background in the field, but background knowledge would definitely have been helpful.
The section discussions were the best, the lectures were interesting but somewhat long. And She calls on people randomly so you better know the readings inside and out.
As long as you don't mind a lack of organization, the class can be a good fit for those who have too many long-paper classes or want to have a class to alternate with psets.
This class perpetuates nearly every distasteful idea about Islam that anyone has ever had. Don't expect any of your prejudices to be challenged, or your world to be expanded. In fact, expect to be appalled by the reductionism and over-simplification of religion that the class indulgesnay, wallowsin. If you learn anything it will be in spite of the class, not because of it.Additionally, note that the professor often did not show up to lecture, frequently (at least 6 times, I believe) cancelling it with less than 10 minutes notice.It is, however, easy.
There is a lot more social theory than a lot of people like, but the second half is interesting.
Course has too much theory. The case studies are only at the end it wasn't exactly what I had expected. It has a lot of interesting information on religion in terms of the different theories many academics have about religion but is missing the international politics component for most of the course. The first half is a huge struggle but the second half is way more interesting.
Great class that informs you of current issues. Makes you think beyond the classroom.
Good course, poor lectures.
Here's the deal: it's a painless class for seniors and the TFs are truly exceptional. That being said, everything about the course was just so bizarre this year (absences, weird assignments in lecture, cold calling in class, Roantree giving lectures straight from Wikipedia, a general feeling of unpreparedness, very simplistic lectures, and lest we forget, her constant absences from class) that it's hard to say what you should do. If you want an easy gen ed and don't care whether you learn something, take it. If you want to learn something, and Roantree is still teaching/hasn't gotten things together, don't take it. Simple as that.
Solid class. The readings and cases are interesting--you get a basic understanding of the Arab-Israeli conflict, Islamic immigration in Europe, and the Turkey-EU membership problem. Lectures are effective when the professor lectures, but not as much when she tries to engage in a discussion with over 100 people.
Interesting material, but Professor Roantree is not always fully engaged with the course.
One of my favorite classes I have taken here.  Bronwyn is a succinct, knowledgeable lecturer when she is at lecture and prepared (she didn't come a handful of times).  Readings are extremely informative.  GREAT READINGS.  The fleet of TFs is knowledgeable, enthusiastic, and helpful beyond belief.  You learn so much relevant information about the world.  Myanmar, Nigeria, Turkey, Hamas, and Islamic Maghreb will become your specialities if you dig your teeth into the class.  The course' s structure made me want to work hard.
If you're looking for superficial insight on how religion plays out in international conflict, take this class. If you're truly looking to understand different religions and the depth of religion's role in a diverse perspective, don't. This class will only offer you few diverse religious perspectives and will mostly just be Western-oriented readings and conversations.
I would take the class to understand importance of religion in international relations. In the first half, you would be covering some theories/philosophies that explain relevance of religion in ir. In the second half, you would  be focusing on various interesting cases! Kip is a fantastic TF - he is driven by passion, dedication and commitment. He really enjoys working with students; very approachable.
This class will definitely make you think about the role of religion in public life and in current events. The first section, focused on theory, may be a bit painful if philosophy/theory is not your interest, but the knowledge that you gain in that portion of the class really pays off when you analyze the case studies and current events in the second portion.
This is not a bad class if you're looking to satisfy a gen-ed requirement. It's not too much work, it has a very generous essay rewrite policy (which I hope they keep), and it can leave you with some different viewpoints about religion and international politics. This class will be pretty enlightening if you have not really studied religion or international politics, and I recommend it for anyone who needs to fill a gen ed. Just beware that there might be a lot of gov majors in this class who really care about what's going on and if you're a science major who's not that good at humanities you might not enjoy the class that much.
Professor Roantree frequently did not even show up to lecture - either canceling class or having a TF fill in and give the lecture. When she did, her lecture either provided a wikipedia summary of our readings and their relevant history, or simply turned the class into a jumbo section (with little structure). She rarely provided insightful commentary on the readings.
The structure/flow of lecture is a little disorganized but the class is really interesting!
This is an AWESOME and engaging course! Take it if you have any interest in the topic at all. Provides a very insightful discussion of the current global situation of religion and politics.
This is a great class! The material/theory discussed in the first half is applied during the second half which makes everything more interesting. I definitely recommend it!
If you're looking for a class that stimulates interesting discussions and assigns compelling reading material, take this course. I enjoyed lecture and section dialogue and definitely found the theoretical frameworks and case studies covered valuable. If you are someone who values a lot of structure in terms of lecture, this is not the class for you.
Make sure you do most of the reading and pay attention in section. The material is interesting once you have done the readings and are ready to get engaged in the discussions
Lots of people think they know SH!t but they don't know nuffin
Don't take. Doesn't even seem like Roantree cares about the course. She would often cancel or show up unprepared and ask dumb questions for an hour that didn't actually help us understand the material at all.
Take this class if you want an easy class where you'll also learn some interesting stuff. DO NOT take it if you already have a religion background, because you'll learn nothing. It may also seem very unsatisfactory if you've taken a lot of social theory, since this class doesn't do it justice. Be prepared to be frustrated during some lectures because the some are clearly useless and involve no new material, but you can't predict those beforehand.
do the readings and pay attention to the key themes throughout the course to really get the most out of this class.
You will learn a lot if you take this class seriously and engage in discussion, but it would be easy to tune out.
You learn a lot about things that matter. Worth it as a gen ed.
Take it! It is not super easy, but you will find the work so intellectually rewarding and practical in real world application.
Fun and fascinating, a little rough on the workload side, but worth the lessons.
Really fun and interesting and the work load is fair.
This class does is excellent on paper, and there are some fascinating insights on the intersection of religion and international politics elucidated within this class. However, the lectures are pretty vacuous at times, and the material suffers from organizational problems occasionally. Take this class only if you are absolutely fascinated by the intersection of these subjects.
Good class, a little slow before the transition to case studies. Manageable workload.
I took this class because as I science concentrator (and generally as a person not very informed with international politics) I wanted to learn about social theory and current events. The first part of the course is essentially learning about most of the major thinkers (rousseau, locke, marx, weber, taylor) and then applying their philosophies on religion and internal current events in the second part of the course. Many times throughout the course I felt intimidated because many of the students in the class were religion, government or social studies concentrators who were familiar with the topics but don't let this scare you away because the material is super interesting once you get down to it. Professor Roantree cold calls on students, which was very intimidating but it does force you to keep up with the readings. The two essay and final were also very manageable. Overall, this class is great if you want to learn social theory and current events.
There are better gen-eds and better religion classes. The professor was erratic, the essays were not consistently stimulating, and the final not a good exam.
Religion 110 covers a lot of interesting material and is a good way to satisfy C & B for people interested in international affairs. However, in its current form the course feels a bit scattered and you don't really have the chance to plunge into the theory or the case studies very deeply; the course treats everything in somewhat cursory fashion. I hope the course gets reworked a bit so it will be even better.
The class definitely has a heavy focus on the social theory - don't think it's all going to be case studies. In fact it's mostly the opposite. And doing the reading every week will help you a lot in lecture, section, on papers, and in the final.
Be ready to discuss the readings in a seminar setting. If you have not had any experience in political theory, the first two thirds the the course is kind of a baptism by fire. Once the case studies begin in the last four weeks of class, the material is much more engaging.
It's definitely for people who are interested in the subject.
I would tell them that this is a really good foundation both in theory and in current events and is really enjoyable.
The reading list for the course is really good. However, discussion can be sometimes superficial and unsatisfying depending on the kinds of student in the course. I personally think the class would have done better with a two-hour long discussion componenent. If they end up making this change, I would highly recommend taking it. If you have any background in the field of secularization/religion, the course might seem to be overly simplistic.
This class was awesome :D A lot of interesting readings, thought-provoking and surprisingly relevant to other courses / your whole friggin life.
it might be a bit more about theory than one might expect, but nonetheless, very enjoyable!
