This course give a great foudnation in existentialism and gives you a great chance to read some potentially life-changing reeadings. Professor Lamberth's lectures were excellent and sections with Tina were fantastic!
Religion 57 was hands down the best course I have ever taken, not just at Harvard, but in my life. Everything that I've ever wanted academically out of Harvard I found in this class, and I'm almost saddened that I will probably never take a class that is as good ever again. Professor Lamberth is nothing short of inspiring, the material is fascinating, and the structure of the course itself could not be more perfect. (I feel something of an obligation to mention that my TF, Tina, was integral to my experience of the class and she made it even better, but I have no evidence that the other TFs were not at least as good.) At the risk of being clichd (and this is), I can truly say that this class changed my life. If you've read this and are still not convinced, I don't know what else to say to you.
It's a lot of reading and lecture isn't the best. The material is interesting but I didn't find Professor Lamberth to be a very exciting lecturer so making myself go to class at 1pm was sometimes difficult.
Lamberth's lectures kind of seemed like an hour of ramblings in which she never really got to the point.  This class would be vastly better as a seminar.
Have no doubt: if you are someone who likes to think deeply about the meaning of life, the readings in this course will change you. Never before at Harvard have I experienced such a blending of my real life issues and the material in one of my classes. It felt like each week I would read about a new system of thought and the way I lived for that week would be overcast by these powerful new ideas. Warning: I didn't find lectures very helpful at all. In fact, I think I would have gotten as much from the course if I had just stayed home and done all the readings.
Take this course if it's the last thing you do at Harvard. Courtney is a GREAT professor, and the breadth of texts you will read in this course will open a whole new world of knowledge for you.
I absolutely recommend this course! It is a course that every student should take before they graduate.
This is a strong ethical reasoning Gen Ed that aims to engage in big ideas about the meaning of life. If you are interested in existentialist thought (and perhaps willing to be a bit lost at times), it's a good way to fulfill the requirement.
Great texts and lectures. Prof. Lamberth is fantastic-- there are very few professors I have across who care so much about their students' well-being. She is truly interested in every student, and their personal journeys in existentialism. The section staff was fantastic too. Everyone should think about these questions at some point-- they really help in leading life better.
This is the best class I have ever taken.
This is a great class. The readings were very interesting and the class brought up many great questions. I would highly recommend it.
The readings are wonderful and the teaching staff, including Professor Lamberth, are lovely, but if you are looking for transcendent, life-changing lectures that truly expand your mind and find you racing to keep up, this may not be the course for you. It is incredibly well-meaning and perhaps will be improved in future iterations, but I found that it fell a bit flat in terms of its philosophical rigor.
The readings are fantastic. But they are far too extensive... the lectures are, for this reason alone, I think, scattered and fractured, and you will come away feeling unsatisfied. Perhaps this was the idea -- life is absurd and we're all in despair, and this class is absurd, and if you really care about reading Kierkegaard, you might be in despair cuz you don't have enough time to read and discuss it. Hopefully this will be altered in future iterations of the class. If Tina is TF-ing, run (do not walk) to her section and office hours.
If you do the readings and really try to grapple with them, the class will be very rewarding. If you don't, then the class is a fairly easy, low workload fourth class. Definitely a better, more enriching experience if you opt for the former, but either way it is worthwhile to take it.
Great class. Lamberth is an amazing lecturer, the readings are great, section discussion is amazing (depends on other students though I guess, I got lucky). Will make you think about your life differently. Highly recommend 10/10
You get more out of readings and section than lecture.
This class is one of the best academic experiences I have ever had. I looked forward to coming to lecture and section every time, and I am genuinely sad the semester is over because I miss this course. The reading list is incredible (it seems long but you will find yourselves reading and re-reading the books), and Prof. Lamberth is such an engaging, intelligent, witty, and creative lecturer who truly cares about her students. She and the TF's offer copious office hours each week. Taking this course is a transformative experience. I feel so enriched because of it
This class is amazing. Professor Lamberth is amazing. The readings are amazing and are essential to the course rather than supplementary. Take it.
This class is worth it to hear Professor Lamberth lecture alone. She is incredibly engaging and passionate about the material. The readings will truly make you think about what you believe.
You must take this course. I am aware that most people choose to fill the ER credit with another much more well-known course that is held in the fall, and which is a lovely course as well. But this one I would regard as a hidden gem. It makes you think, the essay prompts are great (there are only two), and the final exam is very fair. One thing-- you must do the readings, or at least 80 percent of them. You need them to sound informed in section, to understand lecture, and you absolutely will fail the final exam if you haven't read, because the readings ARE the lifeblood of the course. That said, this course absolutely does not kill you in terms of workload. You just need to be smart about allocating your time, and if you just get the readings done, you will find they will take much less time than you realize.
TAKE THIS COURSE. Please do. During shopping period, a black turtleneck-clad Professor Lamberth will stand in front of the class and assert that the readings, thinkers, and musings this class draws from/inspires have the potential to change your life - and they really, truly do. This course transcends the structural limits of classes/syllabuses/grades and urges you to consider the role of faith, authenticity, piety, God, absurdity, ambiguity, tension, free will, death... in your progression towards self-actualization. Professor Lamberth and Tina (if you get her as a TF) are both fabulous and brilliant scholars. Weekly readings are fascinating and challenging, essay prompts are thought-provoking, and final is a satisfying synthesis of the semester.
This course was wonderful! The materials were mostly readings everyone should do at some point in their lives, so it was nice to finally be assigned to read Nietzsche and Kierkegaard, et al. Professor Lamberth is extremely invested, and that is apparent in every lecture.
Loved this class. The course covers a lot of ground -- you read a ton of books from lots of writers, some of them pretty linguistically dense. Courtney is a great lecturer, though, and she makes even the tougher material engaging. This class is a great opportunity to learn a lot about formative modern philosophy, and to reflect on your own relationship to all of the foundational works you read in the course.
this is the best class I've ever taken!!!!
This class was amazing! An interesting and fun way to fulfill Ethical Reasoning, but more than that a great chance to delve into fascinating topics in religion, ethics, and existentialism, and to learn from some of the warmest and most effective teachers I've had at Harvard! The syllabus was incredible, the assignments were reasonable, and the ideas we talked about were rich and challenging but accessible. Prof Lamberth is a generous and thoughtful lecturer and Tina is the best tf! The final assignment was so fun, too--mapping existentialist philosophy onto questions of authentic portrayals of ourselves on social media!I I would highly recommend this class.
This course had never been offered before as a lecture, so it's still working out some kinks. On the one hand the material is great, and Professor Lamberth is super nice. On the other hand, lectures were extremely digressive and unclear--although Professor Lamberth had words prepared, she rarely read from them, and her way of talking about the text just never seemed to get to the point. That made lectures very boring and nearly useless. Section was also pretty painful, at least for me. Required weekly postings had to be done, but they were never once referenced by our TF, which made it seem like a completely arbitrary assignment. Overall, this course was frustrating and not nearly as successful as it could have been--but perhaps it'll improve in future years. Shop and see how it goes.
This is the best course you will ever take in your life.  It's completely life-changing.  All of the most stimulating and engaging material I've ever read has been in this course.  It allows you to consider the biggest questions in life: What gives life value?  What does it mean to be human?  What/Who is God?  What is the human/divine relationshIp?  I could go on and on. Professor Lamberth is an incredible lecturer.  But more than that, she cares deeply about her individual students and wants to get to know you.  She takes time to get to know you and invests in learning your personal story and how the material is affecting you.  The TFs are beyond brilliant.  I wish I could just tap into all of their knowledge!  They're so passionate about the material and it's contagious.  Sections flew by and left all of us wishing we had more time.  I would've spent all my time on this course if I could.Everyone in this course agreed that it was more than a class; it was a life experience.  And the enrolled students formed a unique bond over that.  We all wanted to meet up with each other outside of class to discuss the topics.  I made some wonderful, genuine friends from exploring these topics together.  There's an atmosphere of excitement because everyone - the students, the professor, and the TFs - all realize that this is something really, really special. I can't possibly recommend this course highly enough.  Even if it doesn't count for anything credit-wise, taking this course will be one of the best decisions of your life.  PLEASE TAKE THIS!
Take this class! The readings are engaging, applicable, and approachable regardless of prior background. Prof Lamberth cares deeply about not only the material but also her students, and it is evident in every lecture she gives. The readings forced me to reevaluate much of what I had always just taken for fact about how individuals define success and an authentic life. It gave me new perspective on religion and values. I felt very engaged the whole time. If you have the opportunity and can commit to doing the readings, take this class.
This course is the best course you can take for yourself at Harvard. The students and staff are all o engaged with the material and the topics covered make you really think about meaning or lack thereof of your life and your moral/ethics. very valuable to you as a human.
This class will challenge you to reevaluate the way you view the world.  I genuinely believe that my values have changed as a result of this class.  It has prompted me to challenge what I view as a genuine existence in a deep and impactful way that I expect will stick with me for a very long time.  While some of the readings are quite dense, they are incredibly rewarding if you give them the time and effort they require.
If you're looking for an easy GenEd, avoid this class.  If you are looking for a fulfilling survey course of Existential philosophy and literature that requires you to ask big questions and look for bigger answers, then Religion 57 is probably for you.
Some of the readings are tedious but every now and then you come across an extremely interesting one that will stay with you.
This is a fantastic course if you take it with any general interest in broadening your understanding of existentialist thought.  Professor Lamberth gives amazing lectures and the TFs are great resources in section.  Be prepared for dense reading and tough papers!
It is very interesting and fulfilling if you do the readings, but there a lot of readings.
The class covers a great deal of material, without a very heavy workload. It is interesting and it is important information to know. A very good Gen Ed.
This class was a great survey and in-depth look at existentialism. It is quite a bit of reading and grades quite hard. However, it is a great way to fulfill ER and quite though-provoking.
TAKE IT TAKE IT TAKE IT. You will never find another course that dives so substantively into the search for personal meaning.
This class has allowed me to see all my other classes and me being on campus in a different light.
THE BEST CLASS. WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE.
As someone who does not care about philosophy and is not religious it was not the best choice of gen ed, but it is an ok course.
The reading list is great, and Professor Lamberth provides insightful commentary. It's interesting, and a gen ed that I think anyone can tackle. If you're really into philosophy and theory it may not provide the level of depth you're looking for, but the teaching staff is a great resource to delve deeper into the material. Not too much work required, but it can be a very rewarding experience if you put some extra thought in.
This is a great class that gives you a taste of existentialist thought through history. Not very high stress but really opens your mind to the greatest thinkers of our time.
There are a lot of phenomenal readings in this class. The one drawback is that the pace is rather quick as it works out to be at least one book a week which can become overwhelming.
Really phenomenal reading list, but don't take it if you're not going to end up doing the reading.  Lectures weren't super engaging, but reading the texts gives you a great framework for understanding the world. Annoyingly large gen-ed which would have been an incredible small seminar.
This was not a class. This was an EXPERIENCE. Professor Lamberth is incredible and re-ignited my intellectualism, which had dulled in the two years I have been in Harvard. But the desire for being and living intellectually was re-ignited in me. She truly cares about your intellectual development. I was taking this class as I was dealing with depression and this class definitely gave me some intellectual but also spiritual frameworks to think about depression and the human condition. Section is amazing and the readings are wonderful and not too overbearing each week. Best class I've taken so far. Take it.
This class is a must-take. The readings are some of the best you will ever encounter and the teaching staff is singularly dedicated and inspiring. You will come out of this class different than how you entered.
Take this course! Professor Lamberth is a fantastic lecturer, and so clearly cares about her students. The readings are sometimes dense, but always interesting. Amazing way to fulfill Ethical Reasoning.
This is a great course for anyone interested in the philosophy of religion and faith over the past 3000 years--the readings are interesting and varied, and discussing them in section was by far the best part of the class. It goes pretty fast, but at the end you'll be surprised how much you retained.
Enjoy every minute of it! The pain of struggling through the readings will be a long-term gain
This is a fantastic class that raises a lot of fundamental questions for you to wrestle with over the course of the semester.
One of my favorite courses in my four years at Harvard. Unbelievable teaching and section discussions. Loved the questions were asked and attempted to answer. Assignments were doable and stimulating. The workload is really manageable. If you're thinking about it, just take it!
I really really loved this course. The authors/works we read are phenomenal, and I genuinely feel as if I view the world differently. You need to take at least one Ethical Reasoning course; it should absolutely be this one!
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, definitely the best gen-ed class I've taken. Professor Lamberth is extremely knowledgable, teaches very well, and clearly cares about the well-being and personal development of her students. The teaching fellows she works with are also excellent. If you have the chance, take this class - it will change how you look at what "the good life" is.
Really wonderful class largely because you read all these essential texts. However, be prepared to dedicate a lot of time to it if you want to get anything (let alone the most possible) out of it. Reading and understanding the texts takes real time commitment.
Take this class. It will change how you look at a book in your hand, other people, and the stars at night.
This course has fantastic materials, but sometimes it felt like the lectures could be unfocused and sometimes I questioned the pairings of the readings. If you do all the reading you will definitely get a lot out of it, but sometimes the readings can be quite difficult or a bit boring.
Lectures aren't very good, reading list is sick, class is easy, by no means life changing. Very easy to just glide by and do well and never really have to engage with the course, which is disappointing.
Many students will not do the reading, and the class never gets beyond a real surface-level skim of the texts. If you want a pretty easy, pretty interesting way to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning credit, this class works well, but if you want to really gain insight into existentialist texts, I would take a different class.
Though I did not necessarily find any defining existential epiphanies from this course - but many small ones - I encountered many fine pieces of writing on issues that are very hard to discuss clearly and memorably. The diversity and colour of the interpretation of these writings became highly apparent in section discussions, which I found the best part of the course.
This class can let you apply some structure to your existential crises. Don't take this if you've taken philosophy before - you'll likely have overlap.
If you're even remotely interested in faith, existentialism, or the meaning of life, TAKE THIS COURSE. It literally changed the course of my life: the readings will deeply challenge your beliefs (no matter your background) and transform who you are. This kind of class is why people like you and me come to Harvard.
The readings are absolutely amazing.  Lamberth is a great professor, but this course really isn't as discussion based as it should be.  Nonetheless, it profoundly changed my thinking about life, its meaning, and how we should act and why.  It's not a particularly easy way to get the gened (think one mid-sized book a week of *dense* reading -- which you should really do), but it is a very rewarding course.
Professor Lamberth is an amazing professor, advisor, mother-figure, and friend. She really wants to get to know you, so do go up to her! If you take this course, you'll reevaluate your life and hopefully become a better person from the process. Try to take the readings seriously, even though Kierkegaard can be harder to endure on a weekend than passing a kidney stone.
Difficult--but rewarding. Great readings, great professor.
Great course that enables you to read texts that you've probably wanted to read anyway and think about them in a deeper, meaningful way!
The class had a good mix of people--freshmen and seniors, science people and humanities people, so don't feel too intimidated. The readings are really interesting, and you should definitely read all of it if you can.
Lamberth is spectacular. She is kind, smart, and helpful. This class really challenges you to address your viewpoint of the world.
Absolutely take this class if it is offered again. My life has truly been changed by this course. The readings and discussions will make you rethink who you are, what you want, and what you believe about yourself and your purpose in life. If nothing else, at least you have lively party conversation and will be able to read some of the most interesting philosophers of the 19th and 20th centuries.
This is a good course to explore the works of major existentialist thinkers. It was a bit in the clouds sometimes, but really grounded in the text. The texts can be dense, but Professor Lamberth does a good job of breaking them down in class.
Great course. The readings are very good and most aren't unreasonably challenging. You'll definitely delve a little deeper than a standard gen-ed course but the course is definitely approachable for someone with no experience in philosophy/religion. Professor Lamberth is great and focuses the course on class discussion and applying the readings to our lives.
This is a phenomenal class, and you should take it.  Prof Lamberth is a wonderful professor, and the course material is really very good.  It's a look at existentialism across modernity, both inside and outside of a religious context.  Readings include literature and philosophy, and are fairly manageable.  The course was taught as a seminar, with discussion being the main focus of the meeting each week.  Highly recommend.
This class is fantastic. Professor Lamberth is wonderful, the materials are interesting, and I wholeheartedly recommend this class. It's easy to get away with not doing the readings but don't do it. You won't get anything out of the course if you skimp on the readings. Great class--definitely take it if you're interested in big philosophical/religious questions.
As a senior, this is the most meaningful course I've taken in college. If you have genuine interest in this philosophical tradition or have experienced anything like "existential crisis" in your life, not taking this course would be a sacrilege to your soul. But, do NOT take this course if you just see a favorable Q score or heard good things. You must be interested in the material and willing to buy into the class or else you will hold the class back and take away from other people's experience.
Professor Lamberth leads great discussion, and the small seminar class is a really open environment that is perfect for throwing around ideas and interpretations. The readings are tedious and difficult at times, but can also be life changing and make you think about things in a different way. I found that this class changed my interpretation of authenticity and existential thinking.
The readings are extremely challenging, but sometimes very rewarding. There may be better opportunities to read some of these authors (I didn't really like the first half of the readings). The Lamberths are amazing lecturers and really care about the material and their students.
This is a great class for learning the basics readings on philosophy and existentialism in particular.
Wow. I loved this course. The reading list was fantastic, the lectures were interesting and helped us digest difficult readings, section was riveting and enjoyable, and assignments were thought provoking and reasonable. All-in-all, a golden course.Don't pass up such an opportunity to learn with these incredible professors.
This class is necessary if you want a true liberal arts education
Read the syllabus and decide if you want spend your semester pondering over so many writers in such a limited amount of time. This class is much less theoretical than other philosophy classes, which don't count for ER strangely. The lecture are certainly enthusiastic though, and this class was still one of the more painless ways to complete the ER requirement.
this will make your ethical reasoning gen ed meaningful. these are texts that everyone should have exposure to, and the Professors Lamberth and their teaching fellow staff are all excellent. that being said, you'll get out of it what you put in, so if you're looking for a cakewalk way to satisfy the ethical reasoning requirement this might not be for you.
This is a great great class. Definitely take it. The material is fascinating, the lectures are incredibly engaging. This a great way to fulfill your Ethical Reasoning GenEd.
This class is a wonderful exploration of authenticity and the existentialist thought that surrounds this topic as it is applied to life and spirituality. The reading lit is fun but can be cumbersome. The Lamberths are rockstars and the tf staff is also excellent.
Not the easiest way to fulfill ER, but this class is chock-full of "things you should read in college to become a more intellectually aware person" kind of texts if you're into that sort of thing. Do the readings and pay attention in lecture and you'll walk away with some interesting frameworks for how you should live your life. Section will make or break this class for you--it tends to bring out a lot of the "section kid" attitude, but that's probably better for your understanding of some of these dense texts than nobody having done the reading. Assessment-wise: two papers and a (straightforward) final, plus weekly postings, so the workload isn't too severe. I'd highly recommend using the class' extremely generous draft policy to have your TF take a look at your papers, since in some cases grading can be pretty vague (i.e., harsh) if you're confused about what exactly the papers are asking for.
I think that this is a good course for you if you're good at reading and have a background in existentialism.
This class is super interesting, if you are committed to the material. Weeks that I couldn't get through the readings were tough - especially section. Lectures were definitely very thoughtful, it's clear that the Lamberths are very passionate about the material. I enjoyed being in their class!
It is really interesting. The reading list is great, but you only get out of this course what you put into it. Also in lecture they don't really delve into what they think the text means but more so summarize and provide context. In the sections is where you discuss what you thought about the text, etc.
If you genuinely want to learn about the material, this is a great course, and it's not too hard. If you don't care about the readings, though, it'll just be a waste of your time.
This is a great course with a fantastic reading list. The Lamberths are incredible and care so much about the material, and lectures make many of the more challenging readings (Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger, de Beauvoir, among others) much more approachable. Take this course if you want to learn about existentialism or change the way you think about how/why you actually exist.
Fun intro to existentialism course. A lot of readings, but if you go to lecture and read summaries then you will do well still, so you can put in as much as you hope to get out of the readings and be fine.
Lectures are superficial and often not that great, but section was amazing and the readings are truly worthwhile.
Definitely take this course for a great intro to existentialist philosophy. The professors are incredible and very passionate, and you'll get exposed to a ton of great thinkers. I was very challenged and really enjoyed the readings. Every person should take a class like this while at Harvard!
A good introduction to existentialism and related questions of faith that is accessible to virtually every undergraduate at Harvard.
Great course! This is a very meta class, and many of the readings were very interesting. The professors are great people, too! Definitely a gem at Harvard.
The readings in this class are amazing and very carefully selected. They will change your life.
It is truly a life changing class!  The discussions you have with classmates are wonderful and challenging and the Lamberths and Nick (TF) were absolutely amazing.
Do the readings on time!! The lectures dissect them in a brilliant fashion; however, the initial exposure to the author's ideas make lectures all the more enjoyable.  Also, the discussions become less one-sided when everyone has completed the readings.
This is a wonderful course. The Lamberths are wonderful, the readings are wonderful, and the TFs are wonderful. This class gave me the space to think about life in a deep way and engage in discussions that were really meaningful. I found some of my favorite authors in this course. It's best if you do all the reading, but you can get by if you do only some of it.
Do the readings!!
This course is incredible. Hands down one of the best courses I took at Harvard. The lecturers and authors you encounter in this course force you to question your values and beliefs, think about the world in wholly different ways, and most importantly, make you feel a great sense of compassion for the human experience. DO NOT be intimidated by the fact that this is a course in the Religion department. I don't subscribe to any religions, and yet found this course hugely rewarding.
This is a life-changing class.  The Professors Lamberth are totally engaging, and both the texts you read and the discussions you engage in genuinely have the capacity to transform your understanding of yourself, the universe around you, and humanity as a whole.  Prepare to be amazed!
Make sure you're ready to do reading assignments, as the meat of this course comes from having a high comfort level with the source material. Really loved the questions the course asked.
This is a great way to get the required ER gen ed credit. I'd say it's less religion-driven than it appears even though it's offered through the religion department. Start the essay early and do the readings, this isn't the hardest class I've ever taken but it's not Hebrew Bible.
I took this course because of how many students praised it for helping them reconsider the way they think about their lives. Philosophy and literature don't interest me as disciplines. If this describes you and your motivation for taking the course, you should just get the syllabus from the isite and spend a summer reading the assignments. I found existentialism to include particularly insufferable works of literature and philosophy (they weren't dense or difficult to read--except for heidegger--but just particularly abstract for the more pragmatically-inclined), and did not enjoy working on assignments built around close-reading these works. Lecture was mostly designed to help students to understand what they had read outside of class, which is probably worthwhile as it is a gen-ed class and it seemed a lot of students had a hard time grasping the reading without guidance, but the result is that if you can understand the readings yourself the class doesn't have much value-added.
great readings
This course provides a great introduction to existentialism with a focus on questions of the nature of authenticity and faith. This is an awesome course! The readings can be difficult at times, but the teaching staff does a great job of helping the students to reach an understanding of all of the texts.
Though the course may be a bit redundant if you've already been exposed to intro level Philosophy courses, the assigned readings were nevertheless fantastic and lecture was also very intellectually engaging. Section was phenomenal.
This class honestly changed the way I think about life, as cheesy as that sounds. The material is stuff that you've probably heard of but never would have read on your own (as was the case for me), but it's so applicable to current events and everyday life in general that you certainly don't need to be explicitly interested in either religion or philosophy to get something out of the readings. Also, Courtney and David are literally the best, and listening to them lecture twice a week is such a chill and pleasant experience because they're genuinely excited about what they're teaching. Best way to fulfill your ER requirement for sure.
Everyone at Harvard should take this class. The readings are truly eye-opening and make you truly question what it means to live authentically.
This class cover some truly amazing authors of literature, but these are counterbalanced by philosophical works that are incredibly dense and difficult to get much from, especially if you're not religious. The lectures made extracting concrete categories fairly difficult, and the assignments can be fairly vacuous since not much is expected of you.
Such, such a good primer on existentialism. Obviously any course like this won't be able to go in depth into any of these thinkers, but the ability to walk out feeling like you can talk competently about 10+ pivotal philosophers and with a sense of direction re: my future pursuit of philosophy. Really altered how I think about my life, both solidifying my understanding of my own views and pushing the boundaries of the premises I've already established. I've taken a lot of philosophy electives at Harvard and this is the only one I can say that for. The lectures are absolutely phenomenal (worth taking just to watch the two professors interplay off of each other), this is the best section I've taken here, and it honestly changed my life without making my life difficult. Best elective I've taken at Harvard.
The texts are phenomenal. Go to office hours with the professors!
This is a really great class. The reading selections are fantastic, as are the two professors. They always gave engaging lectures that dove into the material we had read in such a way that opened up new ideas and insights.
This course can be a life-changing one if you engage deeply with it. However, the onus will be on you to do the work, but if you do you will get a lot out of it.
Some with little interest in religion may be turned off by the religious aspect of this course on existentialism, but if you can embrace and appreciate that aspect of the course you will like it. The workload is reasonable and the discussions tend to be great.
This is a wonderful class!!! For anyone who is looking to study the history of existential thought, this class would be wonderful. It considers questions from the methodology of religious studies which is notably quite different from philosophy, so may be more approachable for people who want to read these authors with reservations of taking a full blown phil class.
Lamberts^2 are an amazing power teaching team. Take it for their enthusiasm and really devoted TF's.
I really enjoyed this class, but it is definitely a lot of work so don't take this class if you are looking for an easy gem.  The material is very interesting but takes time to understand properly and honestly just read all of it.  The professors and course staff are all very nice and engaged which is fantastic.  I am not sure if I can say that it changed my life or not, but I certainly enjoyed it.
My favorite class. If you like meta questions, take it. The readings are so thought-provoking.
This is an excellent class - by far one of the best geneds I have taken. The professors are really engaging and are knowledgable about the texts. They care a great deal about student understanding. They have also chosen a pretty fantastic set of texts. Overall, the class is a little bit heavy on philosophy and would be better with more focus on literature. This is definitely a class where you get out what you put in, so try to budget decent time to actually read the texts and think about them.
This course deeply engages with texts centered on faith and the meaning of life; the questions asked and wrestled with in this course are profound and will incite deep reflection on your own faith/morality/meaning. This course is a must-take if only to deeply engage with foundational tests on existentialism, a philosophy that remains relevant to contemporary Western ideas on the meaning to life.
If you have the opportunity to take this class, absolutely TAKE IT (even if you have already fulfilled your ER gen-ed)! This class truly changed my life; it transformed the way I think about morality, religion, and even the meaning of life in general. I thoroughly enjoyed the lectures and readings, and I know many of the readings will continue to impact my worldview for a long time. Moreover, it was a reasonable amount of work and level of difficultya truly solid course in every aspect.
Some people take this class and find it life changing, I did not. If you don't like studying religion extensively and you are iffy about philosophy, this class is a no go. You will have to spend A LOT of hours to understand these very dense, difficult readings. And this is one of those classes that you only get out what you put in. So if you aren't willing to sit with these texts for hours a week, don't take it.
