This is a really good introductory course into different methodologies of studying religion.  Theoretical models and practical surveys are discussed, and some discussion concerning relating material to current religious thought and current religious trends is pursued.  Much of the motivation and impetus in the class will have to be yours, though -- the excitement comes from your discussion group and any supplementary stuff outside of the actual class material you will probably need to seek out for yourself or ask the professor about specifically.  Stay on top of your game, though, and the class itself can teach you a lot!
It is a good introduction to studying religion.
Don't let this course turn you off from the rest of the religion department's courses, which are better-taught and more focused. On the upside, you'll get to be in a class with all the other religion concentrators in your year; their intelligence and diversity of backgrounds definitely was the saving grace of the course.
The number of undergraduates in the Study of Religion at Harvard is really small - this course not only provides a good solid background on what your major will be like, but also enables you to meet usually all of the other concentrators in your class year, and take a course with all of them for a semester.
be ready to discuss and defend your opinions.
This course is what you make of it, like many in college.  Read what excites you; listen carefully (attendance is VERY important).  Take out all of the books from the library.
Highly engaging, well structured to encourage lively discussions, and a wonderful professor -- I have nothing but the best to say about this course
Professor Jones is awesome, and its fun to have class with all the other concentrators in your class.
This course is like Expos, except it succeeds where Expos generally fails. By taking this course, you will learn how to think critically, articulate a coherent and worthwhile thesis, and write fluently and concisely.
Professor Tamsin Jones has all of the qualities of a good professor: she explains topics thoroughly and clearly, she has a sense of humor, she interacts with students, and she is fair.  The course material is mostly interesting with a few exceptions for dry material.  The tutorial will make you think about religion in ways you probably haven't thought of before.
This class is enormously intellectually and personally stimulating.
If you're a religion concentrator, you're going to have to take it. It's OK though, because you'll probably like it a lot.
You will love it!  It may just be your favorite class this semester.
This course really guides you in your learning but really stimulates your thinking. You of course don't learn about any one religion; it's actually very theory based. I really enjoyed learning the types of questions that scholars consider and the methods they use for answering them.
The most enjoyable and fulfilling required course I've taken.
This class is fantastic! Concentrators have to take it, but it isn't a boring requirement. The readings are interesting, and the classroom discussions are always interesting.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard!
one of the best courses I'll ever take.
This course made me realize how much I love my concentration! It was an excellent grounding in what it means to study religion and has been a necessary and important part of my academic study. It encouraged us to really grapple with the complexities of this field and ended up demonstrating that this complexity is what makes it so exciting. I loved coming to class every week and loved doing the readings.
Make sure to do the readings! Class is boring if you don't know what is being discussed.
great class, a chance to bond with fellow religion concentrators and think about the study of religion itself
Section leaders were great, discussion could have been mediated better but as long as you're comfortable speaking in class it's a valuable learning experience
Great tutorial! Choose the Study of Religion! The readings and instructors are great, and the class is week after week of heated discussion between people you will become friends with very quickly.
An excellent introduction to the study of religion.  The readings are really great, try your best not to skip too many, or you'll miss out on some interesting discussions.
TAKE IT, even though you probably already have to. It's a great way to get to know your fellow concentrators and made me love the religion department.
I've never been in a course where the students were so engaged and excited to discuss the reading material. The tutorial students all bonded to a degree that I have not experienced in the past. Friends outside the classroom were able to openly and dynamically disagree with each other inside the classroom, which I believe says a lot about the comfort level of the fostered, academic environment.
Make sure you understanding each of the readings.
If you are even remotely interested in the academic study of religion, take this class. It is challenging, thought provoking, stress-free and small -- everything a Harvard class should be. Even you aren't concentrating in religion, I cannot stress how worthwhile this opportunity is.
This course does a great job of making you think differently about religion and the theories and methods behind it. Great discussions, great instructor. The course will make you a more articulate writer and better thinker.
Even if you're not a religion concentrator, I would recommend you take this course (is that allowed?).  It taught me so much about how to think sensitively about a broad range of topics, and how to apply a critical eye to what can be a very personal area of life. This made me so excited to study religion, and Courtney, the instructor, was the best teacher I have had at Harvard so far.
Great course; gives the student examples of a variety of approaches to analyzing religion.
This class opens your mind in ways you never thought possible. In such a small class setting we see such diversity. There were nine of us and out of that nine we had one interested in Hinduism, one interested in Mysticism, one interested in Christian ministry, one interested in Islam, one interested in Jewish studies, one interested in religion and philosophy, we can get such a mixed bag in such a small setting which is incredible. We do not just share our knowledge with one another but we share our experiences. Take this class if you like that sense of community where you can bond with your peers and with your instructor on an academic level as well as a deep personal and emotional level. I have gone through a lot with these talented people and being with them helped me in ways you could not possibly imagine. Religion 97 is not a class, it is a transformative experience.
Great tutorial, equips you with so many of the tools you'll need in the study of religion.
I'm so glad I had the opportunity to read and discuss the material covered in this class -- I knew that it was important for me to be familiar with it, but it's easy at Harvard to skip foundational texts and take only classes that interest you. Exploring different theories in the study of religion allowed me to focus my preferences for the rest of my studies in the department. Additionally, the tutorial had a great group, and I found myself learning something from my classmates each session.
It's required and it's good that it is. This class really helps you personally understand about what religion means, or even more confused, but it is a conversation you need to partake it in order to further in your studies.
This is such a fantastic course. Diana Eck+great subject matter+small class size=awesome! If you want to take a class in religion theory that respects concepts of sacraity held by many different people, this class is great.
This is a great class with some really cool readings. I was a bit apprehensive at first but I took a lot out of this class.
You have to take it because you're a Religion concentrator. Sorry. It's only one semester.
Read the books, don't be lazy they are all fantastic and great.
Diana is of course amazing, but this class has a LOT of reading. If you are not concentrating in Religion, I would recommend taking this pass/fail, as this class will take the back burner to others. Really interesting topics and discussion.
Very fun, great content, reasonable workload, do take. Especially with Eck, it was great, but there are lots of good professors in the department
If you are interested in religion, you have to take a class with Eck at some point.
The sophomore tutorial is an amazing theoretical sweep through various methodological approaches to studying religion. It's a lot of reading, but the discussion is incredible.
The course is incredible if you put in the work required. If you prepare by doing the readings, and get started on the papers early there is lots of support and you get a lot more out of the course in the end.
Courtney is such an incredible professor; my favorite class of the semester. If you are at all interested in religion and different approaches to it, or considering the concentration, definitely take this course.
This class is a joy for so many reasons -- the academic environment, the community, the support, the challenging coursework. Take it!
If you are looking at taking the Sophomore Tutorial, odds are that you already have a strong interest in religion. This course should only deepen and reaffirm your love for the subject. The readings are varied but all excellent, and by the end of the course you will have a decent toolbox of authors and ideas to aid you as you continue in the study of religion. Courtney and Tina are proof that goddesses walk among us. Their dedication to both the study of religion and to undergraduates is inspiring. Their feedback is insightful and immensely useful. The discussions are wonderful and you end up learning so much from the course staff, from your peers, and also from yourself. It also really does help build up a sense of community for the incoming cohort of religion concentrators. The only problem is that class meetings were about two hours too brief and the course a semester too short. Impossible as it seems when you first get that heavy-duty reading list, this tutorial will only leave you wanting more.
A required class for most, but a great one to be in! As you'd expect, the reading is hard -- it's meant to be. But Courtney is absolutely fantastic, and the discussions are always rich and complex. You have to read carefully and actively, and the paper-writing process is tough. However, Courtney and Tina are incredibly generous of their time and attention, and will read intros and drafts; you can also revise any/all of the papers, which you should definitely take advantage of if you need to. A great course.
This class is wonderful! Even if you aren't a concentrator, if you're serious about the study of religion this class will be an incredible experience. If you don't do all the reading you're cheating yourself -- every reading is thoughtfully chosen and worth the time.
This course is very interesting, even though it is a tutorial and is reading/writing intensive. It is very thought provoking about the academic study of religion.
This is a really great course and taught by great people. It covers a lot of really important foundational material for the concentration.
This course is certainly difficult and requires a lot of reading, but you can also learn a lot. Prof. Lamberth and Tina are great.  Most people who take this course must do so because of the religion requirements, but it's certainly not burdensome.
In this course, you learn a lot.  It alters your way of thinking about religion, and gives you the tools by which to continue in critical study.  Really enjoyable, interesting readings, great instructor.  Take this class. :)
This class was so fun! We had great discussions and I feel like I have a newfound comprehensive understanding of approaches to the study of religion.
