Very good pathology class with strong clinical and translational focus. The small-group teaching sessions, covering clinical case studies, were an interesting and useful format for learning. Lecturers and lecture content were all of high quality. The course was well-organised.
A lot of work, but very interesting - loved the discussion based format during tutorial sessions.
It's a great class to better understand the physiology behind diseases, as well as to expand your creativity as a scientist.
If you're interested in human disease from a researcher's perspective, this is a fantastic way to get an overview of the human body, of common ways things go wrong, and of how people approach therapy-oriented research.
nice work
Very well taught, worthwhile.
tutorials especially are great, some lectures are hit-or-miss. Honestly, its the attendance requirement that would make me discourage others from taking the course. Treat us like adults whose first priority is our research, please!
Take this class if you are interested in research about developing disease therapeutics.
This class is really interesting but takes up a good amount of time.
A ton of work, didn't get much useful information out of it.
Interesting to learn about different diseases by experts in the field.
You're probably required to take this - so buckle up and try to enjoy the ride.
This course is a great mechanisms for PhD students to get a sample platter of physiology and disease.
Lots of great lecturers, interesting discussion topics.
Absolutely. This course was a wonderful way to not only learn about basic science applications to human health. It also gave us the opportunity to not just learn about these concepts, but actually interact with the field.
If you are looking for a course that clearly integrates the big picture of biology with what you are doing in the lab- this is it!
The class is valuable, but it does require a substantial time commitment.
If you are a graduate student interested in learning physiology, but do not want an undergrad or medical school type of class, where you need to memorize many details of how an organ functions, this a the course to go. It's especially helpful if you're interested in more of the genetic and molecular aspects of pathophysiology, and the development of therapeutic strategies by research.
HBTM 235 gives PhD students a chance to learn about physiology and medicine. The lecturers are all superb speakers and outstanding researchers in their fields. Most of them are MD/PhDs or translational research PhDs. This is not med-school physiology, so the coverage is far from comprehensive. Instead the course spends 2-3 lectures on selected organ systems with an emphasis on the experiments that led to discoveries in physiology.The section is group discussion guided by a medical resident. I learned a great deal from our resident, who was incredibly knowledgeable about everything we discussed. I did not learn much from the student presentation component of the sections (after all, everyone is a life science PhD student that knows nothing about medicine), but gained considerable experience giving presentations with little preparation and while sleep deprived.Since there are so many lecturers (each one only gives 2-3 lectures), the course does not build on itself and feels more like a seminar series rather than a class. There are three easy problem sets, so the course does not require much outside work (besides preparing an oral presentation every 2 out of 3 weeks for section). The final take-home exam was graded harshly and required a considerable amount of work (12 h over 3 days).
It is more work than I wanted to dedicate in my second year but the material was well presented.
This class is great for both learning more about pathology/physiology and about learning how to think critically and develop real research proposals.
Great lecturers, interesting topics
