I like the course, but the class could be organized in a better manner. There are too many different topics arranged for one day for the second half.
Overall, the course doesn't feel that cohesive, but covers a lot of interesting topics and gives you a good overview of pathology. I really enjoyed this course for the most part. Exams are pretty easy and don't require knowing much outside of what's covered in lecture. Labs and field trip are great!
It is a comprehensive overview of a great deal of pathology, don't get bogged down in the details of the disease but just be aware of the basics. The lab is very cool, if you like gross specimens- this specimens had a great deal of impact and I will remember the details of the lung and other organs for a lifetime.
I am very grateful for what I learned in this course, but unless the course undergoes a serious revamping with involved and teaching TAs, more clear lecturers and better course organization with an established set of expectations, students will face way more aggravation than any learning opportunity. It's a shame, because I found the labs on Thursdays to be AMAZING and incredibly informative and all of the topics to be really important in human biology.
the labs are very interesting and different from any other "basic science" courses in the curriculum. the professors genuinely care about the students personally and academically! the speakers cover a wide range of interesting topics that are very relevant to biomedical science today. that being said, students should know that the class covers a lot of breadth with little depth, so sometimes it can feel like you're being exposed to many new topics without a clear narrative.
If the way in which material is presented is changed to focus more on what a graduate student/research scientist would need to know, I think the course would be improved and more useful.
a very useful course to have a general understanding of how disease may initiate and develop with some information about how disease will affect the normal physiological processes.
It requires some hard work to get used to, but definitely worth it!
This is a fantastic pathology course. The course organisers (Scott and Adam) are dedicated, committed and accessible. Lecturers are mostly very good - delivering intriguing content in an engaging and effective manner. The course material spans several domains in pathology - basic concepts, organs, systems and frontiers in human disease and diagnostics - and provide very useful insights into human biology. The selection of topics is excellent. Labs (especially the dissection sessions) are very well-planned and effective in allowing students to learn about human biology and disease. Assignments are designed to help you to consolidate your understanding of the material, and the final student presentations are filmed to help provide feedback on your presentation skills. I would highly recommend this course to anyone interested in human biology.
It's just a great way to learn about science and things that are done in research, in ways that are overlooked. It also helps understand the data we generate as science better, and the use it can have in the future. I also thought that it was super interesting to know how many of the research techniques scientist use on a daily basis, are used in a very similar manner for patient diagnosis. It was also interesting how much you learn about how to ask the right questions, a tool that from the stand point of Pathology is different, but that can be very useful/necessary for research.
The course was a spectacular introduction to the topic from the perspective of a graduate student. It brings together concepts learned in other classes with a clinical and diagnostic perspective. Superb training and great for inspiring ideas in your own work or looking for a collaborator or PI to rotate with.
this is a fantastic course for any grad or undergrad students who would like to learn the basics of disease pathology, and also great for pre-meds
If you're interested in clinical correlations, HBTM200 is a fun course with a lot of good perks -- gross pathology labs, cadaver labs, a tour of the Brigham's pathology department, some talks from a forensic pathologist. There is a pretty decent time commitment for this course, including four hours on Thursdays, but all of the material is interesting, and Scott does a great job tying everything together.
It was super fun and interesting to learn about diseases and be given lectures by prominent doctors/scientists in the field.
It was a fantastic class and I learned a lot.
Take this class if you want exposure to the current state of clinical research and pathology! You get how much from this class that you put in.
If you have any interest in translational medicine or want to have a better understanding/exposure to histological sections than this course is for you.
You are gonna have to put in some work to understand what is going on, if you are an undergrad, but it is worth it
HBTM 200 was one of the best courses I have taken. As an undergrad and aspiring physician, it was so neat to be able to take a course at the medical school and learn in a community of elder students and professionals. The lecturers were also so seasoned and covered a diversity of topics from the neuropathology of cancer to the pathology of implantable biomaterials. Scott Lovitch is such a passionate and caring course director and goes out of his way to put on a masterful course. He draws in some of the world experts in each field in addition to presenting fascinating lectures himself. The lab component was also really amazing for me as an undergrad. Having the chance to do dissections and observe gross specimens was an experience I never thought I would have as an undergrad. This is a really phenomenal course with minimal work, outside of the monthly problem sets. The problem sets are tough but teach you a lot, and the final presentation is an incredible opportunity to learn something of your own interest.
This class is an excellent introduction to pathology as a tool to understanding human disease, and is highly worth taking for anyone interested in translational biology.
Don't miss out!
You are going to receive a lot of information in this course. Try to learn the main points and make sure that you can make connections between different lectures.
Absolutely an incredible class. As an undergraduate in the class, I really found the course to be one of the few chances for undergraduates to learn biological mechanisms from the perspective of human disease. really a great opportunity - the course is excellently taught by very enthusiastic speakers and the Scott is a very helpful and organized course director
One of those courses where you get out as much as you put in. It is unique in a way that it has a lab component to the course which can be very informative, and in some cases very cool indeed. This course offers many different things that you are unlikely to find in most other courses, due to the fact that the course s based on pathology, which means there are tons of opportunities to actually look at pathological diseases under the microscope.
This class will provide you with a clinical perspective on the study of disease, which will be very different from the perspectives you receive from your other classes and therefore very valuable. Pathology is a hybrid of clinical practice and molecular biology and is therefore very interesting for life science students.
