It's definitely good if you're interesting in biology, as some of the techniques used (in ls1b for example) cross over. I didn't have to actually pay attention to some of the topics because i had already learned them in ls1b. The coding, albeit sometimes difficult if you're not good at computers (me), is interesting and makes the class more fun. it's not a hard class at all if you put in some time to study.
This was a very enjoyable statistics course. It is built to cater both students who have already had some stat experience and students with none. All in all an amazing class, definitely take it.
Pretty easy class if you follow along, as the professor is great at explaining concepts. Psets take some time but are not super difficult and the midterm and exam are both open note (but this does not mean you can do well if you don't study).
Start the psets early, and only go to section when needed.
I learned a lot about how statistics is used to analyze data. Stat 102 is less about memorizing formulas and knowing how to interpret/analyze data. It's about applications of statistics and I like that a lot! I never realized how much statistics has to do with literally everything. I didn't know I could use it in biology either, and now I can further my knowledge in bio using what I learned in stat. Awesome!
It's easy, just do your work on time and memorize some of the R.
Just take it. You learn R coding which is far more useful to a science concentrator than stata which is used in stat 104.
This was an easy and painless introduction to statistics course. Expect a low workload and a good introduction to statistics.Pros:-Statistics presented is very interesting-Grading is pretty fair-Prof. Harrington is engagingCons:-Clicker questions means you have to attend class...-Literally learn nothing in the first 20 mins of class-Some lectures covered no new material-Could have learned more in general-pasting R code into word doc (word doc images do not like to align)-project is slightly time consuming/irratatingTL;DR - great introduction to statistics and pretty easy to pass!
It's boring.
Although this class is a relatively low commitment, it is a little disorganized and doesn't really fit with the typical idea of an introductory statistics course. The course focused little on the theory and logistics of statistics and focused on the practical side of it with lots of R programming.
This class is pretty easy and the PSETs are doable on your own. Definitely do it if you don't want a major time-suck. The material is really interesting, too, and learning R is pretty useful.
Take 104.
Great course for students in the life sciences with little or no background in statistics. Provides very useful and translatable skills in statistics for bio-research and a great introduction into coding. Low courseload and the professor is amazing, down-to-earth, entertaining and a great person.
I highly recommend this class, especially if a statistical intro course is needed. It is very straightforward, and the assignments are very fair. The r program can be difficult to use at first, but there are lots of resources to help you with both r and other assignments.
If you would like to take this class, having taken a statistics class in high school will more than prepare you.  The pace was slow, but there are lots of opportunities to apply the material.
Utilize Professor Harrington's office hours
Very straightforward class. Expectations are clear and exams and problem sets are fair. You won't learn any groundbreaking statistical methods, but you will probably learn helpful things to analyze your research (multivariate linear regression towards the end) and conceptual meanings of these tests.
If your goal is to take a statistics class, take stat 104. If you are really interested in the medical applications of statistics, then take this class. Dr. Harrington's lectures may be very dry and learning R may be a pain, but you learn really useful skills, and the end of the course is not so painful. Go to office hours!
Don't be scared if it suddenly gets harder - by the end, it will all make sense.
This is a great class! if you are interested in health/life science it is an excellent introduction to statistics that will fulfill a premed req and the course material will highly interest you.
This is a great class for getting an introductory background in statistics, particularly as it pertains to biology. It is also not very stressful.
This is not a difficult course.  It is also extremely boring.  If you have to take it, take it, and if you try to pay attention and really understand things it could be more interesting.
helpful for statistics understanding
If you've never taken stat and you want a painless way to learn useful techniques and get an intro to stat, this is a great class.
This class is a very good introduction to statistics and using R, with examples in biology. If you have a strong background in math, statistics, or using R, you may find this class moving a little too slowly.
maybe take stat 104
A question many pre-meds face is whether to take Stat 102 or Stat 104.  I would say that Stat 104 is still definitely the easier option, but 102 is far more useful for science concentrators.  (I am really looking forward to using my knowledge of R in my lab work.)  The course structure could use some work. (The Stat 104 structure, where watching online lectures is not really penalized, is a lot better.)  Problem sets were straightforward and generally easy, as were the quizzes.  The midterm was difficult not because of the content but because of the short time we had to take it.  The final project was intense; start very early, especially if you have other projects due the last day of reading period!  The final exam was very reasonable, except for the fact that we had an exam in addition to the project!  Prof. Harrington has a good sense of humor, and his lectures were not bad.  I found section pretty useless (you might as well just do the problems on your own).  Overall, though, it is a good introduction to R and to statistics in the life sciences.
If you're a science person and need to take states, take this class! You learn really cool and useful things, and the R component (the stat coding program) is a good way to get your feet wet in coding. It's pretty easy, definitely a low stress class.
Professor Harrington is very nice and a good teacher. Psets are generally very short!
very useful but takes work -- go to office hours
Good introduction to statistics course if you have never taken any stats before. Some of the topics seemed really basic, but can creep up on your if you don't pay attention to lecture or the problem sets (which can be pretty easy to fall behind on given the general lack of course structure).
DH is one of the nicest professors and really wants his students to learn and use the material! He even makes everything open note!
If you need a statistics course, this is a great one to take. Super well-taught, thorough, and straightforward.
It's interesting if you like statistics, but if you're not very good at math the concepts are taught in lecture in such a way that it's fairly difficult to pick up.
This course was amazing.  I had never taken a stats course and was terrified to take one, particularly considering I had no knowledge and did not even need to take it.  That being said, I took the risk and was blown away by how amazing this course was.  I was really able to connect with the material and feel that I also have the preliminary skills to use it outside of class.  In fact, I have already used it outside of the class to great success!
Super easy but super boring and not intellectually stimulating. I have never taken an official stats course before and I knew about 75% of the material before i walked into the room on day one. The things I did learn were often just what formula to use when. If you need it for a requirement than its a super easy way to do it.
This class was fine overall. The psets were not bad and never really took up too much time. Sections could definitely be improved. Few people go to them and they often did not help clear up questions about material presented in lecture or how to approach a problem on the pset. The assessments in this class are fair as they are all open notes.
I thought this was a poorly taught class. The information itself was not hard, but the way it was taught was way too complicated. The professor talked super slowly, but you still have to go because clickers are such a big part of your grade. Also, the software you learn to use is totally useless, since they would always give you the code to begin with. If someone asked me to use R now, I would not know how. If you can take a different bio-stat class, do it.
This is a great intro course to statistics. I would probably not recommend it for students with a solid statistics background, as it would probably be a lot of review. Perhaps obviously, I would also not recommend it to students not definitely interested in life sciences.
If you haven't already done AP stats, just be very wary of the transition of the class from "wow, this stuff looks so easy" to more complex stuff. It's very easy to get caught off guard in that way so just make sure you practice doing things under a timed pressure even though it is open notes. You won't be able to finish the exam if you are looking up things for half of it.
R will become your best friend whether you want it to or not, like a freshman roommate. Make sure to practice with R early on.
New course: interesting but messy. Easy class with interesting material, especially if you are interested in science and medicine. Prof is not organized and not interested in engaging with students; teaching staff are useless save for a few undergrad TFs. Very little time on psets, all exams/quizzes are open-book. R coding is useful for bio research.
Probably worst class I've ever taken. I apologize in advance for any emotionally charged criticisms I make and remember this is just one student's experience.The professor is supposed to be a smart guy, but instead of using that to teach us statistics he will spend all of lecture making uncomfortably bad jokes and entertaining himself. You pick up occasional knowledge in the three hours a week, but it's like trying to find a piece of chocolate in a mountain of steaming shit. It'll be very rare and you're likely to completely miss it. He sends frequent emails, which I guess is good, but there also unnecessarily long. As for the TF staff, I was assigned to the head TF Erik. Went to a section the first week and never went back after. I have no idea how he's a TF, let alone the head TF. Doesn't know a single thing about stats (students spent the whole section correcting his mistakes), makes the weirdest comments in class, and is generally unhelpful. Consider taking Stat 104 instead.
This class teaches cool material and is a great way to be introduced to stat without using random examples that aren't applicable to your life. The course is quite disorganized and the TFs aren't particularly qualified in general but the material is great.
Awesome course! Great professor and great TFs! A pretty easy class if you don't take into account the struggle of R.
pretty straightforward class with a couple nuisances here and there
Really great class. You learn a lot and it's super chill. Prof. Harrington is great and really understanding. Topic is really relevant if you're interested in the sciences.
This is a good intro stats class, especially if you are interested in the biological sciences/medicine. You'll spend a lot of time trying to figure out how to use R, but in the end it's a really useful tool to have.
If you've taken AP Statistics, do not take this course. The depth and material covered in this class will not benefit you, and you should only take this course if you want an easy class that will require little to no thinking on your part.
relatively easy class, but don't underestimate it because you still have to put forth moderate effort to do well by consistently doing a good job on the p-sets and doing practice problems for exams.
Easy, straight-forward intro stat class. The life sciences aspect of it didn't factor into it that much, but assignments were clear and helpful and Professor Harrington is a good lecturer. This is a good low stress way to get comfortable with basic statisticsthe open note quizzes and midterms and the lack of work-for-work's-sake (i.e. short PSETs, no required sections) were definitely a plus.
This class was a good introduction to statistics. This was my first statistics course and I did not find it too difficult. However, be prepared to spend a lot of time trying to learn how to use R-studio if you do not have any programming experience.
AP Statistics may be helpful but not necessary for this course. I found the teaching staff to be unorganized and more communication needs to be improved. You must make an effort to get to know the teaching staff and seek someone out to check the problem sets with.
The course is great in my opinion.
Learn great material; lectures can be very boring.
Not as fun as Stat 104, but just as easy (perhaps easier). IF finance isn't your thing, take 102. clickers suck and class might be a bit boring, but you definitely won't be overwhelmed.
Course Head and Head TF are both great, as are some of the TFs. One undergraduate TF in particular is not knowledgeable at all in the subject matter.
For an introductory statistics course, this and Stat 104 are very comparable and great introductions to a very interesting discipline. The material covered was very applicable and if you are interesting in programming and learning R to a basic extent, this class might be preferable over Stat 104.
Lectures are helpful, as are the sections. Pay attention to what the concepts are in lecture, they are what you are actually tested on. If you keep up with the concepts and have organized notes, the class is very straightforward.
If you've never taken stats before, this is a really good introduction to statistics, especially for those in the life sciences.  If you took AP stats, however, you may find this course slow and somewhat disappointing in terms of learning anything new.
It's not extraordinarily difficult. Everything you learn is very relevant and totally related to being a doctor someday, or even just studying science. There's a lot of coding though - way more than I expected, and the final project is basically all coding (it was a pain in the butt). Also the weekly quizes were annoying, especially when they coincided with my organic chem exams every single time...But overall, I'm glad I took the class. It's relevant and not that hard.
Just take Stat 104
Good introduction to statistics if you're interested in medical studies.
Stat 102 is a great introduction to statistics if you are at all into the life sciences. The examples are very relevant and realistic, and do a good job of helping you learn that topics.
This class is a great introduction to statistics. However, the biological component is limited in that the relevant examples are repetitive.
Attend section
Super laid back class that's also interesting and relevant.
You pretty much have to take this for pre-med, and it's not that bad.  Week by week you pretty much just have to do a pset that doesn't take too long.  You don't really have anything besides psets and one midterm until the end of the semester, so it's kind of unclear where your grade stands until finals week is done.
It was a great class that teaches you different aspects of statistics through R and math.
STAT 102 is an easy course that will teach you statistics with real and interesting examples drawn from biology, especially epidemiology and genetics. It is a worthwhile addition to heavy semesters and Prof. Harrington is a joy to learn under, like the cool granddad you never had.
Stat is very interesting and it was nice to take it while dealing with applications I find interesting (disease instead of the economy, e.g.). Professor Harrington is a good teacher and great at office hours. However, the course still needs some organizational kinks worked out.
The material seemed interesting and applicable, but not in-depth enough. I don't feel that I learned as much as I hoped I would.
Maybe it's cause this class is in its infancy, but this class is very disorganized and unclear and the support network is very weak. I would recommend giving this class some time to figure itself out and maybe just take Stat104 since its more stable and organized. Also, too many overachieving stressed out pre-meds in this class.. Could potentially be a great class if it could be more organized and strengthen it's support network/lectures/assignments etc..
Good intro stats class. Cool because you get to learn the R programming language. Don't underestimate the time you should dedicate to it..........
Easiest class ever.
Painless, useful course for learning statistics and completing a math gen ed.
This is a great intro statistics course for anyone who is pre-med or life sciences oriented. There are  many statistical methods that overlap with LS1b which can be useful if taken at the same time. The course did not provide practice tests since it was the first time being offered but it shouldn't be an issue in future semesters. This class was also really easy because the intro stat classes by nature are very easy. I highly recommend this class to fulfill stats credits wherever they may be needed.
You will learn a lot! Stat changes the way you think and look at data. And it makes sure you will not be intimidated by stat because it gives applicable examples. Very good course.
This course is great because it teaches the perfect mixture of theory and practical applications and about 80% of the time, you know how you can directly apply what you're learning to real life, which is really satisfying.
You learn a lot especially with the amount of time you put into it, Definitely great biology applications, everything in this class is FAIR!!
Make sure to write down blackboard notes that Professor Harrington puts up in class!
Material is made unappealing by slow pace of lectures.
The class material is interesting, but I think they are still ironing out how to balance the class body, which seems to be half students with no stat background and half those with lab experience and prior AP stat coursework. If you're in the former, you're likely to struggle with the statistics, and if you're in the latter, you might be disappointed by how little new material you'll learn and how the "biostatistics" is not as emphasized as you'd hoped. I would still prefer this course to Stat 104, because the applications to health-related data and genetic screens is very interesting, and we learn to use R, which is more useful than Stata in the "real world."The open notes exams and the free online textbook, as well as the relaxed lecture format (Dr. Harrington's really cool) are a testament to how accessible statistics can be!
A very painless course! Especially if you have a decent math background, this class is easy and moves relatively slowly. The assignments and exams (open notes!) are not bad, and some of the data is actually pretty interesting. Even though the lectures move somewhat slowly, Professor Harrington is pretty entertaining. Overall, a great way to knock out the premed stat req!
Stat 102 covered a variety of interesting biological examples and methods to analyze data. It was a great way to enter statistics if you are in biology. The problem sets were straight forward and explained clearly and exams and quizzes were open note, so the class was completely manageable if you attended class.
Stat 102 is an easy stat class, not because the professor intentionally makes it but because it is introductory. However, it is still a really good intro to understanding how to analyze data dealing with biological studies. If taken seriously, you can get a lot out of it. The section component is not that helpful but it is not mandatory and Prof Harrington really does a good job at showing everything that needs to be known in lecture.
If you've taken statistics in high school, you can skip this class.
This is a good introductory statistics course, but if you have taken a statistics course before then you probably won't need this course.
It is a great class in which one learns a lot about statistical analysis and concepts.
A fantastic course to take for pre-medical students who need to fulfill a Stats requirement. Offers very interesting material that is biologically relevant and far superior to the two other intro stats courses!
Lectures can be sort of dry, but Prof Harrington is clearly very knowledgeable in his field. If you want any chance of paying attention during lectures, do not take notes on your laptop. The first unit is review from basic math concepts but use the time to get the hang of R. GO TO AN R TUTORIAL SESSION. Helps so much. Also keep track of all the important formulas. Makes exam prep easier.
Everyone should take an introductory statistics class, and if you are interested in biology or medicine in the least bit you should take Stat 102! The applications are super relevant and interesting whether it be data about obesity across different income levels, genomic data (the Golub Paper) and the Hardy-Weinberg principle or testing the effectiveness of a new HIV drug.  The course was very enjoyable and Prof. Harrington was very knowledgeable and effective as a lecturer.
Great intro to statistics and introduction to the R program. You learn not only the methods used, but why they are important and where they are applicable later on.
An intro statistics class with great instructors, dedicated TFs and assignments which prepare you well for exams. You will learn how to use many important tools in statistics.
Stat 102 was a great class.  Very doable if you pay attention to lecture. Not sure how the course will change going into the future, but from taking it this year, I'd highly recommend it.
Teaching staff is not dedicated. (e.g. there are no practice tests). The course is new and still needs a couple rounds to get figured out. Take this if you're in some sort of real rush to get started with biology-related statistics, but if you're serious at all about it take 110.
This is a pretty basic statistics class. If you took Stats in high school, you should consider taking the next level of stats because you probably won't find the class very engaging.
This class is an excellent way to learn basic statistics, and it's a great way to learn those basic skills in a way that applies to biological data. I'd almost say that if you're planning on going into any part of the life sciences that would require reading scientific papers, you should take this class because although it won't (ever) thrill you, it will give you the ability to understand what the mathematical basis for claims in science is.
Take it in about 3 years after the kinks have been worked out!  Has a lot of potential but did not have the best experience this year.
This is a very interesting class, but it's not well put together. Though it came together at the end, a lot of the first few weeks were just a medley of random assignments with no clear goal. I hope the class improves. It has a lot of potential.
Do not start psets the day they are due so that you can actually understand the material. Try going to multiple office hours so that you can have the material re-explained in order to make sure you are not just putting in commands but are actually understand the concepts behind them.
Lots of potential, poor execution. The class spent too much time on easy material then rushed through the more difficult material at the end. The emphasis on biological examples was gimmicky rather than helpful, and time spent on them decreased the scope of statistical concepts covered which made the class less useful overall than I expected. In the future this class may improve but as it is I found it very disappointing.
It is really great to finally have a biology-related statistics course! Prof. Harrington is really awesome and interacts really well with undergrads. Since this was the first time the course was run, he was also super open to feedback from us. I had never taken statistics before and enjoyed studying it from a biological perspective (usually a medical perspective, in this case). I felt like the pacing of some of the units was a bit off, but I'm sure Prof. Harrington will make adjustments next year. The problem sets were fairly easy and didn't take a ton of time for me (maybe 2.5 hours/week). Instead of having two midterms, we had one midterm and 4 quizzes (and the lowest one was dropped), which was really great. The questions on the exams/quizzes reflected problem sets pretty well, and section also provided extra practice problems to help solidify the different topics.
Stat 102 is a good alternative to Stat 104 in terms of the context of the problems. However, most concentrations outside of the sciences do not accept 102. Think hard about this before you take this class.  104 will be taken for pre-med requirements also.
Make use of the OpenIntro textbook online whenever you get confused.  The class starts out really easy but it does get harder--make sure you're paying attention when it does!  Don't be intimidated by the R portion of the class--for the most part learning the code is really simple.
This course is a great way to learn basic statistics and has the added bonus of learning R. The only problem is that if you are a graduate student, this is not the solution to the never ending quest to find a course that "teaches you what you need to know". You will still cover all of the basic things and will barely get to the tests that are most important for research. While this is advertised as a practical course, some of the material is not relevant, like probability.
great intro to stat, esp if you've never had any stat before
This class is generally really easy to handle
Definitely worth taking if you haven't had experience with AP Stats or similar. Professor Harrington is a great teacher + definitely take advantage of his office hours - he is friendly + willing to help!
This course was pretty poorly taught overall. The grading is really subjective and kind of ridiculous. The problem sets take a decent amount of time, and they don't even grade every problem. If you're hoping to get an A, there are definitely safer bets than this course, as the teaching staff really doesn't seem to care about how well the students do. Some other major flaws: the tfs held two of the worst review sessions I've ever attended at Harvard (painfully bad and not helpful); clicker participation is worth 10% of your grade, but there are few clicker questions throughout the semester and many, many lectures with no clicker questions; the lecture slide handouts are hard to follow as they often say "solution in class" (I will never understand why the professor leaves out the most important equations from the lecture slides). Overall, the teaching staff is really lazy. They don't post all the solutions for the practice problems (which they don't release until a few days before the midterm and final) or the solutions for the section handouts, and they also don't give partial credit most of the time because it takes too much time to actually read through the answer than to just see if it matches the solution exactly. Oh, and good luck with multiple regression. There are no problem sets that cover multiple regression in depth, and no solutions posted for the practice problems for this topic (Why? Who knows!). Yet, it shows up on the final multiple times. Don't take this course unless you don't care about your grade or already have a lot of experience with statistics.
This class is a really good way to learn introductory statistics and apply the concepts to scientific contexts. You have to work hard, but the professors and TFs make the material straightforward and approachable.
This is a good class if you're interested in very introductory statistics and their applications to biological research.  It also very nicely introduces the use of R if you have never used it before.
This class is a wonderful way to be introduced to basic statistical principles! The examples are all drawn from medical topics, like birthweight, fertility rate, and calcium measurements, which makes the problems have a real-world feel. The psets, quizzes, and midterms are very doable, the professor is engaging, and you learn how to do a few basic codes in R. It's a wonderful combination.
Professor Harrington is a homie. Class is really nicely paced and a light workload.
This class would be perfectly fine for someone who has not taken AP Statistics. Otherwise, it becomes a little bit too easy and honestly not a particularly good use of your time. Professor Harrington is fabulous and really caters to the struggling students in the class, so he'll take the time to spend half of lecture reviewing the previous lecture. This is good for those learning the material for the first time, but less so for someone coming from AP Statistics. Also, note that you do use R but not enough to really say you've learned much in it. The actual genetics components of the course are minimal.
This is by far the best lecture course I have ever taken at Harvard. The material covered on problem sets, quizzes, and exams correspond perfectly with material covered in lecture. Lecture notes themselves are an invaluable resource, well-organized, comprehensive, and filled with appropriate examples, conceptual statements, R code, etc. Prof. Harrington is an excellent lecturer and equally helpful at office hours. The first iteration of this course is not a true introduction to biostatistics, as the majority of the material is covered in AP/IB Statistics, and there is not much treatment of intermediate/advanced statistics, or statistics directly related to biological applications. That said, this may change in future.
that it is a relatively easy introduction to basic statistics with reasonable expectations from the professor and TAs.
Stat 102 covers less biology than I expected. It is an intro stats course with biology examples but don't expect any bioinformatics-type material. Gives you a great foundation for using R, which is a very helpful tool for research.
This class is great. Dave Harrington is excellent. The TFs were extraordinary, though I think many are graduating. It's got a few kinks to work out, being that it's a new course, but even with those, it was a fantastic course. I felt like I learned a lot and tend to think about statistics more in my day-to-day experiences, when it comes to scientific papers and data, etc. Couldn't recommend this class more highly.
This class is A MESS.  Granted, this was the first year it was taught, so things definitely need to be ironed out.  Prof Harrington was incredibly condescending... prefaced every important formula or lesson with "well, this should really be intuitive...so I won't explain it..." Lecture was such a waste of time.  Most of the time, the prof fiddled with R and played around with examples, without teaching ANYTHING.  Had to piece together all of the lessons using section and the lecture slides.  This was one of the most disorganized and unpleasant courses I have taken at Harvard.  Don't take this course until it gets tidied up.  If the exams hadn't been open notes, I would have died.
If you're pre-med and have to take a stat class anyway, take this one.  It is very relevant to what you will be doing, and the final project (though be prepared to take your time on it) is super interesting and relevant, and makes you excited to know that you can do it.  However, BEWARE THE QUIZZES! They are set up to trick you.
This class is not very hard, though I expect this might change because this was the first year this course was offered. The professor is a quirky funny guy though it can be frustrating to learn from him because he takes a long time to explain unimportant things and then isn't so good at explaining the important or more complicated concepts. However the section leaders are great, there's a lot of support and good study material for the course, plus all assessments were open note. So a good stat course overall.
The subject matter is quite interesting and the teaching staff works really hard. This was the first time the class was thought so there were some kinks. Overall it was great experience.
Very useful class; you will learn statistical basics and to learn to use R, a free open source software. This class is a great alternative for those of us who aren't as interested in economics and more interested in biostatistics.
The course is not difficult and has interesting components, but if you are looking for a challenge then a higher level stat course might be better
By tf.
Very manageable course, but you also learn a ton.
This class is really great.  It was new this year, so they haven't quite perfected the organization and system, but the TFs and professor are always thinking of the students and their wants/needs so it all works out really well.  This class is very focused on student success and learning which is nice, despite it being a larger class (about 200).
Go to lecture, take notes, pay attention, and the psets will be a walk in the park.
This is a really great class for students interested in medicine, biology, and public health as it treats problems from each field. It is not very difficult but you learn a lot and you learn to use R which I thought is great. Prof Harrington is very supportive of students' learning and constantly adapts the course to student feedback.
Super easy. If you want a general overview of statistics, this is great. Won't go too in-depth, though. Really nice professor.
If you are looking for a practical bio-statistics course, this isn't it. Although we used R (which was helpful), too much time was spent on covering the basics (slowly, too) and not teaching us when to use certain tests in certain circumstances.
Pretty painless way to get your math req. out of the way.  Dr. Harrington is great.
This is a great introduction course for statistics that is not too hard.
This course is very nice for pre-meds who need to fill a statistics requirement and is equally interesting/educational for both those who have taken statistics before and those who have not. It's not particularly challenging, but I enjoyed it because it went through foundational concepts with interesting biological examples. Particularly in the case of pre-med reqs, there are some classes that I dread going to, but this one was never one of them.
The class was nice because it was specifically for medicine and science, but also did not have many practice problems, did things like give practice problems without answers, some TFs were better than others, and left students at times clueless about how to do problems on the problem set until the day they were due which was completely unfair to students who didn't have time that day to fix them.
Great course on statistics and medicine.
Recommend as an intro stat course for LS majors - much more interesting than STAT 104 would be.
This course does a good job of building a useful foundation in statistics. R is very powerful and good to know, and the tools you get out of this class can be applied in many settings.
Do your problem sets and section problems diligently. They help on the take-home tests.
Overall easy and not fast paced. Everything is done on R so the software will do hard calculations for you. Keep up with the lecture exercises though because it does add up in the latter half of the course
Great course with an awesome professor
This course may seem really hard, daunting, and perhaps even useless at first sight, but I definitely love the knowledge and skills I came out of it with and think they will be immensely useful going forward.
Great class and excellent teaching staff that made it worth it. Although lectures may be a little bit dry, I actually learned a lot through the lecture exercises. Even though I took AP Statistics before, I'm still glad I took this class because I learned a little more than in AP Stats and I learned some R which is nice.
Good statistics class for premed students. Definitely not easy but not overly challenging either. Beware, grading tends to be very unclear and subjective.
P-sets and exams are very fair and not difficult. Professor Harrington is an enthusiastic lecturer. TFs walk around during lecture to help you work out any problems. Overall, a very low stress class.
Not the most interesting class, but it is taught well and is very well-structured so you actually learn things even if you slack off a bit
It's not hard. The p-sets can be completed using the lecture notes and lecture exercises.
If you gotta take it, you gotta take it. Work with people on the problem sets.
Basically what it's billed as--intro stats for life sciences. Good overview of basic statistical concepts, with applications relevant for future doctors or scientists or anyone interested in life sciences.
Your'e going to learn a valuable tool in R, don't expect to receive a fundamental understanding of statistics.
If you want to learn statistics for practical purposes but aren't so interested in the theory and derivations, this is the course for you. Plus you learn R, which is super useful for any future life science research.
This class will be extremely different next year as both Dave and Julie won't be involved in the course next year. However, in general please make sure you are aware of how much coding is involved in this course. This class uses R, and I felt like those who already had prior cs experience were much more comfortable and did better. I wasn't looking to learn how to code so wish I took Stat104 since I would have done better. But at least I do have some experience now. Just not my thing. Conceptually, I think this class was harder than Stat104, so if you are looking for an easier class take that instead. I know people who didn't take AP Stat in high school struggled much more, so if that's the case maybe take 104 so you don't have to learn R on top of learning the concepts. Because time was divided between R and the concepts I feel like I never really fully understood both at a single time. I don't feel like we spent enough time on concepts and making sure that foundation was there before introducing R through the lecture exercises. However with that said, 102 has the BEST support group there is. Though I struggled a lot, I was never fully stressed out about it since I know that I could get help. If you email the TFs they will always respond and try to help you as much as possible. Julie was great, I went to Eana most of the time and would highly recommend her as a TF (I still got the most help from her even though she wasn't my TF, really good at explaining things and patient). Tessa, Espen, and Emerson were also all great. The study breaks they have two days before the pset is due and there is always so much good food. Study breaks are for about three hours long so you can get a good amount of the pset done in that time. Just be aware since the midterm and final take homes were both really hard and took a long time to complete.
Until they publicly commit to a more reasonable system of grading, stay far away. Harrington is actually a great lecturer and cares a lot about the course, but you can literally understand every word that gets said in lecture, understand exactly how to do every problem set and exam problem, and still pull through with an A-.
This course is relaxed and student-friendly. I can feel hasty for someone who had not taken stat before but overall it's manageable. Definitely, take it before LS1b.
This class is not structured very well, is pretty challenging, and I don't even feel as though I learned much about statistics.
I really valued the lessons and skills I have gained from this class. Learning R although difficult initially was very understandable midway through the term. Learning R code was very fun!
Take stat 104
Absolutely don't take this class if you don't plan on doing stats. Do Stat 104 if you're trying to fulfill a requirement.
this class is a lot of work and you should consider taking psych 1900 or stat 104 if you want to learn stat, but not be overloaded with long assignments.
I would like to tell students to keep up with the work, like do the readings before classes, and go over lecture exercises each day so that the work doesn't build up because it easily can. There are almost two weeks gap between each problem set and it is easy to get behind in the class.
If you want to learn R, take this class. If you want to learn basic stat, this class may not be for you. The focus is definitely on learning to perform analysis using R, but you often don't know what a test is doing beyond its output.
Initially a really great class and enjoyable. Homework gets annoying and repetitive towards the end. Be prepared to be frustrated.
It helps a lot to either be strong in R/coding or statistics/math going in so that you can focus on the weakness. It's a lot if you don't know either thing. I did Ok because I already knew basics of coding so I could focus on the output rather than trying to figure out what summary(lm()) even means. The TAs and professors are very helpful, so go to all the study breaks.
This course is good in that you can learn how to code in R. With that said, the actual statistics principles are not presented as in depth as I had wanted and too much emphasis is put on your paragraph explanations in problem sets - in a way that even if you show you understand the material and code everything properly you can still get multiple points taken off for very trivial reasons that have nothing to do with your underlying understanding of the material; I think this may also depend on the TF you have.
I truly enjoyed this class. Make sure to pay close attention in the start and grab hold of the details, particularly to the required coding if you've never coded before. Other than that, don't save psets until the last minute and go to office hours and you'll be fine.
This course is very easy to fall behind in.  Be cautious of this, as it can make the exams a complete nightmare.  Section is very helpful, and the lecture exercises and section recaps are very helpful for psets and exams. Be very thorough on explanations on exams as they are graded very harshly.
This is a great statistics option if you're interested in the life sciences! The material you'll be working with is directly from health and other kinds of studies, so you won't get bored with random or abstract data. The class moves quickly though, and don't get complacent just because the exams are take-home -- you still need to know your stuff.
The course is good but keep in mind that you'll be left on your own. You need to learn most of the material yourself, often with outside sources.
Having a basic knowledge of all of the concepts is extremely helpful.  The "study breaks," section (depending on your TF), and teaching staff are extremely helpful - they will get you through this class.
Great intro course. I did not take AP Stat in high school but I had no problems learning in this course. R is taught well and slowly so that you learn to use it as you go along. Lectures are problem based, so you work through exercises, which is helpful in learning to code and answer questions. The teaching staff is incredibly helpful and you should definitely go to section. I love that the exams are take home and open note; with all the resources available, they're not too difficult. Sometimes grading takes off for small things (watch out for your wording!) but overall it's very fair.
The course is basically only ran in R. R is an interesting program but can definitely be frustrating especially if you have no coding background and take this course. Overall you can get through but there will be a slight learning curve.
Interesting problems!
The worst class ever.
I loved Stat 102! I really appreciate that attendance is not accounted for in the overall grade, because it helps me to be a bit more flexible with my time. Professor Harrington is the absolute nicest professor I have ever met. There is a ton of help available for problem sets and there are even pizza study breaks! I have never coded before, and I figured out how to use RStudio so don't worry too much about it!
Very interesting course, with focus on R and how to use its statistical power. Having some programming background will help understand how to use R, but it is definitely not necessary to do well in the class.
Prof. Harrington cares so much about students and them learning Stat and enjoying it.
I don't know what this course will be like in the future, with most of the teaching staff departing, but this year the course was one of my least-stressful on a day-to-day basis. As a pre-med with a demanding schedule, the fact that this course did not have weekly psets (they were more spaced out) often gave me some relief. That being said, to do well, the psets and midterm/final require a great deal of time, but if you have been following along in lecture and section, you can likely tackle the majority of problems with ease.
I would very much recommend taking this course!
I thought this course was good overall. It wasn't necessarily exciting or super engaging, but I learned a lot about statistics. The course is taught completely in R, which isn't too difficult to pick up. I would definitely recommend going to office hours though and working on psets there.
Although the material is fairly interesting and important to understand if you are planning on going into the life sciences, the course is poorly run and difficult to get excited about.
You take away tangible, useful skills, which allow you to understand the stats behind any future scientific paper that you might want to read. It's an easy, hands-on, accessible course that I highly encourage. I would recommend this over the other intro stat classes, for the reason of taking away skills that you'll actually be able to use, and code that I'm sure will be valuable for my own scientific statistical analyses in the future.
The course is unbelievably arbitrary so even if you think you have a thorough understanding of the course material, your grade may not reflect your knowledge.
If you've never used R, it's going to be difficult to learn it while trying to learn statistics at the same time. Office hours and section can be helpful but if you get behind early, catching up is hard.
The class is interesting and provides a great dal of knowledge on R. Beware! As the time passes, the assignments get much, much longer. Do not wait to the last minute. Some assignments that I handed in were over 30 pages.
Let me just tell you, you will get everything you deserve handed to you on that final exam. As someone who didn't even know what coding was and had never taken stats before, this class was an uphill battle since day one, and I can't say that I won. Don't have a defeated attitude from the start in this class because it will bring you down.
This course takes up a LOT more time than you would expect. You also have to stay on top of it or it'll creep up and bite you. This course is a lot more about using R than it is about learning statistics.
If I are pre-med or interested in life sciences and need to take a statistics course, take this one because it combines both life science and statistics that way if you aren't super interested in stat by itself, you will enjoy this course.
This course gives you a good survey of a variety of different topics in statistics. Prior CS or stat knowledge is extremely helpful, but not necessary (although not having a background in stat made this course a lot more difficult in my opinion).
It was really helpful having taken AP Stat to have a better basic understanding of the underlying material. Sections are optional and go over concepts as well, but the course had more of an emphasis on using R. Assessments were very fair, and both the midterm and final exams were take-home. Go through all the lecture exercises!
This class is a repeat of AP stat but in R. All the homework/exam problems are basically repeats of section problems and lecture exercises which makes the class pretty easy.
Review the lectures and really go to section. Sections will help you to understand the material better.
I would say that if you are trying to knock out your premed requirement, take any other easy stat class. For example, stat 100 or 104 seem like a much better choice. Its a ton of work for a class that you likely don't care much about, and its hard to get a good grade.
Statistics is super important to learn! It's a good way to apply math to various real-world issues
Don't take this class, if at all possible. The structure of the lectures itself is pretty awkward (literally just working through exercises in a huge lecture hall) and grading varies a lot from TF to TF. It's easy to get lowballed. Also, I didn't expect it to be so programming-heavy. I would only suggest taking this class if you have a strong statistics background from high school.
It's a pretty easy class because the exams are take home. The pset problems are also very similar to the lecture exercises so you will have no problem doing them. They also have so many resources and study breaks that it is hard not to succeed in the class.
This class was absolutely horrendous. The course, ostensibly is to teach bio statistics. However, before taking this course you should understand that it is actually a course in programming, specifically the program R. The statistics in this course are not particularly difficult but unfortunately they do play a major role. Instead, the entire course is based on one's knowledge and ability in the R program. The teaching of the course is very flawed. Every lecture the professor goes through largely unhelpful slides and it is difficult to digest what is actually important for the course. I have to reiterate that the lectures were extremely unhelpful as they were mostly devoted to the statistics portion of the class rather than the programming we actually need to know. We would be given in class work to do at times, but if you fall even slightly behind then it is very difficult to catch back up. The psets are difficult and harshly graded. Additionally, the midterm and final are take-home and absurdly long and difficult. I would not recommend this useless course for anyone, and I would especially not recommend it for athletes and other people with busier than average schedules. If you really want to take a statistics class, take stat 104, especially if you are pre-med. If you actually want to learn how to use R, then take an online course that takes you through it step by step. There is literally no reason to take this class.
A painless way to satisfy your premed requirement. Grade inflation is real but staff is super helpful and really wants to make sure you learn (accessible outside of class). Everything is take-home (psets, midterms, final) and open-book, so I essentially never went to class or section and still did really well. Some weeks, I spent 0 hours on this class (psets later in the semester may take up to 10 hours though).
Only take this course if you are willing to put in some extra time and effort.
It's actually a great class. A lot of hand-holding in the beginning, but they slowly let go and allow you to do things on your own.
You are introduced to a computer language in a non-stressful setting, if you're a senior who has taken AP stats. Perfect senior spring course to round out your concentration GPA and your resume all at once! Juniors, take it for your biology thesis. Freshmen and sophomores, take it to explore stats or computative biology as a concentration so you can get that cool REU/intern.
I learned a lot in this class. Using the R program was quite a learning curve for me at first, and the problem sets and take home exams were stressful at some points; but overall, the teaching staff was great and I'm very glad I took this course and now have a solid foundation in statistics.
It's not a great class if you're interested in theory. And it's not a "chill" stat class like stat 104 is made out to be. However, it does give you a solid working knowledge of statistics, and the methods and techniques used here will be very useful in doing thesis research
This is a great way to satisfy the pre med statistics requirement. It is life science based, introduces R in a user friendly way, and gets the important statistical principles across such that I feel prepared to complete statistical analysis of scientific data in a research setting.
You learn a lot of statistical concepts that have a really applicable impact, especially if you're going into public health research. The lectures sometimes felt like a waste of time because they moved very slowly.
Make sure you set enough time aside to work on the take home exams instead of waiting to do them last minute. The pizza study breaks are great to work on the problem sets and there's always good food!
This course is very reasonable, but problem sets could be lengthy and sometimes it seemed as if they were graded pretty harshly. I liked the take home exams.
The course covered a lot of useful material. The problem sets take some time, but they were manageable. Section was very helpful.
Going to Professor Harrington's office hours was the highlight of my time in this course; he has so much to talk about in the field of statistics!
Dave Harrington is my hero. Stat 102 is very useful for people in the life sciences. You can actually use the stuff you learn and apply it to help you understand things you read in scientific papers or actually use your stat skills on your own lab research. It's a lowkey class, but the stuff you do in class is a similar level to psets and exams so you're prepared. And they host pset office hours like once every two or three weeks when they buy you pizza and snacks. Take this stat class if you're going into the sciences!
This class is great for learning R and basic stat. The first half of the course is pretty basic, but the later parts can get tricky because it is rushed and much more complicated.
Good intro class. Dave is an excellent teacher.
Harrington is a true gem and this course is definitely one you should take if you are pre med. A super engaging course with a reasonable workload. It also is incredible well run, which makes it a true pleasure to take.
There is so much of an emphasis on learning R, and I didn't think it was particularly helpful. Take Stat 104 unless you absolutely love competing with pre-meds.
It's not too time consuming, and if you pay attention in class, it doesn't require a lot of outside studying.
Stat 102 has been the most organized and pleasant class that I've taken so far at Harvard. All of the expectations were laid out to us in the beginning and the course instructors did not deviate from them. I like how they've decided to integrate lecture with in class exercises using R, so you absolutely do need to bring your laptop to class every single time. In integrating these lecture exercises, I felt like there was an actual reason to go to lecture to get practice rather than not feeling like going at all. The TFs are great and I was wary at first because many of them were undergraduates like us, but they were very helpful the entire semester. If you are in the sciences, take 102 over any other stat class.
If you have little to no background in statistics and you are looking for a chill introduction w a bio focus that is not too demanding i would recommend the class. This is a very light class, covers basic use of R, probability Normal distribution, Poisson, Bionmial, linear models and binomial predictors, all with an applied focus, little to no theory. So if you are looking to learn statistics more in depth take a different course.
I took this class for a pre-med requirement, and am not particularly interested in statistics. That being said, I do think that what we learned will be quite useful, especially with regards to understanding and interpreting scientific papers. However, I didn't always like how the course was organized - it was entirely lecture based activities, and so I didn't always have a clear understanding of the material. Also, the take-home midterm and finals both took quite a long time - so start early!
A really great class that covers the basics of statistics with a biomedical application. The professor and TFs spend a lot of time crafting well thought out problem sets that truly test the student if they understand the concepts and how to apply them. They are also always available which makes the student's life a lot easier!
Take this class if you are interested in statistics with a biological application. This course is more informative for medical school than some of the alternative statistic sequences.
This class teaches valuable concepts in statistics that could be applied to many fields of science.
That you should have a statics background
Its going to be fine.
Most of this course is based on your understanding of how to use R.  There isn't much teaching of R so a lot is based on going to the help room and figuring things out there.
Most of the material is not too difficult to understand and learn. The problem sets and take-home midterm and final are tedious, and just take time to type out on R Studio. Sometimes the hardest part of a problem was trying to figure out the correct R code to run or trying to debug your code when it doesn't compile. R is used in biomedical research a lot though, so even though there is a learning curve for using R, I am hoping it will be helpful in the future. Also, they had office hours almost every week with plenty of free beverages, pizza, cookies, popcorn, etc. and a lot of TFs would be there to help with your problem sets. Those office hours are AMAZING and would always have good turnout.
straightforward and easy to do well. it is cool to learn how to use the program R
If you want a course that will teach skills you could immediately apply, then this is the one for you. While there is some focus on statistical theory (textbook, lecture), the main emphasis is on direct and immediate application. The course answers questions like: When presented with a study, what data exploration methods and tests can you run that will create a story? How can I use R to run those algorithms? What language do I use in crafting the story? The problem sets and exams almost make you feel like you are in the real-world, seeking to make sense of data. I will be able to contribute more significantly in lab data analysis now that I have experience in an engaging stats course.
Solid course. If you've taken AP Stat, you're probably better served taking a higher level stat course, because 2/3+ of this class will be review.
Though this class might be a big challenging initially if you do not have any background with statistics or using computer software to analyze statistics, ultimately, with the resources at your disposable, you will be just fine!
This is a very painless introductory statistics class.
If you know how to code, that helps. You'll only really learn stats if you work for it. You take out what you put in. Lectures were pretty bad though.
This class is an easy, well-done introduction to a necessary field for any scientist.
This is a good and chill class on statistics in the life sciences. Professor Harrington and Julie are both very nice and helpful people, and if you're looking to get familiar with statistics in the life sciences then this course does that.
This class is useful, but you're not going to enjoy it. By the end of the class you'll know how to use R pretty well, but you probably will have no idea of the conceptual ideas behind what you're doing.
It's easy and it's got a take home midterm and final. All you can really ask for in a class.
I loved taking this course. If you are looking for an introductory course for statistics, and want to do a little coding, take this. Learning R is super useful, and Professor Harrington is an amazing professor/lecturer. Few professors at Harvard teach as well as Professor Harrington. You will come out knowing exactly how to use statistics and R in other projects. Go to the pizza study breaks--these are the best! And also, get to know the head TF, Julie. She's amazing.
The sections are not useful and the lectures are dry but everything you learn will become very useful later in life
The class is fun if you like quantitative stuff. Nice bio application.
Very fair course but R software takes some getting used to. There are tons of OH and study breaks to get help with the code. Take home midterm and final are effective ways of evaluation, just take your time and you will do well
This is a phenomenal course. Professor Harrington is very engaging and helpful, allowing students to go from a limited statistical background to having the ability to read a problem and effectively distinguish between various methods to summarize the data (e.g. numerical summaries, box plots, histograms, bar plots, contingency tables, etc.) and conduct hypothesis testing (e.g. t-tests, linear regression, logistic regression, chi-squared analysis, etc.). For a large lecture course, Professor Harrington creates a surprisingly interactive environment. Completing the nightly readings, staying focused in lecture, working ahead on p-sets, and making use of office hours/study breaks allow one to gain a lot from a course (including, along the way, good performances on graded material).
Good introduction statistics course to take if you are interested in the life sciences. The applications were very interesting.
it's not hard but the R program is the basis of the course and it's way too heavily focused upon, so I felt like I never really learned statistics, and many of my peers agree. The teaching staff tried to cover too much with both stats and R. Many of my peers who had experience with computer science had an upper hand, which shouldn't be the case at all for an intro to stats class. The poll questions every day which counted for correctness were SO unnecessary, making it so that you couldn't even miss one class, and they often didn't even ask questions from the readings that they were supposed to come from. Assignments are pettily graded and students aren't told beforehand to do some key things, resulting in a lot of unnecessary points being lost. Had much higher hopes for this class.
Keep up with the material throughout the semester. It's easy to go in and find everything very easy, and then suddenly find that you're lost once the semester picks up.
Pretty easy class,  don't let the work sneak up on you though!
I was pleasantly surprised by this course. While by no means was it a course that revolutionized my Harvard experience, I feel like I gained a useful tool in a fairly painless manner.
Lecture is useless
This course is great for getting your feet wet in statistics. If you are considering statistics, this might get you more excited about the subject.
Make sure you start the midterm and final early because they take a while to do. Don't procrastinate in those because they can really bring down your grade if you do badly
Stat 102 was a fairly easy class that taught the basic of statistics. If you've taken AP Stat, do not take this class. If you're looking for a class that really goes in depth, do not take this class. However, if you're looking for an intro stat class that is relatively relaxed and doesn't assume any background knowledge, this is definitely the class for you! Learning R was also a big plus.
Don't take this course. It makes statistics more stressful than in it should be. The professor is bad and he is an absolute savage that will make your semester more stressful than it every should be. I'm so glad that it's over. I'm out.
The pace of the course is pretty slow. You have to be dedicated to going to lectures, but if you do, you'll fully understand all topics.
This course has very practical applications, but be sure to not get caught up in R-Studio syntax. Focus on the concepts first, R-syntax second.
If you can take any other stats course, please do! This course felt less like stats and more like an intro to programming because of the amount of R we needed to do. There is not a lot of teaching when it comes to the programming, so you're left basically teaching yourself, which is a big pain. It's not so much that things are hard, but that they take a lot of time and will be a big pain. If you can take a different stats class to meet this requirement, I highly suggest that you do.
This class offers a pain-free and straightforward introduction to the world of statistics in the life sciences. Getting handy with R is also a major plus the course offers.
Prof. Harrington is a wonderful lecturer. Although the math covered in the course is quite elementary, particularly for people who have taken AP Stats or have a higher math background, this course is still very worthwhile to take, because it teaches you how to critically think about what data you are analyzing and how you want to analyze it, instead of just plugging and chugging numbers/formulas.
Good for life sciences and necessary if you're considering research but it can be very tedious
Take another statistics class if your concentration will let you. Harrington is a very dry lecturer, and clicker questions are graded on accuracy (the class average was around a 75%).  Psets are unbelievably tedious.
Not very difficult, and useful if you need to learn R!
The way in which stat 102 forces you to think is SO important if you want to study any science field. The class isn't that hard, but it will be so worthwhile for you invest your mental energy into it.
Problem sets are going to take you a while if you plan on doing them well and thoroughly. The take-home midterm and take-home final will probably eat your life. Just a warning.
Great intro to stat class. The problem sets and exams take time, but they're straightforward and very helpful.
This is a very valuable class especially if you are thinking about pursuing a life-sciences track/career.
The class's assignments were graded fairly harshly. Small mistakes in large problem set led to more points being taken off per mistake than seemed reasonable.
A very useful class with interesting applications. Might seem somewhat slow at times.
Try not to fall behind as you learn new material.  It sometimes is best to just sit down, re-read the notes and make sense of it before jumping into a problem set.
pretty good way to learn stats
This class is a great intro to Stat, especially for those interested in health. The class this semester was much more challenging than it has been in the past (according to friends), but if you're willing to stick with it and learn R then you'll find it very rewarding. They really make an effort to help you and are super responsive to questions.
Go to section and office hours!
Generally low-stress class that gives a good introduction to statistics. All exams were take home, which was great. Lectures were a bit difficult to focus in though, so it's not the most intellectually stimulating class.
A good introduction to statistics.. Professor Harrington is very interesting and his lectures are useful. Work loads is fairly light too, psets aren't too demanding, plus take home midterm & final.
If you want a simple introduction to statistics with medium workload as well as a strong use of R, take this course! I had no prior knowledge to statistics but learned a lot from this course. However, be wary of sections as they are not as useful as they seem.
GO TO LECTURE. They can be boring but its a big part of your grade. The take home midterm and final are clutch and allow this class to be fairly stress free
This is a great course to take if you lack a statistics background or wish to gain basic knowledge in R
This class is a great introduction to statistics, especially if you have never taken a statistics class before. It is arguably one of the more useful classes that you can take as a an undergraduate interested in medicine, epidemiology, or the life sciences.
Lecture was useless.
Stat is so important to take, and I am really glad R was focused on so much in this class.
make sure to know basic background to statistics before taking this course; this course is basically a self-taught course on how to use R.
The class is really useful, especially because it is geared toward the life sciences and has very real-world applications. However, if you have no statistics background, it may be a little  challenging to learn statistics via R programming. Nevertheless, it's totally doable.
This is an amazingly relevant and useful class that is not too stressful. Highly recommend
If you dig in and learn the R code, you will enjoy the course!
Great class for those who are biology/life sciences oriented and want to learn how to analyze and understand raw datasets in a medically relevant way. Not too difficult, but you do need to do the work to keep up.
You learn a lot and it doesn't have to eat all of your time. Definitely a useful class to take especially when trying to balance with very time consuming classes.
You will learn useful skills for a career in the life sciences. The problem sets and evaluation are engaging. However, R can be frustrating, and the lectures moved frustratingly slowly at times.
I took this course because I wanted a rehash of statistics after AP Stat in high school. I justified it since I thought that it would be useful to learn R programming, but honestly I did not learn that much about R, and I retaught myself all of the actual statistics. The lectures were very boring and pointless.
Learn how to code well!
Make sure you keep up with the readings and try to pay attention in lecture, as the material accumulates quickly and becomes very difficult to catch up at the end of the semester.
Definitely take this over Stat 104. Midterm and final are both take home. Only "difficult" part of the class is the clicker questions, which are graded based on correctness.
Lectures aren't really effective and not how I learned much in this course - sections and just doing the problem sets were really what got the information across.
The hardest thing about this course is learning R. Once you pick up R skills, however, it becomes a lot easier.
The prof is super nice and really cares about the students' well being.
Professor Harrington is awesome! Go to office hours and the pizza study breaks!
Great class, learned a lot, sometimes tough grading
This class is not difficult, very easy if you've taken ls1b or any statistics in high school. If you haven't taken statistics, also not hard. It was very useful to learn how to use R. Definitely take this if you need stat and you're interested in applying it to bio research.
This is an amazing class! You'll feel much more confident in your data-analysis skills after you take it, which is very valuable for anyone going into science. The teaching staff are excellent people and very accessible. You're also shown how to apply what you're learning to real world problems.
Stat 102 is a totally fine class. You'll learn to use R, which is a really useful tool and used widely across academic research. Lectures aren't awesome, but lecture slides are good and you'll learn by doing the psets. Find friends to do psets with, and you'll be fine. Take home exams are very long, but do-able if you just spend enough time on it.
This class is easy if you've taken a stats course in high school. Make sure to show up to class pretty early on because the poll quizzes make up a big portion of the final grade.
If you just need a statistics requirement and don't actually want to know statistics well, this is much harder than other courses and will require much more effort. However, you will learn many skills other intro courses will not teach.
Students need to be familiar with statistics and/or R code. Without either, you will most definitely struggle in this course.
If you're taking this class, it's because you have to. Just be warned that you will have to teach yourself all of the material outside of class in order to be able to do the psets. Also, if you aren't good with computers this class can be very challenging.
Don't take this
I would recommend taking Stat 104 over this class, unless you really want to do biostatistics. R markdown makes the problem sets and take-home exams really difficult, simply because the formatting is hard.
Be prepared to use a lot of R! I hadn't used R at all before this course and found it to be very accessible. I also found the material a bit more introductory than I had expected; learning R was nice, but the actual concepts weren't all that interesting, nor did they move fast enough for me. If you're interested in a more thorough statistics course I would recommend taking 110 instead. If you just want to learn some R and are not comfortable at all with statistics this is a pretty accessible class.
Great way to learn R but not very interesting.  Do it if you have to but not fun.
Stat 102 essentially does what it says on the package: it gives you a background in intro statistics in a biological context. It does this job fairly well, and you should leave with a decent grounding in the field. However, the actual lecture experience itself is pretty miserable - things tend to get repeated over and over (e.g., there are probably a solid two week's worth of material on all the different ways to apply linear regression, which is probably excessive), and the lectures themselves move at an absolutely glacial rate. I feel like we could have covered twice as much material without a large drop in comprehension. Prof. Harrington and the teaching staff all seem like nice people, but I probably wouldn't have gone to lecture if there weren't reading quizzes (which routinely take up half the class) to enforce attendance - there really isn't much presented that can't be learned in 20 minutes by reading the relevant textbook chapters. Take-home everything is nice, and in general the assignments are a breeze if you're on top of the material (although wrangling with R is sometimes a challenge). If you're pre-med like most of the class, this is probably the most career-relevant stat class at Harvard, so I'd say to take it; however, don't be surprised if you're incredibly bored most of the time.
Take it if you need to. It won't be your favorite course, but it certainly should be your least enjoyable.
The assignments and lectures were really well done. The text was provided online. It really felt like there were real applications to the information.
Take this class if you want to get a Stat requirement out of the way. Professor Harrington is awesome, and the class isn't hard at all. Take home midterm and final, and as long as you go over the section problems you should be good.
A good way to get a pre-med stat requirement done. Doesn't teach you anything more than the basics, but if that is what you are looking for, then a good option.
This course was incredibly easy, and did not take too much time to complete. I would recommend this course for anyone taking a heavy course load that needs to knock out a stat requirement. It is definitely geared toward pre-med students. If you are interested in taking future statistics courses, take something else to better prepare.
This is definitely a valuable and relatively painless way to fulfill the a statistics requirement, and learning some basic R is very valuable for life science fields. It is easy to get behind in the course at the end since it suddenly gets a lot harder quickly, and motivating yourself to go to and focus at lectures can be difficult since they seem very dry. But it is definitely worthwhile overall.
If you would like to understand how research results from current biology could be analyzed through statistics, I would recommend Stat102. If you want a deeper understanding of statistical analysis, Stat102 is a poor fit.
Be prepared to be coding a lotAlso, you have to be very independent with learning the material as lecture is not particularly helpfulUltimately, you can do well in this class but some pain is required
Stat 102 staff is great! They offer plentiful office hours and study breaks. Prof. Harrington is really sweet and his lectures are usually pretty good. My problems with the class would be that the psets would vary wildly sometimes in how long it took to complete (one would take 3 hours and the next would take 8) and it could be very difficult to track down the various R codes needed for each pset.
This class is a nice and fairly easy introduction to stats for life sciences. It can get a bit hard to keep up with everything, but if you attend lectures and take some notes, it is not a difficult course. The professor is very nice and eager to help with any problems that you have. Also, it helps to take the class with a group of friends so you always have someone to work on a problem set with.
Lecture is very boring, but the Psets are interesting.
This class is fairly easy/low workload, especially if you have taken AP Stat. Great way to fill your premed stat requirement or balance out a heavier course load. Sections are optional and unnecessary for succeeding in the class. Psets and exams are fair.
This class does not have unreasonable work load. The poll questions are somewhat stressful, but are helpful to keep on track with the concepts. The class is a little unorganized, but office hours and sections are helpful.
Don't miss out on learning how to code for stat and actually learn stat in real world applications too!
It's overall a good class. You will learn to use R, which is a useful tool. It is really rewarding that most of the work is conceptual, with execution in R, rather than doing psets where you are crunching numbers for hours. That said, some of the problem sets are tedious in the amount of writing/explanation that needs to be done.
Very good class that will teach you introductory statistics skills and reasoning, as well as R.
This course, while it could have covered more material, was an excellent course to round out a difficult semester. This course's take-home exams were excellent in reducing stress while I was taking two additional laboratory courses for pre-med requirements. The teaching staff is also excellent, as they are all super nice and very helpful. While a little on the easier side, this course does provide the basics that you need to know for biostatistics.
Very doable class and you can learn some good R Code skills from this class. Do yourself a favor and pay attention in class. Although the class is usually very easy for most, paying attention for 3 hrs a week in lecture will make the psets even easier to do and you'll get more out of the class than just an A.
Keep up with the class because you cannot collaborate with other students on the take-home midterm or final exams
