If you don't take this, you are missing out. You will make new friends, and you will have top notch professors spending hours of their time giving you incredibly helpful feedback. Best course I've taken in the Stat Department.
While you aren't necessarily learning new material, the skills gained from this class are extremely helpful. Also it put you into a good position for writing a thesis.
Take this! No matter what your academic background, the open-ended nature of the course will allow you to pursue personal areas of interest. Great way to get to know the other stat concentrators as well as some professors.
TAKE THIS COURSE IF YOU ARE A STATS CONCENTRATOR!! It teaches you all of the skills you need to go into any statistics-related profession which complement all the knowledge you get in other stats classes.
You should definitely take this if you are a statistics concentrator. It was the best class I've taken at Harvard (by far). You get to work closely with other statistics students and professors and you learn so much. It is a lot of work but absolutely worth it.
Do the assignments in a timely fashion and GO TO OFFICE HOURS
This is the best class I have ever taken. It is how every class should be. The focus is on learning and not the grading or unthoughtful completion of assignments. This is a unique opportunity to develop skills that are unfortunately disregarded in college, namely speaking and writing. I also learned a lot about statistics, R, and Latex. This class teaches you so many different skills, arguably more important ones, that other classes do not.
This is one of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard. It is difficult and demanding, but the effort pays off in the end. Take advantage of office hours and the resources provided by the teaching staff. It's unbelievable to have 3 professors and 1 TF for a class of just 13 students. I also found this class extremely helpful if you plan to write a thesis because you learn how to read/write about statistics, formulate a research question, and carry out an analysis/simulation.
Excellent class for developing statistical interpretation and writing skills. Highly recommend for all concentrators and any students interested in using applied statistics in other disciplines.
Don't be afraid to take this course. It may seem scary or overwhelming, but it teaches you the most useful skills (all that are intangible) in statistics and academia.
For a class that doesn't emphasize learning new statistics content, you still learned so many new stat concepts through doing the projects.
little feedback given on assignments, never got assignment 2 feedback at all and it's already exam period. very nitpicky, bad grades with little explanation. useful material though.
Take it even if you don't want to write a thesis, it's an engaging, fun class!
Unless the teaching staff changes, do not take this course unless you have already taken Stat 139, 110 and 111.  The current teaching staff assumes statistics knowledge at that level and above.  Take a stat class where you will actually acquire more statistical knowledge, such as 139 or 149.
Prepare for presentations. This course focuses on presenting and writing about statistics. And make sure your drafts are complete and work ahead so the re-writes aren't so time-consuming.
I really think more stat concentrators should consider taking this course. Speaking and writing, especially with non-statisticians, is really important because of the increasingly collaborative nature of the profession. Through the open-ended assignments, you really do get lots of practice with writing and public speaking. It's like Expos 40, but you can learn a lot of cool stats along the way too through the final project, which can be a lead-in for a senior thesis. tl;dr: Learn how to write and present, while learning some cool stats, and while getting to know professors in an intimate setting in a department with a lot of large-ish lecture classes.
Really challenging class but really rewarding. Will come out of it a much more confident speaker and writer-- especially useful for those looking to write a thesis. Beware of huge workload and mental stress for this one class.
It is a very rigorous course with constant deadlines and demands, but is useful if you are looking to learn more about how to write and talk about statistics. It is not a course where you will necessarily get started on narrowing a topic or finding data for a thesis.
This course did better prepare me for a thesis in some ways, but there are many aspects of the course that could use some improvement such as the consistency in comments and support from course instructors.
This class has some really great elements, the best of which in my opinion is the fact that you get a small, discussion-based class in a department that usually has you taking lecture classes, and you get to hang out with the department head and hear from some really interesting people. Some of the assignments were also fun to do, and it does force you to learn to use Latex if you haven't already. The reason I would recommend this class with reservations is because it definitely wasn't what I expected; having a tutorial junior spring made myself and a lot of others think that this class was geared toward helping you figure out how to write a thesis, or choose a topic, and that definitely wasn't it. It's a very interesting class, but if you're not interested in writing statistical papers or running simulation studies, you probably won't enjoy 98 too much, and you really don't NEED this class for anything going forward, so don't just take it because it's the junior tutorial.
If you're taking this class only because you want to write a thesis, there's no need to take it. However, if you want to get to know a few stats professors better and to practice writing and speaking a lot, this is definitely for you. The perfect description of it is the combined Expos 20 + Expos 40 for Stat majors.
TAKE STAT TUTORIAL!!!!!!!!
- Dedicated professors and an incredible teaching fellow. Worth it to get to know them well.- Practicing presenting statistics is challenging. Learned a lot from having to wrestle with material on my own before presenting.- Good to get to know other concentrators.- The last two assignments take a lot more time than the first two, so weight that into how you budget your time.
This course is very much geared towards getting stat students ready for a thesis. The skills you develop in this tutorial can also be used in most statistical positions (internships, post-grad employment, etc.) as well though. Expect to spend more time on this class as the semester goes by and as assignments become more intensive. I highly recommend going to office hours as well. It will be more individually focused, and you'll get a lot more feedback than you get during the 2 hour class.
Take Stat 98!!!! Definitely recommend it, regardless of whether you want to write a thesis or not. It is a great class. It teaches you how to apply statistical concepts and explore/test them in your own projects. It was a really enriching experience for me, very different from other Stats courses at Harvard. You interact with the teaching staff (Prof. Rader is great to get to know!) and other concentrators in a small classroom environment and you also receive constant feedback on your work.
Very very heavily project based. I would recommend this for all Stats concentrators, not just potential thesis writers, because while this stuff has given me more confidence about research and potential thesis ideas, that was kind of a side effect - the course never really talks about thesis writing, more just all of the skills (like research, simulations, academic writing) that you can use anywhere, and that aren't really taught in other course. The camaraderie in this course was great, too. I didn't find this course too demanding, time-wise, but you definitely get out what you put in - it's mostly project based, so you have to be self-disciplined and self-motivated. One thing I should point out is that while you get a lot of feedback in this course, you won't really have any idea of what your grade is. If you're anxious about that, prepare yourself!
This course is great for stat majors. It is a great way to get to know other students in the concentration and faculty/grad students as well. The workload varies week to week, but it is interesting and there is a lot of freedom to pursue your interests.
This course is a good way to solidify previously learned statistical concepts. It is in a smaller setting so you get more attention and feedback. However, the grading is very harsh. Workload is pretty manageable
You need background in stat 111, stat 110, stat 139 etc most of the time for many final projects.
It is perfectly possible to take this course in order to avoid more challenging stat courses. However, if you fully commit and engage this is a really rewarding experience!
Stat 98 is not easy, and you should not take it anticipating an easy high grade. That being said, it is tremendously useful, especially if you are considering a senior thesis, and the individualized attention and personalized feedback you receive is unheard of in larger traditional stat classes. If you are the type of person willing to take on the challenge of this close attention and personalized feedback, the course is excellent.
It's a fun alternative to other statistics requirements that will not further your statistical knowledge, but will equip you with communication skills that are crucial for doing research or entering the professional world as a statistician. It also lets you explore topics  that you are interested in with informed guidance and thorough feedback.
The course is great in the sense that it allows you to explore a topic of your choice. The drawback is there is not much structure. If you feel like you need instruction and clear guidelines to follow I would not recommend this class; however, it was one of the statistics classes here where I feel like I actually engaged with a single topic the most and that was pretty cool.
Very interesting and helpful, particularly for those that intend to write a thesis.
This is a relatively relaxed class with a great opportunity to get personal feedback and learn how to write reports, do independent research, and give effective presentations.
the workload builds up at the end of the semester. grading seems very harsh. lots of office hours.
This is a fantastic opportunity to take a small class as a Stat concentrator. It allows you to get to know faculty members, receive tons of individual feedback, and get a good sense of what research in statistics is like. Class sessions are very enjoyable and you learn a lot through workshopping your the work of your peers. I highly recommend this class. One thing to know is that the workload is very unbalanced. There are some weeks where you're putting in an hour and a couple weeks where it's more than 20 hours. The prep for each class varies a lot and is also very specific to the kind of project you choose to do. All in all though, this was a great class!
Definitely a huge learning experience to apply the statistics skillset to more than just psets and group projects.  The feedback is awesome as well as the opportunity to take a small-setting statistics class.  That being said the final project is stressful and don't get deceived by the light initial workload of the course.
You should take this class. You get to have a lot of interaction with professors, which is really enjoyable. You also have time to go back and really understand some of the concepts learned in other classes. The material is different from previous stats classes, and is challenging and fun.
It can be a lot of work at times, but at the end it's worth it. You learn a lot of presentation skills and get to interact with Kevin and Dave and Iav, all of whom are awesome.
This class is fantastic if you would like to interface a lot with some very cool professors in the Stats department.  You also get a ton of feedback which is really helpful.  This class is very collaborative and interactive, which makes it a lot of fun.
It gives you a really useful set of skills, but it's definitely not an easy A. Be prepared to put in a lot of thought and work to the class.
A great class where you can learn a lot. However, assignments can get tedious sometimes, as there's usually something big due every week. However, the class is generally amazing, and it's not usual to get this much attention (3 instructors, ~15 students) in a Stat class.
A relaxed way to explore statistics in a a different way than you usually would!
This course is more difficult than you would expect, so do not slack in it. Start assignments early and be sure to go to plenty of office hours. If you do not handle group projects well, or do not like group feedback, this is not the class for you.
If you know for a fact that you are going to concentrate in Statistics, you really should take this class. The assignments require a great deal of work and preparation, but you'll get some of the best feedback you've ever received in an academic setting, and you'll also have a great opportunity to get to know members of the Stats department (both in and out of class). Definitely a class that's more rewarding than most.
good class, just make sure to find things you're interested in for the projects. Otherwise it gets pretty annoying
