The concept of the class is great -- a stats class for psychology students. This year's teaching was particularly awful; however, Professor Gold is not being asked back and a new instructor might make the class really good.
If the professor who taught this class teaches it again, don't take the class! If it is a requirement, petition to get out of it! If the professor is replaced and you have an interest in psychological research, consider taking it.
Because of the nature of the lectures, you will likely rely quite a bit on the textbook.
Great way to get into statistics without bothering with 1000s of ridiculously useless mathematical formulas.
the teacher is not good and letres are seless, so yo will have to teach yorself the corse fro the book.
It's an easy class, and the subject matter isn't difficult to grasp. However, the professor makes a huge difference, so definitely make sure it's someone you'd enjoy learing from.
Do not take this class if you can avoid it.
DON'T TAKE THIS unless you have to.
The professor was unorganized, sometimes confusing, and some of the work was useless.
So boring, so miserable, so annoying, so frustrating
It is boring.
Very easy way to fulfill your stats requirement!  Also provides some practical experience in working with surveys, and thinking about psych study construction.
Beware of Professor Gold.
The course is easy, but it is often poorly organized and unpredictable.
If you have to take a statistics course, this one may not be the most enjoyable. However, it is very easy and painless. Ellen was also great.
The professor is good, however, the material can sometimes get boring.
This class is great for anyone actually interested in statistics.
the book is very helpful. Read the book before lectures and you will be better off.
It's boring, but just deal with it.
If you have to take stat, I definitely recommend this one.
It is so straightforward and the instructors are great and always willing to help. Anything you don't understand is your fault, not theirs.
I would only take this class as a requirement
bad teaching, incredibly boring, a good amount of work, but you have to take it for psychology so there isn't really much way around it.
The material is not very interesting, but if concentrating in science it is a must have skill.
Incredibly well organized class - makes it easy for students to learn. Kevin is a great lecturer and makes the material accessible for people like me who have zero stats or math background to speak of. Workload is reasonable, and they try hard to guide you through the stuff without hand holding too much. Awesome for anyone who wants to take a stats class without the huge class size!
Pay attention in class because the slides directly correlate to homework and tests.
The material is straightforward, but you should still pay attention. Do the practice problems.
If you've taken AP Stats, the first half of this class will be a breeze. Kevin makes lectures fun, and both Kevin and Joseph are extremely accessible if you have any questions regarding psets.
This class is very interesting and actually useful.
Kevin's a great teacher. Stat can be boring at times, but when it's applied to the field of psychology it becomes useful
It's never really hard at all but sometimes stuff just doesnt make sense, not too much work at all though
This class was really well taught, very clear, with a great teaching staff.
This is a great and extremely beneficial course. The workload is very manageable and the teaching staff is very accessible. Kevin is fantastic and makes dry material interesting. I also feel like the material I learned this semester will useful across the board!
This was a well-taught comprehensive course on statistics. If you are taking it to fulfill a psychology requirement, just know that it barely touches on psych (compared to Psych 1900, which also meets the same requirement). The psets take some time every weeks, but there is a lot of help from the professor, tf, and site materials to help you through them.
Easy class. Learning so many techniques of inferential analysis might get a little confusing, but the teaching staff is super willing to help you out if you have any questions.  Problem sets and exams are very fair. I wish they used more psychology examples that would make it easier to remember what analyses to apply.
The work can get tricky, but if you stay on top of your work it is not a problem.
A bit dry in terms of subject matter (in terms of psychology) but very well run and solidifies your understanding of subject. Teacher was great and resources were also awesome.
This was a great class! Definitely take it if you are at all interested in statistics!
Kevin is awesome and will teach you all that you need to know. He is available for out of class help, as is Joseph. This course is very thorough and engaging, as much as it can be. You will learn what you need to know and it is a great overview of a new subject, whether you like statistics or not. You really don't need to buy the book, you will not touch it. Everything you need to know is covered in the lecture notes and if you are confused the teaching staff is very helpful.
If you don't like math or reasoning, its a little boring.
This class is really wonderful. Lindsay, the instructor, is amazing. I enjoyed lecture most of the time, but one recommendation: don't bring a laptop to class. You will get distracted and take really crappy notes when you aren't. And please - take this course before you consider either of the introductory statistics courses.
I would say take Stat 104 unless you are absolutely certain that this the way that you want to fulfill some sort of Psych requirement.  The work/lack of fun in the class was definitely not worth it unless you absolutely have to take it.
The information in this class is engaging and useful. Lindsay Page is an amazing professor. Her explanations are always very clear, and she'll go back and try to make them even clearer if you ask a question. The TFs are super helpful too. I found the explanations in the book to be really dense (to the point where I just stopped reading it), but the explanations given by Lindsay and the TFs were usually clear and simple.
Requirement for psychology.  Take this if you need to or like statistics.
Lindsay is a great teacher and super understanding! She's very easy to talk to and definitely structures the class in a way that takes into account the students' stress level and is generally very sensitive to an individual's needs or situation.
Lindsay is leaving us :( so beware. The positive ratings for this course are probably highly correlated with the fact that Lindsay taught this class. I can easily see this class being far less enjoyable without her presence.
I was not looking forward to taking Stats at all, but I actually really enjoyed this class! Lindsay was great, and explained everything very clearly for beginners. The workload was pretty light, and I ended up learning a lot that will help me in the future.
Not too difficult and Lindsay is a wonderful teacher!!!!!!
Lindsay and the TFs are like a team of the nicest superheroes ever. The material can get really confusing, but having such an accessible teaching staff that can explain the concepts to you in multiple ways is very helpful. Ask questions, go to office hours, and try to at least skim the readings. If you don't work consistently every week, you could get lost very fast.
It's interesting enough as a stats course. It gave me the tools i need to understand stat from a research point of view.
Lindsay is a fantastic teacher.  I really don't enjoy math so I took this course to get my gen ed out of the way, but I ended up really liking this class and learning a lot from it.  Definitely a great way to finish a gen ed requirement.
It's easy. Just learn what's on the slides. The hardest part is figuring out how to navigate SPSS. Be aware that the last month of the course has a lot of work (midterm, problem sets, data analysis project, final).
This is a great intro to statistics course! All of the assignments are fair and Lindsay is fabulous. However, Lindsay will no be teaching this course next year and I am not sure how this class would differ with a different professor.
Maths made interesting
This is a great course and Lindsay is a wonderful professor.
Although Lindsay isn't coming back, she really did make this course what it was. But in terms of the material, it is very straightforward and easy to comprehend.
This class is very useful if you're looking to increase your stats knowledge.  Professor Lindsay is great but unfortunately, she won't be teaching this class anymore.
If you have to take stat (and you really should - it's an incredibly important skill to be able to interpret statistical analyses), there is no other choice - TAKE THIS CLASS. Lindsay is AMAZING - she's one of the sweetest people in the world, and her lectures are crystal clear. The lecture slides are incredibly clear and helpful, and exams are, though somewhat challenging, completely fair. I took AP stat in high school, and I still gained so much from this class in terms of depth of understanding and insight. I highly recommend this class.
This course is not an easy Math Gen-Ed; I'd recommend something else for people who aren't interested in pursuing math. I had expected it to be much easier, but as someone who is fine at math, just not very motivated to work on it like a scared freshman, I would recommend Logic or something easy like that.
I loved this class so much. Lindsay was such an amazing teacher and made the class structure so great.
It gives a good basic understanding of Statistics, and is not too difficult
I would love to tell you how awesome Lindsay and Stat 101 are. But I am afraid that it would make you feel bad that you could not take it earlier since she will no longer teach Stat 101 next semester.
This course was great because Lindsay is so nice; however, I think she has received another job offering at Penn, so I am not sure if she will be here. Personally, I'm not interested in statistics (find it kind of boring), but Lindsay made it manageable to get through lectures.
If you are not a logic or math-oriented person this will be a challenging course for you.
This class is excellent.  If you're debating between taking Stat 101 and Stat 104, I would recommnend 101 if you're more psychologically inclined than economically inclined.  Initially, I thought I wanted to take 104 because it has open note/open book tests.  Stat 101 allows a "cheat sheet" for every test, so there was no need to memorize.  This class has helped me better understand the scientific papers I read for other classes, which is very useful and rewarding :)
If you are only pursuing a Psychology secondary, I would go with Stat 100.  This course isn't much more psychology oriented and the TFs make it harder (especially if you're not a natural at math).
Lindsay is an incredible Prof! Take it, you WON'T regret it!
Lindsay made this class the great class that it was. She was enthusiastic and so helpful, really great at explaining concepts thoroughly. I'm not huge on math, but this course was pretty painless as far as understanding the mathematical models, etc. - once again, because of Lindsay's teaching.
Take this class! Even if you don't need it for your concentration, it's a great course to take and you may find yourself using it in other courses that you might not expect. For example, with the material from this class, I was able to figure out what my group's hypothesis was in another class when writing the report (we'd gone through a number of hypotheses before finding a suitable one to test and forgot to write down the correct one). Lindsay is a great professor and is very empathetic, and we get to bring a cheat sheet to each exam (and three for the final). If you have even a bit of interest in research, this class will really come in handy as well, because you'll be much more informed when reading papers after taking it.
If you've never taken stats before, do NOT take this class. They make everything sound way more complicated than it needs to be and you spend much of your time confused and frustrated rather than learning the material.
this is a fun course
You can get an A. Just pay attention.
If Lindsay is teaching this class the year you want to take it, then DEFINITELY take it. She is a excellent teacher, and used really interesting examples to make the material engaging.
If you need to take a statistics class for your social science concentration, this is a great one to take.  I was not super excited about taking statistics, but kind of enjoyed it in the end.  It was nice to have this kind of class to balance out other writing classes.  It is relatively easy if you do all the work.  The TFs were all extremely helpful and made themselves very available to answer questions and help in any way.  And Lindsay is a great professor and gives interesting lectures!
I took this class to get a basic stat foundation and it was perfect at doing so and pretty interesting too!
If Professor Page is still teaching this course, you need to take it. Statistics is extremely useful in everyday life, and she does an amazing job of teaching this course. She is the Babe Ruth of teaching statistics.... she does it all, and does it all extremely well.
This is a great introduction to statistics. Better than Stat 104! The professor is very knowledgeable and very nice. She has great, interesting case studies to help you learn statistics. Easy final project.
This course is not easy.  Don't take it as an EMR unless you're a psychology concentrator.  Most of the work is manageable throughout the semester, but the last month of the course is overwhelming.  In the last 31 days there is a midterm, a take-home midterm, 2 or 3 psets, a final project, and a final exam, and this time period (if you take it in the fall) includes Thanksgiving and Harvard/Yale, too.  Just be aware that there's a lot of work for this course.
If you need a Stats class for math requirement or psych requirement, I would recommend this one. I was nervous because past Q evals have rated this class poorly, but this year Professor Page is new and seems to have made a world of difference. I am not a math person, but lectures were easy to follow and the entire teaching staff was so nice and approachable.
I would recommend this class with enthusiasm *with this instructor*. Lindsay managed to keep me awake and paying attention to Statistics from 10-11:30 am twice a week all semester - I'm not sure anybody else could have done the same.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard! The professor is wonderful and so are the TFs. They give a great feedback on homework and exams and give amazing lectures. At the end of the course, you will have learned a lot of methods for dealing with quantitative methods. I highly recommend this class!
Stat 101 is a good first course in practical statistics. It is useful, manageable, and well taught. While the emphasized applications are psychology and social science, the underlying concepts are things that natural scientists should know as well.
There are a ton of assignments. Lindsay is wonderful and approachable, but sometimes lectures get tedious, and often they don't feel as though they relate to the problem sets. It's sort of a frustrating course, but they try to make it more bearable.
Good class to fulfill math requirement for non-math lovers.
Dr. Page is an amazing professor. Her lectures apply the day's topic to one study in the social sciences. This really helps you gain a practical understanding of the statistical methods we cover in class.
DEFINITELY take Stat 101!! I took it as an elective, and I learned a lot. Lindsay does a fantastic job teaching the class; she is very approachable, she makes sure her lectures are clear and easy to follow, and she loves when people ask questions in class. You really can't go wrong taking this class. I also highly recommend it to pre-meds! If you have any data of your own, like lab or thesis stuff, you can analyze it for your final project, which is a huge plus.
Statistics is not a very interesting subject to learn but Professor Page does a great job. She uses real  life applicable examples. You don't only end up learning about stats but also about random facts such as why do men in "first world" countries prefer skinny women but men in "third world" countries prefer fatter women and Can dogs smell Cancer? I enjoyed that aspect of the class. One thing I really did not like the text book. I found it confusing so I rarely read it. Professor Page's slides are the Holy Grail. They are easy to understand and get the concept across is a very visual manner. There is one PSET a week, which I found difficult. BUT that is a very biased opinion because I have always had trouble understanding math concepts and theory. Having a little background in Stats could make your life a little more easy but it's not really necessary because I did really well on the PSETS using the lecture slides and a lot of help from the TF's ( Joe and Shaun who are the most awesome sweetest most patient statisticians you will ever meet. Go to their office hours. YOU WILL NOT WASTE YOUR TIME.) . The PSETs are rather long I must warn, so don't take this class thinking it will be an easy math class to just breeze through. It requires work. Not a ridiculous amount of work but you have to put in more than just little effort. I suggest you start PSETS with at least three days of anticipation so that you have time to ask questions.
This class is straightforward and gives you a solid understanding of major statistical tools.
It is a good course that is well taught.  Take this course over stat 104.  They teach the same material, but this class is smaller and better taught.  You also don't need to collect your own data for the final projects, which save you some time.
The teaching staff is wonderful!
I definitely recommend this course to anyone who feels they need statistics for one of the social or behavioral sciences. The studies we looked at in class were all very interesting, and the material felt very accessible.
It's good class with not too much work. Professor Page is extremely helpful and accessible so do not be afraid to meet with her outside of class for extra clarification.
Great teaching, but not a great course.
Professor Page is great. She is extremely passionate about the subject and her lectures are very clear. She also gets to know her students and really cares and their well being.
Lindsay Page is a wonderful and very approachable professor. I took this class as a requirement with no previous statistical knowledge and learned a ton!
The tests are fairly easy and not cumulative (YAY!) and the homework is really all you need to learn the material for them.
If you go to the sections and read the textbook carefully, this class is not very difficult, it just requires motivation and time spent outside of lecture.
This class is great for an intro stat class.  The teaching staff is wonderful and very approachable and knowledgeable.  The problem sets are a little long but they do not contain superfluous problems and they prepare you well for the exams.
The lectures are really difficult to follow. You'll probably come out understanding most things, but expect to teach yourself from the book.
The course was not so hard, but I did not find it very academically enriching.
This class is a good way to fill the statistics requirement for the psychology concentrations and is not painful, but it is not the most exciting course on campus.
Stats is an important skill in life.  Take this class!
Yes, it is a requirement that you have to take as a psychology concentrator. That said, it is still a great overview of many things you wish you had known sooner, as statistics is so vital in so many things that we do. Try to appreciate the subject matter and relate it to real-life applications, and the material will become much more interesting to you.
Fine course. Not always interesting, but that is to be expected. Very fair and easy
Please take stat 100 or 104 before this, I messed up.
Psych majors have to take this.  Be prepared to self-teach yourself from the textbook.  Always, always go to section.  The TFs are so good at explaining things in plain language.  No one goes, so you can ask whatever questions you want and go through things at an easy pace.
Don't take this course unless it is a requirement for your concentration or secondary field.  It is helpful in learning how to interpret statistics, but at the same time, reading social science experimental results and papers will be just as effective (though you might not be able to perform the calculations yourself).
This class is truly a solid introductory class to statistics.  If you attend section and do your homework, you will get a good grade.
Do not take this course unless it is required for your concentration.
you do not need to go to lecture. Prof literally reads off of the slides which are both a. exactly the same as the text book and b. online. If you have a question in the lecture she can't really answer it and just rereads the slide. Don't get me wrong though, she is extremely nice. TFs are much more helpful with answering questions/explaining how/why things work.
Heavy memorization, don't take it if you're easily bored
It is a good course to get an overview of social science statistics. Take it for concentration and move on with your life
Find pset buddies!  Also section is very useful even if it is not required.
I feel very prepared and equipped to analyze data and think that this class has prepared me well to continue studying psychology.
This course isn't bad, but since there are other courses that are similar but probably better taught, I would go with Stat 104. Stat 104 is probably the best choice for anyone who has taken AP Stat (even if you are a psychology major) because it is the best taught, and it will actually cover information that you have not seen before.
You have to do the homework and pay attention to what you will doing, it will make exams and studying much smoother.
Worst class. Do not take it. Julia Lin is terrible and clueless.
you take it because you have to in order to be a psych concentrator. just get through it.
The class is very straightforward, and a good intro to statistics.
If you're not big on p-sets or numbers, go to all the sections and take the readings seriously.
Read the textbook.
Professor Lin is really nice, but not the greatest lecturer. She covers everything twice, word for word. The problem sets and textbook are what really help you learn the material.
Try to pay attention in class or at least be on the same chapter in the book.
so boring
This class is a good introduction- however, if you want something with a narrower focus, consider enrolling in an upper level class.
you have to teach yourself everything
It's definitely easier if you have taken statistics before. Do not get behind.
Take it if you need to fulfill a requirement.
A fairly painless way to get some statistics knowledge.
The information you learn is very important, but it was not taught in the most interesting way.
The past two years have been visiting professors, and the Stat/Psych department does not screen them well. The previous professor (Karen Gold) was horrendous, and this professor (Alan Agresti) was a big improvement.  However, I would not trust the department to pick out a good professor, wait until they have someone who is permanent.
it's boring and the problem sets are long
It's a relatively painless way to learn some statistics, but I wouldn't take it as an elective.
Psychology concentrators are required to take this course, and that may be part of the problem.
If you don't have to take it, don't. Buy the book and learn the material yourself.
This class is not very interesting and gives too much work.
The professor is excellent.  He teaches really well so you'll come out really understanding the material, if you do the work.
An hour and a half of lecturing from slides does drag on, especially for a class in the late afternoon.
I would recommend this class only as a requirement.
If you listen closely to the lectures, then you will pretty much cover most (if not all) of the class materials. Professor is very patient and willing to spend time to explain a concept until you understand it.
This course does not have much to recommend itself for.
Stat 104 is a better alternative.
It is not the most interesting class, but if you need to take a statistics this would be a good one to take. It is manageable.
Don't sign-up for a nightmare. At least in Orgo you make friends and the material is interesting.
