This is a great class - if you like probability and modeling, you'll really enjoy it!
This is a great class, not too difficult, not too time consuming, and you will learn a lot.
The midterm is not difficult, but you must study for it.  There were many scores in the 95+ range.
You will not fall asleep in this class, though you may run low on pencils and notebook paper.
Solve many problems for the exams
Greate teaching staff, good book, a lot of applicatinn demonstarions, which raises enthusiasm even more
Don't take this unless you're willing to put up with ridiculous lectures/psets/exams.  Easy psets, hard exams.  Worst combination.
The material is interesting, but the exams and grading system are frustrating.
This is a useful class with many practical applications. Useful for people studying quantitative aspects of economics, life sciences, and so on. Well taught.
This class is pretty difficult primarily because it assumes cumulative knowledge of probability theory. Make sure you either passed 110 with an A or understand and remember everything from that course before taking 171.
Everyone should take it.
Stochastic processes are interesting and increasingly relevant -- I highly recommend this class!
Take it only if required.
this course is much harder than other undergrad courses, need more than 110 knowledge to take this. Professor is not very enthusiastic in teaching, so you should be prepared to learn on your own. Material is interesting and useful though.
Would recommend if taught differently or by someone else.
The class covers a host of very interesting material, although it is not particularly well taught.  Take this class if you are interested in the material and do not mind learning most of it by reading the book on your own time.
This is a very good class on one of the most exciting areas of statistics. If the material seems at least remotely interesting or relevant to you, I would strongly recommend this class. However, a good grasp of basic probability theory is really essential for success in the class. A good grasp of all (not just some) of the material from, say, Stat 110 should provide a sufficient background.
Very interesting material, worth the workload.
A well taught and practical look at a very interesting area of statistics.
Important topic but requires a lot of self-study.
Useful material, however the instructor can make a big difference.
great topic, but course could be better organized.
Don't be afraid to ask questions or justifications in class to the professor (he is a little sloppy from time to time)
Interesting material, good textbook, challenging psets, but lectures were awful
The course is really intersting and the instructor is a real expert in the field but keeping his pace can also be very challenging.
Grounding in probability is necessary, but more than that, solid calculus techniques. Portions of the course truly require differential equations and analysis to properly understand the material. The course has an odd flavor to it with a good fraction being grad students in statistics (apparently no grad level stochastic processes course offered this year). Collaboration with peers or consultation with TFs on problem sets is explicitly banned on the syllabus. Lectures can be impossible to understand at times (and the board impossible to decipher) except to the cognoscenti math majors who seem to be taking this as a gut class.
The material gets really hard after the midterm.  Sam is very hard in terms of his exams and also likes to start a new example at 3:59pm.
The problem sets are easy, but do NOT let that fool you into complacency. The tests are very difficult so make sure you learn the concepts in depth way before the exams.The lectures follow the book quite closely.
I didn't find it to be a fulfilling class. I would periodically attempt to go to lecture, but they were way too slow-paced and boring, so I would have to read the textbook, which is not clearly and rather poorly written. I did go to class in the last three weeks of the course though, starting from when sckou started brownian motion, and his lectures were definitely more clear than the textbook. Also, there's nothing scary about the intro to stochastic calculus he provides in the last lecture--it's just a riemann-stieltjes integral, what the big deal. I'm sad we didn't get to spend more time on stochastic calculus, because that actually seemed pretty cool.
Really difficult and challenging
Regardless of how bad the teaching staff (which is by no means a given - shop it and make sure you check out all the TFs), you should take this class because the material IS interesting and extremely relevant.
This course covers potentially interesting and useful material but does not do so in a way that you leave the course feeling like you've learned anything interested or useful.
The class started out very easy, but got significantly tougher at the end. Also, the final exam was very tough - possibly tougher than any of the homeworks.
The lectures aren't that interesting, but the material is cool. Make sure you read the book and start the problem sets early! Difficult class, but (hopefully) worth it.
Class has really interesting material and is pretty manageable throughout the semester, but note that the final is very difficult.
if the structure of the class is changed, this will be an excellent class. if not, the first 2/3 of the class is awesome, but the last 1/3 is totally rushed and very stressful
It's hard. Take it if you really enjoy probability. The material itself is very interesting and very good. But the support in the class is terrible.
It can be fun material if you liked stat 110. The second half of the course definitely is different from the beginning half. The stuff learned does come up in other classes, so you see some connection. The lectures aren't really that outstanding.
A very good class. Topics before the midterm are a lot easier than those after.
Very interesting material and Kou is really good. Recommend to anyone who liked 110.
Don't be fooled by pre-midterm material. Post-midterm, this class gets HARD. Kou is an amazing lecturer, but he lectures straight out of the book. This is not a bad thing, because the book is dense and wouldn't be approachable or understandable at all without his lectures. So go to lecture. Problem sets can be long. Final and midterm were both pretty tough, but not unreasonably so.
Good course with quality lectures. big variation in work difficulty over semester
It's a great introduction to stochastic processes, with applications in all fields of the sciences. Though lectures lack in depth, the material is extremely useful to know and worth the effort. Regardless of your background you should take this course, but only if you are comfortable with probability theory (STAT 110).
This class is useful but is taught by the textbook.  You will learn a lot, but the problem sets are deceptively easy in comparison to tests.
Great class, it starts slowly and really picks up after the midterm. Make sure to keep up.
Be careful about taking this course. The material is quite fascinating and useful, but this class is far from perfect. You should be comfortable with probability theory and differential equations, and be prepared to spend a lot of time on this course. Do not be fooled by the easy pace of this course at the beginning - the second half is very difficult.
Gets a lot harder/more mathy in the second half of the course.  Review Stat 110 before starting the course.  The problem sets are a lot of fun, and really not that hard!
The material is kind of like an extension of the coolest stuff (Markov Chains!) from Stat 110, although not taught by Blitzstein. It gets way harder after the midterm, and sometimes lectures move very quickly. A lot of examples in the second half of the class are just set up, and we're told to solve them ourselves even though we don't really know how. While still managing to go 5 minutes over.
The curve is always against you, the homework doesn't really teach you much. So it's just the book and you. Good luck!
STAT 171 is a very useful class, both for computational sciences and finance. Kou is a great lecturer. Very good follow-up for STAT 110.
Kou is not a good professor - brilliant, but basically reads the textbook out loud in class. Tests are comprised of small, specific examples we did in class instead of main ideas as you would expect.
The second half was a lot more interesting than the first. I wish we got to renewal phenomenon and queueing processes. Otherwise a good course (though psets are easy and the final is really hard).
I enjoyed this class as enthusiastically as I enjoyed Stat 110. The material flowed wonderfully from one topic to the next, and it was a great introduction to all things related to stochastic processes.  The first half of the course is quite easy (considerably easier than Stat 110), but after the midterm it gets harder (around the level of Stat 110).  Sam Kou is wonderful: his lectures are crystal clear, and he's really funny sometimes. This class is so applicable to so many real world phenomena (financial models, chemical reactions, waiting times, etc.) so in my opinion, it is a must-take for Applied Math, Math, and Stat concentrators.
If you like STAT 110, you would enjoy STAT 171.
Study hard. Do all the problems in your homework and in your textbook. Sit in the front row because Sam writes really small, and many times it's hard to understand him fully.
The course veers into finance towards the end, and gets much less tractable after birth-death processes. Exams are also harder than psets, which can be an unwelcome surprise.
Take this class!  Lots of fun statistics problems!It's basically like a continuation (in the feel) of Stat 110.
Be sure to stay up to pace with the material week to week - it does get progressively more difficult! Excellently taught course, and extremely important material.
This course has some really good materials: Markov chains, stochastic calculus, option pricing, brownian motion etc. However, the problem sets are a lot easier than the exams and they won't prepare you at all for the finals/midterm. So be careful about that and you should learn a lot!Also it seems that this class has many grad students in statistics and that probably makes the class more difficult.
Good material. but not taught so well. Kou is a difficult lecturer to follow. Book is also a struggle to read. HW problems don't really clarify course topics. Really applicable stuff, but wish it was taught better and with more passion/applicability.
Great/well run course. Make sure you are at least sort of interested in the topics (especially Markov Chains).
The class was interesting and the teaching staff were amazing. The TFs seemed to genuinely care about the class and I felt like I learned a lot from both them and lectures. Sometimes lecture can be dense, especially when Natesh is running through a proof, but I felt like I took a lot away from the class.
This class is a must-take for Stat concentrators, especially the ones that are really mathy. This is probably one of the more mathy stats classes out there in the undergraduate series along with Stat 110. Natesh is a great guy and you should definitely take this class if Iav or Theresa are able to TF the class. The chemistry of Natesh with the two TFs worked really well and was able to make the class an overall great experience for me, personally.
It would be helpful to know that about 30~40% of this course is about introductory Machine Learning.
The material presented in the course is really cool. Even if the organization of the class and the teaching was a little sub-par, the material really makes up for it. This is really useful stuff to know.
Stat 171 is a challenging course. The assignments can take 10-15 hours to complete, and exams are similar in style to Stat 100 in that they typically require you to figure out the "trick" in order to solve it quickly.
Make sure you check in with yourself after each topic and ask if you understand it so that you are ready to digest the new material. Do many practice problems!
The teaching staff of this course really care about you learning the material. They're willing to put in the extra effort needed to help you if necessary. Because of this along with the interesting topics covered, I think the class is definitely worth taking.
Great course. Take it if you love stat, math, or CS.
This is a great class and the teaching staff is so dedicated to your success, but be warned that it is a HARD CLASS and you will need to put in the time to understand the material fully.
The class complements Stat 171 and develops your understanding of probability much better than other upper level undergraduate classes in the department. However, it's very difficult and very time consuming, and you should be prepared to put a lot of effort into the class.
The class had a lot of really cool material, and Natesh is extremely enthusiastic. Material-wise, the class is very similar to Stat 110 and almost feels like a sequel. The TFs were also great, and had amazing chemistry! Helped a lot in understanding material.
Some of the ideas in stochastic processes are really quite beautiful, and Natesh does an amazing job of conveying this beauty.
If you like probability theory (Stat 110), I'd definitely recommend taking it! Lots of really cool topics and concepts involving stochastic processes.
It's a good extension of stat 110. Lectures are more theoretical while the psets were a bit more application-based, so it was sometimes hard to do them unless uou did the readings. The disorganized nature of this class comes from its purpose to provide a survey of different stochastic processes, which is understandable.
This is a must-take class for stat concentrators if Prof. Pillai is teaching. Probably the best stat class I've taken. (1) The professor cares about the class, (2) it's challenging but interesting, (3) you'll take it with other stat concentrators. The stat department doesn't have enough upper-level undergrad classes like this one.
Great class! The material was super interesting. Not presented in the most applicable way but really interesting to learn about. The professor and the TFs were all really enthusiastic and supportive. The class was pretty great.
The material is not easy, but the course is very rewarding. Natesh is a very genuine and enthusiastic course head, and the TFs in particular are a big reason I found the course tolerable despite a very rigorous topic.
STAT171 is one of the best courses I've taken as a Statistics concentrator. The class is very "math-y" and borrows a lot of concepts from STAT110 and Math21b. I would highly, highly recommend this class to both concentrators and non-concentrators that are interested in stochastic processes. The material learned in this course is very applicable and interesting.The best part of STAT171 was the teaching staff. They were extremely helpful and you could tell that both the professor and the TFs cared about the course a lot. Piazza response times were pretty fast, and the online material provided was very helpful. Also, best-looking teaching staff ever ;)
This class will be hard but has such interesting topics. It will definitely teach you so much about statistics and sampling methods. The textbook and Natesh weren't super clear but you can certainly make it work and its so rewarding when you do.
This course was fantastic! I loved the topic and material and Natesh and the TFs were super nice and helpful. Take it! Stochastic processes is so useful to know.
This is class gives you the tools to model uncertain processes in the world. It is also the most satisfying and intuitive branch of math I have studied.
Great class! Professor Pillai is an amazing lecturer, and he's really nice!
You really need to put in the time to learn the material.  The course is well-organized, and the psets are extremely time consuming, but not all problems are graded so there is some leeway.  The exams are fair and the grading is extremely forgiving.
One of the hardest stat classes I've taken, but also my favorite stat class (maybe because of the support from the TFs). Super interesting topics, and it really stretches you as a student. Loved the class, even though it's super difficult. Walked out of the second midterm knowing I hadn't done well, but I was happy in the sense that I learned an incredible amount.
Fascinating course material.  Professor Pillai's enthusiasm for the subject is obvious and engaging.  One thing to be aware of is we only spent 1 (non-review) lecture on Brownian motion and had to scrap Stochastic Calculus (the 2 topics I had been most excited about going in to the class) though hopefully this will be different in future years without snow days.
Natesh is a wonderful lecturer. The class is very interesting and challenging.
Go to sections. Theresa and Iav did a great job clarifying the material this year, though neither will be TFing the class next year.
What a bad course! If you want to learn Stochastic process, please just read the book and you will learn it better, in a shorter time, than taking this course!
This course is more useful for finance interviews than actual research. The depth is not consistent and sometimes the topics are covered with too much detail, when not necessary, while at other times it gets very shallow.
This course is terrific; Natesh is an amazing lecturer and does so much to make sure you learn. He is interested in providing challenging problems while taking away a lot of the stress of the gradethis isn't a focus of his, making sure you learn is. It's a rare difficult class that demands a lot of work but isn't particularly stressful. I could not stress it enough.
This class can be very difficult but the material can also be a lot of fun! Definitely one of the more interesting stat classes at this school.
Overall a fantastic course that provides a fantastic introduction for a lot of core concepts in stochastic processes. It is a lot more theoretical in nature than Stat 110 or 111 (if you're taking both at the same time), so be prepared if you're not as comfortable with ideas from linear algebra or analysis (the concepts are applied but usually not explained in depth in lecture). Natesh and the TFs are all incredibly knowledgeable and care deeply about your learning, including grading the course fairly and being more lenient with deadlines, so focus on getting the most out of the material rather than your grades. The only qualms I had were that we were behind schedule for basically the entire semester, which also led to our learning material for an exam only two days before, and that often times homework problems were a bit ambiguous and maybe not that useful - but Piazza and OH made things generally okay.
Good and interesting class, but it's a little far removed from real world applications in comparison to other stat classes.  Natesh is a very excited professor about his material and knows his stuff (most of the time), but make sure you go to lectures to what he says because there aren't lecture notes.  Otherwise, exams are not as hard as Stat 110, but material  of 171 is definitely harder (and is reflected throughout the course!)
Don't take this if you don't like theory. It's extremely theoretical in the sense that we spent much of our time dealing with proving this or rigorously showing that even if it seemed logical. I don't enjoy that type of work.
The material covered in Stat 171 is very interesting. It's a natural continuation of Stat 110, as it starts with Markov chains, where Stat 110 left off. The problem sets are reasonable, and the exams are generously curved. However, Natesh's lectures aren't the best, so word of warning there.
Natesh's lectures are superb and his passion for stochastics makes the class very engaging.  However, the problem sets and lectures are somewhat disjointed.  We also spent a ridiculous amount of time on finite state discrete time markov chains which sacrificed a lot of brilliant material on martingales and brownian motion at the end.  Ultimately, take the class for Natesh because he is the best.
Nice continuation of 110 with a lot of useful ideas as well. We learned a lot of cool things, although I don't walk away from it feeling like there was quite as much new material/ways of thinking as 110.
I must say the problem sets given in the class are some of the most fun and exciting problem sets I have seen in problem-set classes. The problems are almost all mathematically pleasant (with magically nice solutions). They might seem a little long, but if you manage your time well and spend some amount of time on them, you'll have great fun, and learn a lot!
I began really disliking this course and it grew on me a lot throughout the semester. To describe it in one sentence, this course as taught by Professor Pillai is essentially a graduate course, and that comes with all of its advantages and disadvantages. The problem sets were long and difficult and probably the biggest drawback was that there were no office hours, and Piazza didn't even begin to make up for it. Also a lot of things were glossed over and assumed that you knew from prior courses probably because there were a fair number of grad students in it, which was definitely not the case as Stat 110 is the only prerequisite. Within each lecture stuff tended to be somewhat disorganized and no official problem set solutions or practice exams were provided. All that being said, Professor Pillai did a great job in generating enthusiasm for the material and the grading curve is quite good. Going through it was somewhat painful but I really do feel like I learned a ton of material related to stochastic processes.
The bad:  Feedback on assignments was poor/nonexistent and no answers were given for midterms/homeworks.  Sometimes wording of problems was bad due to language barriers.The good: Plenty of 1-1 office hours if you wanted them, teaching staff is nice, material is fun and interesting and reasonably challenging without being impossible.  I also liked the textbook.Overall, recommend with reservations.
Hard, but worth it.
This is a really fun class to take and it will teach you how to look at problems from a different and often useful perspective. It strikes a great balance between theory and application.
This class is fantastic. The lectures are very informative and the psets were always interesting (you'll occasionally need real analysis to solve them, but the grading is always understanding so don't worry about that). The tfs were very helpful.If you really liked 110, this is a much better continuation than stat 111 or 123.
Stat 171 is a natural continuation of Stat 110, but orthogonal to Stat 111. We picked up at Markov chains, and expanded into a lot of other stochastic processes. I highly suggest this class if youre interested in learning more about a purely probabilistic area, as opposed to statistical inference in Stat 111. The professor (Natesh) cares a lot about his students and really takes student feedback into account. You should go to his office hours! Hes really helpful. The material in this course is very interesting as well. There were many times after lecture when I just sat back and admired the beautiful concepts we had covered in the past 90 minutes. My mind was blown so many times in the class, as the connection between stochastic processes and many applications is really profound. The class is not very time consuming and challenging but graded very fairly. I highly recommend this class for statistics concentrators and anyone who took Stat 110 but is wondering what else is out there. Very interesting class taught by very competent people and worth your time.
Natesh is really excited and knowledgeable about the material and gives great lectures. Material is very useful. Can be a bit difficult at times, but if you go to section and make use of office hours and Piazza it should be OK :)
Some fairly interesting stuff. Definitely builds a nice bridge to more advanced topics in probability theoryDon't expect to learn what an SDE is though even if the course description says so...
The best class so far in my 2 years here. If you love stat 110, you should definitely take this class.
Understand the material instead of memorizing.
The course materials are very useful for stats/applied math majors, but do not take this course if they don't change how they teach. You might be better off find a good book and self-teach the material.
Outstanding course.  Really interesting material, and Prof. Pillai finds some really interesting applications for it.  Psets and exams are instructive and help to increase understanding of the material.  Quite possibly my favorite course I've taken.
Course logistics is very bad, no official homework (10 in total) solutions are given throughout the whole semester, midterm solutions (2 midterms) are not given until 2 days before the final, despite repeated requests from students. Wait till professor Kou comes back for this course, then you might actually get some consistency.
Be prepared with linear algebra and differential equations!
Stat 171 is a very challenging and time-consuming course, but it is graded very kindly. Professor Pillai is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard. He cares about his students so much and will do anything to help. I would definitely recommend this course if he teaches it again. Additionally, the material for this course is very useful/cool.
This course was very difficult, but worth it when all is said and done (kind of like 110). This year, there wasn't quite the infrastructure there should have been, making studying harder than it should have been. Those problems shouldn't be as bad in the future though, because it won't be a new course anymore. Also, Pillai is really nice and accommodating with regard to extensions and other commitments.
Overall it's a good class to learn stochastic processes. Be aware that the mathematical level is higher than stat 110 and that there are not many printed resources to learn from. However, the instructor really values student learning and will help you reach your goals.
Very interesting course and material connects with stat123 which I took simultaneously. If Joe is teaching this again, great -- he is amazing as usual. It's considerably more difficult than stat110.
Very difficult. Joe is an amazing lecturer.
Be prepared to take a class that is very disconnected, but very solid.
The teaching staff will likely be different for future iterations of this course, but the material in this course is just unbelievably interesting. I highly recommend this course if you're not sure whether you want to continue with statistics.
Very interesting material, great continuation of Stat 110 if you liked it. The course is overall quite challenging, but assignments are forgiving as you can drop 2 out of 8. Only take if you have taken Stat 110 recently or have the Stat 110 material very fresh in your mind, as you'll frequently need it for this course if Blitzstein is teaching it.
It's a lot of work if you don't have friends and whatnot also taking the class, but definitely manageable and not designed to make people fail.
Wasn't that well-organized, as it was the first time this was taught by Blitzstein/Shephard. Though both are great lecturers, the separate material taught by both seemed a bit scattered and not well-integrated.
If you want to work hard to learn something cool, this is the class for you.
Interesting material, but the second half of the course is much much harder than the first.
This was by far the most difficult of the 7 Stat classes I've taken at Harvard, but much like Stat 110, I found (Blitzstein's parts of) the course intellectually fulfilling despite the significant challenge. However, Neil's parts, while initially OK, became pretty unbearable once we reached stochastic calculusI just couldn't bring myself to care about stochastic integrals or Ito's lemma because it was all presented in such a dry way that really seemed to bear no relevance to the real world. The material was also sometimes difficult to follow because Blitzstein and Neil teach alternating lectures on completely different topics. I know it's their first year teaching the class, and I expect that it will improve, but honestly, if you're thinking about taking it next year, just go to Blitzstein's lectures. You'll get about the same amount from reading Neil's slides as you will listening to him talk.
Take this class if you seriously enjoyed Stat 110. Joe and Neil are complementary to each other. The teaching staff may change in future years.
It was not a bad course and I learned a lot of interesting things in it. The Dobrow textbook is exceptionally good. The assignments were occasionally cruel and unusual, but doable.
Great course. If you loved 110, you'll do great in this. It got a bit finance-y towards the end, but ya can't win em all. Anyways, definitely a worthwhile time investment and it convinced me to go for a secondary in stat so that was cool.
From what I hear, the class can really vary in content with whichever professor is teaching it.
171 introduces a lot of theory and it's really neat, but if you are more applied stat kind of person like me, I would take something else involving stochastic processes.
If you don't have a lot of mathematical and statistical ability, be very wary of this class. In Bayesian terms, doing well in Stat 110 is not the greatest predictor of success in this class, at least in my own personal experience. Assignments and especially exams can be extremely difficult. But if you are mathematically up to it, the material and results of the class are really quite cool.
It depends on who's teaching it. If it's Joe and Neil, which is unlikely, I'd recommend it with strong reservations. Joe is a wonderful teacher, but Neil is so confusing. His lectures are filled with pointless computations and I have no idea what he's trying to communicate conceptually. It was very difficult to follow what he was saying.
This class was quite difficult. Blitzstein's portion of the course was relatively easy to follow, but Shephard's (especially the stochastic calculus) became extremely confusing and difficult to follow. I think this stuff is very interesting, but don't expect to learn how to apply any of the concepts in this class.
I took this class because I thought stochastic processes are pretty cool. I really liked the stat110 chapter on markov chains. Also, Professor Blitzstein is amazing. I plan on taking stat210 with him in the fall. So I think this class really depends on who is teaching it. Also, I took stat123 (quant finance) with it at the same time and there were lots of connections between the two, especially with martingales. Anyway, if you are interested in more theoretical things in stat, this class is a must take!!
This is a good class.
If you did not do well and enjoy Stat 110, do not take this course if Blitzstein is still co-teaching it. The course is very disjoint, each professor essentially taught their own course in parallel with the other. Homeworks and exams were split 50-50 question wise. Twice the material, half as much time with each. The course has a very fast pace, so if you are at all uncomfortable with the material you will quickly fall behind.
It is a really really cool class, and you will learn a lot. It is very hard though and will require a lot of time and effort.
Stochastic processes are fascinating and fun! Challenging exams, but great teaching staff.
This course was occasionally good, and occasionally bad. Lectures were hit or miss. Difficulty fluctuated all the time on problem sets. The exams were brutally difficult. The material is interesting, but I wouldn't take it again given the option.
Blitzstein & Shepard's alternating lectures/topics made the class feel very disjoint; class is hard
I left this course not sure what I learned; this course was significantly less applicable than Stat 110. Splitting classes between two professors made the class less focused and more difficult. Joe's lectures were far superior to Neil's, with a focus on intuition. Stochastic calculus far more difficult than in previous years.
This course may be rigorous at times, especially when going through the definition of Ito integrals and Quadratic Variation, but by the end of the semester you will have learned so many applicable and interesting topics!
It's an interesting course and you'll learn a lot if working hard.
Professor Blitzstein, as he always does, made this class fantastic. I think the course lacked a bit of structure due to the change in teaching staff, and the lack of practice problems (as compared to Stat 110) was a little tricky. However, the material was very interesting, though Shephards topics (stochastic integration, finance) were less accessible.
This class was not anything I expected from the beginning of the year and by the middle of the semester, I couldn't even tell why I was learning what I was learning. The homeworks were quite difficult and without sections, I likely would have not been able to keep up.
The class may get better with time
Awesome introduction to stochastic processes, though the course format was weird. Having both Blitzstein and Shepard teach made the course feel like 2 separate courses. Highly recommend if Blitz teaches again, but perhaps not Shephard just because the material Shepard taught was really dry.
I believe the Blitzstein/Shephard tag team was one time only, so I don't think I can provide anything useful regarding 171. Generally though, I'd say everyone needs a bit more Blitzstein in their life.
Stat 171 with Prof. Kou was a phenomenal course; Prof. Kou not only is a fun lecturer but also gives crystal clear lectures. Stochastic processes would definitely be an interesting topic if you have enjoyed probability (Stat 110 or equivalent), and would highly recommend if you are looking for another fun probability class.
Go to section!
Course was very poorly taught. Could barely understand the lecturer or TFs. The course staff does not provide any materials. Problems come from the book. No practice problems from exams. No one had any idea what was going on with the final. All of this is a shame -- because the material is so interesting. Take this at MIT.
This course covers a lot of very important materials on stochastic processes and the professor is very good at explaining concepts and illustrating with examples.
Very cool class, especially for those who enjoyed 110 (essentially the sequel to 110).  Not as hard as it is billed, although it definitely ramps up at the end (and the exams have a reputation of being difficult, but the homeworks are usually easy).
Tough course, but the concepts are interesting and useful. I really enjoyed the variety of material, would have appreciated a little more variety in presentation.
The conceptual difficulty of the class picks up significantly after the midterm.
this class is a great continuation of Stat 110
The first half of the class almost seemed like a review of Stat 110's Markov Chain stuff. The second half was very interesting. The textbook isn't very good, and the HW's tend to be pretty easy. Sam is a good lecturer, although sometimes he can get carried away with tedious calculations.
This class is interesting and worth taking - however, be warned that the second half of the course is significantly harder than the first. In particular, it assumes familiarity and comfort with differential equations (although this was not mentioned in the syllabus). The first half of the course is a very simple review of Markov chains, while the latter part is very confusing if you are like me and haven't seen differential equations before. Besides that though, Kou is a good and interesting lecturer, and the rest of the course is well-run.
Amazing course with a new world for you to explore
Material covered is great and should definitely be learned if you plan on doing anything related to stat, but be prepared for some rather bashy problems.
STAT 171 is a great course.
The book helps a lot, especially when lectures are too fast-paced.
Really good class, but GO TO LECTURE even it seems like you don't need to. I basically did not go in the first half because I thought I could just read the book, but then I did really badly on the midterm. I went to every lecture since the midterm and I feel that I understood the second half of the course much better, even though it becomes more challenging. Also, make sure you understand the Poisson point process in the first half of the course, it keeps coming up. Definitely a good course if you enjoyed Stat 110 (which I did not), still a pretty good course if you did not enjoy Stat 110.
The course is extremely interesting and Professor Kou draws on a broad range of examples to motivate the study of stochastics reflecting his own broad research interests.
Material is great, but the teacher does not explain well and can be patronising.
Really interesting material, and Kou can be pretty funny in lecture. Take it if you enjoyed the Markov chain portion of Stat 110! It's probably around the same difficulty as 110 and generally more straightforward (less of a pattern recognition game). Also, sections are very helpful for exam preparation ... fill up those note sheets wisely!
The material tested on the exam is NOT limited to concepts seen in the homework.  It is important to be comfortable with everything presented in lecture for the exams.
Stat 171 is a natural followup to Stat 110. If you're looking for a very rigorous treatment of stochastic processes, this is not the class for you. If you're looking for an easy Stat class, this is not the class for you. This class is best for students who did well in Stat 110 and found it relatively challenging.
If Markov chains interested you in Stat 110 - you should look into this course. It is true that the class gets considerably more difficult after the midterm - but it is not too intensive in relation to Stat 110.
This class is fantastic! You learn material that is conceptually rich, mathematically elegant, and widely applicable all at the same time, while really honing your mathematical/probabilistic problem-solving skills. You should be very comfortable with Stat 110 material before taking this class, as you will be using tools from it nonstop. Prof. Kou is an amazing professor, and structures the course so that it is relatively low stress. His lectures are also very clear, and he really likes to repeat himself- which really allows the concepts to sink in. Weekly homeworks are generally straightforward, although before exams make sure you do lots of practice problems to get familiar with certain tricks not emphasized on the HW. One thing to note is that there seem to be a fair number of graduate students, which causes the curve to be rather unforgiving. But if you enjoy probability, this class is a must take!
You'll love it if you loved Stat 110
Great class--Kou is a great lecturer who makes difficult concepts easy to understand. Would recommend anyone with any interest in economics, biology, or CS take this class since the material is so widely applicable. Beware: The psets are much easier than the tests, so don't let yourself get caught off guard by that. Sections are one of the most useful parts of the course, and section handouts/problems are some of the best resources to use when studying for the midterm/final.
This class is too easy before the midterm but gets quite difficult post-midterm. The post-midterm material (continuous time Markov Chains, brownian motion, option pricing) is pretty cool. However, Kou is quite dull and there are very few materials to help you study. Overall, an okay but boring class.
If you liked Stat 110, this is natural extension and you will enjoy it.
Stat 171 is a challenging course, but it teaches you a lot. Of the five statistics courses I've taken at Harvard, it comes the closest to Stat 110 in its emphasis on theory and application of basic concepts to a variety of problems. If you enjoyed Stat 110, you'll enjoy Stat 171.
This was a great class that covers a lot of discrete-time and continuous-time stochastic processes. The class starts with Markov chains (continuing from the end of Stat 110) and generalizes from there. Prof. Kou is an entertaining/funny lecturer and also does a good job of explaining the material. The problem sets are decently time-consuming but not impossible by any means. The midterm was easy but the final exam was noticeably harder, so beware. All in all, this was a well-taught class and usually pretty interesting.
