* amazing- my favorite lecture based class at Harvard thus far* great for anyone who wants a mix of bio and comp sci* useful to see where real research in computational bio is going
I would recommend that they take the class pass fail or audit it. Even though the material is really interesting and important, and I felt that I learned a lot of really useful skills, all the problems with the sections and homeworks made it tough to enjoy.
Very good course to take for biology students who want to know more about relevant tools they might use to analyse data in the future.
For anyone in biology, this course is wonderful. It provides a great introduction to the statistical techniques and resources out there and their applications without going too much into the nitpicky mathematical details.
I would advise that you take CS 50 before taking this class.
The class is useful in that the homeworks require you to learn programming, but the lectures themselves were generally unclear and very frustrating to sit through.
Need to study a lot for quizzes
Its a great introduction to bioinformatic tools, when to use them, what to use and briefly how to use them.
a lot is unclear.  just ask questions
Know programming in python and R prior to taking this class.
Avoid this course like the plague.  Poorly taught, poor organization, you will not only be bored, but also graded arbitrarily.
I remember this quote from class: Biology is becoming computational, just as it has become molecular. For biologists and future doctor, this course and a programming course (cs50) are necessary.
A strong computer programming background is necessary to feel successful taking this class.
Very superficial treatment of the material.  Not too interesting from either a computational or a biological perspective.  However, it does give you a sense of the field of computational biology.
A course that introduces the general algorithms in computational biology and bioinformatics
Fantastic course! If you work hard, you will get a lot out of the course. Problem sets are manageable, and the material is interesting and valuable.
Although auditing will be a lot less stressful, doing the HWs + quizzes was a big part of learning in this class, so I'd recommend taking it for credit even though it was overwhelming at times.
Only take this course if you are very enthusiastic about bioinformatics and computational biology. Do not take this course if you are only exploring this area, as the coursework will be frustrating and sometimes irrelevant.
This class is a great one because it does not have too much work, but it is very easy to see the benefits. Some programming experience would be very helpful because the programming portion is fairly large.
Take this class if you have previous knowledge of Python (a must) and care about biostatistics.
too much bio, not enough statistics
Very interesting materials, but the integration between lecture materials and homework could be improved.
Take it only if the class gets completely re-structured.
Do not take this class. Wait for the professors/ TFs to change - the material is interesting and it would be a shame to have this class kill that interest you may have. This was the single most frustrating class I have taken at Harvard.
No exams are great!!!  The problem sets are awful though, mostly because they are poorly designed, not because they are hard.
Unfortunately, it is the only Computational Biology course available at Harvard, but be prepared to learn most of the material on your own, since the lectures are irrelevant to the homework.  Lectures mostly consist of listing names -- rather, acronyms -- of algorithms and some obscure trivia about them.
come prepared
All pre-med students should take this class. Provides insight into the future of medicine.
be prepared to work really hard on the programming assignments if you have no programming background. the lecture and other things are fun though, just know you will have to program for the problem sets and some background in it is advisable.
Take it only if you have good programming and statistics skills. Only gives you a superficial overview of bioinformatics concept.
Prof. Shirley Liu is a good lecturer
You need to have some experience in programming to succeed, because there is little instruction on python and R. A lot of the topics are also not explained in sufficient detail for you to understand them or be able to complete the quizzes. Just be aware that you will have to put in a lot of time to learn concepts on your own.
a good intro to a variety of topics in comp bio.  Problem sets are sometimes (very) difficult to decipher, especially since many of the questions involve using software with complex documentation.
Not very difficult if you know how to program. Provides a survey of "bioinformatics" but does not go into any real depth on any particular topic or algorithm.
The course is well-intended but questionably effective in its current manifestation. Like any interdisciplinary class, it faces the challenge of suiting the needs of biologically-oriented and statistically/computationally-oriented students; and like any computational class, it faces the challenge of a range of programming backgrounds. This year, the class erred too far on the side of assuming no background and so I feel like I did not get as much out of the class as I hoped. Not to say that I didn't learn anything, but I definitely did not expect the extent of programming to be using R to run existing packages and make plots.
Take this course to get an overview of the software tools used for some common bioinformatic tasks.
Stat115 covers a ton of material, so it's a great introduction to biostatistical methods, but you'll need outside laboratory or class time to really solidify your understanding of a particular topic. Luckily, the TFs are really responsive to emails and questions, so the otherwise somewhat overwhelming problem sets are manageable.
It's very focused on human genetics.
this is a really interesting class.
Interesting topics/material, but overall it's heavy on biology knowledge
Labs are terrible. There is a huge language barrier and the course requires a lot of understanding of programming. Problem sets are more about figuring out how to get through the kinks of the software and using excel and RStudio than about the actual material of the course. The lectures require a very extensive knowledge of molecular biology and this class feels almost like a very high level MCB course with problem sets that test computer science knowledge rather than actual critical thinking of the materials presented in the course.
I am not sure how this course was taught in previous years, but I felt it was a very solid, relevant introduction to computational biology. The homework assignments are good practice for one's own research, and there is a reasonable amount of assistance from the course staff. I came in knowing a decent amount about microarray analysis, but this class really solidified my foundation. You might have to put in a lot of time to get through the homework, but the instructions are clear and the expectations are reasonable.
the content is good... it's just hard to teach... if you can find another way to learn this content like in a research lab, id recommend it... if u need to take it for a concentration requirement... good luck
This class covers very useful material, but can at times be a difficult and unpleasant experience.
It's a quite demanding and time-consuming class. Yet it definitely is a awesome class that walk you through all the techniques and cutting-edge knowledge of computational biology. Shirley is an expert in this field.
Good if you want to learn the practical skills for data analysis, but focused more on the grad students in the class.
This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard because I finished it feeling very prepared to real research in an area that I find interesting.
If you are a biology major, take this course! no matter you are going to do genomics or not.A majority of this course is about cancer genomics. But the algorithms you learned here like Expectation Maximization, Hidden Markov, Clustering methods will get you well with other data analysis in biology research labs.I start working with calcium imaging data right after the course. The ability I acquired in the course helped me a lot in digging the packages. Meanwhile, I become confident in talking with others about big data analysis.You will find the first quarter of the course to be hard. But that is when you get most of the course.Shirley also put in efforts simplifying material. If you read suggested reading, you will appreciate this very much. You will learn from her this ability and I think this helps me in my research and my reading.
TLDR: Terrible class overall, with an effort to cover good topics but incredibly bad support at both the professor and teaching fellow levels. Heavy biology focus and very little statistics. Stay away unless you want to get into comp. bio. so bad you would cut yourself for it.LR: First, let me apologize for the long review, but I wanted to leave a comprehensive look at this course in case anyone is considering taking it. As a brief personal background, I've coded in R and Python for several years, and am very comfortable with all algorithms and statistical methods discussed in the class. I did research in biology, both computational and wet-lab. In short, I had sufficient background to make the most of this course. Without divulging too much, I ended up receiving fairly high grades for the course; yet I found the entire course to be painstakingly difficult due to the fact that it was so disorganized, with terrible direction/support from staff. The main problems included:- Atrociously written assignments: In general, you can expect the homeworks to have at a minimum of 5-10 substantive typos (i.e. affecting how you actually approach the problem). The links do not work, whether on course material or assignments. Datasets you expect to be in a certain format or directory are not present. There are absolutely no guidelines on the assignments on how to use the recommended packages to complete the homework, leading to hours of frustration and reliance on obscure blog posts and questionable tutorials found somewhere on the internet. Lectures are less than useless.- Zero teaching support, especially from TFs: What really stood out to be about the course was how incapable the teaching staff seemed to be regarding their own materials. You should not expect to be able to get any substantial support from any of the teaching fellows. In particular, don't take the course if Helian Feng is TFing, as she will give you absolutely no useful guidance or feedback (more below) while posturing pretentiously on what little she knows. Perhaps unfortunate but inevitable consequences of having a Master's student be one of the main TFs for a course. Caleb was practically the only saving grace of this course, with helpful feedback on assignments and being generally reachable for assistance.- Arbitrary grading and evaluation: The above point is compounded by the fact that grading in the course is entirely arbitrary. For example, in spite of the fact that the assignments themselves come with an absurd number of typos and errors, a minor formatting error in your own submission is sufficient to lose you a hefty number of points on your assignment. Are your labels on the figures slightly too small for the grader's (i.e. Helian's) preference? Be prepared to lose some more points. Is your algorithm perfectly correct but doesn't spit out a header line? There go some more points, all while the grading criteria id defended as "completely consistent". All in all, this completely subjective evaluation compounds all of the teaching and assignment problems above.- Very heavy biology, negligible statistical considerations: This may be a plus or minus for those considering taking the course. But given that this course is listed under the Statistics department, be prepared to face the fact that "linear regression" is considered an advanced statistical technique in this course, while the lectures speed through biological topics you may never have even vaguely heard of before.- Extreme skew towards professor's own work: Regarding all computational and topical material in the course, there is very evident bias towards the professor's own work. The professor simply lists any of the methods that her lab did not directly develop, claiming proudly that she doesn't know the other methods well enough to lecture about them.
This is a great class for learning how to analyze huge data sets and the information learned is useful for both biologists, statisticians, and computer scientists.
If you are not familiar with computational biology but still want to learn the basics, this is the course for you. If you are a graduate student who does not have a strong programming background, take the undergraduate version of this course. You won't suffer as much and will still get a lot out from this class (check with your program first to make sure that the program allows this!). I learned a lot about metadata analysis and I don't feel intimidated to handle sequencing data!
Don't take this class if you're interested in learning the theoretical statistics behind algorithms in this field. It's most useful in giving a general overview of techniques used to ask at least six different biological questions, but you will not get a theoretical understanding of the back-end algorithm. Most of your time will be spent figuring out how to implement and debug different programs, though skeletal code is often provided for you. The course also moves very quickly, so it's important to keep up with lectures. In general, the course tries to cover a lot of material spanning biology, statistics, and computer science, and because of the wide breadth, the coverage is mediocre at best. The teaching support is also not that great, so it's up to you to learn the material.
Don't take this unless you absolutely have to, or if you know you will be doing lab work within biology and bionformatics.  This is not an elective for the faint of heart.
STAT 115 is an interesting, but challenging class. It covers a wide range of relevant topics in biostatistics (e.g., microarray analysis, GWAS, cancer genomics, etc.), and can be helpful to students studying biology or thinking about going to graduate school in biology. While the class is in the statistics department, it's more of a computer science class and requires either prior knowledge in R and Python or the willingness/diligence to learn these tools on your own. This class is hard. Be prepared to spend countless hours on the problem sets with minimal guidance.
take with friends so that you can come at the problem sets from different angles and help each other out
Even though the course materials claim you don't need prior experience with Python or R and that they'll be taught to you in this class, that's not really true. They'll rush through a very basic tutorial and then jump ahead to very foreign things, so if you don't have experience with Python or R or coding in general I would definitely not take this class as the homework will be too difficult and the sections and TFs are very unhelpful. Office hours are sporadic and the TFs seem very lost and confused when you finally do get a chance to ask questions. I got no feedback on any homework and they never tell you what the correct solutions are. The lectures are GREAT, so if you're comfortable with coding this class is definitely worth it because you'll be able to get through the homework (although it's very time consuming). If you're not comfortable with coding, this class has no resources to help you, so even though you'd learn a lot the stress of trying to figure out how to do the homework might not be worth it.
