This material is definitely interesting, but the quality of the course depends HIGHLY on who's teaching it. Do your research first.
First, there will be a different instructor next year, so it is impossible to be sure about anything else.Second, probably, this course will be less time-consuming if you bring experience coding, documenting, finding and remembering details of  statistical software functions --details of syntax and parameters. Certainly it will be less time-consuming if you take it with a team of people who will help each other split the workload.This year the course was short on ideas and long on coding, reading computer output, exploring messy datasets, completing writeups for grades, and repetition.The exams put a very high premium on speed, high premium on examsmanship. That will change at least a little. No other course and instructor are so extreme as this, as far as I know.
Please think about data more carefully rather than just use the model
This class focuses on the basics of generalized linear modeling, and is not recommended if you aim to learn about new methodological advances in modeling discrete data.
Don't be intimidated by Prof. Meng! He's a kitten at heart.
somewhat disorganized, definitely take 249 instead of 149 since 149 students get the short end of the stick w.r.t. workload. definitely don't take it when more than 1 professor is teaching it.
Professor Cleary and Paul Baines are reasons to take this class.  If both are involved next year, I would definitely recommend signing up.
The material is interesting but not the most useful stats course you can take. If Professor Meng is the only teacher, then you will have some problems. Also, if it's mixed with 249 and the 249 students teach at the end, you will have problems. I wish the most experienced and prepared teachers lectured all the time.
If you want a practical course, check who is teaching the class.  Xiao-Li only wants to teach theory
Fantastic professor teaching material that is absolutely essential to any statistician's education.  If you want to do any kind of real applied statistical analysis, this course is an absolute must.  This year was the first year that Natesh taught the course, and there were a lot of organizational confusion as to how it would be run, which persisted throughout the course.  In the grand scheme of things, however, that's the easiest thing to fix in any course, and hopefully they'll have the kinks ironed out in the future.
There was no syllabus and no class emails were ever sent.  If the Prof. assigns homework in class and you missed lecture that day, you are just out of luck.
At this stage the course is poorly organized.
This class is an extremely important, practical class amongst all the offerings of the Stat department.  Natesh has a deep understanding and teaches well and has a style that requires participation from the whole class.
The class could be more tightly organized.  The assignments were very good, but Natesh's lectures need sharpening (which is understandable given that his was his first shot, but he's got to work at it). Cold calling class members was a GOOD thing.
Could be a great course for all, but was often difficult to follow.
You learn a lot of statistics in a disorganized but friendly atmosphere.
This is the best statistics course I've seen in the department.  The pace can be slow for some, but the lectures and expectations for the assignments are extremely clear.
Spend a lot of time on the more theoretical aspects of the class. Read the book, possibly both books (McCullagh-Nadler in addition to "Sleuth". )
doesn't require much of work, worth taking if you want to learn the basics of statistics
Want to learn how to model anything you want with stats?  This is the class for you.  Want to do something exciting?  Maybe this isn't the one you want.
fair amount of work
I thought this was a wonderful statistics class. Unlike many other statistics classes that seem more theoretically-based, I thought it was great that this course was very firmly grounded in data analysis. Ie - as a student in the natural sciences, I feel that I really learned useful statistical techniques that I can apply in my research.
I didn't learn anything in this class. There are undergrads and PhD students in a class that should definitely be split up and tailored to the differences in skill level.
This is a great class! As currently taught, VERY little work and VERY easy, but you learn a TON of interesting and useful models. Without reservation, a must take!
This class taught me a lot of practical skills and tools in Statistics.  The breadth of the syllabus is wide and has equipped me with the ability to apply the methods we learned but also the working knowledge to study them in more depth later.
Go to lecture. Preview your lecture notes beforehand and bring all the questions you might have. This is a fun, relaxing course. Stat 139 or Econ 1123 is a must, but if you really want to understand the concept behind the models and such, then should take Stat 110 and 111 concurrently as well.
This course is great if you are interested in statistical modeling.  It was not too difficult, assignments and exams were very fair, and Mark is a good lecturer.
This was one of my top 2 favorite classes at Harvard (and I took it as a senior). There are a LOT of grad students in this class, but don't be intimidated - at least for me, the undergrads did better on average. Glickman is a smart guy, and I strongly recommend this class!
you only need one regression class and this one could definitely be it. glickman is a fun teacher who cares a lot about preparing good lectures and notes and generally produces a class that teaches you a good skill set. the theory itself is pretty simple and the class is very manageable.
Professor Glickman is great! He is very accessible outside class and is always willing to help you. He replies to emails very promptly and the replies are always very carefully written to answer any question you might have. I learned a lot in this class and I definitely recommend it!
This is an awesome course. The homework is well-designed and the exam is fair.
If you want to fit a predictive model to almost any kind of dataset, ever, this class is for you. If you want a solid understanding of what GLMs are, why they exist, and what happens under the hood, then maybe not. Glickman's a cool guy, and he cares about his students, though, so class never felt boring.
a very useful stats course
will cover a huge amount of very useful tools.
The content is interesting and essential for statistical modeling. Mark is a great teacher. The project is a Kaggle competition, which is fun. The homework is reasonable. The only concern: the exams. The conceptual questions can be tough. Be sure to understand the intuition behind everything.
Very useful material.
Mark is a great professor, he explains things very clearly. You can expect to have a very good understanding of GLM's as well as a high level understanding of other regression techniques (GAM, Trees, forests). Workload is reasonable and the midterm was not difficult. Expect some of the classes to go a little slow, but in the end you do cover a lot of material.
Really useful material and helps students think about how data should be processed. Would recommend.
It's sort of a machine learning course in disguise, but it's different from other machine-learning courses you're likely to take.
Be careful of the grading, but take the course. Glickman is a great lecturer, and if he goes too slowly watch him at 1.5 speed online later.
Mark is a great teacher and really takes the time to explain concepts thoroughly to his students. He has a great sense of the class and will often realize where things might be confusing mid-lecture and then recap slightly to explain more without anyone needing to ask. All around great guy and dedicated to his students.
This class gives you a solid overview of more data analysis techniques beyond 139. It also helps you understand a lot of the topics you learned in 139 and makes you understand how a gaussian linear model really just is a specific time of a generalized linear model. Pretty interesting problems. Not super time intensive. (psets every two weeks!)
Great course. I learned all the ways to analyze all different types of data.
The course is well organized and the posted lecture notes are textbook quality. Generalized linear models are a great tool for all of statistical inference and definitely something worth learning.
There is no better applied statistics course at Harvard. This class teaches you the core essentials of Generalized Linear Models (GLMs) as well as many Machine Learning ideas. Mark is one of the most caring, thoughtful professors I met at Harvard. The lectures are a joy to attend!
Take this course! You'll learn a lot without putting in TOO many hours, and Glickman is an engaging lecturer. I expect I'll reference my notes from this class for years to come!
straightforward class. material not too difficult. assignments are not too difficult, but a bit tedious. has a final project.
Be wary of the conceptual questions on the exams that aren't really covered in lecture or in the notes! Otherwise a solid course and a great introduction to using GLMs in R.
If you're interested in data science, this is a great foundational course of the "frequentist" statistics approach, with emphasis on GLMs.
This is a great class!  The material is very interesting.
Professor Glickman is really great and truly cares about his students; his lecture notes are incredibly helpful and the course project also is a great opportunity to apply the skills learned in the course.
This is a fantastic class. It is extremely well organized and taught. It does move a little bit slow, and probably does not give enough emphasis on non-parametric methods, but I would highly recommend it and I think it does a better job of teaching prediction than other classes available. The more you put in the more you will get out.
Good class - seems useful for real life.  Problem sets are pretty instructive and course notes comprehensive.
One of my favorite stats classes offered here.
Prof Glickman runs the course well. Material is clearly presented and well organized. Class is sometimes a bit dry, but if you watch it on CS50 2x it's all good. Don't overfit for the kaggle competition!
This is a very solid course about generalized linear models. You will learn a lot in a very accessible manner. Glickman is really clear and he has really comprehensive course notes. The course starts off pretty easy with logistic regression in the first half, and then picks up. The psets can take a while, but they're pretty grind-out, plug and chug, so just make sure you start early. Overall a low stress, very useful, and highly recommended course.
This was a very useful course. You learn a lot of applied statistics concepts. The workload is very, very minimal (one problem set every other week that only takes a couple hours to complete). Lectures aren't very necessary because the lecture notes are so thorough and good. The project at the end of the course feels a bit useless, but it's still pretty interesting. Professor Glickman is incredible and really engaging. Get to know him!
Great class with many applicable tools taught. Important to understand all modeling tools fully!
This is a good, relatively painless followup to stat 149 that introduces a lot of the cool things you couldn't do in that class.  Mark cares a lot and is a good lecturer (his notes are also incredible and lecture is taped) and writes fair exams.  See if they improve sections next year but the lecture notes are the best study materials.  Make sure you can interpret all your R output! (that's mostly what the final was)
Glickman has amazing lecture notes, plus class is recorded, so you don't really need to go to class. HW assignments are fine if you know how to code in R and exams are pretty straightforward. I'd definitely take this class again-- really interesting/applicable material that's taught at a good (maybe slow for some) pace.
A wonderful class, Prof. Glickman is a great teacher that seems to care about the course and his students. Take this if you want to learn a ton of useful information about prediction.
This is a solid course in which you learn useful modeling techniques. Though Stat 139 is listed as a prerequisite, you can skip it and still be fine in this class.
One of the best statistics courses! Mark's lectures are extremely clear and informative, and the material is very practical for real-world data analysis
Great statistics class, very useful and applicable for other fields. I am a Psychology concentrator and this class helped me a lot in understanding and conducting Psychology research. The professor is awesome. If he is teaching again, you should take it!
Still zoned out from taking a final today but I'll bite.As William Chen notes on Quora, if you take CS109, Stat 139, Stat 149, you'll be pretty well-set for working with data (I'd add CS181 too).  Whereas Stat 139 deals with ordinary least squares regression, in 149, you discover a wealth of models that are far more applicable to most real-life issues.  I took 149 in combination with reading a lot of cognitive psychology, and just conceptually thinking about modeling people's behaviors as binary decisions with a bunch of predictors is really cool (also the concept of latent variables).  This is the class where I really learned what "modeling" was.Mark is a very cool person and professor and knows his stuff inside out - if you go to his office hours, you can learn a whole, whole lot.  He literally just has the answers (or start of answers) to most modeling concerns - you just have to ask.  Lo-Hua is great too - very helpful for final project ideas and very helpful for clarifying concepts.The course notes for this course are impeccable.  They are so good that you can read through them once and feel like you already know the material.  Course final project was a Kaggle prediction contest, and although I performed pretty poorly, I learned a ton of valuable lessons along the way.  If you have the time, I recommend doing it by yourself so that you actually learn how to implement and write about the material.  A lot of groups split up the work (the modeling and the write-up) but given how powerful this stuff is, I think that's just shooting yourself in the foot.Overall, the course is chill (biweekly psets) and you can learn a ton if you try. You won't regret it.
If you enjoyed any aspect of Stat 139, you will love this class. I think what you learn will be also very applicable elsewhere in data analysis. IF you're choosing between 139 and 149, I highly recommend this one.
Senior spring stat concentrator here, and this is probably the most enjoyable stat class i've taken at harvard.  I learned a lot without dealing with ridiculous expectations on psets and exams, and prof glickman is a really cool guy and a good lecturer.  The learning/time ratio is pretty high, which I think is the mark of a great class.
Mark Glickman was great. This class is very relevant to anyone involved in statistics or data analysis. The assignments were very relevant and fair. The lecture notes were very helpful for review.
There aren't a whole lot of assignments in the class so you have to make sure to do well and put a lot of effort into each one. It's different than 139 because you cover a lot more ground, but the theory is pretty straightforward.
It is a practical class. You will gain a passing understanding for the theory behind glm, but you will gain a lot of insight as a practicioner, i.e. little tips and analysis that will help a lot when you are actually analyzing data. Final project was great as well.
very useful with low workload
This course is very practical and applied, emphasizing exposure to different models and the ways to apply each one.  The course gives better treatment to prediction than most courses in the department.
Material is useful and well-presented by Professor Glickman. He is an effective lecturer and the lecture notes are effective and clear. The end-of-year Kaggle competition is a blast as well. Would highly recommend this class, and would recommend that the class is made harder!
The lecture notes is very useful.
This is a great course. Mark is an incredibly clear lecturerso much so that if you're not getting something, you know it must be you. His lecture notes are pristine, and it is clear that he cares an incredible amount about the course. The course is structured in a very logical way, first teaching you how to generalize the assumption that data is normal so that one can deal with poisson, multinomial, gamma, etc., data, and then teaching more advanced techniques (e.g., random forests). You will leave the course comfortable working with data from a wide variety of applications, as showcased by his examples in lecture, ranging in topic from election outcomes to the sandwich preferences of ants. Also, this was my first regression course, and I found that to be okay. The Stat 139 prerequisite is not a huge deal, as gaps in knowledge are filled in quickly when jumping straight into generalized linear models.
Extremely useful course! Great teacher and moderate workload.
Very good overview of generalised linear modelling. Well taught with excellent course notes. Prof Glickman is enthusiastic, gives clear explanations and is readily available outside class. Definitely a class where the more you put in, the more you will get out.
Assignments were super easy but extremely long and tedious. The beginning is super easy material but then it picks up in terms of vague-ness. You learn a lot of things but don't really actually understand it. Grading is quite arbitrary (assignments only out of 5). Be ready for lots of interpretation questions that are graded fairly arbitrary.
Highly recommend
This class teaches you some pretty useful material, although it can get boring at times (you spend a LOTTTT of time on logistic regression). Glickman is really nice, though he spends a lot of time explaining everything.
This is a really easy class with very little content that moves at a glacial pace. In the first week of class, the prof literally spend half a lecture explaining to students that finding the maximum of f(x) is equivalent to finding the maximum of log(f(x)) because log is a monotonic function. However, the class is full of try-hard stat students and the grading is really hard-ass and they take off a lot of points if what you write isn't exactly what they were looking for. Also they give biweekly psets that are about as hard as weekly psets, but the psets are really annoying because it's a lot of repetitive trivial work. Remember when you took algebra 2 in high school and you had to graph all the polynomials and label all the intersections and max/min and it was easy but took forever? Kind of like that. I took this class because smart people told me you learn so much in it, but I'm not sure if I will ever use anything I used in this class (even though I'm going into finance). Although I should be fair and say that Glickman seems like a nice guy who cares about his students, but even so it was a bad class.
Great course for anyone with an interest in applied statistics and advanced techniques for modeling.  Prof. Glickman is very enthusiastic and does a good job making the material fit together.
You will learn many applications of many different statistical tests.
This is a solid course.  It isn't going to rock your world or anything, but it is definitely a good course to take and seems pretty applicable.  Professor Glickman is a good lecturer and seems like a really nice/cool guy.  I wish my team had won the prediction competition because I would have liked to get a meal with him. The course material is useful and the course isn't too tough.
This class is a great extension of STAT 139 - with both of those I feel that I have a wide array of data analysis techniques at my disposal.  I particularly like that Professor Glickman expands beyond the range of typical GLMs to cover generalized additive models and tree-based models, which are very useful but don't fit into the GLM framework.
Great class! If you're a stats concentrator, definitely take this course because it is so useful/applicable, and Glickman is literally the best! The course isn't easy but it's definitely very manageable and you learn a lot!
This is an enjoyable course about GLMs, which is really the meat and potatoes of many statistics tasks in the real world. Even if you're the master of hierarchical Bayesian modeling and astronaut-level machine learning techniques, it would be highly embarrassing if you could not, for example, explain whether a logistic regression coefficient's magnitude was related to its statistical significance, or what multinomial regression is. This course filled in quite a few details for me.
- You spend the first half of the course on logistic regression.- Thorough overview of some useful methods. Overall lighter workload.- Glickman is very accessible and very clearly presents the material.- Probably not necessary to go to lecture; notes are very thorough.- Start on the final project early to take advantage of submissions structure.
A very practical class in which you'll learn to build regression models on all sorts of data in R. The project at the end allows you to apply everything you've learned in creative ways, and was a highlight of the class. A great break from all the theoretical probability stuff at Harvard, although the problem sets were a little grind-y at points.
Great course. Very straightforward and you learn a lot.
This was maybe my favorite stats course I've taken here. I loved it! The problem sets take a decent amount of time, but it's not bad if you space them out. You learn a whole lot without really realizing how much you've learned, which is awesome.
You should take the course if you want to have a solid foundation in linear models. Mark is a great guy and you can learn a lot from him.
Really good stats class--feels like you learn a lot without it being too burdensome. Also useful knowledge for the future
This is an excellent course. If you want a good grounding in frequentist statistics, then this is a bit of a must. The lectures and accompanying notes are clear and easy to follow, and the workload isn't too heavy. Mark brings a lot of passion to the classes, and he and the tfs are very helpful in office hours.
This is the course to take to understand beyond "simple" linear model; you'll know what R is doing when you analyze data after taking this class!
A good introduction to a number of different types of models. Glickman's also great.
GLMs is a really thorough introduction to GLMs that does a good job of covering both theory and practice. Highly recommended for a solid background in generalized linear models.
Don't start the homework the day before it's due.
This class is great! You come out of it with a nice blend of theoretical understanding and applied skills. Glickman is a solid, charismatic lecturer and a chill guy overall. His notes are probably the best of any professor I've ever had. Good course if you want to learn more statistical modeling and R skills beyond normal linear regression.
This course will lend an overarching structure to a ton of techniques you would otherwise encounter piecemeal. Professor Glickman is a brilliant teacher (he will always focus on intuition and you never lose sight of the big picture) and is super approachable.
Mark runs an organized course with clear course notes, clear hws, and a reasonable learning pace. If you want to learn about GLMs and are looking for a course that won't break your back, I think this is a good choice.
Mark is awesome! The course is very useful, and the workload is reasonable.
Professor Glickman was awesome. I would definitely recommend taking this class.
Take this class! I took it as an elective, and it was one of my favorite courses here. It's a very interesting course that provides useful knowledge to apply in future stats courses and jobs. Professor Glickman and the TFs are amazing at teaching the course, always available to help students, very caring about students, and prepare great lecture/section notes and practice materials. It would be very helpful to have knowledge of R or have taken Stat 139, but if you have not, I believe you can do well if you work a little harder.
An interesting class with very real world applications.
Really awesome class! First stat class that teaches how to model beyond basic linear regression! Glickman is an awesome professor and it was worth it to go to 8:30am lecture!
Mark is amazing and this course is so much better than 139.
An easy recommendation for anyone interested in the practical side of statistics. If you're interested in model making this is an easy class that runs the gamut. Glickman is a good lecturer too.
This is a great course to take as a statistician, and a natural one to take after STAT 139.
The course teaches very useful, accessible material and is very laidback. The perfect kind of course in my opinion: not overly stressful but clearly has a lot of utility.
Don't be lulled into believing it will be easy by the first two psets.
This is an excellent stats course. Glickman is awesome. He's literally the most communicative professor I've ever had, and he is seriously invested in the course. 149 isn't too difficult and with biweekly psets, the time commitment isn't huge. You also get a really nice mix of theory and application. If you're looking for a stats course, this is an excellent one.
Stat 149 is, objectively, a good course! Very few people went to lecture since it was so early, but lectures are recorded and the notes are good, so you can still do all the assignments regardless. Glickman is great; he seems to really care about the course quality and material. It's easy to get behind, because PSETs are once every two weeks (and thus can be kind of annoying, especially the last couple) and it's easy to forget about the class if you don't go to lecture.
If you know your career will require knowledges of general linear models, this is a course for you. Overall, this is a very enjoyable course. Professor Glickman is very humorous and works in every way he could to help students follow this course. I found it is worthwhile to go to the class at 8:30AM even for days with very cold weather (even though this course is video taped). The course materials are designed more towards application, without touching too much details of math derivation, which is good for students who want to learn overview of general linear models. In addition, my section TF, Keith, is simply fantastic and I really enjoy going to his sections and office hours. This is a top quality course as you can expect from Harvard. I appreciate that I learned a lot from this course.
Incredible class. I learned a lot in this class without needing to spend an excessive amount of time on it. This was because Mark does an incredible job with organizing the course. Assignments, grades, and feedback are released immediately. Notes for all the lectures are available and really clear. The material also is incredibly practical, and I could see myself using it at work in the future.
This course is difficult for those without any prior knowledge of statistics otherwise it's very informative and the work is useful for a vast number of applications
Need to know how to use R!
Great class! You learn a ton of super useful material. The assignments and exams are very reasonable.
This class was interesting and a good class to take after 139, but it is definitely more challenging than 139.
This course is decent overall, you learn a lot of very useful modeling frameworks that can be applied to a very wide array of datasets. The class is pretty well organized since Prof. Glickman has taught it a lot (and he is a very knowledgeable and helpful person). The workload is quite light overall (only biweekly assignments) though it is heavily loaded towards the end of the semester, when the HW assignments suddenly become 2-3 times as long and you have to worry about both a final exam and project that count for 60% of your grade; it is easy to blow this course off (especially this year since lecture was at 8:30 am) but you shouldn't. Be aware also that this is a very applied course so if you're coming from classes like 110, 111, 171, etc. it will be a very different flavor, a lot closer to something like AP Stat in high school than those courses.
Among Stat classes, probably has one of the highest rewards-to-effort ratios. You expand your statistical modeling toolbox massively and it's not at all painful -- lectures, sections, and homework assignments all follow clearly and systematically from one another. Take it!
Way better than stat139
The course was very well taught by an experienced and enthusiastic professor. The material is highly relevant, stimulating, and useful.
Stat 149 is a terrific class! The material is very interesting, as well as attainable. The final project is a neat opportunity to engage more with different portions of the course particularly interesting to you. Definitely the most applicable statistics class I have done. Take this!
Stat concentrators take this course!! You actually learn a lo and Glickman is awesome.
This class is a great class that teaches you so much while also being reasonable in its workload. Professor Glickman is an awesome lecturer and just a super cool human being in general, and the material is really interesting and will give you so many more tools for modeling data.
Learn lots of useful applications of statistical models. Very applied so taking a theory class beforehand like stat 111 will be helpful. Low workload but pay attention to explanations/analysis for the exams
Relatively straightforward class with emphasis on application (and useful material to boot). Glickman is pretty cool.
This class is amazing, definitely take it!! Mark Glickman is an amazing instructor. This class somehow manages to be well-run, useful, and manageable all at the same time. I really enjoyed the material we learned and have found it to be useful. There's a great balance of theory and application. Somehow, the concepts I had previously found unapproachable in other classes all became clear in Stat 149. The material is interesting and useful - I'm particularly happy to have learned about how to model count data and right-skewed data. The homeworks and exams were straight-forward. The bits of the homework that had sample code and tips on R idiosyncracies made me feel like the instructors mostly cared about us learning and didn't want to make our lives more difficult than they needed to be (thank you!). Prof. Glickman is not only entertaining, but also great at explaining the material and very nice. This is definitely one of my favorite classes at Harvard and I recommend it wholeheartedly.
Coming from a non-statistics department I found the class useful, but the lack of attention paid to statistical inference (getting correct standard errors, for example) made the class less useful than it could have been. This isn't a knock on the class, just its usefulness for me.
This class covers a lot of material and is a good way to learn how to run many different times of statistical analyses in R.
This has been my favorite class in all four years of my Harvard education.  As somebody who has religiously not attended lecture for the last four years, I watched every single one and Professor Glickman does a really great job of explaining and re-explaining with concrete examples.  I read a review last year about how this class has a good work-to-learning ratio, and I would 100% back that up.  Psets are due every other week, midterm and final are straightforward.  I definitely didn't feel like I needed to have taken 139, but it could be helpful if you're interested in the material.  I can't recommend this class enough!
One of the best Statistics classes at Harvard. Really polished and well organized, fantastic material, really manageable workload (psets every two weeks, graded 1-5, a midterm, final, and final group project). Recommend without reservations. Just really, really good. So well taught, and so many things that I know I'm going to use a lot. It'd be handy to have a lot of confidence in R before you start, but you can probably self teach and be fine. Also a note, I am a Stats concentrator who hadn't taken Stat 139, and I was fine, so don't let that be a worry for you.
Basically you will learn to use a lot of R packages. If you will not use R in the future, don't take this class.
This class gives you helpful skills for the workplace. I found the subject matter more helpful than in 139 which only gives you a feel for very simple models.
A good class, but not very practical.
This is a really nice class to help you go over all those statistical models you might use in future. The professor is really helpful and really accessible after the class. He is so friendly and funny and yeah. I love him. The lecture notes are really organized and I print all of them out for future reference. The only complain I had with this class was problem sets. They were not very well designed. You need to pretty much keep doing the same thing(LRT) again and again. I dont learn many things from doing homework. Some well designed problem sets in my other classes are those which help you review all concepts in class and make you think. STAT 149 needs better problem sets.
stat 149 not only is a nice extension of stat 139, but it's a nice complement. Missing data and other topics can also be applied outside of GLMs.
If you're interested in learning about GLM or data science, take this course.  Good practice coding and learning about applied stats.
If you want to spend a bunch of time applying the same things over and over again on the homeworks while not really learning anything from them, this is the class to take. The class is not very rigorous, and you learn lots of rules of thumb without any serious theoretical backing. The grading on the final project is also dubious and requires that you go beyond the stat 149 material. The homeworks also get progressively longer and more tedious as the semester goes on. The class doesn't feel very rewarding, since the explanations are so hand wavy and heuristic. From Stat 110, this class is definitely a step down, and will be disappointing to those who want a rigorous understanding of generalized linear models.
You learn a lot of practical modeling
Well structured course, great materials (especially lecture notes), very nice grading scheme, not the hardest stat class
If you like Stat 139, you'll like this class. Mark is great.
This class is so well-organized! You learn exactly what you put in, and the expectations are extremely clear. It's straightforward and not super challenging, but you definitely take away new knowledge!
Really gives you great tools for data analysis, not too strenuous of a course, Lecture notes are very useful.
This class is really cool and teaches you about other models you can use, other than just plain linear regression--which gets to be super useful. The HWs are pretty short and the class is relatively painless--just make sure to study for the tests and do well on the project!
Really great and useful class. It's so much easier in terms of workload than you would expect. Probably half the difficulty/time as Stat 110 if that's a reference point you can understand.
Stat 149 is extremely relevant material and it is a very painless way to learn it. The homeworks were reasonable and grading was also reasonable.
This has been my favorite stats class by far.
A very important topic in statistics and application.
Stat 149 with Prof. Glickman was a great class that both taught different statistical models and the intuition behind each model, and how to use R more effectively. The workload for this class was not too bad, although the problem sets sometimes quickly became repetitive. With that said, if you are debating between Stat 139 or 149, I'd recommend 149; I took this class without Stat 139 (nor any statistics background besides Stat 110) but it was mostly self-contained.
Prof. Glickman is a fantastic explainer of statistical concepts, and it's overall a very manageable class that you still learn some from. I would have liked the class to cover a bit more material, but you'll learn a good amount of useful and applicable stat skills!
149 is a great follow-up course to 139. The material is easier to handle and Glickman approaches it in a very logical way. Make use of office hours and of section, and be sure to follow through lecture notes on your own afterwards, as this is useful for p-sets and the exams. While I wish there weren't a final project and a final exam, the project was a fun way to engage further with the material from the course.
Stat 149 is a great stat course. You'll learn a lot and Glick is awesome. Not a ton to say because it's just a solid course, but you won't regret taking it if you're looking to expand your stats knowledge. Homeworks are useful and exams are very manageable!!
If you enjoyed a previous linear modeling class, then I highly recommend this course. You build off the material covered in lower-level courses and cover more nuanced modeling techniques that enable you to tackle complex datasets in new ways. More of an applied class than a theory class.
The course is pretty 'fine'. You won't be crushed by work, lectures will be decent but nothing mind-blowing, the course staff were generally pretty nice. It's entirely possible to learn the stuff on your own and not go to lecture or section. The original syllabus said 5 problem sets but they added a sixth one (it was tragic) due on a Friday, even though there was a final project due on the Monday. Not a deal-breaker but not happy about it. What was the deal-breaker was that for said final project, they required you to upload your model's output to an online competition with a leaderboard the entire class could see. You knew exactly where you stood in comparison to everyone else. There was no earthly justification for putting students in such stark competition when Harvard already has issues with competitiveness in the STEM departments. It was unnecessarily stressful and psyched students out on what was otherwise a pretty straightforward final project. It's one thing to offer an incentive for the "best model" and give realtime feedback with an algorithm, the leaderboard, though, signaled to me this class wasn't about collaborative learning, but competition. Beyond that, the exams were straightforward, easy to finish early, study, do the practice exams, and you'll do fine, especially the final had no traps.
Very well run course. High learning to work ratio.
Pretty enjoyable Stats class. Exams were a bit tricky, but the problem sets are very doable. Glickman's notes are very comprehensive and give you what you need to know to complete them. Good class for concentrators.
When you hear of people doing statistics for work or for research in the real world, they are talking about the concepts learned in this class. Take it, even if you are not a stats concentrator.
Great class. Awesome, applicable material, and Glickman runs a tight ship and keeps things organized. He has awesome lecture notes and is a fantastic lecturer. You will learn a lot of great methods!
This is just a fantastic course all-around. Took as an elective to the Masters CSE program and it was worth it. The best taught course I've taken since I've been here - excellent instruction, very helpful sections, reasonable workload. A lot of useful material for job interviews as well!
The class has interesting material and the assignments are fun. The course is not really hard. Glickman is an excellent professor and is very enthusiastic.
This class is very useful and informative, and the information taught to you is very accessible. Stay on top of the work, and make sure you attend lectures.
It's pretty straightforward--the psets aren't too hard and Glickman definitely isn't trying to trick you on the exams.
Great teaching staff.
Really interesting course with a lot of new methods!
The material is just too important to not learn, it's so important to take this course.
Its a fantastic course with the right balance of theory and application. The instructor and TFs are fantastic. Best course I have taken at Harvard.
Great class if you want to learn more about building regression models. Glickman is a great lecturer and makes the material pretty easy to understand.
This class is good.  Mark's a likable guy and pretty easygoing.  The assignments are every two weeks so you aren't constantly doing psets which is nice.  The material is interesting and very useful.  The TFs were all good.
I was told that this class was a gem by someone who took it the previous year, and it is honestly a real gem. Mark is absolutely amazing at teaching and is incredibly humble, organized, caring, understanding, funny, and a true admirer of brunches. Get to know him, don't be afraid to ask questions in class, and seriously take this class. You'll learn useful skills, the workload isn't too much (a pset every 2 weeks), the exams aren't too hard, but you'll still learn--and from a wonderful instructor too. Granted, I did come in with several statistics courses under my belt as I'm a concentrator, so I did find it to be pretty easy. Stat 139 the prior semester would be extremely helpful but doesn't seem to be absolutely necessary, as Mark is pretty good at explaining.
The material in this class is SO USEFUL. I feel like I can attack any data set after taking this class.
This is a great class with very relevant subject matter. Prof. Glickman is an engaging lecturer (I thought his jokes were funny) and the overall organization is phenomenal. If you're at all on the fence, I would definitely recommend taking this class.
Very useful material, though it is definitely dry at times. Homework is very manageable.
As a senior stat concentrator, I would say this is one of the best classes offered by the stat department. It is very applicable to real life data, which will be useful for your job or research. You spend your time on learning concepts that you will actually use. The notes provided by Glickman are fantastic (best notes I've had for a class at Harvard). Glickman is also a very likable and funny guy.
This is a good introduction to generalized methods, but it requires very little work so it's easy to go through the class feeling like you're not learning much. The course project, a prediction competition, is very fun.
This course is pretty low-key and easy, but it's definitely interesting and useful material that is applicable to a wide variety of disciplines. Glickman moves through the material quite slowly, so it's very easy to understand the concepts. The work load is pretty low because problem sets are only once every two weeks, but the project and final exam at the end are a little busy. Also, I hadn't taken 139, but I felt completely fine in this course!
It's a really interesting and useful course. Take some time to think beyond the lecture notes and assignments.
