Teaching staff is very difficult to meet with and the book and lecture are basically the same. If you don't understand the book it's hard to do well in the class.
This was a frustrating course at times because the assignments were almost completely coding in R, whereas lectures were more theoretical. Lectures were typically not helpful. Would probably recommend taking Stat 111 over 186 if possible
I have taken a lot of courses as an undergraduate and now as a grad student, and this class was my all-time favorite.  I developed so much as a statistician.  Even though the material did not overlap too much with other classes, I found myself seeing regression and statistical tests with new eyes.  The assignments are difficult, but you have plenty of time to do them, and the textbook is very helpful.  At the end, you will be amazed at your growth in both statistical understanding and practical skills.  I enthusiastically recommend this class to anyone with the required background.
Class has a lot of potential given the relevance of the topic and wide applications but seems to fall short in execution. Assignments, especially Assignment 2, are somewhat tedious and take much longer than expected. Final project is interesting and where I feel like I really learn the connection between the various topics covered.
Many classes warn about inferring causation from correlation, but they don't explain the right way to infer causation.  This class does that.
I feel like most students take this course for its lack of tests. Let me assure you that the assignments are more than difficult enough. If you don't keep up with the class material on a regular basis, you will fail. This is not an easy class.
Very useful to get the potential outcomes framework and if you take the final project seriously it's really good. Be prepared to spend a lot of time wading through R code on your own or with the TFs in section or office hours. The textbook is a great resource and it's basically impossible to get through this course based on the lectures alone.
Not sure how the course is taught normally so hard to say.  The material is very useful though so I'd generally recommend it, especially if you haven't taken as many courses on the experimental statistics side.
Tough class with really long assignments that require lots of coding. Get started on problem sets early and get help from office hours. Professor Mealli was nice and helpful but wasn't a great lecturer. The topics are really interesting and applicable but can be difficult to grasp, so the success of the class will depend a lot on who is teaching the course.
Stat 186 was not that well done this year. The teaching was uninspired and a bit boring, to be honest, and I'm not really sure what I learned. The psets also take a long time, and it's a lot of bashing with R, so make sure you're comfortable with your coding skills before diving into the class. But, causal inference is a really important topic, so you might get more out of this class if you read the book and do a lot of extra review outside of class. The professor is changing next year, so it might get better.
The examples used are interesting!  It's neat how we can deal with observational studies in order to draw causal inference.
STAT186 was most definitely the worst class I took this semester and at Harvard in general. The psets were excruciating, the professor/lecturer was boring, and the default final project was a monster. I think the professor had some pretty unrealistic expectations of the students, and it resulted in some poor consequences. If you are a Stat concentrator, I would avoid this course at all costs. It is a waste of time.
This info is super super useful, probably an essential class to take if you want to work in stats/data science.  There will likely be a new prof next year so check it out yourself, but for us it was pretty difficult and impromptu, not much infrastructure for the class which makes assignments challenging
You learn most of the course materials from the assignments and discussing homework problems with friends. Lectures weren't helpful.
If I was talking to first-year Biostat PhDs, I'd tell them this course is a great way to get a proper introduction to causal inference with a fairly light workload.
Don't. Just don't. This class was a mess.
If you read the textbook, you will do well.
Beware. Know some R beforehand as there is no guidance given apart from a one hour intro session which isn't enough. There aren't enough office hours to get doubts cleared. Expectations in assignments are often unclear and points are taken off by the dozen for not addressing something that you may not know was asked for. Lecture was unhelpful as were the slides. Support in the course was minimal and so was feedback. If you're taking it, find a pset group, answers should contain specific terminology they are looking for. Course material itself was interesting, but I was very unhappy in the course.
Really interesting class. The assignments were really long but you learn so much from them. I really enjoyed the assignments. The subject matter is really cool too. I would encourage anyone interested in doing any sort of quantitative research to take this class. The biggest downside to this class would be the lectures. I felt like the lectures were a little boring, which made it hard to engage.
This is one of the best courses that I have taken at Harvard. The material is very interesting and presented in an understandable manner. The teaching staff (especially Professor Espinosa) are all extremely patient and helpful. Unlike other classes where exams are impossible, every single assignment in this course was manageable. The assignments do take a fair amount of time depending on your coding strength, but they were never unreasonably long. You are also given ~2 weeks for each assignment, so there really is more than enough time. I would recommend this course to everyone (and actually have!).
While the course material is interesting and useful, do not expect to learn a lot about it from lecture, but rather through sections and assignments.
This class was interesting and useful, and it should improve over the next years when Valeria has more experience teaching it.  The concepts taught in the class are both theoretical and practical.  The psets are long but they are assigned bi-weekly so you are given more time to think about them.
The material is a bit dry and perhaps not presented as well as it could have been. Valeria tries to make the lecture slides as uninformative as possible in order to make you come to lecture, but then the writing on the board is so illegibly small.
it's really unique
If Valeria is teaching this class again, ruun, ruuuuuuuun away. IT IS NOT WORTH IT. IT IS A WASTE OF YOUR TIME. I CRY WHEN I THINK FO ALL THE OTHER CLASSES I COULD HAVE TAKEN. I have never wasted $4000 in this way before.If you must take this class for whatever reason (you don't, look at EC 1126, Stat 111 ANYTHING), but say you do. Either wait for the actual instructor to come back. If not, be prepared to teach yourself all the material (Rubin's book is fantastic, if convoluted) plus go to all sections and office hours. Nik and Viviana are the best people in the world.
Stat 186 is a good class overall. The assignments are long, so do start early.
Stat 186 was a great course to fulfill the econometrics requirement for Am/Ec and get out of actually taking econometrics. I loved that I got to learn R and work with actual data and that the class was completely project based. You come out of this course feeling like you learned so much and that all the work was worth it. Projects are every other week-and as long as you start them super early and go to office hours and section you will be fine. But be warned, projects can sometimes take up to 15-20 hours, especially if you have never used R before. I took this course after Stat 110, and preferred it infinitely to Stat 110-so much more applicable! Overall, take it, it's a gem of a stats class.
Overall Stat 186 is a good class, although you definitely need to be aware that this class will be very time-demanding, and that you NEED to have some knowledge of programming, especially in R. Knowing R when you come into the class vs. just knowing a little coding and expecting to learn R over the first few weeks of class as you do the assignments could quite possibly be the difference between getting an A and an A- (or B+ vs B, etc) in this class, as the first coding assignment is conceptually challenging, and becomes extremely difficult when you don't know how to code in R. It takes about 2 coding assignments to become fully proficient in R, by which time that's 30% of your entire grade already decided. Basically you're otherwise at a huge disadvantage to everyone else who knows R coming into the course.In the end, the material itself isn't difficult as the TF's hold fantastic sections that explain the material well, and tbh the learning curve is only steep for the first two assignments, so this is definitely a manageable class, just expect it to be your main commitment course-wise for this semester, if you want to get a good grade. This course is very much about putting in the effort to understand the intricacies of the course material, so that you are able to apply it to data sets and justify why you did so in each assignment.
The teaching/topics are great, but the grading (at least for this semester) did not seem to reflect understanding.
The class material is pretty interesting, as a lot of it is from fairly recent discoveries. Valeria was a great teacher who taught us the material very well, and problem sets were constructed so that we got the most out of the material. Definitely be sure to have some coding background coming in to the class as you'll be spending a lot of time doing R.
If you're AM/Ec and considering this class or Stat 111, it really depends on what you want from your class. This class is great because there's only one quiz at the beginning of the semester and the psets are only every other week. So you can essentially not go to class after the quiz and just suffer for 1-2 nights before the psets are due. Also, there's no final exam and the final project is not too bad--it was worth the same percent of the grade as a pset and can be done in 1-2 (difficult) days. Allegedly, 111 teaches you more theory and is more mathy while this class is a bit more practical, and 111 has weekly psets as well as a midterm and final. This semester, there were some really enthusiastic grad students in the class but otherwise there was not much enthusiasm and attendance at lecture was sparse...but again, you don't necessarily need to go. Since the homework assignments are worth a lot of your grade and only happen every other week, they are very long and tend to require a lot of R, so hopefully you're at least familiar with/have taken a class requiring R--it will make the homework go a lot faster.
Start the assignments by saturday at the latest and go to office hours to clarify what the questions are asking. It;s a really interesting class and subject, and it's very useful, but it's not the best taught class.
Make sure you're comfortable with coding before taking the class. The psets can take quite a long time.
This is a really good way to deal with the Applied Math/Ec econometrics requirement. It's not super difficult, though it may not be quite as applicable to you as the normal econometrics class that ec concentrators take. Lectures can be a bit dull, but they are informative. The problem sets also contain a lot of information within themselves.
This class is great. Valeria is a fantastic professor and she has tons of energy for the subject, which makes the class awesome! I would suggest that you have a background in coding and a decent  knowledge of R.
Stat 186 is your chance to learn how researchers approach data to try and infer causation. If you're interested in applied research (econ/sociology/public health/etc), take this class. You'll learn several basic but powerful techniques for dealing with randomized experiments, observational studies, and more. Psets are due every two weeks, and the middle ones (#2-4) take a while to complete. The work can be challenging - lectures focus on theoretical topics, so you'll have to be ready to figure out how to actually implement the procedures you talk about. Valeria and the TFs are very willing to offer guidance if you ask.
The material you learn is useful, but I wasn't sure if I learned anything past the second week of class.   In the current iteration of the course lecture is not worth going to and assignments are not that great, often the problem is one of not knowing the right R methods. If a revamp happens take it, otherwise pass.
Awesome material and definitely doable for someone without a strong stats background. The assignments are challenging and time-consuming but really helps you learn the material.
After taking this course, I decided to switch my concentration to Statistics.  This course has the perfect balance between theory and practice, and I think it is one of the most interesting classes I have taken at Harvard.  Caveat though, the lectures are not really worth it.  You'd be better off reading the book and going to section and then struggle through the psets.
This course has no exams (other than a short quiz). But the assignments can be tedious and involve a lot of coding -- it definitely helps to be familiar with R. The material is sometimes interesting but is often presented in a very dry way. Difficult but not too heavy a workload.
This is a very applied stats class. It was fun to be given a data set and asked to analyze it concretely. I didn't know how to code in R at all before taking this class, so there were 2 problem sets that were extremely hard, but once you get the hang of it (you have to go to office hours to get R help!!) the rest were okay. Viviana (a TF) was a lifesaver - she's great. The fact that problem sets are due every two weeks is so much better than every week.
This is one of the worst classes I've taken at Harvard. Actually the worst. I know it's Valeria's first time actually teaching this course (TFed it before), but she's mediocre at best. She cares a lot, and while I sympathize, it's hard to excuse the plainly bad teaching. I often questioned whether she actually knew what she was talking about; it seemed like she just made up answers sometimes to students' questions. If she's teaching it when you're reading this, I highly recommend against taking this course.Overall, the psets are very long (biweekly though). They're certainly frustrating because there's a lot of R code. If you don't have a solid background in R, beware! They sort of help you in section, but lecture doesn't talk about nearly anything relevant to the psets.The quiz is super easy, but don't be misled by the first 2 weeks of the class; it quickly gets much more intensive. The project was decent and somewhat interesting, but similar to the psets, there's hardly any guidance on that.I've taken many quantitative classes here that have been great in different ways. This class is not one of them. Be warned.
This class is not too difficult as long as you pay attention in section and start your problem sets relatively early. Problem sets are due every other week and take awhile even if they are not difficult. I definitely recommend this class because the TF's (Nik and Viviana) are great at explaining the relevance of the material to real life/real research.
You are expected to have some statistics background. You are also expected to know some R programming. You should be prepared to learn the course materials by yourself. The instructor's lectures (presentation skills)  are not good.
Highly recommend it. I see research questions very differently after taking this course. Plus the teaching staff were so dedicated, and always approachable.
This was a great stats class! I learned a lot of useful concepts to use in future stats classes and my senior thesis. The course staff are always very knowledgeable and helpful. I would recommend learning R before taking the class. I learned it for the first time while taking it, which made it more difficult and time-consuming.
This class is absolute garbage.  The lecture component is absolutely useless as the professor just rambles about random experiments and leaves you completely unprepared for tests and problem sets.  I would not take this test if you want to enjoy your semester. I wanted to claw my eyes out after every single lecture.
For all AM/Ec students out there, this is a good way to get the Ec-Stat requirement since the content is actually pretty interesting, and it isn't too painful of a class. That said, lectures are pretty tangential and inefficient so hopefully the TF is very good- Kristen was an amazing TF and had the best section notes and was essentially the reason I learned the cool content that is in this class. Quizzes are open note and assignments are interesting though there is a lot of R with very little instruction so it is better if you are comfortable with coding (even if you don't know R, if you are comfortable learning it on your own). The class is  a lot more bearable if you have pset buddies since a lot of the assignments (we had 5 the entire semester) require thinking outside the taught material.
It is a good introductory course on the topic if you really want to know the theory behind the Rubin causal inference framework. It is not the most applied course one could take, and Rubin's decision to keep regression based CI outside of it makes it less interesting than alternative courses offered in the university.
Prof. Rubin IS causal inference
This course is pretty easy if you're familiar with Stat 110 and some basic Bayesian modeling concepts. As a stat secondary, I found the statistics to be very easy. The TFs provided a lot of code, but as a CS major, I can confirm that coding shouldn't be a huge problem.The material was pretty random at times in lecture. The TFs played a major role explaining what was going on. I didn't really attend lecture after a while and just went to section to learn.
Stat 186 is a great class. You will learn a lot about causal inference, coding in R and designing experiments but the workload is manageable (PSETs were long but assigned every other week, which helped a lot).
This is a classic example of a Harvard course with a brilliant professor who cannot teach. If you're considering a graduate degree in statistics, maybe take it. If not, don't bother.
The course was stimulating, engaging, and useful. The professor was very knowledgable and interested in helping students understand the larger ideas behind the course and the usefulness and relevance of the methods covered in the course.
Stat 186 is a very interesting class that provides a different angle on statistics that is in many ways more practical than the Stat department's other offerings. I would highly recommend it to all stat concentrators, and would recommend it for non-concentrators as well.
The course is good. The homework is not that difficult but sometimes long. The quizzes are openbook but more difficult than you would imagine, however they aren't a huge percentage of the grade. Take this course if you are interested in causal inference because you will learn a lot. Professor Rubin is awesome. You'll learn from a literal statistics legend and that makes this class so cool.
If Kristen is a TF - definitely take it!
The fact that there were only four assignments and four open-note quizzes, and recorded lectures, made the workload really manageable. There were entire weeks that I didn't have to think about this class. The problem sets required a lot of use of R, which was okay coming from other classes that used R, but may have thrown other students off. The material is honestly really straightforward and the entire class could probably be taught in two lectures, but Rubin somehow managed to drag it out an entire semester. I'm not complaining from a workload perspective, but I don't really think the class was a worthwhile investment from an educational perspective. If you're an AM/Ec concentrator, strongly recommend taking this instead of econometrics. This is much, much easier and will give you time to focus on other classes and enjoy college.
Very little organization -- syllabus changed from 2 to 4 exams and 4 to 5 homework exams
This is a great class! I learned about several big results from the past century of statistics, and Professor Rubin and the TF's did an excellent job of teaching. That being said, I think that having taken Stat 110 (so that the probability arguments aren't scary) and Stat 139 (so that you appreciate alternative methods to just running regressions) helps appreciate the course material much more.
There is a focus on 'big ideas' in addition to practice skills (such as R), that is both intellectually stimulating and useful. Rubin is an excellent professor who is worth getting to know.
I can't believe it took an entire semester to cover the material that we did.  Lectures seem to be Rubin reading almost verbatim from his textbook, so if you're interested in the material take an afternoon to read it and spare yourself the semester.
Very chill class, good to satisfy stat requirements. Doesn't feel like you learned much at the end, though.
This is a great course and I genuinely learned a lot about randomized experiments and observational studies, which I didn't realize could be so interesting. I'm glad I took this before deciding whether to write a thesis, and I felt like it tied together a lot of other courses I had taken like stat 104, AM 120 (to a minor degree) and stat 107. The TFs are really accessible and not many people showed up to section, which made it a great place to ask questions and get help on concepts that come up in the quizzes. I did feel like the quizzes were a little excessive (we had 4 quizzes, 5 HW assignments and a final project), but they were only worth 5% each and if you understood the HW assignments, you should be fine. The final project was really abstract, so it's nerve-wracking to not have a sense of how that went, but after turning it in, I definitely appreciated how much I had learned from this course. Take this course with friends and get familiar with R if you want to make this stress-free. HIGHLY recommend this as an alternative to STAT 111 for AM/Ec concentrators. It's less painful and I got a lot out of it.
Not too hard of a course but you do get to learn a few of the topics in a lot of detail. If you don't have R experience, the coding component can be a bit cumbersome, but the teaching staff does a good job providing code to use and you just have to build on that. Spend a lot of time making sure you crush the psets, as each is worth 10% of grade(total of 50%). Go to OH for help on them. It alternated between quiz and homework each week toward the end of the semester which became a little bit of a drag.
