This is a great class for anyone with a deep interest in statistics. It's also very well taught.
This is one of the best, if not THE best, course in the Harvard Statistics Department. It goes over a ton of useful statistical tools (both theoretical and applied) and gives students a very strong statistical intuition (again, both theoretical and applied). Professor Jacob's course notes are particularly strong, as well as Professor Jacob's teaching in class.
This course is a great plunge into modern mathematical statistics, and covers many topics that aren't even mentioned in other classes. It's a great class to cap the statistics PhD curriculum.
That it is the best class I've taken at Harvard.
The course is excellent!
You should have a strong background in statistics.
213 was an amazing course. It was brand-new this year and so lacked a certain degree of polish, but the teaching and topic selection were second to none.
This is one of the best Stats courses I have taken at Harvard. It is well organized and provides a thorough introduction to canonical material in modern statistics. I think it is an extremely valuable course for anyone in statistics.
The professor is very good, I just found the material very dry and hard to focus on.
Take it! Pierre is an amazing professor. I'm still puzzled how he manages to teach so much material and to still keep the work load manageable. The lecture notes are superb. At first, the notation may seem very verbose but over time you will come to appreciate the precision and clarity it provides. That said, Stat 213 is a very difficult course and I would recommend Stat 210 and Stat 211 as a preparation.
Stat 213 is maybe the best class I've taken at Harvard. Tons of great material (rigorously understanding MLE asymptotics, particle filters, Bayesian asymptotics)
The material of this course is interesting and useful, but it focuses on very technical details so it is not for everyone.  Being very familiar with the material in Stat 210 is very important.
Extremely well taught and pertinent material.  Best lecture notes I have ever seen (textbook quality).  If you stick with it, it's very worth it, but can be a little difficult/mathematically rigorous at points.
One of the best courses offered by this department. You will learn a lot of advanced statistical concepts, e.g., inference in mis-specified settings, computationally-intensive statistical inference, etc. The lecture notes of this course are excellent.
