This course is a thorough, rigorous introduction to linear models that is 50% theoretical and 50% applied. Homework will likely take 5-10 focused hours/week, depending on past familiarity with statistics.
Good class. At times a bit dry, but helpful. Rader is awesome.
This class will be so much more useful to you than Stat 104. It might not be popular, but it's definitely worth it and you will come out of the class feeling like you can do some defensible statistical analysis instead of just plugging things into formulas as was taught in Stat 104. It is very accessible if you don't do statistics (I'm a social sciences concentrator) and will you the ability to do better quantitative research. The lectures are a bit dry, but sections are pretty helpful and non-mandatory.
Do not take this course if you're not willing to put in at least 10 hours a week--during the weeks when you're not also working on the final project or studying for an exam. But, this course gives an in-depth of basic data analysis and t-based inference, ANOVA and simple linear regression. It covers multiple regression well but only skims over many of the applications most common in the real world (i.e. logistic regression, multilevel modeling). If you're looking to really get a grasp on the basics of regression, and you don't mind a little calculus and linear algebra, this is the class for you. Kevin's lectures can be fast-paced, but he's clear and engaging.
This class teaches you some very practical statistics. Not a life-changing course, but not a bad one either. Easy to recommend if you foresee yourself doing real statistics in any way in your job/concentration.
Stat 139 is a natural followup to an introductory statistics class. If you've had significant exposure to probability theory (Stat 110) and statistical inference (Stat 111), then this class will be slow and boring. The lectures lack rigor, and it's not always clear how some of the models are derived. This class focuses on building intuition around the assumptions that go into linear models. It's a very useful class for actually using statistics in everyday life.
Great Stat Class.  If you have taken 111 it cover alot of the same material but in a less theoretical and more application way.  It feels more relevant to real life stat and Rader does a great job teaching it!
It's ok.  The first half of the course is really easy.  Don't let this fool you.  It gets a lot harder, especially in terms of the psets.  Psets are long and tedious.  Some TFs aren't much help and don't understand the material that well.  Lectures are pretty good, Kevin's a chill guy.  I have a much better understanding of regressions now which is good.  Midterm and final were fair.
This is a really interesting course that teaches you a lot about regressions. It is also helpful if you are taking econometrics or doing research in economics. However, the problem sets are time-consuming every week.
Great class. The concepts are interesting and extremely applicable.
Don't underestimate the time spent on homework. Really spend time and try to understand the material as you go along instead of right before the exams.
I thought this class was pretty boring, but it's a lot easier than 1126. I'd suggest starting with this class as opposed to Stat 104, though
This class is definitely really useful, and I feel like I'm able to use it in my research, interviews, etc. Kevin does a really good job with lectures, and though the midterm caught me a little off guard, I thought it was a well done course. I'm not sure what it would be like with Parzen, but regardless of your concentration, I would tell someone to take it. I have taken a few other Stat classes, which I thought helped, but I don't think it's necessary.
This is a good course. It teaches you how to apply a lot of skills you may have already learned in other statistical analysis courses.
Pretty chill class. Kevin is a good teacher, the material is pretty useful for predictive analytics. Exams are kind of hard, but the material is fairly easy, so it's necessary for the curve
This course is very focused on chalkboard/powerpoint lectures and has little student interaction in lecture.
Stat 139 is a fine course, a good, generally painless way to fulfill a concentration requirement. I liked how applied it was.
The material in this course is very relevant for data analysis and is a good data-focused stat class. Kevin is a great professor and is very good at explaining concepts. I highly recommend it!
This is an awesome course! Take it take it take it! Very applicable to problems you might face in non-academica setting and really gives you the tools to approach them. Plus, Kevin is a great professor: very organized and really knows his stuff. The final project is lots of fun.
This class is really helpful as an applied statistics class. You will learn a lot of model selection techniques, and R-coding skills.
Kind of like a hypercharged Stat 104, in my mind. It was useful to know, for sure.
Stat 139 is a great stats elective. The material is not overly theoretical and pretty interesting. Rader's lectures can be slow, so consider watching them online (at double speed) if you're going to be distracted by the pace in class. Section was optional and I didn't attend as the workload was doable without it.
Though a good amount of the material at the beginning of the class is review from other intro stat courses, this class is very relevant for anyone looking to work with statistical models as you dive into the details that are often disregarded when thinking about regression.
Take this class! It offers very important life skills, and makes the process of learning it very intuitive and interesting.
Prof. Rader is super prepared and pretty good at explaining the material. This course will give you a lot of practical skills in running hypothesis testing and linear regression, as well as a pretty good understanding of the math behind those methods. However, taking at least one of Stat 110/111 before, or concurrently, would be helpful for getting the most out of the class. Its possible without it, but the fundamental understanding of the math will be helped a lot by taking other theoretical stats classes.
Good course to take.  A lot less programming knowledge is required than I anticipated.
I hadn't taken any statistics since AP Stat in high school, so this course really gave me a solid refresher of t-tests as well as a great foundation in linear modeling in terms of how to create robust linear models from a set of predictor variables as well as interpreting other's models. I really feel that I can use the material in this class in other areas. Sometimes the HWs became very tedious and required lots of graphs and calculations in R. My max HW length was something like 20 pages. Overall a very good class if you can accept the HWs for what they are, as with any other Stat class.
It's an essential stat class.  Not super interesting, but you learn a lot.
Expect the class to be boring at times, but you will learn a lot about linear regression. Material overlaps a little bit with stat 111.
This is a great class, and Kevin does a really good job of teaching it. The class give you a statistical toolkit that is super useful and applicable. Kevin's method of conveying the material is well-organized and easy to understand.
If you're interested in linear modeling, look no further. I guess it really depends on personal preference, but I enjoyed this class more than 110/111, and I feel much more competent in R after having taken this course as opposed to the other two.
You can learn a lot if you actually work hard. It covers a lot of different models.
This class helps teach the nuances of modeling and hypothesis testing, and I took this course since knowing this information will be helpful as I continue on in my concentration (neurobiology). The problem sets are fair, but they can take a bit of time.
This class is simple but the variations on the ways in which you can apply the tools increases the level of difficulty. You will definitely be doing some mental calisthenics.
Helpful if you want to pursue stats
I would recommend with reservations only because most students in my department have little mathematical or statistical background.  For those with some math or statistics, I think this is a great course.  It really helps one understand different statistical testing tools, and can be directly applied to datasets in any discipline.
This class is awesome! You will learn a ton, and I found myself enjoying the problem sets even though they did take a while. It is super helpful to collaborate with your peers and talk through the problems. Utilize the course to learn R and LaTex well. The material is applicable in all sciences. I would highly recommend.
Students should be prepared to do a lot of work outside of class to learn the material. The assignments were frustrating at times and the material was not presented as well as it could have been. Overall, this is very important material to statistics, but the way in which this course is taught, it does not emphasize a flexible understanding of the material (i.e. a lot of memorization).
There are some cool topics in the course but sometimes the course is taught in a very unorganized matter. Further, a lot of the homework sets are not very satisfactory.
Take this if it's revamped. Victoria as a person is super nice. As a teacher, she makes a lot of mistakes when lecturing, makes lectures awkward with questions. The fact that there was a final project and a final exam seemed unnecessary and a hassle.
Just be ready to feel confused about how the work you are doing really applies to learning statistics.
This is a pretty straightforward class; however, it would be nice to have more conceptually challenging topics. It is a good background class to understand certain assumptions and issues with certain statistical tests.
This course gives you some great insights for linear regression analysis.
The material is super boring and it's pretty much like a glorified Stat 104. If this interests you then take it. Otherwise if you are looking for a more theoretical Stat class (like Stat 171 or 111) then skip this one.
If you are looking to find basic statistics tools to apply to your research or field of interest, this is the class you should take. You will learn all the skills you need to publish papers or even do Nate Silver kind of work. I actually think this should be REQUIRED of every science (including social science) concentrator. Victoria is a passionate teacher, and it pays off. This was the first time she ever taught a class, and it was already great, and next year, with the extra experience she will make the class even better. Take it instead of stat 110; that class, while fun, is NOT going to be useful for almost anyone. It is intended for people who will concentrate or get a secondary in statistics. I would also recommend taking this over stat 104; the two classes are broadly similar, except 104 is easier. But any person who is not bad at math can definitely start with 139.
This course covers important material for anyone wishing to perform analysis of variance and linear regression. It does however require students to spend significant time working from the textbook to decode some of the lecture notes, and some topics (e.g. Linear combinations) are not as well explained as they might be. Also beware the long homework assignments, which will either take up most of your weekend or will require you to divide and conquer with friends.
The teaching wasn't as good this year, but if you read the book and slides you should be fine.  Now I have a good idea of more advanced statistical techniques (than Stat 104) and linear regressions.
Take it if you need it. It's better than 110 or 111...but requires one or both of those. Basically, this was the first stat class I took where I felt like the material was presented well enough for me to realize I actually don't like statistics (as someone who was considering a stats field of application for applied math/secondary) and not just chalk it up to poor teachers. It still could have been done better, though.
This was Professor Liublinska's first year teaching this course and that came through.  She seems to care about the class, so I'm sure that it will improve as time goes on and she gets the hang of things.  This year, the problem sets were tedious, the book was crappy, and lectures weren't very instructive.  I feel confident, though, that, in a few years, this will be a very good course.
This course is in the realm of Stat 104/107 (which I found annoying) rather than Stat 110 or 123 (both of which I loved). The class is more about memorization and tedious application rather than teaching a new way of thinking. If you want to be able to bang out a linear model, then I suppose this course does the job, but don't expect additional cognitive stimulation.
This is a good course, and you will come out with a much better understanding of the proper uses of a really important set of statistical tools.
Viktoria is, overall, a poor professor. She isn't able to provide clear answers to questions asked in lecture, and office hours aren't any better. The textbook and the material are valuable though, and the subject matter is important and interesting for anyone interested in statistics. I would recommend the course for the material, but have grave reservations about the teaching staff. Lo-hua was very helpful, definitely attend her section, but it is difficult to get help outside of office hours. Problem sets are also a bit tedious.
There is a lot of work involved with this class, weekly assignments, bi-weekly assignments on top, midterm, final project, final presentation, final exam.
This class taught me almost everything I will need to apply daily in an industry position.
I was extremely disappointed in this course.  The professor fails to communicate, and is also unable to answer about 90% of questions either on class material or the homework.  The beginning of the semester requires a TON of work, though it lets up slightly.  However, at the end of the course, I don't feel that I've gained hardly anything... My R skills improved nominally, but most homework assignments require you to do test with a pencil and paper instead of learning anything practical.  Without exaggerating, I could have taught myself everything I know about regression from this course by studying on the internet for 3-4 hours.  AVOID
Don't expect anything incredible from lecture, but it's really interesting and important material that you can learn well from the textbook
This class was really tedious and took way too much time. Psets were annoying and lectures weren't that straightforward sometimes. Not too conceptually difficult, but too time-consuming.
This is what you would imagine every statistics course would be. If the only test you know of is the good, old t-test, this course will teach you why t-tests are applicable in many situations and teach you ~30 different methods to go about it. This is an "applied statistics" course, which means that the "theoretical aspect" of Stat110 or Stat111 will not be an issue. If you are someone who does research and needs to be well-learned in the methods of statistical testings and linear regressions, take this class! As for myself, I did economics research over the summer and found myself lacking in the statistical methods used in ec research papers. However, now after having taken this course, I feel a lot more comfortable and feel like I can conduct my own research! Take this instead of Ec1123!
It is a really useful class, but sometimes the materials can be a bit dry. Victoria was extremely helpful and was accessible, but a lot of people just never went to lecture because reading the textbook was enough.
Although the topic was very interesting, I feel that it was fairly poorly taught. The topic itself, however, was not that difficult.
I found the book most helpful. The lectures are good but often a bit disorganized.
The professor definitely tries very hard, but in the end she is absolutely a horrible professor. Her slides are not clear and lecture is mostly unenlightening. She is hard to approach and there is not a lot of outside support for the class. Problem sets are long and tedious, and not in a rewarding way, and grading is extremely inconsistent.
I would recommend this class because you do learn R code and that will most likely be necessary for later stats analyses. However, it would be helpful to familiarize yourself with R code prior to taking the class, since the homework requires a lot of R code that is never discussed in class or section.
I disliked this class.
Useful material but not well organized and you waste a lot of time jumping through hoops
The material taught in the class is interesting and seems extremely useful for anyone using statistical methods in research or some other pursuit. The problem I had with the class is that it was poorly taught and organized.
Really interesting material, lectures are a bit dry but going to class definitely helps, long problem sets (do them with a group), exams are pretty straight forward.
Overall, Stat 139 is a solid course. There is a lot of busy work with problem sets, mini-assignments, a final project, AND a final exam - but the statistical methods you learn in this course are widely applicable to any field.
This was Liublinska's first time teaching this class, so it wasn't spectacular. The material is kind of boring by nature, but maybe with a different instructor it would be more interesting. That being said, it is still a useful course to get an applied statistical background.
Very useful and somewhat interesting material.  First time statistics clicked for me.  Not terribly difficult but a lot of work (psets, project, final, mini assignments).
You will learn very important things about data analysis in this class, though it is not taught very well.
You really have to take the time to learn R on your own time. Also, being extremely well versed in the mathematical aspects of this course is essential to doing well in this class.
Knowing R will help you a lot in this course! The material is very interesting and exciting, and the professor is extremely nice and welcoming.
I would recommend this course because of the sheer importance of the material. This class teaches you what you need to know on the job and how to explore/make meaning out of big data sets. When your boss hands you a dataset with thousands of entries and says "make some meaning out of the data," you need to know what tests/models/assumptions to use in order to determine relationships within the data (exactly what 139 is all about). The course gives you great materials such as an excellently written textbook, HWs, and lecture slides. The reason I "recommend with reservations" is that this course is not taught in an engaging manner and I often felt bored during lecture even though I found the material interesting when learning it on my own. Maybe that's just the nature of the material, I don't know, but I feel like this sentiment was shared by many students. If you take the course you will learn a lot however! Oh and you become pretty good at R software!
If you want to know statistics and how to use statistics in the real world, this is the class to take.
Too much work, be careful!
You do learn a lot from this class, but if you want to know more about the underlying of each test, you need to go beyond this course and learn by yourself (or from other classes).
Be prepared: there are a lot of assignments. Not only are there weekly problem sets, you also have six "Mini-Assignments" throughout the semester, a midterm, a final project, AND a final exam. However, it's never really an overload of work... I would say the class is pretty straightforward. If you REALLY want to understand the material, then that's time you have to put into it (and you won't necessarily get that understanding from lecture) but you can totally get by only understanding 20% of what's going on. But that's really your loss, because I think these concepts are important - and interesting if you understand them!
Unless the teaching staff, the teaching method, and the available resources are drastically changed, this course is not worth taking.
If you are a stats concentrator, I would definitely take this course, regardless of how poor it may be. The material is absolutely necessary for all stats concentrators (and people interested in statistics). To many in the outside world, this material is what it means to know statistics. With that said, this class is poorly taught and very unmotivating.
It focuses on applicaiton of the models rather than derivation.
Stat 139 actually teaches some pretty interesting material, but it wasn't my favorite class this semester for a couple of reasons. First, it was Victoria's first year, and that was pretty obvious; the lectures weren't particularly interesting and typos weren't an uncommon occurrence. Also, be prepared to work on the psets; they could be annoyingly long and often you'd get them back with ten points taken off for seemingly insignificant points of the problem. If you're a stat concentrator, though, you should take this class, because you should know how to do this stuff.
Good course if you don't have much background in regression techniques. Course could've benefited from more theoretical topics. Lectures mostly repeat material in the book "The Statistical Sleuth", which is very good. If you don't have time to enroll in this course, self-studying the book should be possible and prepare you roughly equally well for higher level courses (if you look at the psets on the course isite). The course and the psets are very useful for getting a practical understanding of the statistical techniques and R.
Prepare to work a lot and learn a lot
This course was a very good introduction to statistical testing and regression.  Take it if you are a Stat concentrator or are interested in statistics.  Good introduction to R programming.  Much easier than 110, more difficult than 104.  Not too difficult if you did well in 110 and have some programming background.
This course is a great and comprehensive class on statistical tools that can be used in many real-world problems. It covers material from what constitutes an informative graph to constructing predictive models using regression. I highly recommend this class, especially if Prof. Pattanayak continues to teach it.
I would highly recommend this class. It is a significant amount of work, but not terribly difficult. You will learn about so many different things, and more importantly, you will learn how to apply them in practical scenarios to practical data sets. Additionally, you will learn to use R, which is incredibly powerful and will prove invaluable for any future statistical analysis you will ever do.
Problem sets are tedious, lecture notes don't help with anything. See if you like the professor before you sign up for the class.
Good class, valuable for learning inference methods and R. I did just fine without Stat 111. If anything, wish it had moved a little faster.
My main problem with this course is that the material seems rather irrelevant. However, if you're interested in delving into statistics, this is a good class.
Spectacular course, work hard on the final project and you will feel really fulfilled if you didn't have much time during the semester!
Ever wondered why researchers use the tests they do? Ever wondered what exactly regressions do, and what they mean? Ever wondered what you would do if you had a small sample size for your experiments? This is the class for you. If you're looking for a proof-based, mathematically-intensive course, you should probably avoid this one. But if you're looking to learn *how* to use statistical methods in almost any real-life situation you can encounter, this course is awesome!
Stat 139 is an amazing class.  Casey is one of the best lecturers on campus, and the entire teaching staff was so knowledgeable and helpful.  The final project is a great applied opportunity for you to apply the (very useful) tools you will learn in this class.
Casey is a great instructor (engaging, clear, good slides, etc...), so if you need to learn about T-tests and the basics of simple linear regression, I'd recommend this class. This may not be the best choice of class for non-stat majors who need to acquire more specific and specialized statical skills (it seems obtaining this goal requires taking several different stat courses- at which point, I might as well just collaborate with a statistician... well played, stat department).
Great class! Casey is a fabulous teacher, clear and persuasive. The material you learn in this class is both interesting and useful. Take it!
Hey, if you wanna learn practical and the theory too behind the statistical tools we use today, how to have fun with stats in a practical application. This is your class. Be prepared for the assignments: go to section and start early. Not difficult, just lengthy.
You will learn many of the concepts in statistics that you'll need for data analysis. The subject matter is especially useful for those in social sciences, but some of the first half of the class and most of the second half are useful for natural sciences as well. The problem sets can be quite time consuming but are generally useful. Casey Pattanayak is a great lecturer and is a large part of what makes this class great.
In terms of understanding how statistical tests should be done (and how they're often not done properly), their assumptions, and their robustness to these assumptions, this course is excellent. Professor Pattanayak breaks down the material very nicely and makes it interesting and applicable.Too bad if you get Nikola Andric as TF though. He went through the trouble to demonstrate in section that his grading being harsher than the other two TFs' was not statistically significant. Seriously? (Here, by the way, is where statistics being an "art" really manifested itself... it didn't really look like the grading distributions were similar but if your TF says so, you better believe so.) Not to mention, if your TF is consistently grading lower than the other TFs, but he claims he's just as fair, we can only conclude either that there is something wrong with how he teaches, or that he is not in fact fair.The above has been written with some restraint. We've been asked to review as our own work might be evaluated, but while his would have more than a hint of condescension and unconstructive criticisms, I've chosen instead to be straightforward and frank, and hence retain respectfulness.All in all, a course full of good material, but with suboptimal execution.
Stat 139 is a fantastic course! Not only did I gain a strong theoretical understanding of the various tests we conducted, but I also learned how to use R effectively for data analysis. The problem sets were not tedious!
Very Good
Very useful for thesis writers working for datasets and also just in real life when evaluating studies.
It is a good course to learn about regression.
This class was interesting and very applied to real life. I felt like I learned more skills in this class than in any other class I've taken at Harvard.
This class is interesting and straightforward.  Professor and TFs are knowledgeable and enthusiastic.
Cassy is an excellent teacher. And her assignments are great and helpful.
This is a good class, but not too challenging.  Casey is a great professor and you will learn a lot about how to do statistical analyses.  Be prepared to be frustrated by R coding though.
be careful
Favorite class this semester despite the fact that it was the most challenging; that said, the course is easier than Stat110 due to its greater focus on application/coding as opposed to theory & proofs.  The material is interesting and applicable, but there is a lot of it.  Casey is an excellent lecturer and demonstrates her desire to help students understand and succeed both by her availability outside of class and her attitude in general.  The course has an abundance of excellent materials from lecture slides to lecture videos to helpful section notes/code to past exams to a great textbook.  The TF's were great, as well -- very helpful.  Nothing about the course itself will get in your way of succeeding; just be a good student, go to lecture, go to section, and study hard.  For your final project, keep your group size to 2-3 people if you can.  My group size was 4, and the result was that I was not able to contribute in many ways.
The course has problems with the lecture notes, homework assginments, and expectations of students. I suppose the class seems more like a graduate student's course (which is true since there are alot of grad students) so it really expects the students to be very independent. I would say that it's not difficult but very tedious and need to be very diligent with the material.
Be wary of the workload especially the homeworks, they will take a lot of time if you want to complete them each week. Midterm is also very challenging despite being allowed to use some notes.
Overall, I would recommend this course. As with most math classes, my recommendation would depend on what the person hopes to get out of the course. This is a foundation course, but not for people without a good math and statistics background already. For people with that background, I think this is class is good both for the information you can learn in it and the other courses it sets you up to take.
yes
Amazing statistics class that teaches you how to work with actual data and evaluate different approaches to analysis.
Lectures are great, homeworks take a while but are useful
I strongly recommend this course as long as you have the requisite background described above.  It was a great class but way too much work (over 20 hours a week) if you lack the background in any of those areas.
Stat 139 encourages students to think deeply about the assumptions, sometimes implicit, that underlie what we think we know about data after conducting statistical tests. Gaining experience in using R can be painful at first, but is ultimately very useful for future work.
Not an easy class. Psets will take hours and hours--most of the psets are done in R, but you do not actually learn R in the course. Thus, you will spend a lot of your own time trying to figure out how to code in R properly, which is useful but also takes a lot more time than you think it will. Did not think the workload for this class was going to be nearly as bad as it was, and was surprised by how many hours I ended up putting into it. That said, Casey is great and the TF staff is good.
It's a double-edged sword. A useful class, but homeworks were tedious.
Stat 139 is a great course if you want to learn R and strengthen your toolbox for applying statistical methods to real-world data. This class is no joke. Be prepared to work hard and spend a lot of time on psets.
This is a great class and helps you solidify your understanding of statistical methods in real life applications. It can get tedious though and you may find yourself spending lots of time on the homeworks. Also, if you hate R, you may not like some of the homeworks that require you to run simulations. The best part of the class is that though the material seems a lot, it's not too difficult to understand compared to other classes like stat 110. One can say this course is just an extension of 104/100 with just more analysis.
Be ready to work a lot, but you will learn a lot too.
The course material is good. Cassandra is most probably the best Statistics lecturer I have met- she is full of energy, and she communicates her love for stats to the students very easily. She is also very cheerful and seems happy in the class all the time. But the psets take a long time, and the course is more difficult than it sounds. Take with caution.
Very heavy workload, but worthwhile.
Boring material, terrible textbook, lectures weren't all that organized.
Useful material but the psets are tedious.
The material is interesting and applicable, and so the class has potential to improve into a great stat course. Unfortunately, it suffered from serious homework-related issues (primarily devilish tediousness) that made the class unbearable at times.
If you have only taken stat 100 or 104, be aware that nearly everyone else in the class has taken much higher stats courses and that you will be graded against them on exams.
ask for less homework
While the professor is extremely intelligent, kind and enthusiastic, the material is very complex and there are not enough resources available to assit in understanding, ie. the lecture slides could have been more detailed. Also, the assignments were too long, and some problems were more complex than suggested in the beginning of the course (it was mentioned that the course prerequisite was only Stat 100).
good that you can learn a lot, but workload can be really heavy
This is a hard, time-consuming class. That said, you will learn tons and feel really good about yourself. Be ready to work hard though - the problem sets are hard
It's great material but a bit tedious.
Motivating course on Linear Models.  Some theory, but mostly applied.
Great class, but be prepared to spend forever doing some of the homeworks.
Interesting to those truly interested in statistical techniques and underlying theories, but only if so.
Take this class. Dr. Pattanayak is a very effective teacher and very open, and this class really helps you understand the theoretical basis of material covered in earlier classes. You come away with the ability to do real data analysis - the class has practical significance too! One word of warning - be prepared to devote a lot of time to problem sets.
Really useful course, but there can be some improvements to make teaching more effective.
great class! you'll learn a lot. be prepared for some long and boring psets though...
Going to lecture is VERY helpful.
If you put in the time to talk to the professor at office hours about any confusing concepts and devote enough time to the homework (I'd say 8-15 hours depending on the week) then the midterm and final will not be a big deal. Not as flashy or cult-like a class as Stat 110 but it is still well taught and the teaching staff cares.
Get ready to pull all nighters/late nights regularly for homework. The people I talked to in the course also all had this problem. Hopefully this issue will be resolved next time it is offered. Dr. P is awesome. She's extremely invested in both the course and her students, its wonderful. The material is somewhat dry but I guess its useful.
The course is useful and practical. It gives some good insights on basic statistical tools.
This is one of the better taught Stat classes that I have taken.
Excellent class that teaches the theoretical foundation to regressions.  Quite useful in gaining insight to why and how statistical tests are conducted.
This class is very important in learning data analysis.  The problem sets were really long and time consuming.  You will become much better at R but it takes a lot of time to learn all the codes.  The material is interesting but mostly just useful.
The psets are pretty long. Don't think this is an easy course in terms of courseload. The lectures are great, but take notes. Don't depend on the powerpoints.Cassandra is a great lecturer though.
Pay attention in lecture and take very good notes.
If you're looking for Econometrics, this isn't it.
Problem sets are extremely tedious and repetitive. Material is dry but necessary. Casey is a great professor though. She really cares about her students and will take absurd amounts of time during OHs to talk to you.
Do not take if same teacher.
It's a lot of work, but you'll learn a lot of practical things.
Great class, even if you are not a Stats Concentrator. The class focuses on using real-life examples, which really helps in understanding the material.
You learn the foundations for data analysis in this class - so it is a must take.  Actively participating is key. Although the homework assignments are extremely long and sometimes tedious, you learn valuable things from the homework (which are extremely helpful when preparing for the exams).  On that note, to prepare for the exams, do practice problems!  Just knowing the concepts is not enough.  You must know how to apply them.
Good class.
This course is great!  The coding exercises really helped to practice the course material in an applied setting, and I really learned a large amount of very useful and interesting material.
Extremely useful class --- just beware it might be time consuming
This class is great but very time-consuming. It teaches a ton of material, and ends up taking 10-ish hours a week. A major commitment, but worth it if you'll be applying for jobs with heavy data analysis emphasis.
Think of this course as a rigorous version of Stat 104, to be taken after Stat 110 and Stat 111. That said, the course is relatively easy if you have that background.
Useful class!! I actually feel like I know how to do statistical analysis now. It's really good at emphasizing practicality and applying the knowledge, but it also gives you an idea of where the procedures come from. Homeworks are a bit long if you don't know R. Good class though.
Definitely keep up with the material by reading the book, because the class goes pretty fast and it's good to supplement what we learn in lecture.
Absolutely phenomenal. Practical yet theoretical in ways that I didn't think were possible in a single course. You use theory to get behind all of that hand-waving from intro stats classes while at the same time feeling like everything that you are learning could be applicable the next time you go to use statistics for something. A must-take class!
Regardless of your background from economics to political science, if you are planning on doing statistical studies of any kind, this class provides a good background for that.
This class is very interesting and very useful, if you read the textbook. Lectures are a waste of time - a definite sleeper. Exams are trivial, but watch out for the project at the end of the semester!
Well taught, focused on data analysis.  Tough but not unreasonable.
This class can get extremely intimidating if you are an undergrad (who is not a statistics concentrator). Most people in the class are very quantitatively oriented (either they are advanced undergrads or PhDs, often in statistics). The TFs (Andy, especially!) are great, but lectures are absolutely unnecessary if you are a 139 student. In fact, they confuse you even more than you were originally and are not necessary for the exams. Expect a HUGE time pressure for both exams.
it's not that difficult, but important to be on top of the material.
This is an useful course which introduces the methods widely used in research and industry.
Simultaneously a fairly easy, and incredibly useful, course.  This past year it was paired with 239, which makes lectures confusing (not always clear what 139 is responsible for), but you can learn just about all of 139's material straight from the textbook, which is a great resource.
The problem sets will not prepare you for the exams at all.
Solid class, not too much work, valuable skills, good professor.
Great course. The material is so relevant to everything, especially econ. You learn so much about statistical tools, and the professor is great. She's very clear, knowledgeable, and pretty funny too. there's a decent amount of work, but it's very appropriate for what you're learning and I dont' think the class moves too fast. psets are relatively straight forward and the exams are relatively difficult. Great class to learn statistical tools for research, thesis, or anything else.
This is a relatively easy but helpful class.  The material is not the most interesting, but it is extremely practical, because it teaches you statistics that you can actually use, and gives you lots of practice analyzing actual data.  If you do the problem sets and study for the tests, there is no reason you shouldn't do well.  Lectures are well-taught, and sections are helpful.
Important applications but probably take stat 239  if you really want to learn a lot.
You really don't have to go to lectures, just read the book and go to Andy's section.
This is a great statistics class with real world applications.
Not a bad class. Watch out for the exams--they are less about showing what you know than showing how quickly you can work.
This class is essential if you want to be a statistician.
it is the most applicable and relevant Statistics course I have taken and Kevin teaches the course very well.
Definitely get an early start with understanding R -- it becomes the backbone of problem sets.
Provides a great starting toolkit for working with data.
Professor Kevin Rader is an amazing professor.I would recommend this class rather than STAT110 if you are not a stat major because this class is more applicable to the other fields(at least I think).
The material taught in Stat 139 is extremely useful and very interesting. Rader is a very good teacher and the class moves at a pretty good pace. Problem sets are quite intellectually stimulating and doesn't take too long (~7-8 hours on average) and exams are generally fair. This is probably one of the most intellectually classes I have taken at Harvard.
The testing part of the course (basically the first 2 months) is pretty boring, but the regression part after that is great. If you're interested in learning to work with data, this is class is the way to go, and it covers some important theoretical concepts, too.  It's also a nice intro to R.
If Kevin Rader teaches it, take it! It is a very applicable class and Kevin goes through things in detail, so you truly understand the material well. His exams are challenging and a bit of a time crunch, but you truly get a lot out of the class. The homeworks were very well done.
You will have to understand how and when to use which formula. (There are so many of them!)
This class is pretty much what it sounds like -- a moderate stat class that will require weekly psets and have some tests that are of varying difficulty.  R programming can make the psets run long, which of course makes it a shame you can't drop one, but overall good stuff and you'll get what you want
Not the easiest class, but it is well-taught and you will come out having learned a lot of useful statistically techniques.
it's graded deceptively difficultly
I would recommend not taking this class if you can avoid it.  It's very practical, but the R code is very tedious.
This class is fairly time-consuming, particularly the problem sets. However, I think it is a very practical course and the methods that are taught will be useful in "real-life" settings.
This course is very useful, but is R heavy.
If Rader is teaching this course, it is fantastic.  He is a great lecturer who is organized and provides great notes.  The grading is fair and the assignments are engaging.  I felt like I gained a lot of practical knowledge from the course, which is often not the case in courses at Harvard.
Great class for those interested in becoming better statisticians
This course is extremely useful - all Stat concentrators (or people considering disciplines or jobs that require data analysis) should definitely take this course. The problem sets were highly instructive, and the topics were pretty interesting. That said, the course is somewhat disorganized and the grading is sometimes variable. The material isn't too difficult, but the problem sets sometimes overcomplicate the material.
While there is a good amount of overlap between this course and lower level statistics courses, this is a really good and fundamental connection to higher level classes. It is a more practical and less theoretical course and I found it pretty accessible coming from a biology background. Kevin is a good instructor who is very clear and paces well. It is pretty time-consuming and sometimes problem sets can be pretty darn long, but it is all doable.
This class had 9 psets, two midterms, a final and a final project but it was not that hard. Most of the work is unnecessary in learning the material. It is useful in practicing tools in statistics but overall it wasn't the most exciting class.
This is a great mid-level stat class. Logical class after Stat 104, does not require Stat 110/111
This course feels very useful in the linear models portion and also in the t-test portion. The rest, not so much. Kevin is great though!
If you want an initial foray into data analysis that goes deeper than stat 104, I recommend this course highly, especially if Kevin is teaching! He's a fantastic teacher and the course is superbly organized with really smart and helpful tfs! A great experience overall.
Well done - very practical, learned a lot about using R and the theory behind different tests. Enjoyed this class as a practical addition to my skills as a social scientist. I didn't have too much background coming in, just CS50 & 104, and was totally fine. Would even say that someone with some moderate grounding in statistics or willingness to put in the work could take this instead of 100, 102, 104, etc.
You probably won't learn that much in this class new if you've taken stat 110/111. But it is good practice for if you want to get better at using R. Also it's a great chance to get more of Kevin Rader.
Stat 139 is a really solid applied stats course--it takes a lot of the theoretical tools in Stat 110 and Stat 111 and puts them to good use analyzing data sets. There is a lot of work for this course (with Kevin Rader at least), but his slides and lectures are pretty solid and sufficient for solving all the problems. This is undoubtedly one of the most useful courses I've taken as an undergraduate STEM major and I can imagine it will be useful in any academic setting (everyone needs to regress something at some point). This course does a particularly good job at analyzing assumptions and what happens when those assumptions break down when you are doing hypothesis testing.
Stat 139 with Rader was a great class! You will learn A TON and it will be extremely useful in a career involving statistics. Problem sets are challenging yet very doable - same with tests.  Take this course if you're interesting in linear models/exploring 100/102/104's concepts deeper! You won't regret it.
You will learn useful things about linear models, but there will be a fair amount of frustration in the process, as Rader doesn't explain some of the difficult stuff very well and puts stuff he never taught you on the homework.
Very good class that teaches really useful and broadly applicable statistical analysis tools.
It a very applied class, instead of one that need some ability of "algebra" like stat110. But it has heavy workload, and the weighing of score don't really help with elevating the pressure during the busiest time. Sill it is a very useful class, and the knowledge we learn is very useful even beyond stat.
Stat 139 was a good class, though some of the material (p-sets and exams) felt unfair at times. The pace of the class is good and Kevin and the TFs are very accessible and approachable. The class felt like it had some repeated material toward the beginning but I hope that it is eventually restructured to cover more advanced topics in linear modeling. Do know that the class is "busy" and in the last two weeks, we had a p-set, the final project, and a final exam. That being said, it's certainly manageable if you plan ahead.
The course is amazing, take with professor RADER. He is amazing. Wait if you have to.
Basically stat 104
This course isn't the easiest. Kevin makes some difficult homework/exam questions. But if you have a statistics background, you should be okay! If not, go to section, and you should still be okay!
This class isn't really that well-taught (although take it with Rader if you are going to take it) -- the material isn't hard but it's hard to learn in-depth with the lectures / lecture slides you are given.
Psets every week get annoying but are manageable. Expect a lot more emphasis on statistics theory and math behind models rather than how to practically apply models for predictions.
This class really teaches you to work with large data, which is really cool. Rader did a pretty good job for teaching the course for the first time, although some material could sometimes be better explained.
All Statistics concentrators should take this course.
This class will teach you to truly be able to analyze data. Awesome!
The course takes a bit long to get to regression. Homework assignments are a bit tiring to complete, especially near the end of the semester. Be aware of the final project, final exam combo--it's lethal. I did leaving the class more aware of how to conduct data analysis and the assumptions one needs to make before doing regressions, etc.
This course has a lot more Stat 110 than advertised, so I'd recommend taking that course before taking this one!
If you're interested in statistics or working with data, go ahead and take this course. It gives a nice overview and introduction to applied statistics. The tools you learn will also be applicable to approaching just about anything from a quantitative viewpoint.
It's pretty core material, taught well. Take it if Rader is teaching it.
It's really useful and a generally fair course.
Don't take this class senior spring while writing a thesis and TF'ing another class, but besides that it was okay. I honestly just didn't have the time that one had to commit to do well in the class. But a lot of topics were covered and I definitely feel more stat-savvy.
Great class.  Definitely not as hard as Stat 110 and Stat 111.  Material is very straightforward and practical.  Rader does a great job with the lectures.  Office hours are crucial if you have no background with R.
Great class that is applicable and definitely should take if a stats concentrator. Kevin is a great lecturer and in general the class was well taught and clear. Helps you use R a lot and the section leaders were a great support.
Best Stats course I've taken here.
I would tell future students that I found most of the things that I learned in this class to be very applicable and interesting.
I found the material very dry. Most of the work is either looking at specific assumptions or deriving where certain stats formulas come from, which was not very interesting to me.
Good for a thorough examination of linear regression.
Solid class, useful material. If you only take 1 class after 110, do 139. If you've only done 104 so far, do 110, not 139. 111 and 139 are both useful for Stat concentrators.
I wish Cleary were teaching this course again. He generates a lot of enthusiasm, and understands well how to get students to learn what they need to learn. He clearly puts a lot of thought into teaching, and I greatly appreciate that.
Course is extremely useful and Cleary is a great instructor
It's a great statistics class with an applied emphasis that I really enjoyed, and it's a good class to take even if your primary field isn't statistics!
very practical stat course!
After this course, you'll finally be able to understand all the statistical language in scientific papers, and you'll be able to spot shoddy statistical analysis in the news as well as in scientific studies.
Interesting material, but with a different professor and TF may be less engaging.
knowledge of R program will greatly reduce the time spent on homework
A very nice course teaching how to apply statistical knowledge to real life problems.
Stat 139 provides a great foundation for understanding and communicating applied statistics.
You spend a ton of time learning about the t-tests, and not nearly enough time working on multiple regression, like the course description suggests. It seems extremely easy as you're going along, and then you kind of get slammed at the end of the semester. The project was extremely frustrating because I felt like we hadn't learned any of the information required to complete it.
This course will give you a good, solid background on linear models and is useful even if you have had other courses that touched on linear models in the past. One possible downside (or upside depending on your point of view) is that much of the course can be learned directly and easily from the book.
It's a decent introduction to statistics and R, as far as I could tell, but it does not leave one with much confidence in his/her statistical abilities. Probably take it as 239 (slightly more work that forces you to understand more of the theory rather than just blindly inputting data), or don't take it at all.
This was a really lucky course for me to take, as an Applied Math concentrator who took Math 23a/b, because they'll count it for the Analysis requirement.
extremely applicable material that everyone in social or natural sciences should know. the teaching, however, sometimes fails to make the material as interesting and relevant as it in reality is
The material is very important, but the class is extremely dry.  You'll really learn stuff though, so I guess it's worth the pain.
The class is taken mostly by graduate (often AM) students. The class is taught at two levels simultaneously. It is not always clear what of the material is required from which group of students (139 vs 239). Many of the grad students are actually in the lower level class and so will make your life tougher on the curve. The most difficult part of the material is covered very hastily, while the easier, early part is prolonged for no reason.
This class was quite unfortunately a requirement for me. I think the material is very important to know, but the way in which it was presented did not facilitate incentive to learn it. There was way too much work per pset. It would have been much better to have fewer questions, because then I actually would have tried to do the questions well and I would have learned more. Both the midterm and final exam were take-home on Canvas. The final was only offered 9am-12pm, which I didnt understand; why make it a take home at all if its offered at exactly the same time as an in-person exam would be?
This is a pretty painless way of fulfilling a stat requirement. The workload is definitely achievable. The PSs are long but you can essentially do them alone without OHs. Parzen is very entertaining as a professor.
This class is similar in style to Stat 104. The psets are not that difficult, but they are long, tedious, and time consuming. If you've taken intro stat (like 104) that's probably all the prep you need. The other prereqs are math 21a and 21b, and I never took 21b but it was fine. The only thing from 21b that you might see is some matrices, but that's not all that difficult to master. The class is mostly stat concentrators, which I am not, so I felt like I had to make up for it by going to every lecture and section (section is super helpful btw!) but a lot of kids didn't go to either one, which made attendance levels sadly poor, but also shows that they didn't have to be there to do well.
I did this course as a CS concentrator because I thought it would be helpful to gain some stat background, but I didn't want to take Stat 111 with CS 124 and I was worried about the Stat 111 q scores.  In retrospect, I probably should have just done another CS class.  I learned some things in Stat 139 about data science and regression, but the course was a little sloppy (the material wasn't very well centralized or aggregated, and there was one review office hrs for the midterm).  It didn't provide me with an extremely rigorous understanding of stat, but rather a practical way of implementing some regression.  It seems more comparable to stat 104.  If I were to do it over, I might have jumped into Stat 149.
This is a pretty easy class if you've taken stat104. You learn the same concepts except that you use R instead of Stata. The exams are also questions from the homeworks and similar concepts, so make sure you understand the hws.
A decent course on linear models. The material is basically stat104 + stat107 with a focus on using R.
While you learn some useful regression skills in this class, the class overall is very disorganized. I mainly took the class because it's required for the Statistics concentration, but I think that overall the class could be improved greatly.
You can't really get around taking this, but the current format of the course is not good. The homeworks are long and a slog and not very educational. The exams are quizzes on canvas where everyone looks up answers and the difficult part is not knowing how to do the problems but finishing the problems, really not a good assessment of material mastery. The project is interesting, and you are given a lot of free reign on what you want to do.
Taking this class at times feels a lot like an R workshop. You'll learn R just by using it a lot (maybe you'll even become comfortable with it!), and you'll get introduced to powerful / fundamental ideas that are very widely used in lots of things, but the focus seems to be on breadth not depth and you won't get very deep into any single techniques (technical or theory-wise). I feel like the concept of the class is nice, but regarding implementation it might be more useful if you come in knowing the theory (and expecting non-rigorous R-bashing), or are self-motivated to learn.
Stat139 is the first stat class in which I really started to feel like my stat knowledge and coding abilities could be taken out into the real world in a meaningful way, and that I sort of was beginning to understand the discipline's roots. It also felt super tedious because 1) of the early start time, which I guess can't be helped; 2) the course materials are all over the place--there are mistakes in the slides, they're 104 slides, the homework is mostly pirated from other stat textbooks and not actually written by Parzen, which is irritating. Section notes are better--go to section!!! No one else will, but it's tremendously useful to learning the material. That being said, you can slide by this class just learning to mash datasets to get past psets and not actually learn any stat. My mistake was coming in thinking it would be as easy as 104, which it's definitely not--but it definitely feels like another Parzen class, which is to say that you can kind of bungle your way through and leave knowing some more stuff, but not in what feels like a very cohesive way/wondering what the hell happened to you. I was also taking it as a 5th class, though. Despite all this rambling, I think overall I would actually recommend it to people who want to learn R and actually be able to use statistics in the real world. Just don't let Parzen's attitude about it derail you from taking the class seriously.
This class is useful, but it is extremely irritating due to lack of directions and clarifications.
solid class
A good class overall but sometimes the way the material is presented and the way the homework assignment is chosen seem a little disorganized.
Super organized class, no useful feedback, a lot of communication issues between the Professor and the TFs; sometimes even the TFs didn't know what was going on in
This class makes you incredibly better at regression than you are when you leave 104, but seems to trivial for a whole class that can take you quite a bit of hours per week.  Some busywork on psets, not the most engaging lectures, midterm and final as Canvas quizzes.  I think a lot of good came out of this class (better regression skills, a great introduction to the beautiful R), but it carried a lot of baggage with it.  Prof. Parzen left almost all of his humor behind in 104 as well, which makes the lectures much less engaging.
The course isn't too difficult, but Professor Parzen breezes through the slides without taking the time or energy to effectively teach the material
Take this class only if you are willing to put in a lot of time teaching yourself the material.
Parzen is fun, somewhat disorganized. I think it was much better than last year. I would take this again.
You learn a lot about data and since it's a very applied class it's very very (x10) useful. However, lectures are very hard to follow (and not taped). And sections are pretty inconveniently timed and homework is disorganized.
Do not take this class. It is possibly the worst organized class I have ever taken at Harvard. 0/10 would not take again.
parzen goes off-topic during lecture a lot. he literally talked about his annenberg bacon twitter account during lecture. think about that. he made the effort to add a slide to his powerpoint, insert a photo of the annenberg bacon, and save the file. how proud of himself was he when he did that?also the p-sets are literal garbage. they are prepared poorly. you'll have to refer to like 4 files of scanned ancient textbooks because parzen doesn't bother to copy/paste the problems you have to do onto one page. the datasets aren't ready for you to use, even if you start the p-set like the day before it's due. you don't know when you'll receive your grade or feedback on them. all homeworks are graded on a 5-point scale that feels arbitrary.the midterm was graded wrong. the tf's had no idea what was going to be on it the day before. they very confidently said a certain topic wouldn't be on it and then there were like 4 questions on it.the only reason you should take this class is you're a stat concentrator, so you don't have a choice. the upside is that the tf's tend to be good and try to overcompensate for how parzen is
Good review of general statistics. Don't expect to learn something incredibly new though.
This course teaches relevant material that is very applicable to almost any field. The class itself is not challenging but the problem sets are very long each week.
The problem sets were long and tedious but lecture slides were somewhat useful.
The class is useful for learning how to use R.  I now feel really comfortable with the language, and that seems like it's a really good skill to have if you want to do anything with data.  Lectures aren't as engaging as 110 and you won't see any really interesting or surprising results, but it's probably worth taking if you want to learn how to use statistics software.
I took stat 110, and that objectively drained a lot of time. This stat 139, as it is, will drain almost as much energy. Class is extremely disorganized, no practice exams are given out other than old ones by Rader that do not have any resemblance to the actual final. Professor Parzen is extremely disorganized, to the point where he put up only 6 assignments (when there was 8), did not reveal final exam date until 1 week before, and frequently had mistakes in slides. He also put a final homework, final project, and final exam in a span of 4 days, right at the start of exam period. Why would you do that?
I felt like I was mindlessly plugging and chugging answers into the psets and not learning a lot different from Stat 104. It is Stat 104 with R and Matrices. If you take it with Kevin, it will probably be harder but you might learn more. I hear that they are reshaping the course though so things will change.
Parzens is chill, but this class is kind of a rehash of 104. Don't think I really learned anything new stats-wise. Learning R was useful, but the problem sets are often a test of how many times can you apply the same R function in different ways.
This class is pretty good. The course material isn't too challenging, but the problem sets can sometimes be tedious. Parzen is a beast. But he does blatantly copy lecture slides from 104 and 107.
I don't know if I just took this in a bad year/semester, but what I got was something I wouldn't recommend to anyone.
You won't learn anything, but you'll love it: that's why you take classes with Parzen. The man has managed to stretch a single curriculum (Stat 104) across 3 classes (104, 107, 139). It doesn't count as plagiarism if you're ripping off yourself!
This class is pretty straightforward but the psets can be tedious. Also, the class material itself is a wreck, with lectures, psets and exams resembling a Frankenstein-like monstrosity of other peoples' work thrown together to make something that looks more like the last-minute cheatsheet you hastily made for the Stat 111 final instead of actual Harvard-affiliated course material. Honestly, you should only take this class if you're looking to get an A to fill some kind of Stat requirement. Otherwise, if you're actually looking to learn, don't bother.
Take this class if a) you want to learn this material or if b) you need another stat class for concentration/secondary credit and is relatively easy to get a good grade in. If a) is the case, do NOT take it with Parzen; you will not learn nearly as much. Yet if b) is the case definitely choose the semester when Parzen is teaching it. Make sure the lecture is recorded, though, because if it is at 9:30am, you will stop going to it after reading period.
Don't take it with Parzen as he puts no effort into the course. Psets are stupidly long and pointlessly repetitive. You barely learn R; you have to scrape it together from across lecture slides repurposed from Stat 104 cluttered by grammatical errors, wrong R code, and Stata output.
This class starts easy and gets significantly harder fast. Go to office hours.
The class is valuable if you take it with the right professor. It is stressfully disorganized if not.
The concepts this class teaches you are very important to understand, but this class does a poor job of it. Lectures are very unorganized, so it will be your responsibility to sort through the material and figure out what's going on.
Took this for my Statistics secondary and do not regret it. Perhaps I should have taken it before Stat 111, as it provided a good introduction to R.
Chill stat class . The material is certainly relevant to real life but presented in a pretty non-rigorous way (much more like Stat 104 than 110 /111) so take it if it is a requirement for you but keep in mind it may not be as satisfying for people interested in understanding the theory/derivations of things. If you have never done R before, would definitely recommend taking this class rather than 111 - the first few weeks have a lot of hand-holding/extensive R tutorials whereas stat 111 throws you in without much guidance. Psets are fairly straightforward and not terribly time consuming until the last 2-3 weeks. And the final project is a  very open-ended group assignment! Parzen is super friendly and open, certainly gives lectures some unexpected twists.
The class is not too difficult and extremely applicable to every day life in the creation of statistical linear models to try and model the real world. The final project, which I thought I would despise, was actually quite interesting and fun to work on in creating a model of your choice.
This class is a requirement, just do it
Do the homework! Also pay attention in class! This stuff is useful in real life.
The experience will greatly depend on the professor and TFs.
Great way to get introduced to linear modeling if that is something you need to learn.  Kind of boring and the psets and tests were harder than the lecture material made it seem, but overall, learned a lot and would highly recommend to anyone who might go into research.
If you're a stat concentrator then you have to take this class, but otherwise it's really a great introduction and use of R. You'll learn to do a lot of applied work, and I would highly recommend taking it with Parzen.
I feel like I learned a lot of applicable skills in this class.
A great class for learning R/using R.  Parzen is a good lecturer with nice powerpoints.  Some of the earlier material is pretty easy and similar to Intro Stats.  However, it picks up later on and eventually addresses many interesting topics related to linear models.
I took the class with Parzen and it was great! I took 107 with him last semester so I was already used to his teaching style.
I would recommend this course to students interested in delving into the models that you learn in introductory statistics in more depth and learning when they are appropriate and when they are not.  Definitely a good choice for students with an interest in applied statistics.
Very helpful materials but some potential for improvement especially with the design of the homework: it could have been more interesting if less problems just required repetitive coding in R. However, the lectures were interesting and given this was the first year Parzen taught the class, the course could be better next year.
Be wary if Parzen is teaching the class again: class can get off track easily and less is learned than expected by the syllabus
i fucking love this class, parzen is a pimp and the TFs are mother fucking thugs. parzen is the most hilarious ass motherfucker and the class is too good for its own good. if you hate on stat 139, you can go screw yourself. getcho ass in stat 139 already son
This is just another "Parzen" class. Easy, no substance in lectures, monkey-work problem sets that are easy but obnoxiously long, and useless sections. Parzen repeats himself every fourth word. I took the class because I liked 104 and 107, because they were easy and Parzen was funny, but it was a mistake. The problem sets were super easy, and then he cancelled the first exam, so I thought the class was awesome. And then the second midterm came out. He made it an online exam on Canvas. It was the most difficult thing I've ever done. Plenty of my friends tried to be honest and work on it alone, and all of them failed. The only kids who got a passing grade on it were the ones who collaborated and split the exam 50-50 with their other friends. It was ridiculous. And then Parzen cancels the final and makes the project worth 40% of our grade. But wait, he hasn't taught us anything all damn semester to use on the final project, and then he arbitrarily gives everyone bad grades on that too. But the class lacked content all semester. It was literally a dumbed down version of Stat 104.
Take Econometrics instead if you want to learn more about model building. You will learn some R in this course, though.
Not awful; can be a breeze of you stay on top of it. Skip lecture, just read lecture slides. Start psets early because they are tedious (but not difficult) and work in groups to make your life extra easy.
With Parzen, this class was an absolute gem but I'm honestly not sure how much I got out of it. Most of that is probably my fault for not being as engaged as I could, but this is a pretty manageable class that you can scrape by in without putting in too much work, or put in a good deal of your time and get a lot out of it. Linear modelling is widely applicable, but if you have any experience with stat (110/111) you'll probably be better off taking Stat 149 or CS 181 to get a better depth of knowledge of tools for statistical modeling.
Be wary of taking this course without having prior experience with R. Nonetheless, Professor Parzen is an engaging instructor and makes the class worthwhile.
Should definitely have an understanding of random variables beforehand. Some experience with R is helpful but you get a lot of practice with the class. Also, I don't enjoy going to lectures because I think the pace is too slow, but since lectures and recorded I do find it useful to watch them 1.6x speed.
The class is a mess. We've had wait 4-6 weeks to get assignments back, and the assignments are long, tedious exercises in R. Parzen also routinely makes fun of individual students in class during lecture which is extremely unprofessional and out of place for a Harvard faculty member. Why would you go out of your way to embarrass students individually?
Your experience in this class will highly depend on who is teaching it.
Fantastic class.  Parzen is hilarious, outstanding lecturer, very helpful at office hours.  Lectures slides were thorough and gave you all the information you needed to do the homework and do well on the tests and projects.  I learned a lot of R in this class and how to apply stats to real world questions.
This class is very interesting and enhances your stat knowledge. I enjoyed the class, and although I know this semester was a little different than others, I found that the assignments could be pretty frustrating.
This was Parzen's first year teaching the class, and he had to deal with personal issues, so it's not really on him, but the pace of spring 139 was really, really slow compared to fall 139, from what I hear. I don't feel that I really learned anything, besides how to use Rwe didn't get to linear regression at all until the very last weeks of the classand I'm probably going to have to audit Kevin's version of the course in the fall to compensate, since these are tools I actually need for my concentration.
Probably worth taking even if you're not a stat concentrator.
I feel like Parzen robbed me of a valuable learning opportunity by mashing together psets from stat 104 and stat 107. I dont feel like Parzen put in any effort in writing pset questions that exposed us to the theoretical aspects of what we learned. I regret choosing this class over stat 186 or stat 149. I understand that Parzen went through a personally challenging semester himself (death in the family), and no one could have predicted that, but I still feel extremely disappointed that this class turned out the way it did. I took this class for the easy A but I ended up caring so little about the material that I literally failed the midterm and I still dont care. Take stat 186, stat 131, or this class if its taught by a different instructor. Parzen is a great person for real talk, but as an instructor, I think hes too jaded about Harvard students.
This class was a total mess.  The professor had some personal issues going on so I want to say I understand but everything about the class was unsatisfactory.  Lectures were repetitive and we ran out of time and didn't cover so much material, the midterm was inexplicably so much more difficult than the problem sets, the grading varied based on which TF you had, and speaking to the TFs themselves it seemed like there was little to no coordination between the teaching staff.  I had heard great things about this class from when Rader was teaching this so maybe wait until he comes back.
Stat 139 is a fantastic class where you learn a ton of topics: hypothesis testing, confidence intervals, how to build models, how to check/diagnose those models.I loved it and learned a lot. Professor Parzen is an incredible, funny professor.I never took stat 104, though, and I heard from students who had taken 104 that 139 was extremely repetitive.
This course is very applied. Often times you are just plugging and chugging. If you do not go out of your way to look up why certain methods work, you find yourself simply running multiple packages and just interpreting results in a systematic way. Overall, it was a chill class. It also forces you to learn R, which is useful down the line. Parzen is funny, as always.
Very poorly organized class. The lectures might as well have been stat 104 lectures, which inadequately prepare you for the more complicated homework assignments using R.
This year's offering of the course was sort of an anomaly given that it was Parzen's first time teaching the course and also due to the extenuating personal cicumstances that the professor faced. It was an easy class, but I don't feel that I learned as much as I should have.
It is an interesting class that covers many statistical concept, and I now feel very comfortable using R. I would recommend it if you want a complete statistics coverage.
Simply put: don't take it
This is a great class if you were to have a set of data and want to perform very good statistical analysis/prediction models. Very practical and helpful.
Class is very doable. Get engaged in the material and attend lecture and you will enjoy it!
Parzen is an incredible Professor who likes to work with students in crafting an experience that works for them. He is not strict in his grading and cares about students learning the material.
This was Parzen's first semester teaching so this may change in the future (especially since I know Parzen mentioned this was also his last time teaching 139), but the class is extremely repetitive with other core stat classes
If you have taken stat 104 this class will be a breeze! Professor Parzen is amazing.
This is the first time that the course was taught by Parzen, and it seems that he made the course much easier than it was before. The first half of the course was spent reviewing concepts at the level of AP Statistics and covering a little bit of new material, although the assignments did help me get familiar with R. The final project was pretty cool though, in taht we had a lot of freedom to explore a new topic.
This course is the single most disorganized course I have ever taken at Harvard. Problem sets are sometimes ridiculously tedious and often emphasize on coding procedures more than statistical thinking. The notes are all over the place. Feedback for assignments is almost non-existent and literally takes the TFs forever. The course also goes over most of the concepts without any proof, and so even if the quality of instruction improves in the future, I would not recommend any person who is genuinely interested in the underlying principles and ideas behind statistics to take this course. This is the kind of statistics that one would abhor: random formulas and statistical procedures that seem to come out of nowhere, and repetitive assignments that reduce statistics to p-values and hypothesis testing. Fortunately I took 110 before this (which was awesome), for otherwise I would never decide to become a Stat concentrator. 139 is just that bad.
In general this is the kind of course which has promise. Courses which teach you applied statistics which are actually practical are exactly the kinds of courses many of us look for, in contrast to many Stat 111 type courses. Doing it in R is even better. This year Stat 139 was basically a waste of time. Easy material is drawn out for weeks on end, harder material is packed in, and you leave knowing 20% of what you could know if the course were taught better.
Parzen is the man. Even though his dad tragically passed away at the beginning of the semester, he still managed to make this an interesting, insightful course. This course was pretty easy, but I still came away with much better understanding of basic stat concepts as well as the invaluable skill of learning to code in R. Definitely take this course, especially if Parzen is still teaching it.
Probably take it when Rader teaches it.
Not a tough one, you'll learn useful things but it's definitely not fun or enjoyable.
Parzen's course was a mess. It wasn't hard, but I didn't learn much.
The class had potential. Lectures were interesting - Parzen is a great lecturer (not the most efficient, but he is engaging!) However, sometimes, it felt like we were going through the motions, learning how to do stuff in R, but not really understanding why. The assignments also felt like a waste of time, plugging away at the computer but not really being challenged to think. The Final Project was definitely a plus (more classes should have projects instead of finals). It was a nice chance to meet fellow students, to work on a project that was interesting, and to apply everything (finally) we had learned in class. It's an important class to take - I think everyone should have the opportunity to learn how to do statistics with R.
This class was not very hard, and especially with the project at the end, does not demand a lot of time or effort.
Very useful class
The material is useful. Unfortunately, Victoria is a horrible lecturer. Often the concepts are simple but after she attempts to explain, things are more confusing. TF Jameson explained things much more clearly in section. I would recommend this course if taught by someone more competent. Do not take this or any other course taught by Victoria. I regret taking this course this semester.
As someone from a non-statistics background, I have mixed feelings about this class. On the one hand, I learned a lot from it and feel much more confident about the statistics methods I plan on implementing in the future. At the same time, however, the class covered a lot of theory, manifested especially in derivations. Although we aren't really tested on these aspects of the course, they can be strenuous during class-time or in the homeworks if one doesn't have a whole lot of math or statistics background.
While Stat 139 covers incredibly useful and important techniques in statistics (you also learn an incredible amount of statistical assumptions in a wide range of test methods), it is not taught very well. Exams are incredibly long and hard to finish. Problem sets did not take as long as Stat 110 or 111 problem sets.
read the textbook.
Linear models is def an important topic. The class was just kind of boring. Doesn't really make you excited to be a stats concentrator
This class was an excessive amount of work and it was difficult to really get an understanding of the material through lectures. Although useful topics were covered, the material was presented such that it wasn't easy to make connections or to understand the bigger picture. The subject might be better depending on the professor, but I would not recommend the class as I took it.
The material is very in depth and comprehensive. I learned a lot about tests and regression. This course emphasized the assumptions and interpretation, which would be very helpful for my job.
The class can be tiresome at times, you go through all of the material you cover in Stat 104, but with greater depth.  You should have some prior knowledge of different distributions before you take it, but definitely not a deal breaker if you're shaky on the notation and the characteristics.  The tests are fair, and generally not too difficult.
This class is very, very useful in your statistics education!  Be aware that the problem sets can be rather long and emphasize R a lot.  In addition, Victoria isn't the best at lecturing.
I was not satisfied with the teaching in this course. The professor's lectures were not engaging and she doesn't do a good job making the concepts intuitive. Most of the learning is done with reading the textbook (which is really good) and doing the psets. The material is not difficult, but it's hard because the teaching is horrible.
Take it with Rader. Stay away from Victoria
This course teaches you some very applicable skills, but a lot of material will be repeated from Stat 111. Overall, dry but useful.
Not very well taught - really boring material. Much preferred Stat 110.
This was definitely one of the best classes I took in terms of applied statistics. Learning the considerations and assumptions that go into different statistical models is a vital skill for any stats major. The workload was moderate and the assignments were interesting. The midterm was a bit unfair because of how little time we had but hopefully that won't happen again in future years.
As it was taught this semester, I would strongly recommend that you not take this course and read the textbook instead.  The Statistical Sleuth is an excellent (though expensive) book with rich online resources to help you on the R component.  I would go to lecture understanding the material and walk out confused.  I would start a pset excited about the material and finish frustrated at the disorganization of the assigment.  What makes me maddest of all, though, is that I still can't bring myself to hate this class!  The teaching staff works so hard.  They are seriously online answering our questions around the clock, and they put themselves to such high standards in giving us detaied comments on so many assignments.  Simply put, the teaching staff is spread too thin, and for that matter, so are we the students across the different aspects of this course.  There is no reason that good faculty, good students, and good material should come together in such a sad, frustrating way.  All that having been said, if you have the tolerance for some course disorganization, this is material you really ought to learn one way or another if you are looking at courses in the Statistics department, and with so much potential in the course, hopefully your experience next semester/year will be better than mie!
STAT 139 does a good job of covering simple and multiple regression in the context of real world examples and data. The final project is a great way to explore a concept or topic that is personally interesting to you - make sure that you have a good group!
More than anything, this course teaches valuable skills for analytical occupations. I and many of my peers (in an engineering graduate program) are interested in analytics and data science careers, and most agree that this course is extremely useful for such work.
It's not difficult if you are a stat concentrator who has taken 110/111, but it's annoying.  Section is unorganized so you're better off using the textbook and google to help get through the psets.  The project had absolutely no guidance, and there's a final too which is annoying. They write the tests too long so be sure you skip ahead and do the easy parts to get points
This course is extremely useful for anyone in a data-driven field. You will learn when and how different statistical tests should be used and how to build simple linear models given a set of data. This course helps students develop and build intuition for data analysis.
Fairly straightforward linear models class. I recommend that you take it if you're interested in doing any kind of applied statistics / research involving the use of statistics because the techniques you learn pop up ALL THE TIME (ANOVA, linear regression, t-test, etc). You want to be a knowledgeable user of these techniques. You want to check the assumptions behind these techniques and know how to interpret the results without spin. This class teaches you how to do all of that and I think if you pay attention you will be prepared to do actual research applications with statistics. 

A word of warning: The psets can be really tedious. They seemed like busy work sometimes. Just be aware of this before you take the class. Also, having a final project and a final exam meant a lot of work during reading period. I hope the course staff considers less tedious psets next time.
Good material in there, but this is definitely not the best class out there that teaches it.
This course is well-paced and well-taught. Prof. Liublinska is great at making time to talk to students to help them understand concepts (I definitely recommend making use of office hours and Piazza), which was helpful when there were details that needed to be clarified. I also liked the structure of the class: I felt that Prof. Liublinska designed it well, with the final project and the level of difficulty of the problem sets, for instance. It is clear that she truly values whether her students understand the material, and I liked her approach to teaching this course. I personally learned a lot and felt like I had a good understanding of linear models after completing this course.
The content of this class is very interesting and incredibly useful. Though, I didn't feel like it was taught particularly well. I could learn almost as much from just looking at lecture slides as I could from attending class. Victoria was nice and clearly meant well, but she seemed quite out of touch with the students (the incredibly long midterm that she wrote is a prime example of that). The final project is pretty easy for a final project, and doesn't take too much time to do a satisfactory job. This is one of those classes that you sort of have to take if you want to have a solid knowledge of data analysis. I'm not really sure how it will be in the future, as Victoria is leaving after this semester.
This course is analogous to Applied Math 105 (Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations) when it was taught by Michael Brenner: both courses are foundational courses in their respective departments/fields, both lean towards methods more than theory, and both are relatively disorganized.
The first half of the course is a nicer version of Stat 111. That aside, I think I grasped the concepts much better here since Stat 139 went at a slower pace. The latter of the course is all linear models so if you were hoping for something besides Stat 111 + linear, look somewhere else.
This course will give you a very practical foundation off which to build for data inference. Be patientthe first couple weeks of the course are not fascinatingand then you will be rewarded, as the back half, when you learn a variety of very interesting regression techniques.
Don't take this class unless the professor is changed. Terrible organized class, which is a shame given how important the material is. Areas for improvement are countless. The grading for psets was arbitrary, the final project fair was inefficient and a waste of time, the midterm was way too long and hard, the teaching of the topic was poor, there were countless typos on the practice finals and the solutions for the finals (!!), the psets were way too tedious and R oriented, and just in general, a poorly run class. There are more things wrong with the class, but frankly, this alone should make you look for another class.

Don't take this unless the teaching staff is changed or there is a huge overhaul.
Sometimes a bit dull, but overall this class covers very useful material.
Take it if you really like statistics.
Super useful for analyzing experimental data.  I'd recommend grad students in biology to take this class!
This course is the quintessential example of how the whole is not equal to its parts; the individual concepts discussed in class, the intentions of the professor, and even course logistics all have a good intention behind them, but put together, they yield a course that tries to be everything but ends up being very little. Yes, videotaping lectures is helpful and cool, but not when clicker questions still require everyone to come to class. Yes, final projects are cool, but not when the course also has a final project and a midterm! The list goes on and on. 

Course book: Written both like a reference manual, and in a horrible style. Utterly void of mathematical proofs or rigor, and full of useless "case studies" which crowd out all the technical details. By taking out duplicate content, the entire book of the course could be distilled into a couple of Latex handouts. 

Lecture slides borderline illegible -- at best, they regurgitate theorems and results verbatim from the book, at their worst they are a messy blob of arithmetic completely unintelligible to anyone looking at them later. 

Problem sets are extremely tedious, taking up upwards of 12 hours apiece, yet filled with either meaningless exercises (think t-tests done by hand over and over again) or meaningful problems, whose true value, however, never becomes apparent to the student due to poor wording of problems, and the reasons why they are assigned in the first place. Grading is harsh and inconsistent. 

The format and difficulty of exams was communicated unclearly, and the practice exams were both shorter and way easier than the actual exam. Be sure to study a lot for both the midterm and the final. 

Stat 111 and 110 should definitely be prerequisites, as should R programming skills. Frequent references were made to concepts not taught in the introductory level courses like Stat 104, even though it was the only listed prerequisite. R skills were assumed rather than taught, so the R component of Stat 111 would be helpful for every student. 

Only take this course if not taught by the same professor, or if you absolutely need it for your concentration credit.
It was definitely the most practical and useful class I took this semester. Victoria is leaving next semester and Kevin is taking over so I can't comment on how the class will be structured/taught. Fingers crossed that Kevin will be good at teaching linear models.
No need to take this class. It's important material, but you can learn it on your own in 3 days or so.
Really great class as an applied look at regression but the professor is AWFUL. Seriously. Utterly unpleasant in person who is incredibly inept at explanation while setting bizarre and pointless homework assignments. Regression material is way more useful than econometrics 1123/1126 but it's such a shame she teaches it
As long as Victoria is teaching this class, I would look elsewhere.  The material itself is quite interesting, and the class has potential to be a good class, but in it's current state, it is not worth it.  Psets are extremely long (20 pages typed), and the midterm was quite unfair (it was 22 pages worth of problems).  There is also very little support for the students in such a class.
This course was yet another stat course that made me wish I hadn't concentrated in statistics.  I don't really think I learned anything that I didn't already know from 104 and 111, but it still managed to be somehow difficult.  Also, WHY IS THERE A PROJECT AND AN EXAM.  No, just no.
It's unfortunate that Victoria might not be teaching it next year.  Q comments from previous years had remarked that the course was disorganized.  That was not the case this year.  This year it was a well-oiled machine.

First half is hypothesis testing and second half is regression.  TFs were good, feedback was good, lecturing was solid, and assignments/assessments were very fair.  It's a useful course and overall painless.
If you're interested in a class that actually teaches how to work with data and extract meaning from data, I think that this class does a very good job of providing you with those tools. It uses R quite extensively, so having some background in the software or some sort of coding background would be helpful. Even though I don't believe it has any formal requirements, stat 111 and stat 104 level material is helpful.
Read the text book instead of taking this class unless there is a better lecturer.
You learn important things which are very crucial for any interviews, etc. However, I was quite unhappy in the course. There were many factors responsible for this, including the fact that we had a final project, final presentation, AND a final exam (in addition to a mid term and regular psets). I'd recommend taking Econometrics in the econ department (the less theoretical one) where you'd learn about the same things, and learn them in Stata, which is what most researchers in econometrics use anyway.
be careful! It's wildly difficult and requires so much work outside of class that those who have outside commitments (i.e. graduate work) will find it hard to balance
This course is really good in teaching you concepts and techniques which are really applicable to using statistics in the real world. As in, given a dataset, you'll understand the pros and cons of using different testing approaches by the end of the course, and you'll have a wide repertoire of them.
Very good and useful class! A thorough treatment of basic applied statistics. The workload is very reasonable. Victoria is a very nice person and teacher.
Victoria is often criticized for how she teaches this course. I disagree with people who criticize her - I think she is a solid professor and teaches the material well. The material, by nature, is rather dry, but also interesting at the same time since it is so applied. I think this is a great extension and a must take for anyone who wants to really understand data. A great follow-up to Stat 104.
This course is useful but I would not take it if Liubliuska is teaching it. She is really nice but just do not take the class if she is teaching it.
This class is useful but the lectures are a little dry and there is a lot of random stuff to remember
An useful class to take, especially for people who are interested in doing research or writing thesis. Some departments don't take statistics and methods seriously, even though research is a big component of their works. So if you are just looking for a class that is not too difficult and useful, this is the one.
Spend all the time necessary on problem sets and you'll be good to go. The book and lectures are good resources
