The course's fullest potential has yet to be tapped.
This class is fantastic. The material is interesting, guest lecturers are great, homework was easy and Parzen is the man.
Parzen is the coolest professor at Harvard.
This class is a really easy class. The lecture notes are really good. You will learn how to do R and excel fairly well.
easy class and learn a lot
This class is awesome! The course material is interesting and practical, and Professor Parzen is a great instructor. Students get out what they put into this course, and the class environment is very comfortable!
Professor Parzen is an awesome lecturer who really knows his stuff. There wasn't much incentive to go to class though as all of the problem sets were group work. I can see the class being more difficult next year but I would definitely take it again.
Great professor, great class and a great topic. No reason not to take it.
It's very useful if you are interested in finance.
Mike Parzen is the best prof I've had at Harvard. I would recommend going to office hours just to chat with him- he is fantastic! This course is extremely manageable, useful and applicable to real life. Parzen's lectures are entertaining and you get to work in a group for all evaluations! No midterms, no final. You'd be a fool to pass this course up.
Easy, chill professor but you actually get a lot out of this class
Great class.  Easy and gives good preparation for interviews.  A must take
Incredibly interesting and limited amount of work. Take this class!! You can learn a lot if you show up to section and take an interest.
This is a generally painless course, the assignments are not too difficult and are at times enjoyable.  The final project can be very fun if you pick a topic you're excited about.  This is a good course that can prepare you for interview and internships in finance.  I would definitely recommend this course.
1) This class is very easy, but still interesting. Basically, if you already know basic stat, there are 2 things you will learn: how to translate stat into basic financial statistics, and the basics of using R.2) Unrelated note: This class has basically no overlap with Stat 123. You can easily take them concurrently, or in either order.
Prof. Parzen is a legend.
Take this course for a first peek at the world of finance. Many interesting topics are discussed. Explore and master one for your final project. Learn how to use R in this class as well - that's one of the biggest takeaways you should get. :)
This class was very easy but be warned next year it may be changed bc this year was totally disorganized. Group homework, group project--not much work was really required.... That being said, Prof. Parzen is the man. Once he gets a better idea of what this class should be like I'm sure it will be much better than it currently is.
Take this class if you are interested in pursuing a career in finance and improving your Excel and R skills.
The most practical course you will take at Harvard! Professor is awesome and lectures are really interesting.  Much more useful then any of the econ finance classes.
The most "useful" you will take at Harvard, hands down.  And Prof. Parzen is terrific - he makes the material real and contemporary.  Lectures are fun!
This is an extremely useful class to take to learn to deal with microsoft excel.
Easy and interesting.
You never have to go to lecture and still be able to do the homework by reading the lecture slides online and working with other students. The project at the end can be both fun and applicable. The textbook is great and easy to understand. My only problem with the course is that they assume you know how to code in R, which is absurd. I just got R code from other students that had previous programming experience.
Easy chill class that gives you a good insight into finance. Especially good for those with no knowledge whatsoever. If you however do have some basic knowledge in the field do not expect to learn much.
This is the first-year that the course is being offered, so things might get better next year. That being said, it is very disorganized and I didn't really learn too much. The pace is too slow. I wished the professor just followed the syllabus he create at the beginning of the year.
prof. parzen is excellent and a lot of fun. definitely take this course if you are interested in financial models.
take another stats class that teaches r before you take this course
Prof. Parzen is really approachable if you have any problems and this course is awesome to get an introduction to Finance using Excel and R-coding.
Take this course! It is the only course at Harvard that offers you real-world, practical skills and concepts. If you are interested in finance at all, or if you want a job in finance, or if you want to sound smart in an interview--you need to take this course!!!!!
If you are interested in the subject, it is a stress free intro into financial statistics. Group homework and projects makes free riding all too easy. After 1st time being offered looks like Parzen will make a lot of improvements and it will really be a successful class next year
Great class. You won't have to try very hard to keep up with the class.
This is simultaneously the most practical and easiest class at Harvard. Workload ranges from nothing to half of something depending how intensely you push yourself to learn and attend lectures. Parzen is an AWESOME resource if you take advantage of the chance.
This is the most practical and useful course you will ever take at Harvard
Great class to take especially if you are interested in entering finance.
This class is super easy but could be boring if you're not interested in finance. Lots of pricing models and portfolio allocation.
easy, interesting if you go to class, useful material for those interested in finance tho not all in depth
It was wicked easy, I didn't learn anything though, and it'll probably be better/harder next year.
I highly recommend this course. You learn some very real and practical stuff that you won't in any other class at Harvard. It is not difficult, and you will find yourself doing some pretty cool things. This may have been the most helpful class I've taken at Harvard for entering the working world.
Great class if you're looking for an easier class to balance a tough schedule. No exams, short homeworks, and a fun final project. The material is interesting if you are into finance. Also, since it was the first year of the class, it wasn't the most structured class on campus.
Great class!
Take this class - it's one of the few directly relevant classes at Harvard for people interested in financial markets. The group work assignments were straightforward and only required one night per week to complete.
One of my favorite classes at Harvard and the only one I really looked forward to attending during senior spring.
Very easy class, great GPA booster (I hope!). Useful computer skills learned.
This is the only class at Harvard that approximates a finance course and it will provide you with useful knowledge and skills.
This class is such a gem-as close to no work as you could get, not necessary to go to class but it is interesting if you do go, professor is awesome.
Take it.  No work at all.
Great class for those interested in finance and an easy A.
Course is not even a course. Parzen is a horrible lecturer and professor. He taught Stat 104 horribly and this class was even worse. I don't not only recommend this course, but stay away from this instructor at all costs.
Michael Parzen is a baller lecturer
Good introduction into quantitative finance.  It is easy and harmless but also is interesting.
You will not regret taking this class if you have any interest in the statistics of business/finance. I am very happy with my experience.
An easy class
It is a class that briefly touches on many fascinating topics.
This will probably change in future years, but this class was super easy and low workload this year. No exams at all, just group psets and a final project. that being said, the material was quite interesting and you get out of it what you put in it.
This course is not that bad for a first year, but definitely could use improvements in organization and timing. Have to wait and see how they tweak the course next year. Parzen's is a great lecturer, so if nothing else, the professor should keep you at least putting this course on your shopping list.
Take it! This is a very low-pressure course with an extremely chill and awesome professor, Prof. Parzen. You will learn much finance lingo and quant techniques under absolutely no pressure (other than the p-sets), and will be prepared for more advanced courses such as Stat 123 or 171. This class is mostly geared towards traders and quant people like myself, but everyone would find it fun and useful. Frequent guest lecturers also make this class a networking opportunity.
take it! nothing to lose.
I guess that next time this class is offered there will be some major changes in it. I hope they include more R. Definitely take it if you're interested in finance, it's a great preparation for internships in my opinion.
If you are looking to learn more about finance and to take a class that is not very strenuous academically, it's for you.
This class is hard, frustrating, and time-consuming, but useful and satisfying.
Go to section.  It will make the problem sets much easier.
THis class is very good and is pretty low stress, however you will need to have a group to work with or go to office hours to figure out the coding if you are not already proficient in R, However it is still very manageable
make sure you find a pset group quickly
Course requires a lot of learning to code in R if you have no prior experience or not comfortable with it. Parzen is a great laid-back lecturer and introduces you to the many areas of statistics in finance. Optional sections, no midterms or final make the class not very stressful. Homeworks are difficult (mainly to code, not material) and require extensive amount of time. Only a few of them though and final project has wide flexibility.
The class gives you a good introduction of how to effectively use R to analyze various forms of data. It is basically a programming course without too much stress. The guest lecturers give you important life lessons. Professor Parzen is also extremely interesting to listen to. Check out this course!
This class is very difficult if you have no experience coding or with R because Stat 107 is more of a coding than a statistics course. Lectures are entertaining but can be difficult to follow. Problem sets are often difficult and take a lot of time. Be prepared to go to TFs' office hours frequently (they are very helpful). The final project gives you a lot of freedom to explore what you're most interested in.
Great class. Especially if you are interested in markets and trading.
It is useful, but you are going to need a lot of help if you don't know how to code.
Not super easy, but not an overly difficult class if you like analytical and programming classes.
Put in the effort (going to section, office hours, and paying attention in lecture) and you should be fine.
Great class. I had a little trouble with psets, but went to office hours once and was mindblown at how helpful it was. You may feel inclined not to go to lectures or section because they're not mandatory, but I would say go to lecture and office hours. It's a very interesting subject
good for learning a little bit about finance/capital markets
Great class to learn about finance and coding.
This class is very interesting, and although the learning curve is high, the work is manageable and will learn a lot.
The class was very chill in terms of requirements. 6 problem sets, a couple of mandatory lectures, and 1 final project. That being said, the problems sets are very heavily weighted, which can be a good or bad thing. I think that this class gave me an appreciation for R, and I would definitely like to continue learning it in the future.
A bit of programming background is helpful for the R parts of the assignments, which do take some time to do.
This class is fun, easy, and simultaneously extremely useful.  Great combination.  I use R all the time now, even for other classes, and it really improves the quality of my work.
This is a great low-workload class that still effectively engages students with very applicable material.  You will definitely get a solid exposure to financial material, if interested.
If you aren't interested in finance probably not worth your time.
It's an easy course where you get as much as you give. You can get by with minimal work - don't attend lecture / section, just do the problem sets and final project. But there is more available; at lecture, you get to learn more random tidbits about finance and hear Parzen speak, and there are a wealth of resources on the course site.
Crush the final project.
If you really learn this stuff, you will be a very valuable asset in any trading firm/investment bank/consulting firm, etc.
If you have taken Ec before, it is a bit dull. You don't really need to go to lecture at all, but the assignments are tedious.
Problem sets can be difficult to figure out without prior programming/R experience, and lectures aren't too helpful in actually doing the homework. That being said, there are only 6 problem sets and a final project in the class, and Parzen's the man so I'd take the class if it is being offered again.
Don't take it thinking it's like 104. Not an easy class.
The TFs vary a lot! It's a difficult class. On a scale from 1 (easy) to 5 (impossible), it deserves a 6 (harder than impossible)!
Great class. Pretty easy. Good way to hone additional R skills. Guest lectures are awesome. No exams. Final project is thoroughly enjoyable.
An ideal fifth course if you're decent enough with statistics to not need to attend section. Parzen, as always, makes lectures entertainingthough they could stand to be somewhat more informative on the inner workings of R. The workload is more than manageable, and with no exams, you'll always have as much time as you choose to prepare your work.
Love this class and love Parzen, who is a super engaging and fun lecturer, and is very knowledgable about the subject matter. This class eased you into R (which has a very steep learning curve) with a lot of support from TF's. Problem sets were a little long, so start them early and go to lots of sections/office hours, which made a huge difference.
It is not too hard to do well, but for sure it is helpful to take this course with friends.  It is disorganized at times, and really requires you to go to office hours and/or section if you want to do well.  You should also understand a bit about how coding works.
This class is pretty painful especially if you know R. If you don't it will be harder than you think but still not that bad. Pick a good group for the final project.
There is good content in the course, but I did not get along with Parzen's teaching style (distractions that much of the class finds humorous but really take time away from learning).
This is a really low-stress course with a total of ~6 problem sets, no midterm, and no final other than a group project. Having elementary coding experience like CS50 or APCS would help with learning R, but is certainly not necessary to succeed. Go to section.
Start problem sets early
awesome course that taught me a lot of really cool stuff. Take it with friends so you can work through the problem sets together though!
It's interesting to learn about financial statistics, you learn how to use R relatively well (the basics), and it's a pretty relaxing elective- perfect senior spring class, and highly recommend! :)
Start your problem sets well ahead of time because they are very time consuming.
Good class to take - it's easy to do well, but make sure that you do have some R experience. Go to sections! Although, they are optional, they are really helpful and save you a ton of time on problem sets. Also, start the final project two to three weeks before it's due because you'll run in coding errors.
an easy class but you don't learn much. I would pass on 107, but Parzen is still awesome.
This is one of the courses that I got a ton of mixed reviews about before deciding to take it. It was a good course to have in a 5 course semester. Having taken CS50 and Capital Markets previously, this was a fantastic continuation of what I had learned and helped me be able to put a lot of it to practice. I would say if you have no coding experience and no interesting in gaining some, there isn't much this will help you with. Also, not really what you're looking for if you're trying to do investment banking and aren't interested in the securities side. Overall, I thought it was a great course. Take it if it's offered again. Parzen is great!
Interesting but you need to force yourself to keep trying because there's no midterm or final, so you know you are never tested on the material.
Easy class with interesting topics on finance.
If you're interested in finance, especially the technical trading side, take this course. There's nothing else like it at Harvard.
This course is fairly difficult and unless you have a passion for financial statistics and modeling, don't take it.
Beware - the PSets are not easy.  They will take work.  That said, there are only 6 of them, no midterm and only a final project.  Which is nice.
This is an easy course with practical applications -- no midterms, no final, just weekly problem sets and a final project (that WILL take longer than expected). Programming experience is helpful but not necessary; R is much easier knowing how to construct loops and conditional statements!
Great class in statistics, but basic computer science (CS50), R experience, or comfort with programming will be very beneficial.
Start the problem sets earlier rather than later- they can take an extremely long time! The class can be a hit-or-miss depending on your interests.
If you like Professor Parzen (you know you did), and are thinking about taking this class, just take it. You have one homework every 2 weeks and they are actually very relevant to the material and straightforward. Oh yeah, NO EXAMS OR A FINAL. How do you like it now? Yep.
Coding is tough, but concepts are very interesting
Learning R is awesome. I love it so much. You should probably have at least a little coding experience.
This class is a great introduction class.
Don't take. This course doesn't teach programming, statistics, or finance. It really doesn't teach anything. The 'trading strategies' you'll learn are  great in theory but not effective in practice. NO statistics covered. Absolute waste of a class. Take math 117, stat 123, 131 or 170 if you want to learn something.
As long as you know R, you'll have a great time in this class with very little pain.  If you don't know R, just pay attention in lecture and go to section and it will also be painless.
If you are interested in finance this is a great course to take, workload is manageable and the skills you learn are very pertinent and applicable.
Make sure to spend a lot of time on psets and start early! Start making friends, if you don't already have some, so that you make sure you have partners for the final project.
Parzen's great. Provides a basic introduction to business and financial statistics, as the course title suggests. Lecture are interesting and engaging, and guest speakers are cool. Being familiar with computer science definitely helps, but is not necessary whatsoever. Try to find friends who know how to code and work with them so they can help you!
Parzen is a boss like no other.
Problem sets are somewhat disorganized and you have to make an effort to go to section/office hours if you do not really understand basic finance.
This was easily my favorite class at harvard and I'm glad I chose it. Parzen is an extremely gifter professor and if you should make a point of taking as many of his classes as possible. He also had fantastic guest lectures that would use the techniques in statistics that we were learning, which was very cool. It gave great context to the classes and showed that we weren't learning something just for the sake of it. My one main grievance with the class is that some of the homework problems would not be taught in the lectures - you would basically have to beg the TF's to tell you the code to figure out how to do certain problems. And it wasn't that the concept behind the problem was that difficult, it was the fact that everyone had no idea how to type in the correct R code. If we had more instruction on how to use R, I think the class would be perfect.
A fantastic course to take!
Stat 107 is a great continuation of Parzen's Stat 104. His lectures are still as entertaining and informative. Workload is extremely manageable (6 problem sets and a project - that's all), and classes teach you the basics of financial statistics. If you're interested in financial statistics at all, definitely take this class. You won't regret it.
Parzen is the man! The class is not too much commitment in terms of workload, but you get a decent exposure to coding in R. It's a good follow-up class to Stat 104.
you should definitely know computer coding or its tough
Really, really easy. Won't remember much of this class in two weeks.
Solid class, lectures are optional but can be entertaining.  Parzens is a great professor
You don't have to go to lecture or section, and there are no exams. That said, the homework would probably be easier if I had gone. The final project also gives you a great opportunity to explore something you're interested in. Some of the material overlaps with Ec1723 (capital markets) if you're interested in that as well.
psets
This is an awesome course. If you actually do the hws to their fullest, you learn an important skill in R. It was great to know that I was learning statistics that I could apply with my economics background.
The problem sets ask for code that is not covered in class. So either know how to code in R prior to taking the class, or be prepared to do an absurd amount of extra work in order to learn how.
Take this course.  It isn't a big time commitment and you learn a lot of useful skills.
You will learn a lot about a potentially useful skill-set for a career in finance or day-trading.
It a no brainer 4th class, although psets are graded pretty hard.  There is no exam so you can actually learn for the sake of learning and not for a grade.  Overall a pretty relaxed course if you have people to collaborate with for psets.
Definitely take this class, unbelievably helpful for summer internships in finance
This course is very difficult in that it requires you to put in the time, go to the optional sections, and start your homework early enough to go to office hours in order to figure out what parts of the homeworks you do not understand.  Lectures can be really boring, and going to section will be more key to your success in the class than going to lecture.
Cool class with Parzen. If you don't know R, then the first few weeks will be a bit rough. Just make sure to go to section since that's where the TFs go over most of the code. Overall a nice balance since there's no midterm, no final. But think about whether you want a group project at the end to determine 50% of your grade...
Go to lecture because Parzen is great!
The coding is not that easy, but not too difficult beyond that. Not much work and no tests so not stressful.
A painless class that teaches some useful skills, but don't expect to get too much out of it.
If you like money, it's a chill class.
Professor Parzen is very knowledgeable about the material and deeply cares about his students, despite the large class and the fact he also teaches 104. The problem sets take longer than expected because the R is not easy, but going to section helps. The guest speakers are very interesting as well.
The material in the class is super interesting but the problem sets weren't very interesting or satisfying.
If you do not have any experience in coding, the time spent on coursework would be slightly greater because it'll be harder for you to grasp R. Keep that in mind when you're considering how much time this course would require.
If you are interested in getting a job in Wall Street, then this class will be very useful for basic programming skills in R and Excel. Since there are no exams, you must be self-driven to learn the material. You may walk away from the class not learning much at all; the active student, however, will be able to extract an enormous amount from this class.
You get out of this class what you put in it. It is possible to be a passive learner, just putting in the necessary work for your problem sets and project. But if you actually dedicate yourself to learning R, you will be satisfied with the learning experience in the class, and you will feel better prepared for work in the industry.
Make sure you go to section and office hours to complete the psets! With the help of the TFs the psets are doable.
you might not get much out of it unless you are interested in learning the material. it's one of those classes that is very little work except for the day before the problem set is due, and then you have to annoyingly spend a lot of time on it.in general, i don't recommend taking those kind of classes at harvad becuase you should be fulfilled from the classes you take, not wishing that you could have actually taken something away from it. since there was no structure or test, there was no incentive to learn anything.
There's not much reason to take it from a learning point of view unless it fulfills a requirement, but a pretty straightforward class.
Not so great. Wouldn't really recommend. I never felt engaged, and even though the workload doesn't look heavy, it's ultimately not worth it.
Don't be intimidated by R. There is a lot of support available. Some problem sets can take a while but I found them fun and rewarding. This is a great class. I would also recommend this over Stat 104. It's a shame this class doesn't count as a gen ed.
I LOVE PARZEN
The problem sets will require a decent amount of work.
Awesome class! Low workload, interesting material.
Don't take it unless you are required to.
Super useful class if you want to learn how financial statistics operates and how to compose a portfolio.
Great course with real world insight. The little theory was always applied to real stock analysis. Parzen is hilarious (in a good way) and extremely competent!
There are so many problems with this class: (1) The assignments feel trivial - the problems often involve brainlessly plugging numbers into R based on lecture examples, very little understanding of the material is required(2) The course is poorly organized - the median time to return my problem sets was 23 days. Of three assignments turned in before the midterm, I only had 1/3 returned to me before I took the midterm. The midterm took 31 days to get back to me after I had completed it. (3) Feedback is non-existent - assignments are "returned" when I get an email from the teaching staff telling me my score.(4) The lectures are a waste of timeIf you are interested in learning, do not take this course.
This class is easy but annoying. There's a huge R learning curve - it's half spoon fed to you and half never taught to you, which is exasperating to deal with. Parzen is great, but the structure of the course is sloppy and the TFs aren't very reliable. Again, it's easy and you'll learn some interesting finance concepts, so definitely take it if you want, but be prepared to be annoyed by it.
KNOW HOW TO CODE IN R prior to the semester or this course will be damn-near impossible. Problem sets vary widely in difficulty. On the upside, grading is pretty lenient.
This class was very easy. Attendance is unnecessary provided you are competent with a computer and have basic knowledge of R.
If you're interested in being introduced to investing and have no prior knowledge or experience, this can be a very useful course. If you already have prior knowledge and know how to use the R package, this course won't teach you too many new things.
This class is extremely helpful if you want to go into finance (possibly investment banking etc.) That said, if you already have some exposure to this area, this course is not challenging enough or engaging enough to spend an entire semester on it. I do however think the merits of being able to use R coding for financial models should not be understated.
It's not really a stat class, more a programming class in R, but definitely has useful skills to be learned. If you go to lecture and the optional sections (which is very hard to force yourself to do) you will get a lot out of this class but if not, its a very nice 5th class to take with the light workload
Sure it's an easy class but it's SO boring. I MAYBE went to six or seven lectures all semester. I wouldn't recommend taking it unless you absolutely have to for some strange reason, or if you're a trust fund baby who wants to work on wall street like everyone else and their mom at this school. Tbh Parzen is a fun guy, but dear god is this class boring.
Stat 107 is a great class- I took it as an elective after taking 104 with Parzen and he definitely does not disappoint here! Although there are some lags with grading, the TFs are fair. Psets are very doable and not having a final exam is a huge plus. Make sure to stay on top of the final project as the due date sneaks up on you.
Excellent class to take if one is interested in gaining a basic understanding of coding with the program R as well as different stock trading strategies. Class is very hands-on, almost all of the concepts which are covered during the lecture come up in the homework. Prior programming experience is not necessary, however, having taken CS50 might make the homework a little easier. The TFs were very nice and provided a lot of support for the coding. Professor Parzen is great to listen to, so take this class if you're interested in statistics, trading strategies, financial programming, and improving your Excel skills.
This is a great class to take if you want to learn some basic financial statistics. If you have already taken Stat 104 with Parzen, then you know that he livens up classes that would otherwise be dull. Even so, you may find the 1.5 hour lectures to be a bit long.
good class with interesting material. supplementary teaching staff was not great. mich easier if you have taken cs50 or know some r
Decently interesting and useful skills if you want to go into finance.  Easy course within the Stat concentration.  Parzen is amazingly accessible outside of class and flexible.
The topics taught in this class are essential for anyone with an interest in (quantitative) finance. Prof. Parzen is extremely chill yet genuinely cares about his students and wants them to learn. I think some basic coding experience (i.e. familiarity with for loops, if statements, functions) would make learning R much less painful and even fun. The structure of this course also makes it extremely manageable and straightforward- roughly biweekly problem sets, a take home midterm, and a final project (that really teaches you a lot and challenges you to stretch your knowledge beyond what's directly covered in class).
If you are looking to learn R or take a stats class that is not very time-intensive, 107 fits both of those criteria. It is not required to attend lecture in order to do well in the class, but Parzen is great and so are the guest lecturers.
Parzen is great, and this class isn't too difficult.
Stat 107 is an easy introduction to R and quantitative finance. I enjoyed the homework assignments--particularly those involving Excel. The course structure is a little bit scattered and I never quite felt sure of the trajectory of teaching; however, I did enjoy the course overall. I also greatly appreciated the exposure to R as well as the 10-12 day time period we had to complete homework assignments.
You'll get as much out of this as you put in. Parzen basically throws you in the deep end when it comes to programming in R. It is super stressful and frightening. So if you haven't taken CS50, good luck. Other than that, it's a pretty chill class.
Decent course, but don't be fooled. Stat 104 is much easier than 107, let me tell you. Expect a bigger time commitment to this class.
Not much structure, difficult problem sets
Great class. Take it if you are interested in trading/investing.
Great course if you're interested in working in finance. Certain topics that you should definitely know.
Very good introduction to finance and statistics. Useful for determining interest in these fields for further study or as a career.
I went into the course thinking that we were going to get a good knowledge of the statistics used in Finance, but also Business. This was not the case. The whole class was spent almost plugging-and-chugging statistics about stocks. If you're  into that, then you'll love the class.
This class was great. It is really easy, Parzen is the man, and yet you still learn a ton about the field of statistics and its application in finance/investment management.
it's an easy way to get a stat requirement out of the way.
This is an easy class.  If you have any background in finance (through Ec 1723, 1745, Stat 123, etc.), you will find this course to be quite simple.
Wonderful class. Get to learn some really cool stuff and its also very easy. Definitely take this class!
Professor Parzen is the BEST! He knows a ton about finance and trading and would start lecture with highly useful information for anyone interested in trading such as the day trading radio, robinhood trading app, the CFA certificate and many many more. Generally, he sees his mission in generating enthusiasm about statistics, which he is highly successful in. His knowledge is so much above the level of STAT104 and STAT107, however, he manages to teach those courses in a very comprehensive way. In my opinion the best Professor at Harvard.
Stat 104's pathetic little brother.  Professor Parzen at his laziest.
You definitely get out what you put in. If you want to work hard to learn R/the statistical concepts covered, you'll gain a lot of practical knowledge and skills. However, it's pretty easy to coast through and only check in when the problem sets are due. Parzen and all the TFs are very helpful.
good if you want to know R, and some finance stuff. But careful, it's disorganized, you might not learn as much as you initially thought.
It's pretty easy, although final project is a bit cumbersome
Very easy class, you learn the basics of R that you could probably learn from a guidebook -- but it's great to get this skill under your belt at least and learn some programming.
Very low commitment class that is nice as a buffer for a difficult schedule.
Easy and interesting course.
Take if you want to learn R.
Such a gem, you learn so much.
If you come in with any kind of coding background at all (I have no formal coding classes under my belt--I've mostly taught myself so mine's not fantastic), the class is pretty easy. It might be difficult to understand the terminology if you don't go to class, but the notes will help with the HW.Parzen's fantastically hilarious and quotable and honestly, if I had questions, I found that he replies much more quickly than the TF's. (as in I literally have received replies <5 minutes more than once.)
You will get out what you put in. The problem sets only require a basic knowledge of the lecture material and you can go to section to fill in the specifics. That being sad, if you are willing to pay attention in lecture and think a little about the concepts being covered, you will come away with a lot of newfound knowledge about the stock market and finance in general. This class will also help you learn more R coding. No previous experience with R necessary to do well.
Fun, easy class. If you're looking for a class that is low-stress and need something that complements a harder schedule. This is it.
Good lower level statistics course for people interested in finance.  Teaches you the basics of R and Excel and how they can be used in a financial setting.
Take this class if you want an introduction into interesting trading strategies and the theories behind them.
I regret taking this class. I enrolled thinking that it would be an interesting introduction to business and financial statistics, and walked away unimpressed, not having learned much at all.
Very practical material and Parzen is a great guy.  Take this course if you are looking for a good class that you will learn a solid amount WITHOUT being bombarded with overwhelming amounts of stressful work -- Stat 107 is very manageable.
Very good class if you are interesting in understanding financial markets.
Interesting class with interesting material, but you can do the problem sets/midterm without actually going to class and just read the lecture slides.
really good way to get introduced into quant finance basics, but other course would be recommended if you had an advanced interest.
It's pretty awesome because you learn a lot of specific stock trading techniques.
Generally great class, lots of good information that can be very helpful in a finance or related career.
Stat107 was a great, interesting course. Professor Parzen provides an incredible amount of readings that you can pursue on your own if you are interested in that particular facet of finance. The problem sets were usually R/Excel based, and therefore exposed you to the power of these coding languages. All in all, I would highly recommend this course to peers just wrapping up Stat104.
great course to take!!! parzen is great.
The class is interesting and a good way to learn R. Don't expect to get a lot of feedback on assignments once you turn them in. But, if you keep up on your work you won't find it too difficult.
good overview of finance and stats, you definitely learn something and the class is not stressful
Definitely take it!
It's a good statistics course and shows you how to analyze stocks in the market using R, but be prepared to have to teach yourself how to figure out some of the coding in R.
If you're interested in Finance, this is a cool class to see how markets work behind the scenes. But, don't take this class if you're looking for an Ec-based view. It revolves around a math and coding viewpoint of markets and stocks. Also, be ready to have to learn a new coding language, R.
I would tell them to try really hard on the problem sets because I learned the most from them.
class is good overall, make sure you get R down in the beginning
This course is a gem if you are interested in statistics or stocks. Low work load and a very entertaining professor. A basic knowledge of coding would be helpful but isn't critical as long as you put in the effort to learn R quickly.
It's a low pressure course but I learned a lot!
You'll get a working knowledge of R and finance (stocks primarily). That said, it's very disorganized and you're expected to have a basic Econ background
Great way to get introduction to basic coding (with some finance thrown in there)
This class is easy in terms of work but the assignments are frustrating because the TFs are not good at getting back assignments or giving feedback. It is similar to Stat 104 in that the lecture slides have all the material, but it is a lot of self-learning.
GREAT CLASS, really. No attendance requirements and the homework wasn't too demanding, but it makes up 50% of your grade so be aware. The guest lecturers were really neat too. Didn't get feedback on homework because it was all submitted electronically, which kind of sucked (the lack of feedback sucked). Start the project early. If you're Stat, take this.
You are kind of stuck taking this class if you have a passing interest in statistics and do not want to go through the gauntlet that is Stat 110. This is a casual class, and it does a good job of introducing you to some basic financial topics and R. However, lecture attendance dwindles rapidly due to almost all the necessary information being on the slides.
It's a good class to learn R. Having taken CS50 the semester before, it was helpful to understand the coding.
It's Parzen.
This is a good course to take if you want to balance your workload. Only expect to learn as much as you put into it as the problem sets are very short and pretty easy to complete without actually learning the information.
NA
this class is very easyi learned next to nothing, but it was interestingi liked the guest lectures
Pretty straightforward class, but uninteresting at times and the homeworks occasionally seemed to have little point.
Stat 107 was a fun, relaxed class. Parzen is very helpful and accessible. Even if you aren't planning to work in finance in the future, I'd recommend this class.
This class taught me so much about basic finance and statistics. Learning R is also a huge help for research and work.
Psets take a lot of time (although vary in length a fair amount) but comprise the majority of the grade so is probably worth it. group project is very manageable and there is a lot of help throughout the course. worth taking.
You really get out of this course what you put in. It is really easy to just coast by, not attend lectures, and just complete the psets by going to office hours. But, if you put in the time and the effort, you can really gain useful knowledge and skills that will help you for future endeavors, such as R and Excel.
The class gives you a nice survey of the basic, high-level principles in finance. It also exposes you to coding in R and how this language can be applied in finance. Students are also exposed to interesting financial concepts both during lecture and through conversations with visiting professionals. Working on a project was a rewarding experience since it allows students to apply the class teachings. Overall, problem sets and the take-home exam were rather difficult and there was a steep learning curve with using R. However, if youre proactive and willing to attend office hours, the course requirements are manageable. Given the few assignments in the class and the lack of in-class exams, students have more time to delve more deeply in the material or balance other more time-intensive courses during the semester.
Parzen is a great professor, if you had him in 104 you know he's great. We used R which has a VERY steep learning curve. Go to office hours early on psets before they get jammed at the last minute as you will not be heard and will spend much more time than you would like to on assignments figuring out code.
Make sure to familiarize yourself with R beforehand.
Parzen is hilarious. Lectures/Sections not required. Begin Problem sets early because they take longer than you think (you don't want to pull an all nighter for one that is unexpectedly long). Still very easy and great elective, because Parzen.
Take the time to learn R. Don't have a crappy group for the project.
not very well taught
P-sets weren't too bad but take home exam was hellishly long
Fun class that doesn't require too much work but provides you with the foundations of coding in R.
This class is not difficult, but it is a course where you get out of it what you put in--you can get by pset to pset by just reading online lecture notes, but honestly if you actually try to understand the material you will find that there is a lot you can learn from it. Another perk is that you learn how to use R, which is useful not only for this course but for other statistics courses.
I really enjoyed this class and feel I learned a lot! I know there are two camps on Parzen, but I definitely fall in the camp that thinks he's great and is entertained by his dumb jokes. I gained many R and Excel skills that I think will be very useful in the real world and just felt overall that the class was good preparation for a finance summer internship. The guest lecturers were also very interesting, although not particuarly relevant to the problem sets and class material.
This class is an exercise in figuring out the correct code. Little to no statistics learned
This class is easy. If you put in some effort you will do well (although psets can take time because they are a bit tedious). You will gain an understanding of R, which is useful for jobs in the future. However, I do not believe the professor took this class very seriously. I felt I could have learned much more on this subject than I did. If you plan on taking this, do so to balance out a very hard course load or as a 5th class. Has potential to be a great class!
Not much work, but when you do....its not easy
STAT 107 is an ideal introduction to statistics applied on financial markets. Also, it gives a good introduction into R and advanced Excel functions. You will understand portfolio theory and different measures of risk for financial investments.
it is easy and the material is something good to know, but not anything concrete.
This class teaches you useful information about financial statistics.  There are not many assignments, but the ones you do have are often time consuming and difficult.
Very useful course for those who wish to go into finance.  Assignments are difficult and OH is necessary to do them, but you will learn a lot about R and financial markets by the end of the course.
Take this class if you are actually interested in finance or business modeling, and enjoy statistics. If you don't like the subject of the class, you will get really annoyed with it. All of the psets revolve around coding in R, which is not bad. A very powerful tool that you should know how to use (even though I don't know if I will ever need to use it again...). Nonetheless, the class is really easy. No exams, only psets, take home exam, and final project. Everything is graded super easy, so it would be hard to not get an A, unless you really don't do work. Some of the psets can be super tedious - I remember spending 10-15 hours on one of them, but the majority of them are pretty quick and fun to do. Again, if you are interested in the subject matter, you will find everything the class covers to be very interesting. Parzen is hilarious and lectures are enjoyable, but you'll find out that you can skip a lot of them and be just fine haha.
It's a solid class with a lot to take in. You make what you put in. Less effort, not as much learning. The more effort, you can learn a lot. Like a lot.
This class was pretty disorganized. The topics were interesting, but it didn't feel like a stat class. If you are unfamiliar with R, you will have a difficult time acclimating once the problem sets actually start getting pretty R-heavy.
Course is what you make of it. I'm not a finance whiz now, but I feel comfortable working in R and enjoyed doing most of the Psets
Great class if you have any interest in Finance. Very, very applicable. Pretty much got me a job while taking the class.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time coding
The workload is very manageable.
Parzen is a bro and a great lecturer. It is a very good introduction for learning how to use R.
I loved this class. Only problem sets, take home midterm, and final project, so although it definitely has a lot of work, it is relatively low stress. Highly recommend for anyone interested in finance and quant work.
lots of independent work
This is an easy statistics course, the hardest part is getting the R code to work. It's not very useful in terms of really learning R even though it seems like you are expected to know it by the end of the course.
Go to lecture! its the best
Guys. This class is a gem. There is no final. They help you a ton on the homework. The midterm is essentially a homework assignment. Plus Parzen is hilarious. If your STAT, or if you just want to know a little more about STAT take it.
Excellent class but you should definitely know some programming (CS 50 is enough).
Great class to learn R and some basic facts about finance. Lots of coding required. Not impossible to do, but problem sets and take-home midterm are time consuming.
The BEST class I have taken at harvard. GO to lecture You will learn so much :)
Finance is key, and this is the class to take
STAT 107 provides a great introduction to R. The teaching staff is also very helpful, and office hours are the best resource when you have homework or final project questions. The midterm was also extremely manageable - would definitely recommend!
This course is a must take for anyone who wants to eventually end up as a trader.
Take this course, its very fun and extremely interesting.
This class is challenging if you have no prior coding experience. I spent many hours on all the problem sets and the midterm. The class also gives a great exposure to many business concepts. Going to office hours and sections definitely help.
Take this class especially if it is out of your concentration/regular interests. Everyone should know this material for life. Where else will you get to learn about Pairs Trading and implement a Simple Moving Average trading algorithm?
This class gives you a nice introduction to the different methods of portfolio analysis as well as an introduction to R. These skills are useful for anyone interested in finance, economics, and statistics.
Very interesting introduction to finance for people with no prior background knowledge
Use the TFs, they are awesome and really want to help.  Parzen is also a really fun lecturer.  The psets and midterm were brutal if you do not take the time to go to office hours and learn R well if you haven't already had it in another course.
Great way to become acquainted with finance if you are considering recruiting
If you're not used to pset classes, this will definitely be a shock. Having said that, if you do the work it is hard to get a bad grade
Great intro to quantitative tools for finance, especially for those new to the field. Make the most of section and office hours to really learn how to apply the concepts learned in class.
If you are a statistics concentrator, this class is incredibly easy. I only attended 2 classes in total and was still able to do very well in the class. Parzen is a great guy, and the teaching staff he hires is awesome and very dedicated. The psets are sort of busy work, but are kind of soothing. I am personally not very interested in finance, but this was a nice class to count for concentration credit and to balance out a tough semester of job recruiting.
The best thing is Parzen. He is so awesome, and the subject is strong.
The course is pretty easy, but it's definitely helpful if you want to go into finance of some sort.
I would like to tell students that the material is very interesting and you get a lot of support from the TFs, so taking this class is useful, informative, and not too difficult.
Do not take this course. The course is a comedy of errors with slow to no assignment feedback, useless feedback when it comes in, and a midterm that does not at all gauge your knowledge of the material. The course does not succeed in teaching R to its students nor does it succeed in teaching finance theory to its students. The statistical results are equally absent. In fine, you could certainly find a more useful course to fill the slot for which you are considering Stat 107.
Very useful- Teaches you R (use R!), finance concepts you might not learn elsewhere, workload is very reasonable. You kind of meander through the syllabus, but unless you're dying to stay right on schedule the pace is actually nice.
Overall, Stat 107 is a good class. I think it's somewhat disorganized and lectures are unproductive (unless you enjoy the Parzen rants). With that said, the material is interesting, and the time investment is doable. I don't think anything's going to blow your mind/don't think you will be ready to go to Wall Street after this class, but it's kinda just interesting stuff to know about and be aware of if you think you have an interest in finance.
It is helpful to go into this class knowing some basic programming. You don't necessarily need to know R before taking the class.
Take this course and go to OH!
Thoroughly disorganized and not the intro to i-banking/finance that most of you Harvard kids are looking for in preparation for eventual recruiting.
The class is not very time consuming. If you are interested in the stock market and trading, this will be a good course for you. The structure of the class is not very good.
The course is very interesting and exciting. If you are interested in financial statistics and finance in general, the course can be a great one for you.
Very good intro to financial stats. Not an excessive amount of work, and the psets are actually pretty interesting. You should have some knowledge of R or the willingness to work a little bit to learn it.
Extremely easy class.  Parzen makes things interesting in lecture, TFs are outstanding#iDGoombaForPrez
Great class in business stats! You will learn about how to cycle through stocks and analyze stock returns.
If you are interested in the stock market, and trade regularly for fun (like I do), then this is the class for you. The topics Mike Parzen covers coincided closely with the content of one of my favorite alternative finance online shows/podcasts and so going to class felt like the formalized statistics version of stuff I'm already interested in. The problem sets are very hands-on and relevant to real things you'd investigate based off these topics.This time around, Mike kept talking about Pairs trading (couldn't figure out why). But great way to program more in R, especially if you're already coming from a programming or stat background and have some interest in the finance part.
Low workload class but learn lots about finance.
take the psets seriously because they count A LOT towards the final grade and the problems may also feature in the midterm. TJ is a great tf if still available. Most of the R programming you'll have to teach yourself though.
If you're a stat concentrator, only take this class if you want to fulfill your requirements in the easiest way possible. You won't learn much otherwise.
STAT107 is a really cool course because it teaches you how to code in R. I would say that the "stat" part of this class is very limited and you aren't doing a lot of calculations yourself-it's all coded. I would definitely take if you have any interest in the stock market. If you put int the time it's a really cool class and if you don't have time to put in, the class could work for you too. Our year the lectures were taped, and all resources are online so if that's the way you work this class is perfect!
This class is great, especially if you already know R since the assignments and take-home midterm are all R. You can do assignments in groups of 3, which makes things so much easier, especially if you start doing that after the take-home midterm. It was the perfect class to balance out my schedule.
if you know R, it won't be hard at all
It is very applicable, yet the structure of the course is bad.
This is a fantastic course for all students who are in any way interested in finance and investing - no matter where they are in their undergraduate careers. It has a manageable course load, but I would say that if you don't have any programming experience, basic things like "for" loops might make assignments a little tough. Parzen convinced me to switch from Stata and Excel to R.
Don't be fooled by the first few weeks of relatively straight-forward coding. If you have not had a ton of coding experience and don't have time to put in the work to figure it out (i.e. go to all sections and office hours, watch extra videos, etc.) then I wouldn't recommend this course. Also, the problem sets do not at all prepare you for the timed take-home midterm. If you don't have substantial coding background, the problem sets get really difficult and the midterm is extremely long. The curve was a life-saver, but I thought this course would be more friendly to a wide range of backgrounds. Also, I thought I would learn a bit more stats and finance in the process, but a lot of what we learned isn't applicable unless you're going into a really technical finance field. If that's your plan, this class is awesome and Parzen is great about providing resources for people who are on that track. If that's not your vibe or if you're not experienced in coding, I wouldn't recommend the course.
I really liked this class, and Professor Parzen is awesome. Although they allow you to do homework in committee, you probably learn a lot more from doing it individually. You can get to know R a decent amount if you put the appropriate time and effort into it. The homework can take a long time and there was a lot of time pressure for the exam.
This is a great course if your interested in statistics. Has a great professor, and isn't too time consuming
This is a great course if you are interested in finance/investing and applying statistics to these fields.  It is also a great class if you have very little background in either of these and want some basic introductory material.
Interesting. Low workload. Very fair assessments. Good to work with groups.
I really liked this course! Probably one of my favorites so far because it has practical applications. Psets are probably the best part of the course, easy and fun and informative. Just don't expect any feedback. Final project was not great but it's only 10% of your grade. Go to lecture!! It's fun.
If you put in the work and study, you'll do well. Nothing particularly mind-blowing.
I didn't have any coding experience, so it was a bit more challenging than it was for others with a CS background or strong Stat background.
This class is not very hard but to really get a lot out of it you have to put in the time and effort to really master the material. That is not possible if you restrict yourself to just the assignments which are intentionally not very hard. Try to go over board on the project and do R simulations on your own for fun. That will help you learn way more!
Useful material and generally well-taught. The final project was also fun to work on, and you can either learn a lot or a little, depending how much work you are willing to put in!
Great course.  VERY applicable to students hoping to go into the finance field.  Cant go wrong with Parzen.
Parzen is great, as this class offers you a chance to dip your feet in the world of finance without you having to get all that wet.
It is very relaxed; lectures aren't necessary to complete the problem sets.
