I learned very different ways to analyse the data, which I have not been familiar with at all before. But, I believe that it will help my research.
This course is best for students with prior commitment to spatial statistics, The workload is heavy while classes are in session so a full-time student must combine it with some final-exam courses
I would recommend the course but urge them to consider their stats background in making their decision. Also, they should have an idea of what kind of research they want to do so that they can get the most out of the final project for the course.
This class teaches an important method of statistical analysis, but requires strong statistical background to understand deeply.
Challenging, but you'll love what you learn
You will work hard and you will learn a lot. Definitely take this class.
It's a good course overall, and it provides an opportunity to do a project in your research area of interest with the advice and feedback of a very good instructor and his staff. This course is a good complement to other stats courses.
I learned a lot in the class, but most of the learning comes through doing the problem sets and project, because the lecture moves quickly. You will get more out of the class if you have a familiarity with spatial stats when you enroll.
The subject is extremely useful, but be prepared to do a lot learning on your own outside of lectures to get an idea of what is actually going on.
In short, Luke's course is the ideal model of a graduate level Statistics course for a number of reasons:- Subject matter: spatial stats is a fusion of a broad swath of fascinating Statistical subjects such as gaussian processes, stochastic processes, graphical models, and computation, all in the context of solving interesting scientific problems ranging from climate science to astrophysics.- Structure:  Homeworks have the feel of real research problems and do not grind you down due to frequency. Students get the chance to practice presenting and communicating research, through paper reading and a NESS poster which is excellent training for actually doing research (as opposed to solving textbook problems.)- Instructor: Luke is always very well prepared for his lectures, sharp, and to the point in addition to being personable and open to meeting with students on a one on one basis.
Luke and Alex are a great team!
This course can provide you with a lot of useful tools for your research. I highly recommend it for any graduate student doing spatial work of any kind.
Great class, I really enjoyed it!
