Make sure you are very comfortable with high school and 21a level calculus. Make sure you understand functions (they are more nuanced than people realize) and infinite series (which people tend to forget after the AP). Know that there are very good materials available online to supplement Professor Blitzstein's book. State colleges have a lot of material freely available. To really learn a topic, find some straight-forward practice problems online (just Google "[topic name] solved problems"), drill those problems, then do the problems from the book then the homework problems. Make sure you take the time to learn the math notation and keywords used in the book. This can be done with a small amount of Googling as well. Symmetry is a bit of an elusive topic, but make sure you get a grip on that right away. Note that symmetry appears when dealing with distributions (e.g. the Normal) as well as random variables (e.g. iid random variables). Be sure that you can do every example in the text-portion of the book on your own. Also note that homework problems are fair game for exams, so do not just do the homework, hand it in, and forget about it. Be sure you can redo any homework problem after you have handed it in. Most of all: do not slack off and do not be intimidated. Just be prepared.
Be prepare to take a lot of time on homework
If you attend lecture, read the textbook, and don't get behind on your work, Stat 110 is not only a wonderful class, but one which will help you learn a lot about probability and the ways in which you can use it. Highly recommended!
very hard
Challenging but rewarding.
Do a lot of practice problems!  The fortunate thing is that you will never have to memorize the theorems or formulas, but you will need to know how to recognize problem types.
This class is rewarding and central to statistics, but very difficult and not taught effectively, so prepare to struggle hard.
This course is excellent. Joe prioritizes understanding the "story" behind the math, emphasizing intuition over blind memorization, and this makes the material much more engaging than it would be otherwise. I learned a ton in office hours working through the problem sets with my classmates.
Be prepared for a hard semester.
You have to work really hard but it will be totally worth it.
Blitzstein's approach to teaching statistics through stories is very refreshing. That said, this is definitely a very difficult course- be prepared to put in 10-15 hours per homework. It's all worth it in the end though!
The lectures aren't bad, but the book explains things more precisely, and reading the book takes less time.  The book is basically a replication of the lectures, so it has all the info necessary to do well in the course.
This is a great course and great teacher (Blitzstein), is you are interested in statistics definitely you have to take it, if not, you should also take, you will learn a lot or probability and statistics and the most important part is that you will enjoy every lecture.
Know everything every week and don't wait to understand material.
Very demanding but extremely rewarding course
This class is like math team in high school. It is VERY well-run. There is a lot of support from the teaching staff, lots of office hours, good sections, lots of practice materials. Professor Blitzstein has been teaching this class for a decade and really knows what he is doing. I found the problem sets fair and enjoyable.
Topics are covered too quickly and expected to understand too much information without really being taught it thoroughly
Read the textbook and do practice problems.  If/WHEN you need help ask for it!  I think to be fair to the material and yourself, you need to devote time, and a lot of it, to gain understanding on the topics covered. You need to read the textbook and attend/watch lectures because stat 110 is all about theory, and you need to do practice problems to learn how to apply this stuff to answering questions - which is what tests are. We all have busy schedules, and speaking for myself, I did not think I had any time that I could've spent doing more stat, but looking back now I would go back and FIND that time.  Stat 110 is daunting, but you can get through it and you cannot be afraid of asking for help.
The class is very difficult. Reach out to the staff and your peers.
Even though I definitely did not do this class very well, it's still amazing nonetheless. The material is a lot of fun, and the course is run extremely well. Blitzstein is very good about providing lots of resources, and since he writes all the problem sets and tests, there's a centralized authority for issues.
This is a great class! The material can be tricky at times, but I learned so much, and Joe is a really great teacher. Exams are definitely easier than problem sets (because the purpose of the problem sets is to get you to think about the material and collaborate with others, not to test you), so don't let problem set difficulty discourage you from taking the course. Exam problems all tend to be very similar to example problems done in class, so as long as you really understand those problems you should be fine.
This class will take a lot of time but he information learned is invaluable.
Only take this class if necessary due to concentration requirements. Extremely difficult but very rewarding.
If you are in social science/humanities don't go into this expecting to learn applicable skills for your research. You won't. But you will gain confidence in your ability to use quantitative methods and an interest in/love for probability.
This class is hard but ultimately rewarding. It is very theoretical but Professor Blitzstein has an overwhelming amount of material for you to practice with. Just stay on top of everything and do as much practice as you can. I probably wouldn't recommend if you are just looking for a taste of statistics- its pretty comprehensive.
This class could not be better taught. Blitzstein strikes the optimal difficulty level in problem sets, challenging but very realistic given the material covered in lecture. He wrote his own book (a textbook I will definitely keep) so the class is incredibly well paced and makes you recognize the beauty of statistics.The problem sets are difficult, but in the "i cant wait to figure this out" sense, not the feeling that you are underprepared. You'll walk away from this class realizing how much you can learn and how fun it can be.
Your soul will die slowly, but you will feel triumphant in the end that it won't matter.
This is a fantastic class, and Blitzstein is a fantastic professor - if you want a fundamental understanding of probability and a new way of understanding the inherent uncertainty in evidence, decisions, and the world in general, this class and Blitzsteins method of teaching intuition is pretty wonderful. Dont be scared off either - this class covers a lot of material, but its definitely manageable if you put in the time and make sure to keep up with understanding why things work the way they do, rather than trying to get by with pattern-matching.
Probably the hardest course I've taken at Harvard, yet definitely one of the most interesting.
This course was very interesting and I learned an incredible amount. It was challenging but also very rewarding.
If you have seen *any* probability before, this will likely not be very useful. I did not learn much in this class.
Want a class that changes the way you think about the world and will be the foundation for all the classes you ever take and will be super marketable in the work place or grad school! STAT 110 is the answer. Joe literally teaches you the art of being clever!
Stat 110 is a super interesting course and you definitely learn a lot. Its very difficult, but the material isn't impossible if you study in multiple iterations. Dropping psets is not a great idea since its hard to catch up on the material, but sometimes you just have to! Overall, I enjoyed the course a lot and had a good time
If you're even considering take this class, you definitely should! There are so many potential benefits, from gaining statistical intuition to practicing problem solving skills for stuff like interviews.
A rewarding experience and one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Just be prepared for a lot of work.
Great class, it changes the way you think, approach problems, and the way you approach life--just be prepared to work hard.
I honestly think I failed the course and it has marred my academic career. Sure, the subject matter is interesting, but despite the hours I put into the class, I still didn't manage to do well. Proceed with caution.
Very difficult material and a lot of work, but it is well-taught and seems applicable to a variety of fields. If you put in the effort, there is a good amount of payback.
This course was pretty much what I expected. Very hard -- I couldn't complete the problem sets alone -- but definitely worth the work, and I think my problem solving skills and intuition about probability have developed a lot. When you're done with the course, it really feels like you've accomplished something/gone to hell and back. Blitzstein is a great professor, too.
Take this class.  But be forewarned that you need to either have a strong probability background or spend a lot of time to succeed.  Also know that while Joe likes to say that he's not focusing on the calculus, and the course does emphasize conceptual learning, you will have a lot of trouble if you don't feel very comfortable on the algebra/calculus of it.
Difficult course but go for it! You learn so much, and it is extremely rewarding. Make sure to start HWs early and go to office hours! Don't be too intimidated- just know it will take some investment of time.
Will take a good amount of effort to remember and comprehend later material but will definitely be worth it to gain the ability to apply that material to real world problems and scenarios.
A challenging but extremely rewarding course. The course has numerous resources (strategic practices, practice exams, office hours) to ensure that you understand the material. If you put in the work, it's relatively manageable to get a good grade.
While this has been marketed in Harvard culture as a "must take" class, for non stat/math concentrators, I would recommend watching a few lecture online first to really get the feel before signing on. I have no regrets taking the course, but do feel it was overhyped.
You will have to work extremely hard to do well in this class, but if you really like probability you will enjoy it.
It is hard. It is not as fun as I thought it would be. You should do practice problems every week. The homework is SO LONG EVERY SINGLE WEEK. But the book is amazing and you learn very useful stuff. It is a class you should take, like it or not, and it is by no means a class you will hate, you might just not love it.
Great class that really pushed me to think in a different way! Stat110 may seem scary -- I was definitely nervous at the beginning -- but it was very fulfilling. There are SO many resources -- 8 practice exams for every final, and a textbook that directly matches what we're learning in lecture, with the same problem examples. It didn't end up being as time consuming as I thought it would be -- while the problem sets are hard, office hours are very helpful and it's fun (and more efficient) to work with other people. Overall, great class and would highly recommend!
I would definitely recommend this course to anybody who is willing to spend the time and effort into learning this material. However, Stat110 should be taken as the "one hard course" for the semester, as it is difficult to manage the workload and keep up with the material if you are also taking other classes of similar difficulty. The class moves at a reasonable pace if you are willing to dedicate your semester to it.
WORK HARD ON PROBLEM SETS! Don't stare at a problem, decide you can't figure it out and ask your friends/TF for the answer. I learned this rather late and didn't develop a healthy approach to solving problems...then on the midterm I suffered. Otherwise, I recommend taking at least 2 of the practice midterms/finals in a testing setting (yes that means waking up at x am, going through the motions you would on exam day and heading over to Cabot or Lamont and taking it "for real."
Great intro class but requires at least a decent math background. Difficulty is overstated I think. Much easier than math 25 so if you are taking that class, you'll have no trouble with this. Don't underestimate it though, even though the first half of the class may seem very familiar to people with experience in competition math.
This is a fantastic course taught by Prof Blitzstein. He is funny and clear, and the textbook and abundance of office hours helps make a difficult course more manageable. I found the first half of the course to be more interesting than the second half since the second half felt like just generalizing a lot of things you learned in the first half, although the last lecture(s) on Markov chains were super interesting. Overall, it's a tough but worthwhile course.
If you're a stat major, this is a req. course. I personally wasn't satisfied with the lectures, so I went to watch the 2011 ones on youtube, which are better organized and go over topics more in-depth. Be sure to understand topics as you go, or it's easy to fall behind and very,very hard to recover. Truly understand the key concepts and hw problems. At the end, this will pay off when studying for midterm/final.
Stat 110 is one of the most influential courses at Harvard. You WILL be pushed to think on your own and you'll learn the tools to solve so many real-world problems. Blitzstein and the TFs are amazing and really care about every student UNDERSTANDING the material, not just finishing the psets. Definitely take no matter what you plan on doing at Harvard/beyond.
I can't recommend this class enough.  Joe Blitzstein is an amazing teacher, the problems are fun (although sometimes tricky!), and while it is not an applied course, it provides a great foundation for tackling applied problems later on.  It is definitely hard, but you will learn a lot.  Absolutely worth taking for anyone in the natural sciences, social sciences, or CS.
Carefully taught, with lots of resources.  Solid theoretical foundation in probability, which is more applicable to real world situations than it may seem at first.  Working in a group on problem sets is very useful. Material is plentiful and challenging, but the teaching is extremely well executed.
I loved this class. I took it as an elective to see why everyone thought it was so legendary. The material is really interesting and if you do all the practice tests before the exams, you should be fine. I would only take it, though, if you are someone who enjoys problem solving and thinking creatively about analytical problems.
This may not be the easiest class and you will probably not get an A but it is worth it. You learn so much and the material is very enjoyable!
This class is a lot of work and is quite difficult.  If you like statistics/find it interesting, perhaps the effort needed would be worthwhile.  I unfortunately did not find it very interesting and thus somewhat painful.  It depends person to person.
Pretty tough but not as bad as people make it out to be - diligence makes it fairly manageable, as does the "drop 2 Psets without penalty policy" and the class is definitely worthwhile from an educational standpoint. Blitzstein is HILARIOUS and a really nice guy. Beware- the pace and difficulty picks up significantly after the midterm - the latter half of the semester is much harder.
It's a great class, but don't put it alongside other hard classes in a semester.
I found that the psets averaged around ten hours each week, though this varies a lot from person to person. This number doesn't include textbook readings, which I highly recommend - the textbook is really good.I bought the textbook early and read through the first few chapters before the term started which helped me hit the ground running and not get overwhelmed by the beginning of the class.Get a strong psetting group/study buddies who you can rely on, and who plan to work on the psets around the same time of the week that you do (they're due in Friday noon, so plan for that).Find a good section leader, and go to section, even though they're optional. They really help your confidence and help to reinforce the main points of the material for that week - it can be easy to feel as though you're drowning in too much information, but section kinda distills it all, which is nice.
Easy if you have math competition experience, but otherwise you may have to deal with randomly not being able to do problems just because you aren't used to applying concepts that you've seen but aren't necessarily familiar with
Although the material is quite difficult and the class is time consuming, the material is very cool, and Blitztein is a great lecturer. One of the best things about the class was the amount of support resources available. There are lots of practice problems and tests for the midterm and final, office hours are constant, and there are lots of sections.
GO TO SECTION!! If you do nothing else for this class, go to section and office hours. Blitzstein is a terrible lecturer - he treats everything (even the most counter-intuitive stuff) as if it's obvious and doesn't properly explain anything so the TFs will be your saving grace in this class. Also, get a pset group together EARLY, the concepts pile up fast and it really helps if you have multiple minds to tackle them with. That said, this is a fun class  if you approach it correctly (DON'T GO IT ALONE) and you do learn a lot by the end of it.
Work harder than I did.
Great class! The psets are challenging yet doable. Very helpful class for higher level stat/math/cs classes
Stat110 is a very polished course -- it's not trivial, but nor is it too frustrating or stressful. The material is clearly useful, and very cool once you understand it! Blitzstein is an excellent lecturer, and the textbook pretty much follows and enhances the lectures (which makes sense, since Blitzstein wrote it...)Overall, I would recommend the course for anyone who wants to have some basic knowledge of how to view the world. It's relatively painless, and one of the most smoothly run courses I have taken here at Harvard.
practice, practice and practice, if you have time
Read the text book!
This class is awesome! I feel so much smarter for taking it. Makes me think critically about the world and how to predict the future with probability. Blitzstein is fantastic and his lectures are always very clear and to the point, no BS.
It is very hard but an interesting class.
This is a challenging class, but it's also a very rewarding one. Blitzstein is a good lecturer and makes the problem sets interesting. The teaching staff is generally good; make sure to shop around and find a section that works best for you.
Great great course, all you need is calculus but expect to spend a lot of time.
It's a good class, but difficult at times. Really requires some time and effort to understand all the concepts to do well. Second half is much less intuitive.
This is not an easy class, but it is a fantastic class. You will come away with a TON of new knowledge and understanding. The problems are elegant and well-constructed and the teaching staff is incredible.
This is a challenging course but very useful and important.
If you put in the time, it is very manageable.  Problem sets are much more enjoyable if started early.  The textbook is really well written, and there are lots of resources to practice.  A really solid course on probability, with some really cool counterintuitive results.  I definitely want to take more stat courses. Prof. Blitzstein is exceptional at making most results at least somewhat intuitive.
Put in the time and actually make the effort to keep up with lecture (be it going to lecture or watching the video). It makes understanding and the homeworks much easier. Also, read the book! It helps. It will also save a lot of time if you stop and think before trying to do problems rather than rushing headlong into it.
This class is hard. You will need to study consistently and do practice problems outside of the regular psets to succeed.
This is the best class ever. It is super interesting and relevant (yes, even to daily life). It is hard and demanding, but it is not as bad as everyone says. If you read the book, you will be leagues ahead of most other people. Honestly, best class I've ever taken. Just in a league of its own.
This is a wonderful course.  The material is engaging, challenging, and extremely applicable to real life.  The resources are endless; from practice problems to office hours, if you are willing to spend the time, you can improve.  The practice problems, tests, and textbook are extremely well designed; the course would be worth taking just for what it does for your general problem-solving ability.  Finally, Blitzstein is a clear and engaging lecturer, and a really nice guy.  He responded to a minor administrative email of mine in about 2 minutes, pretty amazing for a guy who does all that he does.Yeah, yeah, it will be hard.  If you don't want something that's going to push you to your limits, then don't take it.  Blitzstein is correct when he gives the anecdote that even Math 55 kids can find this hard; I had taken math 25 and Stat110 was still hard, so be aware of that.  Even Leibniz struggled with basic probability...That said, it's one of the most worthwhile courses I've taken here, and I couldn't recommend it more.
This class is either a get it or you don't course.
It's difficult but rewarding, and Prof Blitzstein is one of the most engaging and thoughtful (not to mention brilliant) people on campus.
VERY time intensive. 15 hours a week may be reasonable to expect if you are new to probability THEORY.
It's hard but it is very worth it. Stat 110 is a base for so much stuff!
This course is hard but really rewarding and VERY cool. One of the only classes at Harvard that genuinely increases your "math literacy." Also so well taught and organized, you'll never be frustrated with the course because there are literally 30h of OH every week not to mention a ton of online resources. So if you fail this class its really only your fault. If you can do the psets (which you can @ OH) and you can get within 1 standard dev of the mean on the exams, you'll get at least a B!! so dont take it for fear of getting a C bcz you really wont
awesome class. you will have the support you need to learn a lot.
Take this, great class, thoroughly enjoyed but very difficult
This is just a very well-taught and well-supported class.
Stat110 is a course that every student should take. It offers a new perspective with which to view the world, and is a strong foundation in statistics.
Very tough course but an essential foundation for any statistical research
This course is an extremely valuable class as it forces you to really think and struggle through problems. A lot of tough problem-solving is involved and it might come easily to you, but what's most valuable is reading the book and doing a lot of practice problems to reinforce what you've done in class, and problem sets will then be a lot better.
It's a lot of work - don't underestimate the amount of time you'll spend on this course.
This is an interesting class but also a very challenging one. The first half of the course is very tangible and goes over probability as someone would think of who hasn't formally studied the subject before. The second half of the course gets very theoretical and mathematical, and requires a lot of time and dedication to grasp outside of simply attending lectures. Problem sets start easy but escalate very quickly, and exams are difficult. That said, the class is rewarding and really impacts how you think about the world, and I'd highly recommend it to anyone who doesn't have an extra-challenging schedule already outside of this class and is interested in cool paradoxes, coincidences, thinking about things mathematically, and can put in the time to learn the theoretical parts well.
Go to multiple sections of necessary. Do homeworks early. Get help as soon as you know you need it.
This course really builds on itself.  Do not let yourself fall behind at any point.  After the midterm, I felt like I deserved a break and focused on my other classes for a week and after that I felt completely lost for the rest of the term.  The class moves quickly.  Use your resources wisely.  Only take this class if you really know you can stay on top of your work, and definitely not with anything else high workload/difficulty.All of that being said, I really hated this class once I fell behind.  It made me feel stupid and gave me so much anxiety.  STAY ON TOP OF YOUR WORK.
This is a good class, but is very hard.
The textbook is the most helpful aspect of the course. Good preparation for the exams is rereading the textbook. Luckily, we have the option of dropping two psets. If you are going to exercise this option, do it for the first two psets while you are still getting up to pace with your other classes.
much of the class is about brute memorization of certain problems and their results... but on the whole the class teaches you how to think and solve problems
Amazing class! You learn so much, especially when cramming for the final! But it's so worth it at the end when you realize how (or more) intuitive probability is for you now. Totally recommend everyone from all concentrations to take this class. It'll give you an intuitive sense for probability and a more mature mathematical thinking. The support for this class is great, with books, lots of notes, lots and lots of sections, and lots and lots and lots of practice material. Blitzstein and the TF's really care about your learning, and while there are a lot of ppl taking the class, the TF's try to be really available too. The material is definitely difficult and will require you to put in a lot of time, but it's definitely possible to do this class with less math background. Warning, most people will stop paying attention to the class after the first midterm, but the stuff after the first midterm gets super hard!
It definitely takes time!
Make this class your first priority for the semester. It's an interesting perspective to gain but you need to put in the time
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. Everything about it is simply amazing, but the thing that stands out the most is the focus on problem solving, and on intuition rather than brute computation (with only minimal sacrifices of mathematical rigor). This makes the class fun and enjoyable. As for difficulty, I think that if you have a high school contest math background (e.g. AMC/AIME) this will be a relatively painless extension of those concepts. But I have many friends who took the course without such a background and still found it very manageable- especially since you're allowed to drop 2 homeworks, and each homework is a consistent and very fair 7 problems. Also, I think having a good conceptual understanding of calculus (distinct from just knowing how to take derivatives and integrals) will make this class seem much more natural and straightforward, although it is not strictly necessary to do well in the course since again the emphasis is on intuition, not calculation. There's also a wealth of resources for help, from the extremely well-written textbook (which is essentially a carbon copy of this course since Blitzstein wrote it!) to the wonderful TFs who hold an inordinate number of sections and office hours every week. Highly recommend this class to anyone, and I loved it so much that I really want to TF it next year!
This is a super rewarding class if you start your psets early and go to Matt's OH. The more practice problems you do, the better you'll do on the midterm and final.
Don't expect this to be easy, but it sure is rewarding.
Definitely not a breeze of a course, but I thought workload and difficulty were not as terrible as I'd been told (at least until I got destroyed by the final). Problem sets are challenging but fun to work through, especially with a buddy, if you like problem-solving. Learned so much and am super happy I took the class even though I'm sure my GPA will suffer -- it's a much better experience if you go to lecture!
The class is a good, but challenging at times, introduction to probability. The sections are helpful, but some of the undergraduate TFs are a bit disorganized.
Learn how to apply probability models to real life situations
The tests are very difficult. But I feel that I took a lot away from the course.
This course is not easy, but it's certainly one that you can track your progress in. The material is hard to grasp for most people and it takes a lot of active understanding and doing practice problems. I think the amount you learn and how applicable it is to real life makes it worth it, though.
It's a fun class! Worth taking.
Looking back on the semester, I really learned a lot through this course. It wasn't just the sheer amount of material we covered, but it was also the relevance of the material to real-world applications. Before this class, I didn't realize how prevalent these concepts are in all career fields, so this class is definitely a great introduction.However, just know that this class will need to be your priority in your schedule for the entire semester. The psets take on average of 8-10 hours a week and the readings are pretty dense to get through. In addition, you'd probably want to dedicate some time on the side to do practice problems on your own to get a firm command over the material.
Na
It's a prereq for many courses and an official/unofficial requirement for several concentrations, so you might not have much of a choice. That being said, it's extremely difficult. Stat 110 covers more material than any other course I have ever taken -- Blitzstein goes through 600 dense textbook pages by the end of the semester. Psets are very difficult, and you will need help from TFs or fellow students to complete them. If you don't keep up with lecture and learn the material on your own, you will absorb very little and be unprepared for the difficult exams. Blitzstein's lectures are sometimes enjoyable, but they are pretty much ripped right from the textbook (his textbook), so if you can learn directly from the textbook well, you will be in good shape.
This class requires an insane amount of time. STart the problem sets early in the week if you can. You will learn a lot but it is really hard work and frustrating at times
I enjoyed this class, but found it moderately difficult. However, it was not as difficult as I had originally expected. If you attend lecture or read the book (they complement each other quite well), you will do quite well on the psets. Make use of office hours. I didn't attend section at all and I was fine, though perhaps that wouldn't be the case for everyone. Joe is awesome and his lectures are very clear.
life changing :)
I think I got a lot out of this class, but it was v. difficult and there was little help along the way.
This class is difficult. The material is often difficult to intuitively understand, but if you do enough practice through psets and practice exams, you should be able to do well. Section and office hours are very helpful, and going to lecture (or at least watching the recordings) is tremendously helpful for understanding which concepts are important.
Do many practice problems.
Stat 110 is one of those classes that everyone should take. It is so important just to be a good citizen. It develops a rigorous way to deal with uncertainty, which is very important in the real world. It is important in evaluating the things people say in their everyday lives as well as articles from the media. A rigorous way to deal with uncertainty is crucial in making good decisions in this world! As far as the course is concerned, Blitzstein does a fantastic job giving intuition behind concepts, and there's a lot of help available. The course will be difficult, but well worth the time.
This course is definitely difficult, but the professor is great.  He teaches the material in an understandable way and the book is great to help reinforce the material.
Very hard but fun class. Many people watch all the videos before school starts so you better do it too, or else you get behind.
This course is taught as well as you could ask for. That said, THINK VERY CAREFULLY before taking it. Make sure you really are interested in the material. The textbook is available online. Look through it and look at what you'll be learning in the course. It's extremely difficult without a strong math background. It feels much more like a "math" class than a "stat" class. There is a lot of calculus and there are no graphs or regressions.
This course was hard for me, but extremely useful. Serves as a basis for lots of great courses like CS181. Start psets early!!! Go to OH!!!
It is very helpful but also very difficult and at a very quick pace
They say that this course will "change the way you think forever", but I really didn't find that. It was just another bland math course. Fine for CS concentrators, but don't expect anything amazing.
Really difficult course
This course is fantastic and I highly recommend it.  Joe Bliztstein is among the best, if not the best, teaching professors at Harvard.  He truly cares about his material and students, and he makes everything so clear.  It's a hard course, but it's worth it. (also it's a probability course, not a pure statistics course, so be aware if you fulfulling a "stat" requirement).  I'm so prepared for machine learning now (I'm CS).
I really enjoyed taking this class. It took a significant amount of work, but we covered so much information in this class and it is taught very effectively. A decent amount of work, but the TFs are very helpful with any questions you might have.
This course is of course challenging, but if you really like a mathematical savory challenge, go for it! This course really changes your perspectives about the basic statistical principles in life. The more problems you do, the more you become engaged with the material, and the better you become at solving the problems. So the key is to attempt as many problems as possible. However, I'd warn you that if you have a very busy or tough semester, you might want to steer away. This class will only add to the stress.
As long as you make time for it, Stat110 is a great course that will improve your problem solving abilities.
This is a really great course. The material is a bit boring at times but it is really fundamental to your education given how prevalent uncertainty is in the world. Many of the things we learned affected my view of the world substantially.
It's pretty straightforward if you have somewhat of a math background. The course matched my expectations. I personally didn't attend sections, office hours, or read the book, but there are a lot of sections and office hours.
Hard course!!! This is not plug and chug math. This is problem solving and critical thinking. Reminds me of contest math.
This class is more mind blowing than any philosophy course you could ever take. The PSets are really tough but I think it's worth it.
Tough class, but if you want to study statistics it is a must-take.
This is an amazing class that is certainly difficult but really makes you learn how to think creatively. It changes the way you look at events.
This class is incredibly tough.
I LOVED STAT110!!!! It really wasn't as difficult as I was expecting from all the hype since there are SO many resources available to help you with the course. This class really changed the way I think about things. The whole premise is to prove your intuition wrong, which is really exciting! Honestly one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard - I recommend it to everyone. Don't be intimidated.
This is far and away the most rewarding class I've taken here at Harvard. What you've probably heard about this course is true: it's very difficult. The problem sets challenge you to really understand and apply the content you've learned, but when you finish the course, you really feel like you're taking something away from the experience. Joe is an absolute gem. Easily the best professor I've had here. Definitely take this course!
This class is phenomenal. Probably my favorite course that I've taken at Harvard. Don't be too afraid of the Q-scores - the class is challenging but not that hard. I'd say that the class is slightly harder than the 21s and not as hard as Ec1011a. Definitely take this course if you like math/puzzles/stat!
Blitzstein is a special professor, and this course is very interesting, even fun at times. Admittedly, it is not easy, and the psets require substantial time investment. However, I would really recommend taking this course.
Teaches very important basics that you must know!
You might never find another course which is this good at presenting material which is new, interesting, intuitive, and challenging all at the same time. Most amazingly, it doesn't require actually learning a lot of new math -- you just have to apply math you already know.
The material is just so important.
This is a very tough class, so if you're taking it for fun be warned. I learned a lot and gained an intuition that will certainly be very useful in the biological sciences. The difficulty and the amount of time it took was not the best, however. I wish there were a way to gain these skills without being held up to the expectations of a Statistics major to do well.
It will kick your butt and take over your semester, but you learn so much - not just the actual math, but how to think about problem solving and how the world works. That said, it's probably too difficult to take just as an elective unless you really, really care about the material.
As a must-take for any STEM concentrator, Blitzstein has honed his class after years of teaching it. Pretty much flawless, any resource you could reasonably ask for regarding the class was made available.
Loved this class! Blitzstein is awesome.
Don't take this class with another very time-intensive course like CS50. This was a horrible mistake, as both problem sets were due on Thursday. You need to allot a significant amount of time for Stat 110. The problem sets are only 7 questions, but they're tough and sometimes require office hours.
This was by far the most engaging and interesting course I took this semester. I never found myself so excited to read a textbook in my life. That said, it's pretty painful if you're not a strong math type. If enrolled in Math 23 or 25 or find 21 trivial, then it's a good course for you. It was conceptually difficult for me coming from 21.
Though the class material is difficult at times, there is always an abundance of resources (TFs' office hours, section, the textbook, handouts and strategic practice problems) that is available to the students. The lectures are very well supplemented by the textbook and the class handouts, and all of the homework assignments and exams are fair (albeit quite difficult).
This is a great class! Prof. Blizstein is a really good lecturer; the textbook is fantastic; and the material is very interesting.That being said, if you have a VERY stong math background you will probably get more out of buying and reading the textbook than actually taking the class.
Excellent course, material is engaging and very interesting. Be prepared to work hard on problem sets to really understand what's happening, although the office hours and sections (which I should've gone to) are immensely helpful. Hard work but worth the time, you learn a ton.
Cool class. In terms of course commitment, there is only one problem set a week, so it might be a good idea to do some practice problems each week if you want to engage the material more.
If you have competition math experience, specifically in probability and combinatorics, the class should be pretty easy (I only ever qualified for the AIME once and I spend 4-7 hours max on psets).
I loved this class! It challenges intuition and really teaches you how to think about probability in every day life as well.
This class is hard but rewarding and applicable to many other disciplines outside of statistics
Make sure that your cheat sheets for the exams are amazing. Most of the practice problems and test focus on certain examples that Blitzstein mentions in lectures. Make sure that you write down and know inside and out the practice problems that he tells you to know. LOTUS
This class is difficult. I think this class is very important and you learn a lot about probability. I would recommend it for anyone that really likes math/stats and has the time to take it. I would recommend with reservations for anyone that doesn't need to take it however.
This is one of the best organized and taught classes at Harvard. Although the material is hard, there are so many intelligent and able TFs who are willing to take the time to help you understand the material.
This course is really, really hard. You probably won't get back what you put into it, so put more into it and expect less. However, you'll find that it is that much more rewarding once you realize how things work.
This is a phenomenal class. The material is very interesting but perhaps more importantly, the class is very well organized (which is a rarity at Harvard). The problem sets are well-designed to teach the material, the lectures are clear to follow, sections do a great job of reviewing the material, and exams are fair although challenged. If you're at all interested in probability or statistics, I recommend this course without reservation.
This course was a great introduction to probability.
This class is very well-polished and sets you up to learn everything. Not super rigorous, but you start noticing applications of what you learned all over the place. Lots of fun problems.
God that course was difficult. Be prepared to not understand anything the whole year, and then at the end discover nobody knows anything and get curved to a B. Bliztein is incredibly smart, but I feel like his lectures could be helped by being shorter, and conducted in tandem with a TF who can make the bridge between his mind and yours. You will look at the Pset every week and not know how to approach any of the questions. You will have no idea if you're right on any of the problems.But every once in a while something will click and you'll feel like a savage, because this stuff is actually pretty cool.
Everybody should take this class. Gives a good introduction to thinking about probabilities and corrects many incorrect assumptions/conclusions people will draw from data.
This is an incredibly difficult class, and it is important that you keep up with the course material and are disciplined about learning the chapters each week.  The pace goes very fast, and the concepts build on each other so if you have a shaky foundation you can end up lost.  Be prepared to spend a lot of hours on the problem sets.
Stat 110 was a phenomenal course. It is very challenging and requires a lot of time outside of class, but if committed to the course, it will be an incredible experience. Definitely read the textbook in addition to attending lectures, as it clarifies concepts very nicely. The teaching staff are also incredibly approachable and will make your experience in the course enjoyable. Stick with the material. Although it will get challenging quite early on in the semester, careful attention to building a strong foundation will make the rest of the course go well.
A great introduction to probability, though those with some background may find it to be at times simple.
Stat 110 with Prof. Blitzstein is a course you must take at Harvard. This course will change your outlook on the world, enabling you to think in terms of conditional probability and evaluate the certainties/uncertainties of the world. While no formal math background besides math 19 and above is required per se, you should ideally have taken math 21 and above and be comfortable with calculus as the math should not be the hard part of this course; yes, you will have to integrate, maybe multiple times at once. If you are ever considering taking Stat 110, conditioning is the soul of statistics, but you are its worldly vessel. Don't even hesitate taking this if you have the proper background to do so.
ONLY TAKE IF YOU HAVE TO. This will destroy both your soul and GPA if you're doing it just for fun or to see if you're interested. It's hardcore.
Joe is an excellent professor who knows what he's talking about and is quite funny. The material may seem a bit daunting at first, but if you take the time to actually watch lectures/learn the material before trying to do psets, it's not bad at all. I've also heard that the optional sections are very useful to help you understand things taught in lecture and try it out. This course definitely improved my problem solving and critical thinking skills.
Don't underestimate this class.  I wish I'd had more time to give to it this semester.  If I could have my time over, I'd have read the textbook ahead every week, and made notes before going to lectures or watching them online.  Start the problem sets early if you can, go to office hours, and make friends in the class that you can work with!  It's not an easy class at all, but it's doable if you put the time in.  Probably don't take it in conjunction with a bunch of other pset classes unless you're very good at time management and/or just very strong at math/mathematical reasoning.
Great course on probability. Lots of self work through... you need to keep up to do well.
Stat 110 is super challenging and at times will frustrate you to no end, but objectively speaking, it's a well-taught class that really teaches you a lot. Problem sets will make you pull your hair out if done by yourself, but not too bad if you go to office hours and work with other people.
It's fantastic. Interesting, but hard. Too hard for some people.
Get ready for a lot of work. Read the book, go to lecture, and go to 1-3 sections a week. Also, the office hours are very helpful, the TFs are all terrific.
Great class. Not very difficult with a strong math background. Highly interesting and useful material, so would recommend everyone to take it, even if it doesn't count for concentration credit. Blitzstein is a fantastic lecturer and the course is very well organized with plenty of resources made available. Bravo.
Put the work in
not as hard as people say. if you've taken Math 21a, this is pretty comparable in difficulty. it's conceptually easier, though, and with less tedious calculation. and way more interesting.
Extremely important class for any quantitative/scientific major. The material in Stat 110 is applicable to almost anything. Physics majors, for example, should definitely take this class. The course is not terribly demanding, and very rewarding if you work diligently to understand the material.
Put in the hours. It will be super worth it.
It's a very challenging class even thought it's supposed to an introductory level course. The material is incredibly interesting and what you get out of the course really depends on how much time you put into it. Professor Blitzstein is a great lecturer and is great at breaking down complex concepts and providing intuition behind a lot of the hard statistical problems. The TFs are a great resource and I generally have a very positive experience during sections and office hours.
This class is difficult but rewarding. It's not to be taken lightly. Psets get harder every week, and be prepared to spend 10+ hours on the course each week. Reading the textbook helps immensely but practicing questions is the best way to understand the concepts and how to apply them.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Probability is way more fundamental than learning how to do T-tests and make confidence intervals (which is what you'd be doing in Stat 100 and the like). The Pset problems are never what they seem at first, so make sure you spend lots of time on them and check with others at office hours. This class has one of the best textbooks, because it tracks closely with what is done in lecture and includes lots of useful examples.
This class is hard. You have to put in a lot of time and effort so unless you are doing this for your concentration, I wouldn't recommend it. But if you have to take it, Blitzein is a great teacher
This is class is extremely hard. Do the psets, study at least a week in advance for the midterm. Do not get behind. Utilize the book and office hours they are helpful. Finally. The strategic practice problems are a great way to study.
Interesting material, good lectures, good problem sets. Overall a great class.
It is a difficult course, and with the dropped homework policy it is easy to skip homeworks, but this will be bad once an exam rolls around. Start the psets very early.
Great class, definitely makes you work hard and learn the concepts which are applicable to almost anything
Stat 110 is a fun and good course, with some trickiness on exams. Even if you do all of the work and have a good handle on probability, it is possible to do more poorly, because the examples are pretty tough sometimes, especially under time pressure. Don't get lazy! Thank the Based God and Big Joe for make this course fun. Probability is a really beautiful, fun and counterintuitive subject that will make you think in a completely new way. If you are a sophomore, it is likely that many of your friends will take this course, which is also a lot of fun.
Most people will find this class to be very difficult. It is well staffed and there are abundant resources at your disposal; nonetheless, this class is still a monster. Expect to spend on average 10 hours a week on problem sets and at office hours. Find people to work with, and develop a solid way to study for the exams.
Probability is actually the coolest concept, and Blitzstein does a fantastic job teaching. If you love math, take this course.
This class was terrrrrrrible. If you don't need to take it don't. If you do need to take it don't. It's pretty tough and even though one can do well on the homework by going to office hours, it doesn't feel good. There is a ton of material presented in a very short amount of time which makes it difficult to feel like you actually know what you are doing. I do feel like I learned many probability ideas, but a lot of it came from teaching myself by the book. It definitely wasn't an enjoyable experience because even though you see a lot of new ideas you don't really see how to apply them. There are many many ways to learn probability. This class was not the way.
Work hard in this class! I also would recommend making this your hardest class of the semester, because it will take up a lot of time. I would also suggest going to section once a week (or more if you need it) and office hours as much as possible!
It's hard.
Very hard, but very rewarding when putting in the work.
Be ready for a heck of a class. Great lectures, but very difficult problem sets sometimes paired with what seemed like unfair examinations based on how good your cheat sheet is rather than how much you know combined to make some aspects of the class seem out of reach.
WOW. Joe is a legend, obviously. Cares greatly about the material and has created an amazing environment to learn about a very difficult topic. Can't believe I made it through this class, but I can say I came out with a different way of thinking compared to when I started Stat 110. Take this class if you are ready to be challenged and think abstractly. NOT for the faint of heart. Conditioning is the SOUL of statistics.
The class is fascinating and Joe is fantastic, but it is very very hard.  As a fall semester freshman who only took BC calc, I recommend waiting until you have at least math 21ab under your belt before you attempt this class because a strong math background is really important for this class.
Stat 110 taught me a whole new paradigm for problem solving. Uncertainty is ubiquitous and Stat 110 will give you the necessary framework to understand it. The course is difficult, but is extremely doable if you have the requisite math background and a willingness to put in the time to understand the key concepts.
be ready to dedicate yourself wholeheartedly to this course
Difficult but worth it
It's a very interesting course but be prepared to spend a lot of your own time figuring out the assignments and the concepts.
Pacing yourself and attending lecture/section makes the class much more manageable!
Great class! Learn a lot. Be prepared to do the work though, and it helps to have a pset group.
A hard class, but take it because of the awesome professor teaching it!
This is a great course all around. Joe is a very dedicated and effective professor. There are a lot of materials available to help outside of class in office hours, extra problems, and more. This course is definitely one of the hardest at Harvard. The exams cover a lot of material, so make sure to prepare a few days in advance.
Some material is challenging but the core concepts are so thoroughly and well though that even if you "don't do well" in this course, you will have learned the fundamental basics of probability and a bit more. I recommend this course to anyone doing anything vaguely related to math or science.
The material in this class is cool. As someone with a strong math background however, I found the class rather slow and boring at times. Regardless, it covers a wide range of topics.
This class is hard. It doesn't seem like it's going to be hard, but then it suddenly is. I made the mistake of taking this with two other extremely demanding courses and I paid the price. Be warned that just doing well on the problem sets won't necessarily be enough to teach you the concepts, and you should do problems on your own, go to section, etc.
It's hard but it's worth it.  Start the psets early.  Tests are pretty fair, nothing too unexpected.  Go to section.  Find friends to work on psets with.
Oh my god this class was hard. The exams were scary, the psets gave me anxiety each week. But put in a lot of work and you'll do fine... I mean a lot of work. Like, more work than you're used to putting in for stuff.
stat110 optf's are gods, make sure to attend someone's section and it will be enormously helpfuloffice hours as where you get to talk to gods. Take advantage of them!!
This is a phenomenal class; best I've taken at Harvard. It's a lot of work but really rewarding; looking back it's amazing how much you learn over the semester. Blitzstein is an incredible professor, makes statistics engaging, and just wrote his textbook to really back up the lectures well.
It's okay.
Should have an interest in strategic or probabilistic thinking, willingness to put in around 10-14 hours per week
This course provides a very strong foundation in probability for students in almost any realm of natural science and social science.
It's a difficult course, and I wouldn't recommend taking it with other hard classes.
This is a very difficult course, but Professor Blitzstein is great.
Class is hard if the logic and mentality of statistics doesn't come easily to you, and for me it certainly didn't.  That being said, if you work at it and try your best to understand the material it is very rewarding for everything to start making sense.  The p-sets are hard and time consuming and you should start working on them earlier.  One flaw of the course that it unavoidable is that office hours are very crowded and people are somewhat aggressive.  As a result, I really tried my best not to go to them.  Likewise, I would really recommend struggling with the problems first instead of just directly heading to office hours.
Not easy, but the quality of teaching and available resources are so excellent that you can't blame anybody but yourself if you don't succeed. Very solid course, applicable to a wide variety of areas and life in general. Highly recommend.
Don't take this class unless you can fully commit to it. Be prepared to be let down by your test scores
Such a great class! it is notoriously hard but the material is so interesting! Keep up with the material, go to lecture, go to section, go to OFFICE HOURS and you will be fine. OH are great and people are really good at working together.
go to office hours
Very good class with great teaching, resources, and problem sets. Workload can get a bit heavy after halfway point, as the problem sets get difficult. The midterm and final exam are also pretty difficult, requiring a solid grasp of all the material covered (which is quite a bit).
Very difficult, but rewarding class! Take it if you think you have the time for it!
it's rlly difficult
With Blitzstein, a really, really good class that gives you a solid background in probability.
Stat 110 was my favorite course this fall. Blitztein is a great lecturer and really cares about his students learning the material. I'm impressed with how many resources he provides (the textbook, the strategic practice problems, the massive midterm and final review packets with half a dozen previous exams, etc.) -- basically, if you don't do well in this course, it's entirely your fault. I really enjoyed Stat 110 although I know some who found it more theoretical and mathy than what they expected. I didn't find this to be the case - there are plenty of pset problems that have real-world applications. I recommend this course with enthusiasm to all who want an introduction to statistics (if you've taken calculus).
Stat 110 is a truly rewarding class. If you know single variable calc, do take this class. Be prepared to work hard and be thorough when preparing for exams, which are tough.
If you want to learn how to think critically about probability, then do it!
Interesting topics but very difficult.
Demanding class, but everyone should take it. Stats is useful across all kinds of disciplines - even if you're apprehensive about your background, you'll be among friends and the course staff is very helpful in office hours. Blitzstein's lectures can get dry, but that's what lecture videos and the textbook are for.
hard but blitzstein is brilliant and awesome. worthwhile class to take during your time here at harvard.
Very difficult, be sure you need to know this stuff.
Be ready to put in a lot of work for this class.
This class is difficult but well taught.  If you like math, I'd recommend taking it instead of an easier course.
Tough but very interesting.
Wonderfully taught. Very rewarding. Terribly difficult if you are not a strong math student.
It's a difficult class. Be prepared to work hard if you want to understand anything and do well.
Well taught but very challenging.  Probably the hardest class I've taken at Harvard.
Very interesting but very hard
This course is not too difficult and the material is pretty interesting. Take it!
I have actually used things that I learned in this class in my day-to-day life, which is kind of pathetic, but really cool.
The class trains you to think much more analytically, and is taught very well. The concepts are very practical and overall, you feel like you've learned a lot at the end of it all. However, you must be willing to work hard to do well in this class.
It's really hard, and there are many people who think its easy who you have to go up against.
too hard, it's about how smart you are and not actually learning something
It's fun!
It's a good, detailed introduction to probability, and Prof. Blitzstein makes class fun!
It's harder than it looks.
Great class with interesting stuff to learn.
be sure that you really want to go into statistics and that if there a class with a lower difficulty, take that.
The material is not taught at a very high level but is taught very well.
The atmosphere of the course (in lecture, section, and when seeking help with problem sets) left me with the polar opposite of an uneasy feeling.
It's an excellent course. I'd only recommend it to those with the proper background and those with an interest in the topic. I only had a marginal interest in the material, but the course was so great that I hope to take more stats courses in the future.
It's hard, but it's so much fun, and changes the way in which you interpret things around you. Dinner is so much more fun when you can discuss whether the distribution of chocolate chips in your cookies is Poisson.
This class has its moments, but other times you will probably just regret that even though probability seems simple, appearances can be misleading
One of the best courses I've taken.
Very good class with interesting professor. Very difficult however, and does not truly teach the statistical skills that may be needed - instead, it is more of a mathematical introduction to probability rather than any course that teaches statistical methods.
i would tell future students that this course is unexpectedly difficult
READ THE BOOK.  READ THE BOOK.  READ THE BOOK.  Listen to the things Blitz likes the best, HE TESTS YOU ON THEM.
It's easier than a math class.
It's not easy for non-math or non-stat majors, but the professor (Joe Blitzstein) is great so if you are going to use probability in your work you should definitely take this course!
If you enjoy math, and if Professor Blitzstein is teaching this course, take it! The class is very enjoyable and you'll learn a lot!
Be prepared to work and be well rewarded for it.
Mathematical Skill must be pretty strong.
Most of the material is interesting and quite useful.
The entertaining lectures and supportive atmosphere make the study of this difficult yet useful topic worthwhile.
You will (probably) learn probability, you will get some good problems, and you will have an amazing professor. What more can one ask?
This is the stat class to take, especially if you can afford two semesters to  finish up your stats.
This course will be an enjoyable experience, as long as you remain on top of the material.  Professor Blitzstein is very accessible, don't be afraid to email him with a question or comment.
A must take!!!
The class was absolutely phenominal.  It is one of the best math and stat courses one can take.  It does take time though.  If you don't have time to read the book and really put a lot of effort forth in sections then you might be left behind
Take it if Blitzstein is teaching. If he isn't, it may not be nearly as interesting. Also, if you find stats dull, THIS ISN'T STATS. It's probablity. And therefore it's way better than 100 or 104.
only take it if it's joe blitzstein teaching - he makes the course interesting.  it's important to keep going to class after the midterm otherwise it's very easy to fall behind.
Professor Blitzstein is AMAZING, and the funniest lecturer I've ever had at Harvard.  His awkwardness is the best thing I've ever witnessed, and I love waiting for him to start class, because it seems so painful.  Also, everyone should look up "Stat 110 at Harvard" on Youtube, because it's amazingly hilarious.
This is a very fun class, and you really learn quite a lot, but be prepared to think hard and spend time working on it too.
It is one of the most interesting classes I have ever taken.
Great professor, interesting material, fun
it's a great course but be prepared to work and only take if you feel comfortable with math (eg. have taken math23 and did well)
The assignments and the course overall are pretty reasonable.  The midterm somewhat difficult but there are the professor is pretty straight forward when it comes to saying what material is going to be covered.  I found section to be useful, though I know a lot of people who would choose not to go.  I didn't find it difficult at all to catch up after missing a lecture.
Stat 110 is kind of hard to meet people in, unless you go to a lot of the sections or office hours and start conversations there. Being clever and good with the material will definitely help - girls/guys will flock to the person who can deliver them from hell on Thursday night. Looking around, I did see plenty of cuties, most of the pre-med or economics species. That being said, they can be pretty brutal sometimes (as pre-meds, unfortunately, often are), so beware, and don't let any foul rejections are indifference get you down, buddy. There's always someone out there who you'll dig and who will be down. You're awesome in your own right. Unless you're one of the brutal people - then stop, check yourself, and just stop being so rotten, man/girl. I love you anyway. Wait, my bad, I gotta write about this ish. Let me toke up really quickly first.Alright cool, so this class. Blitzstein is an incredible professor at 2x speed, but just a phenomenally intelligent and lucid turtle in real time. So download that fancy CS50 plugin and just start watching the videos, if you're down with that kind of learning. If you need to go to lecture in person, they'll still be really helpful, and much funnier, but they'll be as slow as we are in this relativistic universe. But yea, Blitzstein is one funny homie. He'll drop these humorous comments out of nowhere that'll make the whole lecture worth you waking up before 3 pm (I don't know if that's a problem for you too). Should you not take it if he's not teaching it? If you can put it off, then put it off, without a doubt. If you can't put it off, then make sure his textbook is still being used, because that book is straight FIIIIIIRE as far as textbooks go. I mean, it's like the Madvillainy of textbooks. He's got so many examples and he doesn't get caught up in any semantics, and never really wastes your time. If you're good enough with the material, you can get through the class with just that book. The TFs... damn, I don't really know anything about them. Sorry. However, William does make an ill cheat sheet for the final, so he seems pretty chill. The p-sets are really fun to do (and by that I mean like a 3 on a scale of 1 to Super Smash Bro with beer), especially if you do them with friends and/or a potential suitor (please see first paragraph). The exams can MESS YOU UP though, so be careful. They're not that hard, but a slip-up or two can cost you big points, so just breathe and focus. No matter how you do in this class, enjoy it because it's great, and remember: grades only tell you how smart you were during one/two 3 hour intervals, I love you, and Lil B loves you #TYBG #BASEDStat110 #BASEDKEKE
One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard!
Take this class. I don't care why you might want to or need to.  Just take it. Put a lot into it, and it will give back.  You will change the way you think.  I repeat, you will change the way you think.  It will make you cleverer and if you like feeling smart, this will make you happy. Don't think about taking this casually (unless you are just a gross genius). Take this class like you are going to battle.  Dive in with every weapon ready to draw blood on those psets.  Watch lectures and really try to understand the Blitzkrieg of Blitzstein's teachings.  He will bomb your mind, but if you survive, you will learn so much.  It's a really really enjoyable class.  This is no question in my top 2 favorite classes ever.
Take it if you like statistics and probability, otherwise it's probably not worth it
Prof Blitzstein deserves a tremendous amount of credit for creating such a wonderful class that has greatly grown the statistics concentration.  His way of teaching that emphasizes stories and understanding really enhances student learning.  That being said, I don't think his absence next year will significantly impact the effectiveness of the course provided it still uses his textbook which is fantastic.
this class kicked my butt. weeks after the exam i still feel speechless. like i was punched in the face.i'm not good at theoretical math and i struggled in the coursestudy
It is highly improbably that there is a better intro to probability class out there.
Stat 110 is a great class, easily one of the best ones I've taken so far in terms of quality, applicability, and organization, but be prepared to spend the majority of your time and attention for it if you want to do well!
It's an interesting and useful subject, but it seems too difficult at times for certain subjects and you don't really go into any depth about what topics really mean.
Stat 110 is one of the toughest classes you'll take, and whether or not you like it will greatly depend on how much you like math.
This class is awesome. Study hard and you can do well! TIPS:- Dig deep for the final and start reviewing early. - Find strong TFs and dont' be afraid to ask questions.- Take time to review material after you complete it each week.
Don't be fooled, this class is HARD. Expect to spend 15 hours a week sometimes working on psets. They are difficult and will challenge you to think in ways you never have before. I wish I'd known how difficult this course was before I took it, because it will eat up time like nothing else. You will learn a lot and get a very solid grounding in statistics and probability, but just make sure you know the cost.
Great class to get an introduction to probability theory. Problem sets are really, really fun, and you learn a lot by working through them. Blitzstein is a little on the boring side, but the material/problem sets make up for the somewhat lackluster lectures. And it's also fun to be in a huge class with all your friends! Also, if you're interviewing for prop trading companies, the early bits of the class are actually super, super useful in preparing for their interviews.
This is the best course I've ever taken at Harvard. CS50 has nothing on this class. Seriously. It's a course where you really need to work at it the entire time and can't let up. If you're unsure about the workload it is manageable, but maybe don't take it if you have a heavy schedule. Go to office hours and section. Every week. It's very easy to fall behind in this class, particularly after the midterm if you don't have a very technical background in math, not that it ever gets that math-y, so don't let yourself fall behind. But overall this course was amazing. Read the textbook, if you use Blitzstein's during his year off. It was such an undervalued asset but it's so incredibly useful for problem sets exams and general understanding. Has excellent examples.
Try to do the psets without help from the TF at first, then go in to have your questions answered. Start early and stay on top of the material.
I was pretty disappointed in STAT 110, given its towering reputation and Blitz's obviously strong teaching skills. I'm a graduate student in the social sciences and was hoping that this course would help to ground some of the applied stats that we use on a regular basis. While it did give me quite a bit of rigorous understanding of general concepts in probability, I thought that the course spent way too much time on minute details that only mattered to the small proportion of the class that is going to end up doing graduate work in math and statistics.I think there needs to be a probability and statistics course in the stat department that's better geared toward social science grad students. Not *so* mathematics-driven as 110, but not *so* applied that the math is totally gone. My sense from my peers is that there would be huge demand for such a class, and I think Blitz would be a great prof for it.I don't recommend that soc science grad students take 110: it's far too difficult in areas that really don't matter to us in the long run, which I think makes it a very frustrating experience. It's also a quintessentially "Harvard Undergrad" course with some questionable pedagogic decisions, especially with respect to psets & office hours. Many of the undergrads swarm the TF office hours and essentially get answers from them -- I've got problems with this from an academic integrity perspective and my [entirely biased, yes] hunch is that grad students are less comfortable with this kind of behavior than are undergrads.
Having the textbook makes the lectures somewhat redundant, but they are still worth attending.  Also, take advantage of the practice problems.
If you did competition math in High School, you will have a much easier time with this class. You'll already have a lot of the "intuition" needed for solving these kinds of problems. I know this from speaking with people who did competition math. Unfortunately, I was not one of those people. I came into Harvard taking Math 1b-- none of that Math 23/25 business for me. The problems in this class are very hard if you haven't seen anything like them before. In most math classes (at least at the 21 level), the problems will make it somewhat obvious which technique they want you to use. In this class, it's not obvious at all, and so you need to develop "intuition" for when to use which techniques as well as how to apply them. This means you need to really understand the material you learn. Understand what different distributions mean. Understand the theorems as well as their implications. Read the textbook. Most importantly, do practice problems. I should have done more of this. Go out of your way to do extra problems-- Professor Blitzstein provides them for every unit plus solutions.That being said, this course changed the way I think. It gave me a glimpse into the world of problem-solving by helping me be able to distill new problems down to their bare bones, at which point the required technique becomes far clearer. I learned how tricky probability is, and I filled in all of the gaps I had left over from my minimal high school lessons on the subject. If probability has been a sticking point for you, take this. If you want to get better at solving problems, take this. It may be painful, but as you move through it you'll start to realize how altered your thinking process has become. You'll become sharper. You'll have a more intuitive sense for what things mean, and you'll be able to explain things better because of this. So definitely take this course. Professor Blitzstein is EXCELLENT at explaining things, cares a lot about the class and really wants his students to do well. He moves slowly in lecture so he's easy to follow, and if it's too slow for you then you can download the CS50 2x video speed plugin and watch him on 1.5x or 2x speed.Also, go to Section and Office Hours. The TFs are helpful, and at office hours the students are helpful too. It's nice if you can find a solid friend group in the class to work with on some nights (I did this by going to office hours and discovering that people I sortof knew were in the class). I also met some new people. So if you need help, Office Hours is definitely the way to go.Lastly, make sure to ask questions when they come up. Do not let things go unanswered, because they will come back to haunt you over and over and over again. Overall this was a great class. Definitely the hardest I've taken so far, but worth it.
This course is very interesting but also quite challenging and requires a good amount of work to complete the homework assignments and prepare for the exams. Even if you do not continue in statistics, you will learn many valuable concepts applicable to many fields.
Stat 110 is a great course for students who enjoy a challenge. This course is applicable to so many fields. Probably one of the most useful courses I've taken at Harvard, and it's a lot of fun as well. Definitely a course that brings people closer together. Don't start the psets on Thursday nights
This is a really good class to take, but it will take a lot of time and effort. In the end, it's really worth it though.
This class has been incredibly difficult for someone who is not a math genius. If you are not very very good at math it is still a great course, but know that you will have to spend 6 or 7 hours a week in office hours and may sometimes be frustrated that your more math-savvy classmates will have a much easier time with the material.
Stat110 is an extremely useful course and prof. Blitzstein is amazing. Especially useful for interview questions and just allows you to think in new ways.
Stat 110 is an amazing course. After taking it, you'll see statistical problems all around you, in real life, or (if you're a sciences concentrator) in your classes. Besides being useful, it's actually a lot of fun. The psets are interesting and contain hilarious "Game of Thrones" references to boot.
This is one of those rare courses that really teach you a novel cognitive toolkit: not just content or domain-general thinking skills but a particular kind of thinking. It is, as everyone warns, a lot of work. For grad students taking this course, who may not be coming in with AP calculus (whatever that is), some important observations: the algebra and calculus knowledge assumed is serious, at least for the examples and homework--though pleasantly, the tests require relatively little of those things. Im not sure I passed yet but, I did learn a lot in this course despite being very underprepared mathematically. So its possible. But its frustrating when whats standing between you and understanding an example is following the algebra. So if you are thinking of taking this having only sketchy math background, prepare for major feelings of helplessness and failure. Also, the homework basically assumess you will collaborate with others and spend hours in dining halls in TF hours. However, it is apparently possible to have extraordinarily low homework grades (I never saw any grades lower than mine on any single homework) and score about average on the tests. Also, one strategy that really helped me was doing section problems on my own and checking solutions. Going to section is like giving yourself 30s to try the problem before seeing the solution, which goes by too quickly anyway, so much less helpful. I dont at all blame the TFs for this, as they are forced to do this by the sheer number of problems they have to get throughin fact their section problems are really great. Just try doing them on your own!
It's a phenomenal course, but it will absolutely be your life. If you haven't had exposure to proof/theory-based math courses before it is going to be very difficult. There are tons of sections and resources to facilitate your understanding of the material, but you have to actually think and not just regurgitate knowledge. Be cautious when considering the course, but don't outright strike it away out of fear.
This class will really get you acquainted with probability. The psets are difficult, but with the help of classmates and TFs, it seems that everyone is able to pull it through. I think the problem sets could be made a tad more relevant to what we are learning, but I cannot really complain. I cannot.
You get out of this class as much as you put in, simple as that.
The class is great in terms of the material and how much you learn. Blitzstein is an awesome professor, and he really prepares you for future classes of statistics. However, lectures were sometimes a pain. This has to do with the fact that it was from 2:30-4 in a vast lecture hall with no breaks, so it would've been much better if they spread it out a little more.
This course was truly amazing. The thinking necessary to understand probability fully is deep, complex, and completely fascinating once you get it. Put the work in and you will tie together everything of the course.
If you have learned multivariable calculus, you are all set in terms of math background. If you have done competition math (AMC/AIME/USAMO) before, then fantastic cuz you know those tricks. This class is definitely worth taking, no matter what your concentration is. I really learned a lot from this class and got a better understanding of probability/uncertainty.The conclusions of some probability problems could be a bit counterintuitive, but it is definitely possible to get the right intuition quickly if you put in the work. Get a study group. Start psets early. Go to sections/office hours. They are really helpful.Do study hard for the midterm! Cuz if you do well you will have a huge margin on the final and will be fairly relaxed.
This course was a very good introduction to what the true nature of probability is and how it is a part of everything in life. Though this may be labeled as a statistics course it is truly fundamental in understanding data in any field, and it is so well put together that there is no reason not to take it, aside from its difficulty.
Difficult and very time consuming course. Also probably the best class I have taken here.
I recommend every Harvard student take this class before graduation. Even if you think youre horrible at math, take this class. With all the big data available to corporations and scientific research, and statistics being used and misused by politicians, the media, and researchers, having a basic knowledge of statistics and probability is essential in surviving in todays world. Even though probability is one of the least intuitive subjects, Joe and stat 110 will challenge you and help you understand what is going on. The class is beautifully designed, and you will encounter concepts and connections that will blow your mind. The TFs are wonderful, too, and are there to help you if youre struggling. Look to spend 7-10 hours for your homework, but really try to attempt it on your own before seeking help--you really learn better that way. Also, try to do as many practice problems as you can to study for the exams. But yeah basically if youre reading this you should probably go take the class. It truly is excellent and youll walk away feeling youve grown as a person.
This course is extremely challenging. Professor Blitzstein is an incredible teacher, and the sections are really helpful for doing problem sets.
For all science concentrators, just take it. It`s like eating your vegetables. At times you'll hate it, but at the end of the day you're just glad you know the stuff. It is a simple fact that probabilities are central to all scientific fields and you want to be able to navigate in their world. This is one of the best structured class at Harvard, at least under Joe Blitzstein.
Proceed with caution.  If you hated CS50, you'll hate this class.
This is an incredibly well taught course with many people available to help out when needed. There is, however, an incredibly steep learning curve. The content of the course is extremely difficult to comprehend. If you take this course I highly recommend starting the psets on Sunday and going to office hours Monday, because it WILL take a full week to complete the pset (psets are due on Friday). There is plenty of help to finish the psets and to understand the material. Put in the work and effort and the class is very rewarding. I was so impressed with the amount of material I learned by the end of the semester.
Although difficult, this class is taught well, organized, and helped me learn about how to think about these problems.
This course is challenging. Dedicate time to solving practice problems every week. The intellectual stimulation and practicality of the material is unparalleled--if you enjoyed contest math in high school, or just enjoy thinking rationally and pattern-matching, this is the course for you. Be prepared to spend time deliberating over problem sets and ideas. But this course was among the most difficult and most fulfilling courses I have taken here thusfar, and I wholeheartedly recommend it if you are at all interested!
stat 110 is trying to become a cult class, and it's not entirely unreasonable.  The TFs are generally awesome (pick 2 sections a week, it'll help a lot) and the problem sets fluctuate in difficulty.  The midterm and final will kill you, but they'll kill everyone...overall a great class
I wasn't a huge fan.  The material this course covers is important and awesome, but there's an overwhelming amount of it.  I found lectures hard to focus on.  I often didn't start problem sets early and found myself working late into the night to solve them.  Office hours are the best.
This class is really really hard and time consuming. However, it was awesome to have a textbook and at the end of the course it is great to realize how much you've learned and how applicable it is.
This course is honestly the stuff that people should just know. It's super relatable to problems that we encounter on the daily level, and teaches how to view randomness in a whole new way.
Great introduction to probability. One of the courses that leaves you with a feeling of accomplishment.
It's not impossible but questions require a lot of logic. If you truly get what's going on, this class won't be too challenging. His lectures are not the most interesting but not the worst either. Even though I'm not super interested in statistics, I enjoyed the logical problem solving aspect of it and am super glad I took the course.
This class is tough but rewarding!  You'll definitely want to get a good group of peers to work on the problem sets with, but you can also show up to office hours throughout the week and find people to work with.
This course is difficult for the sake of being difficult, not because it is actually hard. They make this course much harder than it needs to be, which detracted from actually learning the material. But most of you have to take this course, so do not fall behind and be prepared to go to office hours and work with other people.
Wonderful course, but make sure you carve time out of your schedule for this. The PSets take a while.
It will be tough at times (specifically late thursday night/early friday morning) but you will enjoy it
This course is a pretty good introduction to statistics; even without having ever taken a course in statistics before, you will feel that you have a solid understanding of the basics once you've completed this one. The problem sets can be really challenging, so make sure to allow ample time to work on it. However, Professor Blitzstein and the tfs are more than willing to help you out, whether in person at office hours or even through email. Exams are likewise challenging and can be pretty tricky. Bottom line: if you want a solid introduction to probability and statistics, definitely consider this course, but understand that the experience may be pretty challenging, so you must be willing to put in a decent amount of time and effort.
This course is a testament to the fact that mathematics would be intuitive if it weren't for notation. The "stories" and "story proofs" make for a clear and immediate understanding of the course material, while the famous problems and paradoxes make you feel closer to the culture of probability. Understanding these two parts of the course alone will give you a pretty good sense for the mathematics of uncertainty and how it applies to everyday life. If you are interested in probability(=life), and you wouldn't mind strengthening your problem-solving skills along the way, then I would strongly suggest taking this course.
This is a fantastic class - challenging at times, but definitely manageable - provided you do the work consistently and don't fall behind.
This is a tough class, so be prepared to work.  You get out of the class what you put in, but if you're up for the challenge, you will learn a lot and feel really accomplished by the end of the semester.
Do it if Blitzstein's teaching it!! He's an amazing teacher.
This class is really engaging and if you're willing to put in the work, Blitzstein makes it very possible to do well and learn a ton in the process!
Everyone should take Stat110. It's fun, and you will really learn something.
This class is very engaging and definitely a staple for anybody who wants to concentrate in a more quantitative field. Though the class is very interesting, it is also very theoretical and sometimes it's not completely clear what the real-world application is for some things.
Great class, and you learn how to think.
Unless you have a background in competition or higher-level math, your stress level for this class is highly dependent on the amount of time you spend on it. And even then, it's possible to not do well on the exams given the sheer amount of information covered...However, you should be fine if you put in the time, and just really like math problem-solving.
You should really take this course when you have a lot of time to devote to it. Because I have had so much time to devote to this class this semester, I am learning something new and exciting every week and almost every lecture. This is not a course to blow through; it is a course to reflect on and put effort into. If you do, you will come away with a solid base in probability theory and statistics.
Mind-blowing teaching quality.
This class is not easy.  However, this class is the best class I've ever taken at Harvard.You will need to go to office hours more than you've ever gone to office hours before, as just doing the pset by yourself isnt an option.
There was a lot of interesting material (especially in the first half of the class), and Professor Blitzstein was an excellent lecturer.
1)	Stat 110 is an institution. Yes, the material is hard and the problem sets are rough, but you will always have a support network behind you. Sections, office hours, Joe, all the four hundred and something other students  you know you wont be alone! 2)	If you are like me and you are (1) so tired that you will probably fall asleep in lecture / otherwise not be at 100% capacity and (2) responsible, there is NO point in going to lectures in person. It is much more effective and efficient to watch the lecture videos on your own time, pausing as necessary to follow along in the textbook or replay sections you are confused about.3)	Go to office hours! And work with people there / outside of office hours! Will save you a lot of time. 4)	Dont be afraid to email Joe  he replies to emails pretty late into the night.5)	About specific TFs: Jerrys sections are very helpful (his section problems are very similar to the homework questions), and Lazhi is very generous with homework hints if you go to her during office hours. 6)	I took the class as a freshman, and at times I wish I had chosen to take the course later. The more math background you have (multivariable calculus is highly recommended), the easier it will be for you to work with the concepts.
It is a lot of work
Great class, just like everybody who's taken it in the past makes it to be. Joe provides all of the resources his students may need. The TFs are very helpful and so are many of the students themselves. The class material is also very interesting even for non stat concentrators.
Stat 110 and Professor Blitzstein singlehandedly decided my concentration in statistics. I never did any math competitions, nor viewed myself as a math guy prior to Harvard. Though I was reasonable accomplished in other fields, I had always admired people who did math competitions for their ability to think logically and concisely at a level I thought I could never reach. Then I took Stat 110 and fell in love with Blitzstein's hilariously understated humor and concise, intuitive teaching style. Through a semester of late nighters and struggling through psets with study groups, I slowly began to see patterns and logic that I never could before. The concepts were difficult, but this was probably the first course in which I could actually feel my brain expanding with new knowledge and reasoning ability--I was learning something and I loved it. Though I might have started a bit later than my more mathematically-inclined peers, I have high hopes I can catch up if I continue to study such an interesting subject. Don't feel discouraged if you feel behind your peers at first. Just keep working and eventually you'll begin to see the beautiful simplicity of statistics!
This class is not for the weak at heart. It is really a difficult class because you will have to think in ways you never have before. Find a study group to work with and choose them wisely because you will be with them all the time!!! That said, the material is really interesting! I wouldn't necessarily call it life-changing as other people might but it was definitely really cool material with interesting implications. You can absolutely do well if you try but you will need to put in a lot of extra hours past attending lectures and doing psets.
This class is really hard, but it's definitely rewarding. Be ready to go to office hours and work with people though.
This course truly teaches you to think in a new way. Concepts like conditioning, thinking with indicator random variables and the paradoxes discussed truly help you be a better learner in whatever field of inquiry you choose to pursue, simply because after taking Stat 110, you will be more able to spot mistakes in the reasoning of others.You will have to accept the fact that, for a semester, "let's hang out next weekend!" will in your head translate into "let's hang out after the next Stat 110 pset." This is not a problem, because what is more fun than struggling over a pset together!TAKE THIS CLASS. Approach the assignments with curiosity instead of hating on them right off the bat. The work WILL eat up some of your time, but everything is definitely doable. If you're willing to pay that price, this course will change your life.
Stat 110 is extremely challenging. Unless you are insanely smart (for Harvard standards), expect to find yourself at office hours multiple times a week to complete the problem set! You will put a lot of effort into this course, but I really feel as though it made me a better thinker and problem solver. For me, it was worth it, but definitely try out the first problem set before you enroll!
Hard as F@<K
That this is an extremely difficult course.  It will make you think differently and stretch you.
This class is really well-organized and informative. Blitzstein is an engaging and clear lecturer, and the class has an excellent support system of TFs. While this class is difficult, it is by no means impossibly hard, especially with all of the resources that are available. However, it is work-intensive, and if you don't put in the time your experience in the class may suffer.
The course is very challenging! However, it is extremely satisfying and you will never regret taking the course! It changes the way you think about things! It is a course that can change your life! Joe is the best professor ever! He has the magic to explain difficult things in simple language. The assignments are excellent! The experience of working with other students and TFs is truly amazing!
Interesting class. Tons of work. Worth it, but be prepared to dedicate a lot of time to it.
Most people will say this class is very difficult, but if you have any sort of background in competitive math you'll probably find it not that hard. The approach required of many of the problems is quite similar to the type of thinking required in competitive math. So if that's you, this is a fairly fun class that won't be too demanding either.
If you like math and mental challenges, go for it; if you are just taking it for another credit, be prepared and don't fall behind. Either way, you'll something that will be with you when you leave Harvard. :)
A great course, but a challenge too.
Most of the course feels like memorizing the names and parameters of one probability distribution after another. The class is taught like there's a list of rules that are sometimes motivated by the rough sketch of a proof, but just as often handed down from on high, and you should commit these rules to memory. Statistics is useful for all sorts of things down the road, but it's hard to keep that in mind to stay motivated through this class. The main motivational tool seems to be Blitzstein's ability to not be imposing in front of a class, implying that you're exceeding expectations just by showing up (if, indeed, you show up - much of the class doesn't). There was also zero helpful feedback on problem sets.
This is a great class. But it requires a giant amount of time. Be prepared, to do well you will need to devote a large amount of time throughout the semester. Make sure to know that going in.
Stat 110 really bends your mind and forces you to think differently. Would recommend this class to ANYONE and EVERYONE. Assignments are really difficult, but office hours help a lot. You also learn so much in one semester, so this is definitely a worthwhile class.
A good class, really does teach you how to think. However, it was far from my favorite class at Harvard and was extremely difficult.
I almost dropped this course at first because I thought I was going to fail. I ended up doing well on the midterm. I'm glad I didn't drop. This class is very difficult but you learn a ton! The way Blitzstein designs this course makes you a better thinker. There is no plug and chug. I highly recommend this course to everybody!
This course is fantastic! The course material is both interesting and highly applicable. Professor Blitzstein is wonderful, and the huge amount of effort he puts into the class really shows. Lectures are fascinating and clear, and there are lots of resources available for help on psets and studying for exams.
Very cool but very hard: prepare to spend lots of time on it to do well.
This course has been challenging, but it's been definitely worth it. If you're interested in paradoxes, probability, applying math to real-world problems take it. Don't be intimidated by how challenging it sounds, the knowledge you get out of it is definitely worth al the all-nighters and the hours you're going to put into this class.
This is a challenging class but well worth it.  Take it and don't give up!
Put in the time to do the problem sets properly, as hard as they are. Only way to survive the exams is to know how to do every kind of problem.
Very thorough introduction to probability. Excellent materials and fantastic teaching staff. Difficult; expect to work hard on problem sets. Enlightened approach to teaching math that focuses on concepts, intuition, and "stories" rather than just formalism.
This class is as everyone will tell you a lot of work, but you will feel very satisfied with yourself for finishing all the work. You will learn how to think more logically and you will be challenged every week on the homeworks with problems that are interesting and also very frustrating.
This course is amazingly well taught and interesting. Everyone should take it.
absolutely great class
It's a bit of a pain to learn the material without going to lecture. The book is rather good, although it's easier to absorb when it's being told to you. That being said, as awesome as this class was, Blitzstein isn't a great lecturer... I find him to be very boring to listen to. It's very difficult to not fall asleep in his class.
If you're going to attempt to understand the material (which, let's be real, most people who take the class never will, to the point where there are NO STUDENTS who feel competent enough to tutor in the class, even those who got As don't understand the material) then you need to take it over the summer or have the rest of your classes be gen-eds. It's possible to scrape a C+/B- with minimal effort in the class, but to get anything higher than that you really have to commit your semester. It is also really depressing because when you don't understand something, it seems like no on is willing to answer your stupid questions, and the stuff you don't know just keeps building. This class is trying to be cultish the same way CS50 is, but the reality is there just isn't much love toward the students, and instead, it's very intense and competitive.
I made the mistake of taking this course along with two other pset classes, all of which had Friday due dates. This made for a very challenging semester and some very late and stressful nights. This course in particular was very time intensive. The nature of the problems is such that you cannot simply sit down and crank through the homework in one evening. You need to start early so you have time to really think through and most likely, completely redo at least several problems before you're done. Find good pset buddies and talk through the concepts with them. Before the midterm and final there is a plethora of review material. It is incredibly overwhelming at first, but take a deep breath and start working through the problems. The more practice problems you do, the better prepared you will be. Buy the course pack/textbook when it gets published. With Blitzstein teaching, you really don't need to go to lecture as long as you religiously read the sections, since they are basically his lecture notes. There are also a lot of extra problems in there.
This class is so hard, but the feeling when you finally get an answer right is so fulfilling.  Do not underestimate this class--getting a 5 on AP stat won't help you at all.  Go to esction if you can, and DO NOT fall behind because catching up is absolutely horrible.
Stat 110 is great, no question. Just take it, it's not THAT hard :)Lectures are very helpful, and luckily the book very closely mirrors the lectures for when you want to go back to something you missed in lecture.
Don't get discouraged initially! Take advantage of all the sections and office hours this course provides! (The teaching staff is amazing!) (And read the book!!!) Then, you will be able to understand the concepts and really appreciate the beauty of the p-set problems. For exams, do lots of practice problems and summarize the strategies used! If you commit your time to this course, you will definitely enjoy every moment and feel extremely satisfied and proud of yourself at the end. You can do it!
If you give it the time and attention it requires, Stat 110 is a great course that will make you think more critically about the world.
This is a wonderful although challenging class, which I recommend to anyone interested in exploring this field of mathematics. The problem sets are demanding, non-trivial, and time consuming. The teaching staff is amazing. STAT 110 has taught me how to be a more rigorous, creative thinker.
Do all the homeworks and go to all the sections and do practice tests like crazy!
This class will teach you a ton if you're willing to put in the work.
Amazing course. Changes the way you think. Difficult but rewarding. Amazing professor.
This class and Joe Blitzstein are more hyped then they should be. People fall asleep in lecture and sometimes the homeworks are just ridiculous. However, the textbook is incredible, sections are amazing, and the material for the course is really interesting. Just make sure your expectations are reasonable.
Best class ever. Problem sets will make your brain turn inside out but at the end you will be like whoaaaa... that was awesome. This course is super-challenging, but at the end you will feel like a god of statistics, capable of insane feats of statistical acrobatics, connecting distributions and weaving magical webs of stats magic.
This class is very difficult. You can study for days and still not know how to answer questions on the exam.
work hard
This is an excellent course. The problem sets are a lot of fun. They require a great deal of creativity and inventiveness that aren't found in the mind-numbing plug-and-chug assignments more typical of high school. They aren't mathematically intense and will give you plenty of "Aha!" moments when you look at a problem from a different perspective and realize that what seemed difficult is actually extremely easy.
Stat 110 was definitely one of the hardest classes that I've taken. Psets were tough and sometimes honestly I felt like doing them didn't really give me that much more of an understanding of the material.  There are a lot of resources available, though.  Overall, well-organized class, but content was difficult to master.
It really is difficult, but you can definitely get a lot out of this class. Super useful whatever subject you decide to concentrate in- stat is all around a good thing to know.
This is a challenging statistics course that will challenge the way you look at life. After this course, you will find yourself looking at the probabilistic side of things.The P-Sets in this class were definitely the most challenging part. Also I recommend not taking this class along with other hard p-set classes.Office Hours for this course were really hive-minded, and I didn't really find them altogether helpful unless I had specific questions going into them.
I have already recommended this class with enthusiasm to a number of friends, citing: 1) a new, very structured, very powerful way to think about the world that I learned in this class. 2) tons of fun practice problems and homeworks that i enjoyed doing. 3) very good intuitive explanations from joe for nearly every subject in the class.
Totally worth taking if you have the space in your schedule. The importance of knowing how all the distributions relate to each other and how to think about probability cannot be overstated.
This class, though difficult, will be one of the best you take at Harvard. The material is really interesting and applies to a wide variety of discipline, and Professor Blitzstein is brilliant. Read the textbook, and try to do Strategic Practice problems before the exams if you have time.
There is a substantial mismatch between the problems explained in the textbook for the class, in lecture and in section and the problems that appear on exams. It's unclear why course instruction does not include demonstrations of problems as difficult as those that will appear on exams, and why so little energy is devoted to training students how to solve problems. Judging by the breadth of topics and question difficulty in the previous exams (which were provided as practice material), topics covered have become more numerous and questions have become more difficult over the last 6 years.
Stat 110 is a great course when Blitzstein is teaching, and gives an incredibly thorough understanding of both the mechanics and motivation of different statistical distributions, and ways of approaching problems. Very highly recommended.
This class is hard.  Everyone is going to say it, but it's true.  However, I truly felt like I learned the material.  Exams are rough and I do not think I was able to accurately show how much I knew on the final... but I still feel like I left the course with a good understanding of the basics of probability.  Be prepared to work your butt off for this course.
People tell you it's hard, and you probably think they're wrong. They are not wrong. This course is really, really difficult. That said, the material is important and interesting. There are support systems set up that are helpful. And failure leads to character building.
Stat 110 is hard, there is no question about it. It's a challenge but I recommend it
STAT 110 is great course that's deeply engaging and interesting, but is also notoriously difficult. I really enjoyed the course, but I also became accustomed to spending a lot of time on psets and not doing particularly well on assessments--this is something that comes with the territory. Find a great section leader and stick with him or her. Make sure to take thorough notes during lecture and section, and do rely on them when you work through the psets. The addition of the book will also be hugely helpful.
This is an extremely useful course, especially if you plan on doing anything quantitative. It teaches you a really useful way of thinking about the world, and I already have used the material in thinking about other problems.Despite this I felt the size of the course made it feel a bit like being processed. It takes up more time than you might anticipate, even if you're good at this sort of thing, so if you have a busy schedule be prepared for an all-nighter almost every Thursday. If you want to enjoy this course, give it the time it deserves, otherwise you'll learn a lot but you'll dread it.
not to take it alone, but with friends. It is hard to find people to work with, especially being a grad student, and so I ended up working mostly by myself which makes it incredibly harder.
This is a challenging and time consuming class but definitely worth taking!
This class is difficult and super interesting. The addition of a textbook now makes it fantastic.
Stat 110 is not so much a statistics course as it is a probability course. For those of you who are deciding between 104 and 110, know that the two classes don't really cover the same material at all, although they do (for many concentrations) satisfy the same statistics concentration requirement. Also know that 110 is by far the superior course (coming from someone who's taken both). 104 is basically a joke, and 110 really does teach you a different way of thinking about the world and probabilities of events. Absolutely take Stat 110. Honestly, it's not all that hard.
you feel like you've accomplished something!!! hard but rewarding. kind of fun since everyone is in the same boat as you struggling with pests
This is without a doubt one of the best courses I've ever taken. If you are likely to major in a quantitative field, Stat 110 will come in handy eventually. It is fairly difficult for most people, even if you're good in Math (unless you're an IMO medalist, in which case any Math class will be easy). But if you're prepared to invest in time and effort, it should be doable, and the TFs are very accessible. Don't be afraid to take it your freshman year; I did, and I didn't regret it in the slightest.
My favorite class at Harvard. It wasn't the easiest, but I learned an incredible amount. It is extremely well taught--great lectures and sections, challenging assignments, tough but fair exams, and a "forgiveness" policy if you do well on the final. In my opinion, it is the ideal Harvard course.
This class is difficult because it is big and there is a wide distribution of how proficient students are with the material.  Blitz is a phenomenal teacher and some of the section leaders are equally good.  I suggest putting in lots of work outside the required problem sets if you really want to understand the material.
Very difficult class but Sebastien and William and their notes definitely heped me pull through it. Lecture is pretty useless if you do not proof-based math background. The textbook is dense as well.
If you can dedicate your life to this course you will have an incredible experience. The material is very challenging but there is an incredible amount of support (lots of sections, office hours, Quora intuitive explanations, practice problems, an excellent textbook. . .), as well as an incredible amount of excitement and enthusiasm for the course to keep you motivated. I was not able to dedicate my life to the class, and so there were some concepts that I never really understood, and I never got to the point where I felt truly comfortable attacking the special sort of problem Joe Blitztein writes. I wish I had, though, because that would have been such an incredible feeling to have. Nevertheless, this course got me excited about solving problems, gave me a taste of what it's like to be confident in attacking difficult problems, and is partly what made me decide to switch to Applied Math.
I don't think this is a hard class at all if you had some background in discrete math (and I don't mean an insane amount of background, just that you have take a high school course in probability and taken a bit of time to think about what the concepts mean). Blitzstein is a phenomenal lecturer (though I find it more helpful to watch the lectures at home). The organization of content in this class is THE BEST I've seen in a quantitative class at Harvard (I'd say even better than the oh-so-well-greased CS50, and more conceptually rewarding as well). Psets are well set, interesting, and manages to strike a good balance between forcing you to think and being impossibly hard. Highly recommended for anyone who's remotely interested in discrete math (or as some may call it, statistics).
Stat 110 is an excellent class! It is well-organized, interesting, and provides an abundance of resources. The problems to solve are of a difficult breed than most high-school level and early college-level mathematics, which will help some and hurt others. The problems are less about carrying out familiar processes and more about seeing patterns. Personally, I quite enjoyed most of the problems, whether on homework or exams. The lectures, problem sets, and book work together very well, and there are many resources for assistance, from TFs to Quora to Blitzstein's helpful emails. To conclude, I reommendend this class to any person in a quantitative field!
Stat 110 is not nearly as good as it's made out to be. The class is extremely difficult and does demand a lot of your time, but I feel that Professor Blitzstein is not as good of a lecturer as he is made out to be. He is a super genius, yes, but often times he goes WAY too fast and can be confusing. If you need it as a concentration requirement, take it, yes, but if you are taking it for its "difficulty" or "for fun," I don't really recommend it.
Your mileage may vary in future, since Joe Blitzstein is not teaching the course next year, and later years may also see changes.  That said, if you want to learn probability, you should take this course.  It's a Harvard classic with ample support and great resources available, and this is an opportunity you should not pass up.
It's a tough class but it's very manageable. There is lots of support from the TFs and Prof Blitzstein and the textbook is a great resource. At the end, you will have learned a lot--definitely worth taking.
Watch the lectures on Itunes beforehand. Read up on probability. Read the textbook before lectures. Pay attention in class. Go to at least one section once a week.
If you are willing to put the time into it, take this course. I do not know who will be teaching it next year, but if the material is the same, it is applicable to a myriad of concentrations (I am studying Neurobiology). If you love math without proofs, this is definitely a cool course.
This is class is probably more difficult and time-consuming than you think.
The class will change the way you think, but be prepared to do a lot of work (practice problems in particular). The book is incredibly helpful.
This is certainly a challenging class, especially if you are not familiar with theoretical math. However, the material is very interesting, requires a lot of logic, and is also very rewarding. Section can be very helpful, and the problem sets (though time consuming) really help you learn the material. There is a lot of overlap between the new textbook and lecture, but it is still a great way to learn the subject.
Stat 110 is an excellent class. You will learn to think about problems more effectively in general throughout the course and be pushed to really understand the material you are learning. Make sure you read the book before class and do not fall behind. Take all of the practice tests before the midterm and final. Definitely worth taking but be prepared to work hard.
Stat 110 is a difficult class that will take up a lot of your time but it's worth it!
There are several courses at Harvard that every undergraduate should take and that make a Harvard education truly unique.  Some of these classes include CS50, Chem 20, Math 23, several courses in the humanities and social sciences that I am not familiar with, and of course Stat 110 with Joe Blitzstein. You will be hard-pressed to find a better introduction to probability.  Probability is so relevant to so many fields that I am surprised that Stat 110 is not a mandatory course.  At any rate, definitely, definitely take Stat 110, or regret cheapening your Harvard education later!
One of my guiding principles is that easy things aren't worth doing, and this course proves that philosophy (by the contrapositive, of course).
I fell asleep during every lecture for this course simply because the lectures moved at a snail's pace. That being said, the concepts were mildly interesting and most likely will be helpful in future classes. Some concepts are hard to get the hang of and it can take a little time to get the hang of recognizing patterns. However, the class is not tremendously difficult. Furthermore, there are many resources for learning concepts: sections, section handouts, practice problems, old exams, the book, and lectures.
It's so hard but so good.
This is a great class which will change the way you think about probability, and about many problems in general. It is a great course.
This class is most definitely not for everyone although I am so glad I took it! It has been the most difficult but most rewarding class I have taken at Harvard thus far. Make sure you have time in your schedule to take this course and that you enjoy struggling through problems with others.
Very fun course. The course is challenging and really stretches your thinking ability, but it is worth it. Even though there is a heavy time commitment, this course is one of the best courses I have taken and I would recommend it to anyone who wants to learn how to think more creatively and about different problems.
It's amazing.  Teaches you to think in an entirely new, and incredibly useful, way.
It is a very difficult class that I only took as a concentration requirement.
Stat110 is probably the most interesting and challenging course I have taken at Harvard. But for me at least, it was very, very difficult. I would recommend taking it, but balancing it with the other classes in your schedule--I don't think I had the proper time to dedicate to the course, and I regret not taking less workload-heavy classes to make time for it. But I would definitely recommend it. It makes you think, and Joe is a great and hilarious professor.
If you're smart, you'll do well.  If you're not so smart, this will be an incredible challenge.  Assess yourself honestly before taking the leap into this class.
Only take this course if you have a lot of time and you need it for a requirement.  Go to office hours and sections!!!!! They are so helpful!
One of the classes that makes Harvard great.
This class is very difficult, but it is worth the effort, as you learn a lot about probability! Joe is a great professor, who really knows his stuff, and explains it really well!
Best class I have taken at Harvard so far. You will learn things about probability that are really counterintuitive, which makes the class very interesting. The class forces you to think hard. I encourage you start the psets early and try the problems on your before working with friends. This will prepare you best for the midterm and final which can be brutal.
Required class for statistic concentrations. A fun way to get into stats. I doubt other stat courses will be as fun/intuitive.
This class is extremely difficult but worth it.
Stat110 is a great, well-designed course.  You put in a lot of time and effort, but you learn a lot as well.  The concepts are interesting and the TF's are a great resource.  If you're concentrating in CS or Applied Math, you should definitely take this course.  Unfortunately Blitzstein may not be teaching it next time, so the quality of the course may be different.
This class is hard, make no mistake. Go to lecture even though the book is awesome (I made that mistake). Practice a lot. Make peace with integration. William Chen is a great TF! :D
You can learn the material in this course extremely well if you want to because there are so many resources available to you (in addition to the great lectures, albeit slow ones).
Be ready to work for the assignments.
It's so cool! And Blitz is amazing :D
Stat 110 is an amazing class, mainly because Blitzstein is the man. It's really fun and you learn a ton about probability, expected value, distributions, etc.
This class is likely to hurt your grade unless you have an advanced math background. But don't be so scared because it also helps you learn a ton about probability that you always wished you knew. It is definitely a rewarding experience that helps you gain a lot of knowledge. Just make sure to stay on top of materials every week.
The class is hard, but interesting.
Take this class! It teaches you SO much. BUT IT IS VERY VERY HARD. Balance your workload!!! It'll only really be worth your time if you are willing to put in the extra time for it.
A course more about thinking and telling stories, explaining statistical phenomena with connections over rigorous mathematics. Don't expect to go into great theoretical detail in the mathematics of statistics.
If you come from a fairly good math background and have time to spend thinking about the material from the class, then it's definitely worth it. It teaches you to think, helps you better understand the world around you, and enables you to make connections between many different topics. That being said, be sure you are able to devote sufficient time to the class in order to learn everything.
Stat 110 is amazing! Take it.
Great class with a great professor. Blitzstein wrote the textbook, so if you don't go to the lectures or watch them online, you'll probably be ok just reading it. Never went to section or office hours, but I also had friends in the class that were much better at math than me. Exams are easier than psets, at least in terms of computations. The best way to study for the exams is to look at the answers from past years - a lot of the questions are repeats.
Be brave!
Unless you're a genius, you have to really be willing to put in the time for this course.  But once you make that commitment, it's definitely rewarding.  (I say all this having taken with Blitzstein, and therefore can't comment on the professor who will teach this course next year.)  The psets are hard and time consuming, but if you form a group this is actually a good thing since it makes you talk everything out and hopefully get a better understanding than just watching the lectures or reading the textbook.  Blitzstein is nice and makes psets easier the week before the midterm and the final, so you have more time to study.  This plethora of practice problems both in the book, the strategic practice, and the old exams means if you have the time to do it all, you should be more than prepared when you enter the exam. Best of luck if you choose to take this class!
Take it, but get ready to work hard
get out while you still can.
It's an extremely hard course, as is obvious. I learned a lot, and I really appreciate that from the course, but I feel like the massive hit to my gpa that this course was really doesn't make up for it in the slightest.
The material is very interesting, but lecture is so dull and poorly organized. I fell asleep pretty much every single class. The textbook sucks. William Chen is god and taught me everything I know about Stat. Most of the TFs are ballers so definitely find a good section to go to, and definitely go to office hours. Psets are hard, but not too hard if you get hints from OH.
It does not live up to the hype. It is not a life-changing course. It's a fine course, and some of the material is interesting. The lectures are acceptable and the book quite helpful.
The problem sets and tests in this course can be challenging, but the material is incredibly interesting.  Knowledge of higher math is helpful but not necessary to understanding; some problem-solving proficiency (a la high school match contests) makes the course much more manageable.
This is a fantastic course.  Joe really generates enthusiasm for the material.
Best class I have ever taken.
Incredibly difficult. Be prepared.
Challenging course, but one that allows you to learn a lot. Even if you have studied probability elsewhere, stat 110 will extend your understanding and allow you to see how the different concepts interconnect and relate to the real world
There's a reason this course has a reputation as one of the best courses at Harvard - it's because this is one of the best courses at Harvard. I recommend this class to anyone who has an appropriate math background. It's relevant to almost any discipline. It takes some work because intuition is not always correct, but the class is never overwhelmingly difficult.
Extremely well organized courseTextbook is gold, READ THE TEXTBOOKTry to go into problem sets early, don't fall behind in lectures
STAT 110 really changed my way of thinking and pushed me towards becoming a statistics major. Although the problem sets and exams are rather difficult, there are a lot of resources to turn to for help - Blitzstein and the teaching staff are also great and really supportive. A class that you should definitely take at Harvard before graduating!
Take this class, but make sure you have time to devote to it!
Second half of the course not done as well as first half, but still great overall
This course was hard. I really wished I had put more time into the course as I know if I did, I would've gotten more out of it. All the resources are there to help you succeed in Stat 110, you just need to be proactive and grab them!
You should make sure that you're not taking any other particularly demanding courses (like CS50, Ec 1011, Orgo, etc.) and don't plan on having time-consuming extracurriculars either.  You should also have great study skills and a strong work ethic.  And pound Emergen-C, because if you get sick you're doomed.
Not easy, but useful and fun.
Even though it's difficult, it's worth it!
good stuff to know, i guess. extremely difficult. they keep saying this in this class, and i can attest to the converse:  do lots of practice problems to prepare for exams
This class is a lot of fun.  It fosters the kind of environment where it's easy to work with others on problem sets so it's not so painful when you're up way too late working on them.  The material is interesting and the lectures are too.  For me, it forced me to think in a way that I'm not accustomed to and that I don't find particularly intuitive, so that made the class hard and time-consuming, but also very rewarding because I think I learned a lot from it.  Mainly though, for me, the highlight of the class was the environment.  There's not that many classes that have as "fun" a feel (maybe CS50...)
Many people say this class was hard but worth it in the end.  I found it hard and completely not worth it.  It is really easy to fall behind, and the homeworks are way too difficult.  While I am sure that some of the information will be useful in the future, it is a shame that one has to take a really hard class to learn the basic distributions.  Harvard should offer an easier class that doesn't go as in depth.
The homeworks are very challenging, but this class is applicable to many other fields and you will feel smarter after taking it.  It's one of the few classes I've taken at Harvard that I have learned and retained a lot of material in.  This class may be different without Blitzstein next year.
Lectures are engaging, and the coursework is very manageable.
Very hard class.
I would recommend this course conditionally on the reason for taking it. Students in my program interested in doing theoretical statistics work will need to to it; students in my program looking for a strong background in social science methods would be better served by a more applied course.
This class is REALLY HARD if you have not taken any math in college, BUT manageable if you attend lecture, section, and all office hours of the week.
Be ready to work! The problem sets are time consuming so start early and definitely go to office hours! Some problems would be near impossible without it. Also, the lectures definitely skip over some important details covered in the book, so be sure to read the book thoroughly.
It's all about office hours. Let me repeat, IT'S ALL ABOUT OFFICE HOURS.
It's very useful. Take it if you're doing anything scientific at Harvard.
This is an absolutely awesome class. It does take a lot of work but it is definitely worth it. It teaches you to think faster and differently.
stat 110/blitzstein is way over-hyped. incredibly difficult to get one-on-one help, office hours are always packed. the first third of the course is interesting using neat problem solving skills for things like counting problems, but then the course devolves much more abstract theoretical statistics, which is no fun. no one goes to lectures because it's the same material as the book. this course should be taught in sections like 21a, 21b.
This class is extremely difficult. The problem sets are nearly impossible to do on your own, and you often need to work with other students and get a lot of help from TFs (which is available) to get the problem sets done well. That being said, this class is certainly doable. I wish I had kept up with the topics more actively throughout the semester. I think that would have made the class easier. The thing is, the concepts are inherently difficult. It is tough to master these topics no matter how many times you re-watch the lectures or how much you listen in class; you really have to be willing to put in a lot of extra time to actually learn the concepts. I struggled with this class a lot. To be honest, without it the semester would have been so much smoother. However, in the end, I'm happy I took the class. It's cool to have made it through it, and I believe that I have stronger reasoning and thinking skills. I feel more prepared to deal with problem solving in my other classes. In a way, I would say this class made me smarter, or at least a better thinker. Now, a lot of people will say it was life-changing (or that is at least what I read when I tried to figure out if I should take the class). I don't think this class changed my life to any major extent besides causing some stress, but it certainly challenged me and made me more determined than I had ever been to try and understand such a difficult class. Take this class if you want to be pushed. Make use of office hours, sections, and every other resource if you want to do well. And, go in with an open mind and no expectations in order to keep yourself sane. This review isn't meant to scare anyone. This class is not as "terrible" as people will say. If you take it, you will make it through, and when it's done you will look back and be proud of yourself--the journey just won't be easy.
This is a solid class (I would say it's roughly my 4th favorite course over 3 years). The material is (for the most part) well taught, and the material is very interesting. The aspect of the course I found most interesting is that the solutions to most of the interesting questions we discuss/solve on psets/solve on midterm and final rely on symmetries that you need to find in the problem. This is a powerful tool, but at times it felt like a crutch, in that solutions would rely on symmetries without explaining why those symmetries were actually there. This is problematic because a lot of results in probability are counter-intuitive. Thus, when solving a problem, I often found myself thinking "well, if I assume this symmetry then the problem maps nicely onto a problem we already solved, which is usually how these sorts of problems go. I see that this symmetry could potentially exist, but I also see arguments against this symmetry." Unfortunately, I did not feel adequately armed to decide when symmetries actually existed or not, because we discussed symmetries as they came up in problems instead of treating symmetry as a topic to study in and of itself. A bit more emphasis on finding symmetries, however, would make the course much better IMHO.
It's hard, but interesting
Amazing class. Take it but be prepare to work a lot on the psets. But at the end of the course, you will learn so much about statistics and most importantly, a different way to reason in a probabilistic context.
It's very difficult but you do learn a lot.
Take the class, do the extra problems posted online. study it hard.
Stat 110 is a trap. The first couple weeks are very useful and easy to visualize and applicable, but right around the add-drop deadline, the class swings into full-on obscure math and derivations mode. If that's you, great, more power to you. You really need to be comfortable with multivariable calculus and all sorts of integration to properly understand the class and succeed on problem sets and exams. It's a very popular course, but if you're going to take it, make sure you have a solid group of people to work on problem sets with every week, or you will flounder and you will fail. They can not be completed on your own.
Take this course - it's part of the Harvard experience. This course will change your mathematical for the better.
Stat 110 is a great class to challenge your problem solving ability. Rather than focus on rote calculations, Professor Blitzstein emphasizes the stories behind why everything is true, which makes a lot more sense intuitively. This class does require a lot of work, however, and I would recommend taking an easier class load to balance Stat 110.
Not for the faint-hearted. This class is slightly overrated from what people may initially expect.
It's a tough class, especially if you don't have much experience with statistics or mathematics. The class starts out simple and then increases strikingly in difficulty and it's important to keep up with the material to avoid being left behind and not understanding anything. The class builds on itself and so if you miss some fundamentals early on you are placed in a very difficult position indeed
It is a great class but it is only worth it if you are going to put in the effort. It definitely is rewarding and very cool.
It is an extremely well done course. excellent professor, amazing coursepack, wonderful TF! the material is very very useful in all fields, including common brain teaser questions from job interviews. note: it is NOT a higher level substitute of stat 104 -- their material do not overlap. exams are fair (certainly easier than last year) if you are well prepared. may not be as hard as you have heard from many people because the student body has a wide spectrum of background, and you should gauge your own level by looking at past lectures and problem sets (they are all online).
In Stats 110 you'll be in pain a lot of the time, but the "i get it!" moments are extremely rewarding. Don't assume you'll get things right away, or that you'll figure out a homework problem from the first try. Be patient and prepared to think! TFs and friends can guide your thinking, but it's only by thinking *on your own* that you'll get something out of this course. Go to sections and office hours, and do as many problems as you can from the very beginning. How well you do in this course is highly positively correlated with the number of problems you solve on your own.
This course is EXTREMELY difficult. The psets are hard and somewhat impossible without help or guidance from the TFs. So expect to go to office hours a lot. The exams are also really hard -- personally, I studied a ton for both the midterm and the final and that didn't really help me.. so it's one of those rare classes where you can try really hard and think you understand everything and still end up not doing that well. The lectures are kind of boring, but the textbook is great and easier to understand. As for the material, I thought it was somewhat falsely advertised. It was way more theoretical and a lot less practical than I wanted and expected. This is definitely my most difficult class I've taken thus far and I'm not sure it was worth the stress.
Take the class!! Blitzstein is an amazing professor, and the TFs our year were awesome as well! Shout out to William Chen and Sebastian Chiu for being awesome TFs! The material is also extremely interesting, and I think understanding the distributions and the relationships between the distributions is extremely important.
The incorporation of a textbook to the course makes the class a lot more manageable. Whereas in the past, people probably had to resort to watching the lecture a billion times over, now you just look for relevant materials from the textbook! It is by no chance an easy class, but problem sets are doable with the help of TF's and your friends. Collaboration is the key!
Hard class, but well worth it. Great prof!
You probably need to take this class, but prepare for it a bit in advance, it is incredibly difficult.
I thought Stat 110 was generally a good class, and I will recommend it to those who are interested in learning about probability at all. Having said that, I think this class is slightly overrated.
I loved this course! It was challenging but not too challenging. One of the tougher classes I've taken, but totally worth it!
Difficult but doable. You will work a lot and learn a lot. Useful to know other people taking the course because you will need help with some ideas and it is difficult to gain understanding in short section/office hours.
Take this course if you want a fundamental understanding of probability. The material in this course is surprisingly applicable and significant to many scientific fields. It is difficult but it is rewarding nonetheless.
This is cold, hard statistics. Nothing silly like papers or a final project, just one probability problem after another on the psets, midterm, and final. Take a look at the first pset - if it looks interesting to you, take this course. If not, don't.
This was by far the most interesting and fun quantitative course I've taken here. Statistics is beautiful. I took AP Stat in high school and I hated it, promising myself never to take another statistics course. Then I heard that there was all this hoopla about Stat 110 and Joe Blitzstein. Taking this course was a great choice. How hard it is depends on your math background. If you're coming from Math 25 or above, this course will be pretty straightforward. If you're coming from 23, it'll be pretty challenging. Anything below that and you'll have to prepare for a tough semester. But it'll be worth it. The problem sets are fun and challenging in the best way possible. The moment that you have a breakthrough on a pset or during an exam is like a beam of inspiration. Take this course if you are quantitatively minded at all.
Long psets, brutal exams... start psets early and go to as many office hours as possible.
This course is less of a math class and more of a course in puzzle solving. It's a lot of fun and the material is really compelling. The material and not the professor makes the class, so I would still recommend it even though Blitzstein will be on sabbatical in 2014.
Be careful, this class is hard and if you fall behind you really need to work to catch up.
This is a tough course, but it's well-taught by Professor Blitzstein. There's a lot of work involved in problem sets, and the tests are not easy, but you do feel by the end of the course that you know a significant amount more than you did coming in. It's a bit daunting how my is covered in the course, but the course does an especially good job pointing out connections as integrating the material in "stories."
Of all the huge Harvard courses, this one is the most legitimate, and the most fulfilling. The topics covered are fascinating, and Blitzstein is the man. Psets are short and the exams aren't bad at all. I would definitely recommend 110 to everyone - it'll improve your all around problem solving skills and teach you some cool material.
Problem sets can be long and difficult, but OH and the textbook help. The midterm was pretty easy, but the material in second half of the course seemed harder for me.
Material. The teaching is terrific! Joe Blitzstein makes very difficult concepts sound so easy and understandable! He also connects many ideas together, so you don't even notice you are learning sooooo much material. His textbook is a great resource - very understandable and comprehensive!! The problem sets are difficult, but also very interesting - you definitely learn about the material as you do the problem set. Joe's lectures are great too - he is a good sense of humor.Advice: Go to section AND lecture! Read the textbook - every week! Ask TFs questions.  Form a study group to discuss problems!
This was an extremely hard class for someone like me, of probably average intelligence at Harvard! The problem sets were literally impossible to do on my own and I felt were made to do collaboratively. This is good because it is important to learn how to work with others, but bad if you are having a stressful week and do not have time to go to all the office hours and find people to do it with in a timely manner. There was a huge (sometimes unfair, I thought) jump from lectures to problem sets. However, seeking help at different TFs' office hours was usually hard because there were always so many people and I had to wait in line every time I wanted to ask a question. Also, there were only few TF's that were very good AND willing to help.
This course will teach to think in a way that you never have. It will teach very useful and very interesting things. Applicable to so many different fields.
Stat 110 is difficult. The trickiness of the material cannot be underestimated. However, I learned so much in the past semester, and the concepts are really applicable in many different fields. Professor Blitzstein is a great teacher. But do use all the resources available to you; do not cut yourself short by trying to figure things out on your own - use your TFs and classmates to help you understand the material.
If you are willing to put in the time and effort, this will be an awesome class for you.  The psets are hard, but there is tons of support in the form of office hours and sections.  I feel like I got a great introduction to probability theory, one which really developed my intuition and understanding.
Stat 110 is a tough class, but it's a challenge worth taking. You'll get a broad but rigorous introduction to the subject of probability. Don't expect to learn any data analysis - Stat 110 focuses on the study of random variables and probability.
By far the hardest class I've ever taken, but the material you learn is really useful. I have no idea how students learned the material in the past without a textbook, because the new textbook is essential to keeping up. Problem sets can take up to 10 hours a week depending on the week. While it's possible to go to a bunch of office hours and figure out all the answers out there, looking back, I would recommend reading the relevant chapter in the book thoroughly and doing the relevant strategic practice problems on the course website before attempting each problem set. It's time consuming, but that way you'll actually understand the material and will be in good shape for the midterm and final. I really liked Blitzstein for the first half of the semester, but that faded over the course of the semester as I realized how much he overcomplicated things and taught only to the level of the top students in the class.
I would highly recommend this class to anyone concentrating in a quantitive field. By the end of the class you will have a much deeper understanding of probability. This will likely become increasingly important as data and statistical inference begins to play an increasingly large role in our lives. Blitzstein is a great professor but I don't think the class will be much different without him because he has created very comprehensive course materials. Be sure to take the time the read the book and to attempt each problem set on your own to avoid falling behind.
Definitely the hardest course I've taken here so far. Do not go in thinking that you can handle it without talking to people who have taken it in the past, and I advise not taking the course yet if it looks like you'll have a rough fall semester already
changes your way of thinking about problems but you're going to have to put in a lot of work for that to happen
I did not like this course. I found that I did not learn much from it because each topic goes extremely quickly and a good inro to baseline knowledge is not provided. This course requires a lot of work and is most likely going to be the hardest course I will take at Harvard. Take it if thinking abstractly about concrete things sounds like something you want to do for 4 or 5 nights a week for 3 or 4 hours a night.
This class is one of those classes that shapes the way you think, enhances your reasoning, and improves your thinking abilites all around. The material is demanding, but most definitely worth going through.
I've never taken a better course at Harvard.  Joe is an incredible professor (though you may want to watch lecture videos at 2x or 3x normal speed).  He's got a great sense of humor that comes across in lecture and emails.  The psets are worth the time, and if anything, the best part of the course.  It's a testament to Joe that 6-7 problems a week can really make you understand the curriculum.  The midterm and final are very similar in style to previous ones, so doing the old ones definitely helps.  William and Sebastian are the bomb and clearly very dedicated to the course.  The only issue is I don't think either of them or Joe will be around next year.  Overall, a fantastic course that definitely is very very challenging.  You can certainly do a whole pset in one night, though it'll definitely be an all-nighter in that case.  Think clearly: remember the stories and that conditioning is the soul of statistics.
Stat 110 is a fantastic course that every Harvard student should take. The material is very challenging, but if you put in time and effort, it is completely possible to do well. Professor Blitzstein does a great job structuring the course and teaches very effectively through examples and stories, which makes the material much easier to understand. This course is not about memorization or simply applying formulas; rather, it forces you to see the structure of problems and apply concepts in creative ways. You will definitely leave the course with stronger mathematical reasoning and a set of statistical ideas and tools that are applicable in many fields.
This is probably one of the best classes at Harvard, but also one of the toughest and hardest. Be prepared to spend TONS of time on the psets. The material itself isn't ridiculous, but Professor Blitzstein wants you to know it well so he makes it challenging so you really know it. I highly recommend this class, but be aware: it will be very very hard. But one of the more rewarding classes, and Blitzstein is very generous with grades. If you work hard, you will be fine no matter how badly you flunk the exams.
The class is good, but definitely not all it's hyped up to be.
Be prepared for long problem set sessions and difficult concepts. Go to lecture, read the book, look over past homeworks and exams extensively. Do lots of problems.
This class is best when it's your primary focus. It can become a grind when you put it off (it is definitely do-able but definitely hard and requires consistent focus and attention)
Good class, but heavy time commitment.  Not intuitive, but interesting.
Take it if you're good at math. Don't take it if you're not. Just don't.
The class is very thoroughly taught. There's less emphasis on memorization and more on intuition and understanding. I really liked it!
I never thought I would like statistics and am still not likely to pursue further classes on the subject, but this class is very well taught and very interesting. Even the simplest statistical problems can be more complex than you'd think, and this class brings a deeper understanding about how statistics works and how to reason about it.
This is the hardest course I have ever taken mostly in terms of concepts. Be prepared to spend a good amount of time at office hours each week.
This is a fantastic, well organized course that rigorously introduces you to probability and statistics and challenges you to adopt a new way of thinking.  Be warned that the learning curve is steep, but take advantage of the excellent and resourceful staff who are always there to help you.  TIPS:  Go to lecture.  Go to section.  Go to office hours!  Work with others, and ALWAYS ASK IF YOU NEED HELP!  There is so much review material on the website, you're screwing yourself over if you don't take full advantage of what is available to you.
blitzstein is very good at teaching topics in lecture. but you'll also have to do a lot of work and review on your own to truly understand the material and do the problem sets. answers to the problem set questions are usually not obvious so you'll really have to grasp the concepts first in order to apply them.
Taking this class with as much passion as you can -- falling behind is unenjoyable. Your absolute attention is necessary to glean from this course the unique intuition its students crave to develop.
Good course but may be challenging for the less math-inclined
Extremely challenging but guaranteed to make you a better thinker and guaranteed to come away from the course understanding the topics inside and out.
This is the probability class you want to take. Probability is hard and not intuitive, Stat 110 tells you the real story. I really learned a lot from this class. Also you don't need to take Math 21a for this class
this class is very tough, but very rewarding if you put in the effort. the best advice i could give is to post up at office hours every week and try to work through the psets with friends, as the tfs are generally very good at pointing you in the right direction if you need it.
great class, teaches you how to think well about probability and teaches you a lot.
This course is simply amazing. You will learn so much. The problem sets were harder this year, but still manageable. If you are contemplating taking this class, do it. You will not regret it.
When you take this course, take it because you are ready to commit to it. Practice on a weekly basis, from week 1, no kidding. Workload to succeed equivalent to that of CS 50. If I had to take it again, I would only have 3 classes that term.Great! Rewarding to understand these concepts!
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. I really learned a lot and this course will definitely useful for interviews.
This class is amazing. It's also very difficult but can be very rewarding in the end. Joe is hilarious and really cares for his students, the class and the department. The TF's are amazing and spend ridiculous amounts of time dedicated to this class. The class becomes a community after working so hard on psets and understanding the material.
This class was the hardest class I've ever taken in my life. Psets require a lot of work, the midterm will destroy you--but I've learned so so much. I want all of my friends to take it (maybe not if you're a humanities person, but if you're even vaguely math/science) because i feel like you walk out of the course really feeling like you've learned something that's applicable outside of the classroom. make sure you have a LOT of time to devote to the class, and don't fall behind; it's way too hard to catch up. Hardest class I've ever taken, but one of my favorites. the challenge makes the end/the understanding you'll gain insanely rewarding.
This class will change the way you look into uncertainty and randomness. Take it! (certainly not with ec1011a though, which many of us did and ended up regretting)
Stat110 is hard, but the problems are really interesting and relevant. You find out which assumptions about probability you've been making wrong and how to correct them. The staff are trained really well and spend a lot of time preparing their own section notes. Do a lot of practice problems!
It is not a very easy class. Also the more you'll practice the better you'll do, because the midterms and finals were more like recognizing old problems from psets, old exams, sections. So make sure you put enough effort in this class.
The material is fascinating and Blitzstein is amazing. I took this class Pass/Fail and I'm so glad I did because I was able to really focus on the material rather than freaking out about my grade (which I feel like I otherwise would have, because the course is quite difficult).
The class is very very hard. Be prepared for some all-nighters every week for the psets and to get crushed by exams. However, the grading is generous and the class is very well taught, and many interesting and useful topics are covered. If the course doesn't kill you, it is worth it.
This course is PHENOMENAL. Prof Blitzstein is phenomenal, it is very well run, and the TFs, by and large, were awesome too. You learn SO MUCH about probability and really learn how to think and solve problems. I have not taken a better course at Harvard. And this stuff is applicable anywhere, so there's no reason NOT to take it!
The Blitz is a seriously crazy dude. I never believed in the powers of stories before him
This is a great class. The topics are very important and useful, and the teaching is excellent. There is just a lot of support, and the staff is very approachable. I had a lot of fun in this class, despite that it was quite a challenge. Professor Blitzstein is fantastic, and a very knowledgeable fellow. Take this class if you want a fun challenge. You will feel rewarded at the end.
AWESOME CLASS! You learn so much from this class, and you will enjoy going to every single lecture.
Take it if you want to work your ass off, do all the problem sets and strategic practices, and learn a lot.  Don't take it if you're just going to slack off- you'll be doing yourself a grave disservice.  Also, if you do take it, go over the lecture notes once a week and tray all the SP problems and pest problems by yourself first.
You need to be smart about this class. DO NOT assume that you will be able to do the psets on your own. Find others who are taking the class and go to office hours and sections. It will save you a lot of pain.
Take this class if you really want to challenge yourself. Hardest course I've taken at Harvard. Know multivariable calculus, some linear algebra helps, be prepared to spend long hours on psets. Amazing material.
Pay attention to lectures. If you don't understand them during class, re-watch them online.
Don't take this course unless you have 20-30 hours a week. The lectures are pretty good, but the problem sets are ridiculously difficult and so are the exams. Not recommended.
The first half is math competition combinatorics, so if you already know this, the only worthwhile part is some interesting problem sets.The second half covers material that doesn't appear in other places but if you are comfortable with the sort of problem solving from the first, it might be a little slow.
It's a very good class. You can learn a lot. And Joseph is a very nice professor.
Don't be scared of the class, just like the Cauchy distribution it has no mean.
Take this class! You will be rewarded for your time that you put in. The problem sets are challenging, but there is a ton of support available and every TF puts in a tremendous amount of time in making sure you understand the material.
Study early and often. Especially for the exams.
If you need to take it, do. Don't pick you concentration specifically to avoid this class. If you don't need to take it, definitely consider whether you have the time necessary to put in. If you're leaning towards a math-heavy concentration (Applied math, stat, math), probably take it, although it will not be easy or terribly enjoyable.
Very tough but rewarding.  TAKE IT!  Very applicable!
It's a hard class. The hardest class I have yet taken. Math 21a is definitely a must to have taken the year before. You'll understand change of variables and Markov so much better. However, anyone who's even legitimately interested in probability should take the course. The professor is awesome and has a lot of passion for the topic. Some of the TFs are the most engaging TFs I have seen at Harvard, and they are only undergraduates which kind of puts life in perspective.
I've never taken a course quite like this. Each week you may feel stressed on the problem sets; expect to spend a substantial amount of time grappling with the material. However the highs of this class, the 3 a.m. epiphanies, the sense of really understanding the material on an intuitive level, are unmatched by any other course I've taken at Harvard. Fascinating material and Joe is a clear and entertaining lecturer. Stat 110 is something everyone with the slightest interest in quantitative disciplines should take. It'll be worth your while.
this is a hard but rewarding class
A lot of time and energy is needed to succeed but the teaching staff is great and the material taught is very important
Stat 110 is a great course with extremely supportive staff. If you're someone who never goes to section or office hours for classes, you're going to need to make an exception here. Force yourself to go to section and start the homeworks early!!! The homeworks and exams will be quite doable if you stay on top of the class from week to week - that's really all it takes. Your downfall in this class will only be from procrastinating and being lazy. Don't be scared that you're incapable of learning the material, because you really can - there are enough practice problems and sections to help you drill the material into your head. Stat 110 is one of the most well-organized classes at Harvard, definitely take it (if you're willing to put in the work)!!
This course teaches you how to think. You actually become smarter and better at problem-solving just by taking it - not just in I learned in Stat 110 to other courses and it's incredible how your ability to discern patterns and find clever shortcuts improves. I would enthusiastically recommend it to everyone, regardless of concentration.
Take this class. It's an experience you won't regret. Joe's lectures are fantastic. While the psets and strategic practice are difficult and take time, you can really tell how much work Joe puts into them. They're original and with the course's great support network, you'll get a lot out of them. If you're willing to put in the time and effort, your experience in 110 will be extremely rewarding.
Start practice problems early. Do psets early. Listen to last year's lectures.
This is one of those classes where looking back, I saw how much I learned and really appreciated how when I was taking the final I realized I actually understood things, but during the actual semester I referred to this class as "the bane of my existence". This class is no joke, so definitely don't take it on a whim, but if you can suffer through it you realize how cool probability is and how the psets actually teach you a lot. Go to office hours. Seriously. Ask stupid questions. Be prepared to fail the midterm. But this will probably go down as one of my favorite classes at Harvard.
Take this class if you want to be intellectually stimulated to a degree you probably never experienced. This class will take a huge chunk of your week, and if you put in the work, you'll be rewarded. Be prepared to work harder than you ever did before. Luckily, the topic itself is interesting and even relevant at times. This class embodies the Harvard experience... everybody should try it
You NEED to set aside a lot of time every week if you want to succeed in this course--make it a priority and do much more than is required of you. If you do so it will be one of the best classes you take at Harvard.
This is a phenomenal, extremely engaging class for anyone with a strong math background as well as an interest in randomness and probability.
Difficult but totally worth it. Office hours are quite helpful!
This class is AWESOME. I know alot people will say it is hard, but it is NOT IMPOSSIBLE. Besides, the challenge makes the class fun, enriching and very enlightening (when you see how stats can be applied in such a rich fashion to situations you would never imagine).
First of all, contrary to legend, this is an easy course. There are almost 400 students taking it and many are very poor at math, so you can get through with some minimum effort. However, I do not see why anyone would want to take this course. We don't learn much; I've been reading some introductory probability textbooks and I've been learning much more than I did while taking Stat 110. Prof. Blitzstein is really passionate about the material, but fundamentally fails at conveying all his knowledge to the students. It's just a very disappointing experience overall. I don't know much about Math 154, but that course may be a better alternative to taking this course; I recommend future students to shop that class and see whether it is better than Stat 110.
So this is a really good course, and there are lots of important things in this course that will help you become a much better thinker, but you really have to make sure you stay on top of things. Like, if you're understanding most of the lectures and at least looking through a few of the strategic practice problems EVERY WEEK then going to multiple sections per week like I wish I'd been doing (and make sure you're finding the right sections for you, some of them are slower and go over lecture material more, whereas others jump right into solving tricky problems). It's a very good class, but sometimes it can be unnecessarily hard or too much work, and the midterm SUCKS.
This was by far the best class I have ever taken or am ever likely to take. It's really difficult, and it takes a lot of work, but it leaves you with a whole different sense of looking at how to solve problems. Blitz is incredible as a lecturer, the TFs are all great and enthusiastic, and there is so much support. To complete this class and to feel as though you learned something from it is so rewarding, and I cannot stress enough how much I liked this class. If you don't have time to take it, AT LEAST watch the videos on iTunes. Best decision of college was to take this class.
The strategic practices are up there for a reason. Take advantage of them. Start your problem set as soon as it is available on the isites. Take advantage of all of the sections and office hours. All of the TF's are different and thus have different ways of doing things. Finding the person who you are most able to understand will require you to go to more than one section in the first few weeks but it is worth it when you find them. If you don't understand something, spend time trying to understand it. The material is all based upon itself. You'll only be hurting yourself if you don't at least put in the effort to understand something.
This is an incredibly high level class that, unless you are absolutely ready to put in a ludicrous number of hours in personal preparation, has the potential to overwhelm you.  Proceed with caution, but prepare for an extensive reward if you do succeed.
Very difficult. Requires a lot of time outside of class, i.e. optional sections and office hours.
This is the most ultimate class you will ever take with the most epic professor. Your intuition will be shattered; your mind will be blown; your sleep will suffer. But you will love every minute of it.
Stat 110 is extremely difficult, but I feel that I've learned a lot from it. Regardless of what grade you receive, I think that you will come away learning more from this course than pretty much any other.
Stat 110 is a great course that I think everyone should take. A lot of the things we learned in class are very relevant to any concentration. Furthermore Joe's a great lecturer and very passionate about his course. finally this class is very useful for interviews, as many finance interviews often ask statistics questions.
A great course in the sense that the professor is super enthusiastic and the TFs too. However, it is really tough and time-consuming. If you are not a statistics- or a CS-concentrator, the course can at times be really frustrating.
Very challenging . . . but probably worth it.
Joe says condition is the soul of probability.I'd like to say Joe is the God of probability.
This class is very hard. Be ready to spend over 10 hours per week on P-Sets. Go to office hours and section. You can't over study for the midterm.
Great class! Hard, but rewarding. Midterm time was the only time I doubted my choice to take the course. Other than that, AWESOME class. I took it with CS61 and it is doable, but requires a lot of effort! If you are like me, prepare to go to office hours both Tuesday and Wednesday nights. Get a pset buddy group--it really helps to see how others think and my group empowered me to think that I could solve the problems on my own without much help. May LOTUS will be your friend. Also, I took this class without a previous Stat background and I took Applied Math 21a concurrently. It was fine. Stat 110 is just awesome.
This class made me question my life and my choices on a daily basis. It's extremely challenging and you'll learn, but you'll struggle every step of the way. Good luck! :)
It's extremely hard but definitely take it. Definitely.
This course requires a lot of work but it's fun, creative and helpful.
Having taken econometrics, stat 104, and stat 107 before this class, I thought that I would be well prepared for Stat 110.  Be forewarned that this class is theoretical math, so nearly no experience with applied statistics helps.  I feel like I wasted at least 15 hours each week outside of class to get problem sets done thinking that they would help with the test.  What it boils down to is that Stat 110 exists to test your prior math skills.  If you come in expecting anything otherwise, this class will be a big frustration and disappointment for you.  Please don't make the same mistake that I did.
This class is amazing. Definitely one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. I never considered myself a Math person, or Statistics person for that matter, but I love this class. It was hard, it was challenging, sometimes I thought I couldn't do it, but with the support of all the TFs and Joe, this class was more than doable. I think everyone should have this kind of knowledge and should not shy away from Stat 110 because of the fact that is hard. I personally took while doing Math 21a in the same semester, and did fine. Probably had to work a little bit more than some other people, but it was worth it in the end. If you really want a life-changing class and are not afraid to work hard, this class is for you. As I said: my preparation was weak, and I still managed to do well.
Professor Blitzstein genuinely cares about all of his students and is super accessible outside of class!  This class is a really good introduction to probability.  It doesn't assume much outside knowledge, although a decent background in mathematics is helpful.  That being said, I think that the people who do well come from all different math backgrounds.  In general, this class teaches material that is very interesting and applicable.  It's more about a way of thinking and problem solving than memorizing.  Would definitely recommend this class!
Amazing class for anyone willing to work and ready to learn! If you are at all interested in math, and can accommodate it in your schedule balanced with less time-consuming classes then do yourself a huge favor, take on the challenge and be rewarded! It's worth it! For anyone choosing between Stat 104 or Stat 110, the question comes down to how much you want to learn and how much you want to work so be true to yourself and don't just choose the easy way out if you know you could be fulfilled by the challenge!
This is a great course. It was one of few courses that I took at harvard that really fundamentally changed my worldview.
Make sure you learn the Chicken and egg!!
This class is great, if you are willing to put in the work.  The problem sets are really tough, especially if you miss section that week, and will take a substantial amount of work.  However, the class is challenging in a way that gets you interested in the material and excited when you understand a concept, not frustrated.  the problems are never tedious.  I don't regret taking it and would suggest it to anyone who has the time to take it and wants to get interested in probability.
THIS IS THE BEST CLASS EVER. TAKE IT! Yes, it is difficult and challenging, but it is one the best classes you will ever take! Joe is wonderful and his TFs are wonderful and the problem sets will kick your butt but it will feel so good!
Great class.  Take it over any other intro stat unless you are pre-med.
This was my favorite class, hands down. Jessy is THE BEST TF and Sebastian and William come in at close seconds. Joe is an amazing professor and it was such an honor to be able to take his course.
While this is a very very difficult course it is well worth it and you will learn a tremendous amount and take a lot out of it.
This class is extremely demanding but extremely rewarding. The material is very interesting and Joe is both a wonderful lecturer and a great person. There are a lot of deep connections between different topics in the class, so you need to stay on top of everything. Problem sets will have you banging your head against a wall and then you will finally get it and it will feel amazing. Lots of help is available via office hours and section. I would highly recommend the course, but do be cautious about taking it with an otherwise heavy course load.
intensely challenging, but equally rewarding
If you're studying anything remotely scientific or quantitative, this will probably be one of the most important courses you take. If not, it will still change the way you think about the world in a valuable way. The workload is significant, even if you have a strong math background, but is well balanced and should feel quite reasonable. The material seemed to move rather slowly at first, but don't be fooled you get into some serious maths about a third of the way through and it doesn't let up. In short I highly recommend this course, it will make you a better person.
Awesome class. Really cool applications, great teaching staff, interesting problems.
Be prepared to work hard. If this class is in your schedule you will want to take a couple easy classes to balance it out.
Helpful but challenging.
Make sure you're dedicated to this class and don't get burnt out at the end!
It is a very difficult/time consuming class but worth the investment.
Great course! It picks up quickly, so don't let it sneak up on you. Be ready to get absolutely rocked by the first midterm though. Study as much as you can and actually do strategic practice problem BEFORE the midterm. Try to keep current with the material. There is a lot thrown at you.
If you aren't familiar with probability, you should absolutely take this class. The support system is fantastic. The first week, shop around--not all sections are created equal. Blitzstein really cares about students and wants people to understand, so even though questions can be tricky, they are always fair.
be prepared to work!
Best class ever! Blitzstein is an amazing lecturer, the next Walter Lewin. Lectures are so well organized and everything is beautifully derived. Wish there were more classes of this kind. Definitely a must take.
Hardest class you will take at Harvard.
Take Stat 110! This course will change how you think about the world. It gets a bad rep for being too difficult, but Joe is definitely the best teacher I've ever had, and you can definitely master the material if you work at it.
This is honestly the best course I have taken here at Harvard. You should definitely take this class if you are interested in any scientific field!
Stat 110 is a great course because Joe Blitzstein teaches it. He puts a ton of time into the course, and makes a lot of resources available to help you succeed. That being said, it is a very difficult course. The type of problems you'll encounter are very different from those you've probably seen before in other math classes (such as calculus). As a result, the problem sets take a lot of time to complete. I'd recommend taking this course in a semester without a lot of other difficult courses, since I personally definitely would have gotten more out of it if I didn't have a ton of other work to do that prevented me from ever looking at the practice problems.
Very, very difficult material, but taught well. Grading is not too harsh, but the subject matter is very hard.
Professor Blitzstein and all of his TFs are easily accesible and extremely helpful. Professor Blitzstein is a clear and captivating lecturer. The problem sets are difficult but fascinating, and are excellent preparation for the final and midterm. This has been my favorite class that I have taken at Harvard. Professor Blitzstein is also my favorite professor that I have had at Harvard. He is very generous with his time, always willing to answer questions (even about material from other courses), and is quick to respond to email. He also provides a vast amount of handouts and review material on the course website.
Stat 110 is great! It's a lot of work, and you don't want to fall behind on things. Attending sections will really help you better grasp the material. Lecture often covers some unusually difficult problems, but in section we can apply the concepts to simpler problems to make sure we understand everything. I went to two sections each week and suggest you do the same (or more!). It's also important to work with others on the problem sets; office hours are a great place to do this.You should NOT take this class if you are going to take other hard classes in the same semester. Stat 110 will need to be one of your primary focuses while you are in the class. Given that, you will come away with a much better understanding of many concepts. The work is very rewarding!
Since taking this class, I've started thinking about everything in terms of distributions-- the number of people in line for brunch, the time it takes me to fall asleep. If you're serious about math, I can't recommend it enough. If you plan on a statistics-related career path, it would be truly a shame to miss this course. If there were a '6', this course would be it.
Requires time.
Joe is an awesome professor who makes this class an absolutely great class. While the assignments and exams may be challenging, the class gives you everything you need to tackle each challenge (unlike some other hard classes) and you will walk away from it having learned a great deal
Stat 110 is amazing. There are SO many resources available. It will kick you in the butt if you don't practice all the time, every week - but if you do, you'll walk away feeling like you've actually learned something useful, and had fun doing it! And don't worry if you think you're failing - EVERYONE feels the same way. It's a hard class. (But worth it).
do the practice problems every week in time.
Stat 110 is an AMAZING course. One of the few classes where the teaching is superb, the TFs know what they are doing, Joe Blitzstein is a master at teaching, material is fascinating and super applicable to any discipline (Math, CS, Science, Engineering, Social Science, Statistics, etc.). The course is quite demanding, but with practice it is nothing that can't be overcome. Highly recommended, however beware that it is a time-commitment.
Awesome material, and Professor Blitzstein is a pro.
Learn Joe's stories. You'll use a lot less calculus than you'd think.
Prepare to work hard.
This class covers sooooo much material. Most learn most of it, which is fantastic. More than a few fall through the cracks... should have just watched the lectures on itunes. This class is not for everyone.
Take advantage of sections. These are great opportunities to ask questions and work with other students. A lot of the learning in this course occurs outside of lecture. Be willing to invest a considerable amount of time into learning the material.
Tough class but you learn a lot of useful skills
It's a very hard course, and you might be frustrated at times. However, the materials are very interesting and will definitely be applicable in the future.
You may hear people say Stat 110 is a quintessential Harvard course that must be taken; they're absolutely right!! I got so much out of this course; nearly every homework and exam problem is about a real world situation, making it especially interesting. Joe Blitzstein is a rare professor who truly cares about his students and wants them to succeed! He also gives entertaining lectures. Highly recommended! It's also a good course to take pass/fail if you're worried about not having time!
This is an excellent class but it is an incredible amount of work. It seems to get harder ever single year. Be prepared to be lost in lecture from time to time as Professor Blitzstein solves difficult problems without motivating why he does them. (You're understanding will come later.) Also, be prepared to do an enormous number of practice problems outside of class. If you do that, it will be incredibly rewarding.
DON'T underestimate this class. It's freaking hard.
good fifth course, some important material to learn, blitzstein is cool and gives cool problems
Stat 110 is an incredibly rewarding class. It's a ton of work (at least it was for me) but you get to do some beautiful math and change the way you look at a world, which is a very rare and wonderful opportunity. Definitely get as early of a start on problem sets and studying as you can; it's not about getting a good grade on the homework, it's about mastering the material for the exams.
Blitzstein cares a great deal about the class and all the students, and that makes a huge difference. He's a great lecturer with a quirky sense of humor, and he does a good job of explaining things clearly and is big on building intuition. Don't fall behind on the material, start problem sets early, and do the strategic practice. In the end, you'll build a great foundation in probability. Also, make sure to go to section- Jessy's, Sebastian's, or William's if they're teaching next year.
Beware. This is a great course, but it's filled with all the math 55/25 kids. If you have a weak math background, or you're not able to spend over 15 hrs a week to it (And even if you have the time) it won't come easily, or even with a lot of work. I highly recommend going through the material BEFORE you take the class, to familiarize yourself with the material.
Difficult, but rewarding. A great course.
Stat 110 is a super super awesome well-taught and well-organized class. The material's really cool, Joe is really awesome and very very dedicated to teaching and very good at it, and there's plenty of support (e.g. practice problems, lots of sections and section hand-outs, and many classmates). In many ways it's everything CS50 should want to be: it draws in a wide range of people, yet remains intellectually thorough and appropriately challenging for everyone without slowing down the pace and doing egotistical gimmicky things. (Though the Normal distribution plushies were super adorable :) )
I was actually thinking of not rating any of my courses, but I think that would have been an injustice - Stat 110 is a great course, hard yes, but you learn a lot - and if that is what truly matters to you even more than just grades, than definitely take the class. The TFs are great - unlike in a lot of classes, the TFs in 110 were clearly chosen with a lot of care. I personally thought the undergrad TFs were by far the most amazing, but you do learn a lot from the grad TFs too. Prof. Blitzstein himself is an incredible professor - everyone says probability can tend to be a dry unintuitive subject, but with his anecdotes and connections, he makes the material massively interesting. He also cares a lot about your learning of the material. I've had great professors and courses, but not quite like Prof. Blitzstein and his Stat 110 course. I struggled quite a bit with the material and while it might come across as hard and unintuitive, definitely stick with it and do heed the course's advice! Start the p-set as early as you can, go to office hours, and do the section problems and Prof. Blitzstein's SP problems. In the end, Stat 110 ended up being my favorite course thus far in college. As for necessary background, do be familiar with partial derivatives, multiple integrals, and matrices - these become especially important later in the course with Jacobian transformations and Markov chains, but the end emphasis is on the statistics and not the calculus. If you are on the fence about taking the class, I would say take it! You can always take it pass/fail if feeling stressed. If you do decide to take it, you're in for a memorably great semester.
Problem sets take at least 20 hours a week and office hours are necessary to do well on the psets. However, Professor Blitzstein and TFs are great and very helpful. I struggled a lot in this class, but I still would recommend it because I learned a lot and it has made me very interested in Statistics. Just be prepared to work very hard and be persistent with the material.
One of the hardest classes you'll take during your college career, so make sure you take it with friends. That being said, it's one of the best courses you'll take here. It really makes you a better thinker, and has converted me to a statistics concentrator. The support system is great, and really helps you with the semester-long learning curve. As always, Jessy's, William's, and Sebastian's sections are spectacular.
This is such a great, organized introduction to Statistics.  Blitzstein doesn't teach it in the form of dry, textbook probability but rather exciting examples, all of which show you its applicability to the real world. Blitzstein is just a great person, a great instructor, and he really cares about your success in the class.  He posts hundreds of practice problems and really is accessible to students. Even if you're not considering Statistics as a major, it is a must-take class for anyone quantitative.  Best class I've taken at Harvard, by far.
If you're at all quantitative, Stat 110 is a must-take. It synergizes well with literally any other quantitative or non-quantitative field, and it has potentially the best teaching staff of any course that I've taken. Joe is very helpful and great at explaining things. He provides a ton of additional material, which you HAVE to use! It's very helpful and you doing it will be the difference between getting an A or a B. This class was in part responsible for me switching from an Econ to a Stats secondary. No matter what year you are, this class will help you even after college and hopefully will open your eyes to a new and important way of thinking.
I'd put Stat 110 up there with CS50 as one of the "can't miss" courses at Harvard. While the material is definitely challenging, you'll never find someone more dedicated to making it manageable and engaging than Professor Blitzstein. The course comes with a built-in support network of great TF's (who put in a lot of time and effort themselves), so don't be intimidated by the difficulty. If you're at all interested in probability and want to learn to think more quantitatively about real-world problems, Stat 110 is for you!
Very hard course but if you listen to Joe's advice, you will be fine
okay, this not the USAMO! pset questions are each out of 6, not out of 7.
This class takes a lot of time. If you take this class, you must be very good at learning a lot of topics on your own. You must also be ready to devote a lot of time and energy into it.
It was hard but there's an amazing teaching staff and they want you to do well.
Great teaching and a very well-done class. However, problem sets do take a lot of time. Make sure to take advantage of office hours for help with problem sets.
This is a fantastic course. The material is interesting and very useful. Professor Blitzstein is the man. He cares about Stat110 so much, he is brilliant, engaging, and very accessible as well. Some of the TFs are FANTASTIC as well. If Jessy teaches a section again, go to hers. Her enthusiasm is out of this world. Will and Sebastian also put together a good section, and Will's enthusiasm is great. Sebastian is great too, albeit not as lively as Will.
Great course but warning if you go in with a strong math background and think it will be a piece of cake.  The course depends as much on memorizing and recognizing famous problems as it does on mathematical ability.  Many other students will put a lot of time into the course so be warned.  A bit too much memorizing towards the end but overall a great course.  It really teaches you how to think about randomness.  Definitely take over 104 or 101.
The class is extremely challenging. Prepare to spend a ton of time on it if you want even moderate success. Many office hours, and sections, and a ton of time on the psets.
This was a very good course with very interesting material and a great teacher who really knew his stuff. Even if you're not interested in statistics (I wasn't), you should take it. It's challenging but is definitely doable if you actually fairly try all the psets and pay attention in class, which a lot of people don't do.
Take this class if you enjoy problem solving and challenging yourself.
This is the best class I've ever taken. I wasn't completely sure I wanted to take it, but I'm so glad I did. The material is so interesting and so useful. You can't imagine a better professor or teaching staff. Everyone puts their heart into it. The support is awesome- even better than CS50. If you put in the time and ask for help- you will succeed.
Stat 110 is not an easy course. Of course, since when is anything worthwhile really easy? The concepts covered in lecture are usually pretty understandable, but it's knowing how to recognize patterns (i.e. what concept to apply, where/when to apply it) that really matters. So when Prof. Blitz talks about stories in class, pay attention! It will really help. And also do lots and lots of practice problems--I didn't do nearly enough and it would've helped solidify my understanding of things.
This is an amazing class for anyone interested in statistics, probability, or general problem solving. To people who have to take it for concentration credit, I would recommend it strongly. But for people taking it as an elective, I would think twice about putting yourself through this difficult endeavor. It will most likely be the hardest course you take at Harvard. Blitzstein and the TFs do a great job helping you through it and it's always fun doing problem sets with friends.
What I'm about to say has been said over and over about this course. It's a really great course that definitely does change the way you think about the world and the things that happen around you. However it is also an extremely hard course. The midterm is brutal - they purposely make it so that you are pushed for time. The final does not have as much time pressure but is still very difficult. I studied for the stat final more than I ever have for any other final and still didn't do as well as I had hoped. However, I have learned a ton from this course and if my GPA didn't take a hit because of this class I would have highly recommended this course without reservations.
This class was the hardest class I have ever taken, but I really learned so much and it was really apparent by the end of the term how much I had improved my statistical problem solving skills. As long as you are willing to put in long hours every week completing problem sets that are pretty much impossible to do by yourself and do every single practice problem you can get your hands on before the exams, your hard work will pay off. Jessy's section was by far the best, and I'm really lucky to have discovered her so early. She unfortunately won't be TFing the class again next year, which is unfortunate because I know that without her I definitely would have failed the class and gotten discouraged.
Only the strong survive
Put in the time!!
I learned so much from taking this course. It teaches you a way of thinking and approaching problems whose applications extend beyond just probability and statistics. Joe Blitzstein is an amazing professor and lectures are always engaging and well-attended. I would highly recommend taking this course even as an elective (although it won't be a light one!) If you have the time to put into Stat 110, you will learn so much from it and come out a smarter person.
This class is very difficult.  It is also, however, very rewarding.  Professor Blitzstein cares a lot about his students!
This course requires a good amount of work, but it will change the way you think. You will become a better problem solver, and there are plenty of resources to help you through the course.
Stat 110 is extremely challenging, rigorous, and -- for those reasons -- incredibly rewarding. It demands large amounts of time, up to 15 hours per week in my case, and at times you will feel frustrated. But stick with the course and you will learn a lot. Prof. Blitzstein and the entire teaching staff are not only incredibly helpful but also genuinely dedicated! They make themselves available at every hour of the day. Moreover, you will explore paradoxical, counter-intuitive, and immensely intriguing problems throughout this class.
If you get it, you get it. If you don't, you'll be playing catch-up all semester long. Get on the strategic practice early, and go to sections if you feel lost. Blitzstein is a great guy, really funny and interesting. His lecture notes can be a bit messy, so make sure you know what's going on. Find a good group of people to work with, because doing the psets yourself is pretty impossible.
Best class I ever took.  Problems were interesting, and fun to do.  Loved it, great if you've done contest math related stuff in high school.
This is more than just a Stats class.  It teaches you to think logically, which is a valuable skill to have regardless of your future plans.
Stat110 is definitely worth taking, but having done it, I would say it has several notable drawbacks that I would have liked to have known about going into it.  First of all, this course requires a substantial commitment of time, and much of it is spent on pattern memorization and struggling through problem sets.  Secondly, I think it requires a strong conviction that the material is applicable beyond the realm of the course; for me it took reading Nate Silver's book mid-semester to get through.  Lastly, I think it's a course that's easy to stress over, and ultimately it's the type of class for which worrying about grades is not beneficial.  All that being said, I think Professor Blitzstein puts a lot of effort into making the course provide the background necessary for more advanced work in stats, and the attention he pays to it is probably its greatest redeeming quality.
No matter how many people have said this already, Stat 110 will change the way you think. You will get a huge amount of support for the sometimes very hard psets, and right when you are starting to regret taking it, Professor Blitzstein will do something to make you happy you did!
Worth the effort to learn the material; I came away knowing a lot. Also the lectures are great!
Although a very difficult class, the material covered is exceptionally helpful and practical and is taught in a way that is intuitive and easier to understand.
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard. It was very challenging, and I definitely underestimated how hard it would be. The material is quite different from anything I (or most students) have studied before, but once I had a firm grasp of the fundamentals, I felt that the course was organized in a way that really took advantage of that strong foundation and taught me a lot about probability. This class motivated me to get a Stat secondary.
The homeworks will take some time to work on sometimes.
If you're a mathy person (I'm aiming towards mathy people since I'm a mathy person) the actual ideas are very easy. Still worth learning how to do these kinds of problems - they're quite interesting - but you can make it through the whole course while barely going to lecture. Probably a good fifth class. Don't be frightened off by the workload ratings, try it for yourself and see.
Absolutely one of Harvard's BEST courses. If you enjoy math and are interested in probability, this course will enlighten you with a lot of really cool results. There's so much to learn, but you will feel very accomplished at the end. There's a reason why so many students are now choosing/switching to statistics as their concentration. Stat 110 is the answer.
Fun, challenging, interesting introduction to probability. A must-take if you like to be stimulated and challenged
I personally should not have taken this course. I learned very little. I thought it would be more advanced, so I learned nothing knew until the last week of the course.
The course is not nearly as good as people claim it is.
stat 110 is the hardest and best course i've ever taken at harvard. really interesting material and a staff that really cares, especially professor blitzstein who really wants everyone to succeed. make sure to try hard from the beginning! be prepared to work on the homework by yourself, do strategic practice, etc. don't take this class lightly.
One of the most useful classes I've taken.
take this class!!! the material is difficult, but no one teaches it better than joe! he makes it applicable and very reasonable. don't worry about math background too much--joe is very reasonable and evaluates you on your knowledge of STATISTICS, not calculus/linear algebra.
One of the best classes I have taken so far at Harvard. The midterm and final are very difficult but the material is very interesting and relevant and Blitz does a great job explaining most of the stuff. Psets are fun and challenging but don't require an exorbitant amount of time. Definitely recommend.
Only take this class if required. It is very difficult.
It's a difficult course, but very interesting and well worth it.
This class is amazing! Challenging (in a fun way), helps you to think. Course is very well structured, lectures are awesome. Joe gave us all normal distribution plushies at the end, and this is just another indicator of how much time he puts into the course and how much he cares about it!!
This class is tough but worth it. You learn so much over the course of the semester and although you will regret taking it after the midterm, this will turn around by the end of the course and you will have seen it as a positive experience.
Be prepared to put in long hours.
Stat 110 is a great course where you gain a lot of intuition about problems relevant to daily life. Be warned that it gets significantly harder and more time consuming after the first few weeks. My only regret taking this course is not going to more of Prof Blitzstein's office hours; he's a fantastic teacher and really cares about the course.
This class is very hard, but you will learn a lot.
This is the most clearly-taught and conceptually satisfying stat class you could hope for. Be warned though, it is difficult.
Very, very, very difficult class.  Prof. Blitzstein is great, but be prepared to spend 10+ hours a week on psets and still feel lost often.  Shouldn't be taken with other demanding courses
It's a decent class, more work than it appears at first.  Things pick up in difficulty as the semester goes on.  Understand the HW and SP and you'll be good for tests.  Go to section.
Very hard class. At the same time, once you're done with it, it is a very rewarding experience, similar to CS 50. However, the applications and skills you learn from this class will probably be more useful and applicable in various fields of life than most other classes you take at Harvard. Joe, the professor, is extremely passionate about the subject, and is quite infectious in his love for the subject. Be sure to go to office hours and sections!!
Stat 110 is a well-oiled machine... it's been one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Joe Blitzstein's lectures are very well-planned, and manage to provide both mathematical and intuitive understanding of all the material. A good TF will make or break your experience... problem sets can be extremely daunting if you don't go to office hours, yet if you do, you should be able to do them without toiling away for too long. I don't know how strongly I'd recommend this class to freshmen, unless you are already comfortable with the foundations of higher-level math... plenty of upperclassmen take it. Having taken it as a junior, I found all of the material extremely accessible and relatable to other things I've studied. In short, TAKE IT TAKE IT TAKE IT.
Great class, although it is the hardest course I've taken at Harvard so far (and I'm an Applied Math concentrator). Even if you get a B, you will grateful you took this class - really interesting and useful in the real world.
Really rewarding course. Material is absolutely fascinating-- when you are studying for the final you will see that everything you've learned over the course of the semester fits together in beautiful ways. Psets get tiring but that's pretty much the case in any pset class. Midterm and final are hard but there are so many people in the class that you can't do TOO badly (unless you're one of the Ec concentrators who didn't know what you were getting yourself into).
Great course! Really tests your intuition for probabilistic concepts.
Work hard, and you would get a lot out of it.
This was the one class at Harvard that I knew I wanted to take before I got here.  I was not at all disappointed.  I really love thinking about probability and this (obviously) gives a pretty good opportunity for that.  This class really improves your critical thinking and problem-solving skills.  I feel much more equipped for brain-teasers after this course.  Also, Blitzstein is an awesome professor (what do you expect?  He is a techer).
This course should be required for all freshmen, seriously. I can not emphasize enough how enjoyable, useful, interesting, and well-taught this course is. The subject material is immediately applicable to so many things: I found myself using what I learned in Stat 110 in my research lab, in my other courses, and in my daily life. If you want to feel smarter and be smarter, you should take this course! Furthermore, the course is taught extremely well: the lectures are terrific, the teaching staff really does care, and the course's materials (practice problems, homework assignments, practice exams, etc.) are abundant, accurate, and helpful. Also, the way in which the material is taught, with a heavy emphasis on telling stories and finding patterns, and a smaller emphasis on memorizing equations, is very effective and will help you absorb the material better. The course is challenging, no doubt. I have quite a bit of background in math, but still found every problem set difficult (but doable, nonetheless). Be prepared to go to office hours every week and spend 5+ hours on each problem set. Definitely find a group of students to work with, because that will make them go much quicker. Also be prepared to feel depressed after taking the midterm, because it is really hard and really fast! But it helps you figure out what you need to work on. I am quite comfortable saying that this has been the best course I have taken at Harvard yet. And I'm a junior. Professor Blitzstein treats this course like his baby: he really really wants to do it well, and he definitely succeeds! Harvard, please give him a huge raise, because he really deserves it. He spends entire weekends writing problem sets and exams, and personally reading through midterm re-writes. That's how much he cares!
This class is pretty good, though it's not actually necessary for life unless you plan on doing more stat/computer science/modeling.
A professor once told me "you should be able to see the world in probability". Stat110 helped me get closer to that goal. The Stat 110 experience is phenomenal and the knowledge is invaluable. Joe is a wonderful teacher and the class culture is great. The key to success is doing enough practice problems to SEE TRENDS (and you will). Tests are challenging and so are problem sets. Attend section. FIND FRIENDS in the course EARLY!!
This is the best course I have ever taken! Blitz is an AMAZING professor. All you need to do in order to succeed in this class is to come to lecture everyday, review the lecture notes, and do practice problems. The material is very interesting and a lot of fun to learn. Take this course!
Difficult but rewardingyou actually come out of it feeling like you've learned something! But be prepared to put a LOT of work into this class.
Just do it - it's really hard but life goes on. Go to section and go to office hours, and work on your problem sets in groups. Make use of the TFs, they are fantastic. Make sure to keep up with lecture. It's hard and a complete time suck but really rewarding in the end. I definitely would have done better in my other classes if I hadn't taken 110, so lighten your course load a bit.
Do not take this course if you are a graduate student. While the course is very well taught, the rhythm of it is simply not amenable to graduate students. You'll almost certainly need to attend office hours, or collaborate with someone who did. It's a great course, but one I wish I had taken as an undergrad.
STAT110 is the best math class I have taken at Harvard. It is incredibly rewarding but you definitely need to put in the hours. There are NO shortcuts with this class. Blitz is an amazing lecturer and even though the lectures are videotaped, you'll find yourself going all the time. The assignments are extremely fair but it's definitely not an easy class. Blitz is amazing.
Be prepared to work hard, go to sections, re-watch lecture videos. Try to take the class with a group of friends, or form a group that does problem sets together. A great class, and rewarding once you finish it off ;)
Don't be fooled by how easy it is in the beginning, it becomes substantially more difficult after the midterm and it much less practical and interesting than the awesome counting problems.
Take this class seriously. This is a course where an A is highly attainable and just there out of your reach, but don't let that deceive you. You have to work for that final A - do as much practice as you can, and go to section! Take Stat 110. You'll be a better thinker.
Definitely take it. Just as advertised, the material is extremely useful - both in other disciplines and in the real world, like in the job interviews, and Joe Blitzstein is a great teacher. The team of the TFs is quite amazing as well. This is probably the best course I have taken at Harvard so far.
You will work harder than you ever have before and be challenged more than you ever have before.  But you will leave the class loving the professor and wanting to share his enthusiasm for statistics.  You will also learn more and feel much stronger for what you did.
This goes out to SOCIAL STUDIES PEOPLE thinking of taking 110. DEFINITELY take this class if you're willing to put in 10-15 hours a week on Psets and general studying--we need more people who are competent in Stat in the department. BE AWARE of the following: firstly, you absolutely cannot balance 10a and 110, so don't even try; take this class freshman or junior year and save yourself the misery because you will DIE otherwise; secondly, this class doesn't teach you how to build a regression, so count on budgeting 2-3 semesters for other classes if you're looking to use stat in your thesis; lastly, realize that this is concentration credit and your grade might suck. You might consider taking 104 to satisfy your requirement, getting the A, and then doing 110 pass-fail so you actually learn something.
TAKE THIS COURSE! Take it as early as possible (sophomore year is probably the best time - I'm not sure you'd be prepared for the conceptual workload as a freshman) if you're at all considering any kind of technical or science-related concentration. I made the mistake of waiting until senior year, and as a result felt unprepared in a number of other courses. And the concepts taught in stat 110 come up in a *lot* of courses. This is probably the most useful course I've taken at Harvard, on par with CS50. In addition to being just plain useful, it really teaches you to think, not just memorize how to do significance tests or something. Joe is the best professor you could ask for. I never thought that stat could be an interesting subject, but he makes it very accessible. You can tell that he puts a significant amount of time and effort into the course, and he really cares about the success of his students.
Be prepared to study hard and internalize the material.
I encourage prospective students to be aware of the difficulty and time commitment required by this course. That said, you would learn a lot! It's a strong recommend with real reservations, not a milquetoasty "meh."
I think this is one of the most amazing courses at Harvard- especially because of Blitzstein. You learn a tremendous amount of cool stuff that is applicable in many areas and the material is very interesting. Having said that- the course is also extremely difficult and time consuming. I think you may be at a disadvantage if you don't have a strong math background regardless of what Blitzstein says. He makes a lot of stuff look easy and just says its intuitive even though its not. The exams are really hard and its not necessarily how hard you work because this course requires you think in a particular way (which is why the kids who were already good at math excel in this course)- and sometimes thats just hard regardless of how much you study.
amazing class. anyone with any interest in a math class that's practical needs to take stat110.
Stat 110 is an excellent course.  It's really nice to have a methodical sort of instruction about probability, and this aspect of the course is really fun because the problems can be conceptually very interesting to think about.  I feel like I learned a lot about probability and distributions this semester, and as statistics is useful to most disciplines, this is definitely a good class to take.
Don't take it unless you have to for your concentration... it's very difficult, although you do learn a lot
An excellent course with an amazing instructor and teaching staff and broadly applicable content. I'd recommend it for anyone who would like to do something quantitative in their academics or career. Although the curve is pretty generous, this is a very difficult class and the students who take it are very smart, too. Be prepared to put in a lot of work and struggle with counterintuitive problems.
It's a really good stats class.
Great class! Professor Blitzstein is a great professor who cares that you understand the material and explains concepts intuitively. Problem sets are challenging but interesting. You should probably go to section, although it may be tempting not to.
If you're considering this course, take it! Sure it's difficult, but Prof. Blitzstein will give you a lot of material in order to help you understand it; if you go through all of it carefully, the course will seem a whole lot easier to survive. The problem sets will make you think very hard, and it feels great whenever you solve a challenging problem. Prof. Blitzstein introduces probability and its many applications in a very superb way, and you also learn a lot about problem solving.
This is a difficult course. But like any other course you'll ever take, you just have to do a lot of practice problems to get the material.
This course does an amazing job of giving you a deep intuition for statistics and probability in addition to covering lots of important topics. The professor is awesome, and the assignments in general help ensure that you have a deep understanding.
but make sure you really like spending hours working on something that you don't really understand well
If you really want to improve your reasoning and analytical skills, then take this class, but be warned, it will take up A LOT of your time if you want to truly understand the material.
I've seen probability in a number of different contexts, but I've always had a fear of it and only after this course has it begin to seem approachable and even befriendable. Challenging--and rewarding given due amount of work is put in--this class is semester-long introduction to probability at world's best. Its many easy-to-remember, beautiful and concrete examples and stories really help students learn conditioning, random variables and distributions by heart.
This course was definitely challenging but in the end I definitely feel that I have gained a lot from it. Problem sets and exams were never easy but they were also not ridiculous. With that said, go to as many sections as you can for practice and go to office hours if you need to.
This course is very hard and a lot of work but it is rewarding! The problems sets require a lot of thought but with office hours and sections you can get through them.  The tests are hard too. The course helps you find connections and patterns in course material.  The lectures are great! They are interesting and you learn a lot!
The material is pretty useful in a lot of fields, so I'm glad I took the course (I'm a computer science concentrator). Professor Blitzstein is a patient teacher who REALLY cares that students understand and enjoy his subject. However, I didn't personally find lecture very helpful, because so much time was spent on basic conceptual understanding that he doesn't devote much to trickier problems. This meant that I mostly taught myself the week's content the night of the pset. Depending on whether you're the mathematical type, this course could range from very easy to fairly involved, so get advice from someone you know with a similar background as you.
If you're ready for a challenge, to think about problems in a different way, and to become a better thinker, this class is for you. It pushes, but it's great. Blitzstein is a boss-tireless worker, great at explaining.
It's hard but worth it!
If you want to learn how to solve tons of probability questions and get your hands dirty working with random variables, this class is a great way to do so. Everything about the curriculum is carefully structured, and the problem sets are fun. However, it's basically all about problem solving, so if you're more interested in deep math theory this class can get somewhat tedious.
Do as many problems as you can get your hands on - it will pay off in terms of your understanding.
Stat 110 is extremely hard, but also very rewarding
Take it!!!! Best math class ever!!! You learn so much and improve so much in terms of stat. Stat104 isn't anything compared to this, but it's all worth it in the end.
Do strategic practice problems. Don't fall behind. Don't let the midterm scare you.
This class is really interesting and Professor Blitzstein is really dedicated to his students. It is a time intensive class and you should make sure that you definitely have the time to devote to it in order to get the most out of the class and learn a lot.
This class is certainly difficult, but you will learn a LOT. The problem sets took a lot of time, but it's totally worth it because the course is awesome. However,  I would recommend not taking this class with other time consuming and difficult classes--it WILL require a lot of time to do psets and study.
It is not as hard as they make it seem as long as you are good at math and the kind of thinking it entails. The class is a kind of course-wide hive and unless you are part of the hive, you will suffer as homeworks are difficult and there is not a single person who does well who does not copy at least half the homework without bothering to understand the answer.
Course is extremely difficult. Material is hard to understand at first, but Joe presents it in an easy to understand way for the most part. Problem sets really help, as do sections and office hours. Sadly, David won't be around as TF next year, but if Jessy is, definitely attend her section. Section notes and extra practice is all online and really helps to understand the material. Spend a lot of time each week because the material is just hard! Definitely helps to be good with calculus (integrals) and PATTERN RECOGNITION is a must. Overall, it's really worth all the stress and hard work, and a must take class for any math/cs people out ther.
So. Hard...
Be prepared to do many practice problems before the material begins to click.  The lecture material alone does not adequately prepare students for the assignments or exams.
it's hard but doable. very good problems.
Don't take this class if you are not comfortable with Math higher than 21a.  The psets take way too much time in the beginning of the course, and they don't get any easier, unless you are really comfortable with math.
The material from STAT110 is important to learn if you want a good foundation in statistics. However, Professor Blitzstein's teaching leaves much to be desired, as he will claim a formula is "immediately obvious" and hope your intuition works as well as his. I found many of his lectures profoundly unsatisfying due to his reliance on "intuition."
Great class, highly recommend, but be prepared for it to be difficult.
It's not an easy class, but well worth the effort.
This course is quite rewarding and fun - stay with the content, study actively by practicing problems, and you will really enjoy it.
This class is amazing!  It covers a lot of interesting and useful topics in a neat and elegant manner, and the course is well-designed and offers a lot of support.
This course is very difficult. And while Joe says that how well you do in the course is directly linked to how much time you spend, I don't know if that is necessarily the case. If you don't have an intuition for it, you have to spend a TON of time on it.
Stat110 is difficult towards the end and you need to put a decent amount of work in to do well, but it really does change your view of how probability works, and is definitely a class to take, especially if you plan on taking some stat and you took AP already in high school (100,104, etc. are basically just AP stat)
Really hard. Try top keep up with everything, and don't be afraid to use the books to help understand the material. Sometimes lectures seem virtually irrelevant for actually doing the problem sets, since it is mostly proofs and theory.
Excellent class! Definitely one of the best (if not the best so far) classes I've taken here. Problems are never/rarely repeated on problem sets, they all require a different kind of thinking, and probability is honestly one of the most interesting topics you can study here for a semester. Also Blitzstein is the best - deadpan sense of humor and a superb teacher. Makes complicated topics all fit together and seem natural. Take it if you're interested in anything even remotely quantitative, even if it's an elective!
I'm a seasoned graduate student and have taken many courses, but this course was unlike all others. It has greatly increased my knowledge of probability, an extremely useful topic, and also my ability to think logically.
I would first give you a calculus quiz. Then see what your course load is like for the rest of your classes. Then tell you that you will find this course incredibly challenging and fascinating, but you will work very, very hard to understand basic concepts, and you should not fall behind at any point in the semester. Because it will be nearly impossible to catch up.
I actually didn't like Blitz.  He just seemed to ramble.  I hated these psets too.  They felt more like abstract math psets than probability psets.  I don't like abstract math, so I didn't do very well in this course.
Joy from understanding
This class is incredibly well taught, covers an extraordinary amount of material and definitely changes the way you think, especially about statistics.  However this class is very difficult and you'll need to make a serious time and energy investment in the class if you want to do well.
This course will not just teach you statistics, but also how to think critically, particularly the intuition behind seemingly obscure mathematical facts. Blitzstein is a great teacher, and his clear explanations of concepts will keep you focused in the course. The problem sets take quite a bit of work, but they are excellent.
Take advantage of the sections and work on psets during the group office hours--people are really nice and the TFs are super helpful.
Be prepared to work hard, but the class is extremely rewarding.  You will learn a LOT and may leave interested in concentrating in statistics.
My math background is relatively weak.  Coming into the course, my only math in college was 21a and a semester of ec 1011.  Stat 110 was a mystery to me for the majority of the course.  Despite putting in a lot of time to reviewing lectures, working on psets, and attending office hours many things did not click for me.  I did extremely poorly on the midterms and could not get through psets without a lot of time and assistance.  That being said, after devoting about a week of straight studying for the final, I found the class to be very interesting and cool.  The problems you do in Stat 110 are both extremely relevant but also interesting problems that require clever solutions.  This class has the potential to be very interesting and fun but depending on your preparation and aptitude you could easily feel overwhelmed at times.
Challenging and worth it
only take this is you legitimately are interested in probability and are prepared to put in serious time in office hours to get the problem sets done. viviana and jessy are by far the two best tfs, go to their sections and office hours.
This is an incredible class - the best class I've ever taken. It's tough, but rewarding. The material is fascinating and beautiful. Professor Blitzstein is great. You'll learn to really think, and it applies to the real world. What more could you ask for in a class?
It's a great class. But don't fool yourself...It requires a lot of time of even the brightest students (and much, much more for people like me who struggled to grasp the material). So if you have the time and enthuasiasm, Blitzstein's course will rock your world.
You need to be able to put A LOT of time into this class.  Even if you are generally good at math, statistics can be an incredibly difficult subject to grasp.
this class is awesome. put time into it and you will get a lot out of it
No matter which concentration you're in, you will benefit from taking this class. It makes you a better thinker, which sounds like a vague benefit, but is very tangible in the end. For other classes, you do homework, you memorize stuff, you forget everything after the final exam/paper. You will remember Stat 110. It is fantastically applicable to pretty much everything in life and challenges you to take your analytical abilities to a much higher level. It is not easy, but it is worth it. This is the class that converts people into Stat concentrators.
More than anything, one must have a schedule which allows him/her to spend a LOT of time on this class. In a perfect world, I would have had 25 + hours per week to devote to this class such that I could truly learn the topics well and at the quick clip the class follows.
This was a really fantastic and well-organized course, with a fantastic teaching staff! The concepts you learn can really help inform your decisions in "real life." The workload is really manageable with a good group of people with whom you work on psets.
Be prepared to work very hard and spend a lot of time on the assignments and studying for the exams. The class demands a lot and will challenge you in many ways. You might not master everything but you will learn a ton.
It's a pretty good class.  Make sure you don't wait if you have any problems because everything builds on top of itself.
If Blitzstein's still teaching you should take this course.  Very useful, very well taught, and not too difficult (although some of the problem sets are frustrating).  Learning how to set up the problems, rather than simple calculations, is the most important part.  Really good class!
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS!Seriously, don't take this class.  Unless you absolutely have to.  What this class will do is teach you to fear probability.  What it will not do, on the other hand, is actually TEACH you probability.  You will spend your time wishing Joe would actually teach something instead of making declarative statements about how everything he just said is "obvious" or "immediate."Do.  Not.  Take.  This.  Class.
Very solid course. If you take the time to work through the homework problems you will learn the material.
DON'T TAKE THIS CLASS. It relies too much on the fact that you are brilliant with mathematics, and the problem sets are virtually undoable without office hours. NOT WORTH IT.
Professor Blitzstein is a good lecturer but the theory that he teaches is not that helpful for completing the problem sets--which tend to be extremely hard and tricky. You might be better off taking AM101.
The types of problems are interesting and the variety of topics covered are good.  However, if you lack intuition for some of the problems, it requires dedication to pattern recognition to recover.
Really fun class if you're interested in probability. Course materials are lacking, but assignments are great and staff is fantastic.
If you want to learn, this is the class to be in. You'll learn so much, and it will change you.
Don't underestimate the course -- it's harder than it might first appear.  The psets have a tendency to eat up more time than you expect (I and most people I knew usually started them late the night before and worked until sunrise or so), but they are interesting and have neat enough results.  They also do a good job of reinforcing the material.  Nonetheless, the class overall is really quite manageable, as long as you're reasonable with your other work.  It's not hard, but certainly not something to tack on to a schedule as an afterthought or as your fourth elective after a bunch of concentration courses.I also came into the course expecting to pick up intuition for combinatorics, but upon finishing basic combinatorics after the first week, I realized this wasn't the course for that.  The course does provide a lot of intuition for probability, though, and since that's what the course purports to teach, you won't go wrong if you're looking for that.
This class is certainly challenging and well taught. However, I personally did not find the material necessarily interesting even though I am an Applied Math major. Be sure to do plenty of practice problems in anticipation for the exams because the curve is not very generous given the level of intelligence of students taking the tests.
This class is very hard, but not impossible. Give it the time it deserves and more, and take advantage of the resources available, eg: textbook, office hours, section.
The material is tough and baffling at times, but work through problems, and you WILL get it eventually. The questions start to become really fun puzzles. Blitzstein is the best professor ever.
This class is extremely difficult and challenging, though in a way that it requires tremendous thought. It is taught very well, the teaching staff is tremendous, and it is a very rewarding class if you can dedicate the time and effort.
Stay on top of the material.
More difficult than one would imagine - having a solid math background doesn't necessarily mean you'll be good at probability.
It is a great course. Very interesting. Although you need to spend some time on studying for this course, it is worthy.
This course was both extremely difficult and one that I highly recommend. Joe Blitzstein is amazing, the course staff is very accessible and dedicated, and there are all sorts of resources available to you. With that being said, this class is very hard. I consider myself to be strong in math, and it was still quite difficult. However, it was still probably my favorite course this semester!
Stat 110 is the best course I have taken at Harvard. It was incredibly challenging, but Professor Blitzstein and the TFs were very supportive and helpful. The course has made me a smarter person, and mastering the material was an incredibly rewarding process.
Have a study group and be ready to allow for time at office hours every week unless you realize within two weeks of the course that you *can* handle it. Being a little confused and lost at the beginning = really confused and lost at the end of the semester.
Be prepared to work hard and to come in with some handiness with math.
take it for sure if you can. great class that teaches you to think more quantitatively, applicable in a lot of different fields
You'll learn some statistics tricks, but if you already know probability decently don't expect to learn *too* much.
An excellent introduction to probability and distributions! Be prepared to put in some time, but if you make sure to struggle with and understand what everything really means rather than just how to apply it, you will see some really cool stuff!
This course makes you think. Not just memorize; it makes you think. That doesn't happen all that often. The course is a constant challenge, because probability doesn't come natural to most people.
This class is extremely challenging and the expectation is that you will devote over 10 hours outside of class learning the material and doing the problem sets. A large number of the students that take this class have also taken math classes over 23 already and much of the class structure is geared towards these very gifted math students.
Easily one of the best classes I've taken in the past three years.
this course is very tricky as the support system is very lacking. the lectures are good and the material is very interesting but here's the thing: if you understand probability intuitively- you'll be fine, if you don't just automatically 'get it' it's very hard to get better as most sections are more confusing than helpful and asking for help with often just result in the answer- practice more. without explanation of HOW to practice or what strategies might be useful
This class is AWESOME and will stretch your thinking in useful ways. The skills e.g. probability, combinations, come up in interviews and brain teasers all the time, and any studying you do for the class will be enjoyable. The class is not tough as much as there is just a lot of material that takes a lot of practice, but the time spent studying is an investment. Don't fall behind, go to as many sections as possible, and look at the problems before you go to Office Hours. The recommended textbooks are incredibly helpful. Also, get to know Joe--he's hilarious and very nice.
This class will turn you into a person who, when a friend says, "Wow, I just beat my roommate at 4 games of Madden football in a row!" will think, "Hmm, I wonder what probability I could assign to that event..."
It's really interesting and applicable to every day life. Blitzstein is hilarious and brilliant, though a bit awkward. He's a fantastic teacher! The class is definitely really hard though - make sure to actually do and understand problem sets! Don't use the drops too much... I wish I had paid more attention to earlier psets and done strategic practice problems, because now I'm effed for the final....
a very very difficult. take this class with caution! if you want to do it well, make sure to read the book, go to section, and do on the psets thoroughly.
This class is one of the hardest I have taken at Harvard thus far, but also one of the most rewarding. Because I do not intuitively grasp much of the material, I found it integral to go to sections and office hours to work on problem sets and had to invest a lot of  time in the course, but I ultimately found really understanding the material highly rewarding.
This class is very well designed and taught FOR FRESHMEN. If you are not a freshman, you will be miserable in this class. If you have seen a formal proof before, you will be miserable in this class. Personally, I was extremely bored during lecture because the material was covered so slowly. If you like theoretical math, tak Math 154 instead. I only took Stat 110 over Math 154 because of scheduling and it was a terrible decision. That being said, I guess you should take Stat 110 over not taking stat at all.
STAT 110 is one of the most rewarding and fun classes at Harvard. You'll work hard. The material is really interesting!!!
Exceptional introduction to probabilities. The course begins gently, and goes into some more difficult concepts. A lot of fun examples and paradoxes are worked out. The whole course has been immensely entertaining, useful, and interesting.
Don't be fooled by the first four weeks. This class is hard. Much, MUCH harder than Math 23. Blitzstein is amazing, and the class is incredibly well run that I feel like it was an honor to take the class. Pay attention to everything said in class, and take the time to go over material you may not understand immediately. You will regret it if you don't.
A bit challenging at first, transitioning to very challenging around the midterm and, unfortunately, just after the pass/fail deadline. If on the fence about pass/fail as the deadline approaches, I'd recommend it.
It's a great course, you learn a lot, but do not expect an easy A. Actually, do not expect an A. Its really cool, but if you do not understand the material, you dont understand. I spent hours trying to figure stuff out, but it wasnt that much help.
great way to think more rationally about the world
This class is very well-run and interesting, if a bit theoretical. Sections are optional, but they were very helpful for understanding the material and for solving the p-sets.
T-O-U-G-H.  But worth it.  Kind of.
Stat 110 is hard. I believed alums who told me that coming from 23a&b, it would be a breeze, but it was not. The midterm and final are really difficult, and you're pretty much on your own. Learn the concepts, and get help when you need it. Don't wait until the last minute to study. The problems you study and solve are invaluable, and definitely applicable to the working-world, but be prepared to put a lot of work into the class. Joe is great though, and his lectures are entertaining!
This class is difficult. The problem sets are hard and will constitute all-nighters if left until Thursday. Nonetheless, the material is interesting and relevant, and Joe Blitzstein really does have a lot invested in this class and your success in it.
this class weeds out the dumber kids(quantitatively speaking), if you've only done 21a/b then it really pushes you, mostly in a good way, if you can handle it.  extremely useful!! difficulty aside, you'd be crazy not to take it.
This course is amazing, interesting, and you will feel so accomplished once you finish it. However, be ready to work and think really deeply about everything you're taught.
This class is REALLY REALLY HARD. Be prepared to work REALLY REALLY HARD. And also, be prepared to fail the midterm.
A hard class, but definitely, definitely worth it.  I feel like a much more capable person after having taken it.  Also, Professor Blitzstein is AMAZING.  I would definitely, definitely take it again if I had to make the decision once more.
This class strikes a good balance by teaching the theory of probability alongside numerous examples of useful statistical distributions.  Also, Blitzstein is awesome.
Can I say best class in the world?
It's a difficult class, but so worth it! I gained a much better intuition for statistics and distributions and probabilities, which is going to be very useful. And Prof. Blitzstein and the TAs made the complex material fun and understandable.
Probability may sound like an innocuous title for a class, but Prof. Blitzstein's lectures go very in-depth and some of the material can be quite difficult. You develop a lot of intuition for thinking about probability, which is often a big part of the assignments. There's an emphasis on proving results, although usually the answer is a number or something concrete.The first big topic is Bayes' Rule, then we go into lots of probability distributions: e.g. binomial, geometric, exponential, normal. A lot of the class is about relating the distributions to each other, for example the exponential is the continuous analog of the geometric distribution. We also talk about mean and variance, prove the central limit theorem, and spend a week on Markov chains.
This class is really really hard. I studied my ass off for the final (more than I've ever studied) and still failed...
This class is very hard, but you learn a ton and there is a lot of help available to you. Go to section and office hours - there will be times you won't be able to solve the homework problems without it.
Really difficult.
A very very rigorous introduction to probability. Your problem-solving skills will improve dramatically but be prepared to put in the necessary time and effort to do well in the class. Also, even though the course tries not to emphasize the more mathy things, a strong math background is essential to understanding the concepts in the course. I didn't have one, and was glad I elected to take the course pass/fail
It is time-intensive and difficult, but rewarding. Blitzstein teaches a hard subject in an extraordinarily graceful manner.
I had to work a lot, but it was definitely worth it: I've learned more from this class than any other I've taken at Harvard. Joe and all of the TFs create an environment where they want you to ask questions and learn-- and their passion for what they teach really comes through.  It's true when people say this class teaches you how to be a better thinker.
This is an awesome class. The subject material is really cool. The homework is comparable to other math classes. Do not take the midterm likely and be sure to start studying in advance by doing practice problems. Otherwise, it will be very difficult. Take Blitzstein's advice for preparation.
Difficult, but if you put in the time and effort, you will do well, understand the material, and feel extremely satisfied
This course requires substantial time. I recommend reducing the number of other courses you're taking, if you are in STAT110.
Lectures aren't the most engaging, but the material can be very interesting since there can be counter intuitive results. The key to success is building intuition
Stat 110 is a superb class. Prof. Blitzstein's commitment to the class is nearly unparalleled for a professor here, and he has built an effective support structure around the course such that anyone with the slightest interest in learning about probability can succeed.
The course itself (psets, understanding lecture) was pretty easy for someone with a strong math background (23a,b). Unfortunately, that doesn't necessarily translate to doing well. Tests are surprisingly tricky. But probability as a subject is really interesting, and the course is well set up for you to really learn something! Don't fall behind, though.
It's hard. You definitely have to put in work, but there are lots of resources available, from other students to office hours (so helpful!). And a lot of the material you see is highly applicable to all of life.
This is one of the best classes I've taken. I did math team in high school, and this class was a great throwback and was like math team on steroids, but with only probability questions. The topics are so interesting, and Blitzstein does an amazing job at lecturing, at telling sometimes-seemingly unrelated stories but very appropriate for the material, and at giving his life to the course. He is probably one of the best lecturers at Harvard, and he makes probability and statistics so fun to learn. The homework assignments can be long, but you learn a lot from doing them. The strategic practices were also extremely useful, and all the TFs and sections were incredibly useful in helping us understand the material. Definitely take this class--you'll definitely learn a lot, and you'd wish you could take another class with Blitzstein.
Please do not take this class for a grade. Only take a Pass/Fail. I should have done that. Oh well.
The first half is a lot more fun than the second half and probability/statistics is often confusing, but at the end of the day this is material that is very useful to know for any discipline.
Prof. Blitzstein is great.  It's a hard course though and keeps you busy.  It's worthwhile if you're into stats, but I wouldn't recommend I for fun.
Really hard. It really requires a lot of time and effort. If you are not able to devote your life to this class, then beware.
This class is fantastic, and the support system for it is ridiculously good compared to other classes at the college. If you fall behind, it's your fault -- make sure you put in the effort to go to lecture and section; if you do, you'll definitely do well.I made the mistake of not going to lecture and not going to section, and was saved by the vast amounts of resources online for the class. At the same time, I felt I could have done a lot better -- and it's the worst feeling to have. So, if you take this class, do it with the intention of succeeding, please!
It's difficult in the beginning, but it's rewarding.
Stat 110 is amazing.  I definitely recommend it, but it can time consuming sometimes.
I loved the class. You learn how probability applies to really interesting situations and that some things you thought before were obvious actually aren't true and vice versa.
Be prepared to work hard!
Joe Blitzstein is amazing! He can be awkward and might sound mean at times ... but he really cares about his students, and has the makings of another CS 50 in terms of a cult following. The class is incredibly well-organized, with lots of office hours and abundant documentation on the course website. The textbooks really aren't necessary. It's not an easy class, but it's made so anyone can learn the material with effort, and it's one of few classes here that really teach you to think in a different way that you won't forget with the passing of time. Don't miss out - take Stat 110 before you leave Harvard!
Doing probability well requires a lot of intuition that this class attempts to give you. Joe is a great lecturer and is very helpful, but homeworks and exams are extremely difficult! You'll have to work hard, but luckily the TFs are helpful and the course is designed to provide lots of help for those who seek it.
I really enjoyed learning the material and striving to understand it, but I can't overstate its difficulty.  Even as a hard science major I struggled to keep up.
It may be challenging at times, but Stat 110 is definitely worth taking if you have any interest whatsoever in the field. The class is extremely well organized, and Blitzstein is an excellent lecturer. There's no other class at Harvard that teaches the fundamentals of probability, which is utterly necessary for any real statistics course beyond the plug-and-chug tedium of 100/104. Take it.
The material is fascinating, but do not take if you cannot afford too much time to dedicate to the course.
Very difficult; this course will overwhelm you if you take it in conjunction with other difficult courses. Loved the material; wish I could have taken just Stat 110 this semester.
This class is extremely hard but just as rewarding.  If you take the class, prepare to devote a significant amount of time every week to doing problem sets.  Although it is tempting to get all of the answers at office hours, you will be much better off trying all the problems on your own before seeking help.
Stat 110 is really well taught and well structured.  If you set aside time to study the materials and use the help resources available, you are guaranteed to do well.
Best class I've ever taken at harvard
Hard but a good first course in probability. Highly recommended if you can spare the time.
To make the most of it, enter the course assuming you know nothing about probability and statistics then build your knowledge with the nuggets of knowledge that Joe gives you. When you think you are stuck on the problem sets, don't give up. Stop and think for a while ... then write down the answer.  You
TAKE THIS CLASS. I almost didn't take Stat 110 because I was intimated by the difficulty level. However, I absolutely loved the experience - and I learned an unbelievable amount. If you put in the work, you will not get a bad grade. Plus, the challenge and difficulty of the class really helped me grow as a student. It's really important to take classes that push you out of your comfort zone and stretch your abilities.The key to doing well in this class is staying on top of the material. Do whatever you can to interact with the ideas and concepts, and to constantly ASK QUESTIONS about what you don't understand. Pay attention in lecture - this will save you a lot of time. Also, try to do the strategic practice each week, and don't just copy the problem sets. The homeworks are difficult, but if you understand the questions, you will do much better on the exams. Also, GO TO SECTION. There is no way that I would have understood half of what happened in this class if I hadn't gone to 2 sections a week. Lectures do not cover a lot of problem solving techniques, so sections are crucial. I highly recommend Jessy and Viviana - they are amazing TFs.For the exams, make sure you study actively. Identify any points of confusion, and go to office hours. Redo problem sets and lecture examples.This is a great class, and I highly recommend it to everyone!
You need an enormous amount of time for this course. If you don't make time, you will suffer. Otherwise, Joe teaches this course in the best manner possible. It is still difficult though, given the nature of the subject.
Don't hesitate and just take the course. You might struggle and feel frustrated, especially if you take it in a difficult semester like I did, but it absolutely will make you think differently - I am convinced that I came away from the class smarter. I won't get into how Professor Joe is able to, amazingly, teach such difficult materials with an uncanny ability to simplify them and putting them in simpler terms, but the class is simply one of the most interesting, most well-taught classes you will find at Harvard. You will be all the intellectually richer for it - take it even it's not required!
Take this class if you are willing to work hard and want to get a very good intuition for probability and statistics. This course will also equip you with the art of how to approach and solve a oompletely new problem.
It is a very difficult course. Realize that most of the problems sets are extremely complex and literally impossible to do on your own. Find a good study group that you can work with and help each other. The TF's are also very approachable and valuable resources.
This course is extremely well prepared such that you can learn everything as long as you put in the time and effort. It may still be difficult and not make sense 100%, but you will leave with a lot of knowledge. Only warning: to truly gain something from this course, I should have spent 2x or more the amount of time I spent on it, but then I'm a recovering mathematician. Also, knowledge of calculus BC and the VERY basics of linear algebra helps you a bit with some of the math.
this class changed how i approach problems and how i think about the world. probability is fascinating and applicable to just about everything you can think of. it can get pretty tough at times, so have friends to study/do psets with. but take it!
Great material, great professor, great TFs. This is potentially one of the most useful class at Harvard for any career in the future.
the teacher is amazing!
Very tough class and sometimes the teaching is very vague. You have to teach a lot of the material to yourself and since the material is difficult this makes the course difficult. However, take it if you are interested in getting better at thinking or solving interesting, applicable probles
Take it to be enlightened.
Best course I have taken at Harvard by far.  Improves your thinking so much, but in a way that is practical.  No need to remember complex, abstract formulae; just be ready to think about life and conditioning.  Conditioning is the soul of statistics.
This is a really interesting course but it is very difficult, especially if you're taking it as an elective. The problem sets will take a while and the midterm is difficult primarily because of the time constraint. The most important thing is to pay attention to all the little tips and hints and connections between material because that can help you save time on the exams. It is still a really great course but know that, if you aren't a concentrator and you're just taking it as an elective, it'll be very difficult.
Stat 110 is a very demanding course but a rewarding experience if you put in the time and effort needed to do well, and in the end you learn more in a semester than in any other course I have taken at Harvard.
This class is hard.  The problem sets are hard.  But, it's a very satisfying course and you'll learn a ton.
This course is very difficult so make sure you're very invested in learning probability before you take it.
very interesting and helps you with thinking, but definitely a challenging class.
One of the best courses at Harvard. Teaches you how to think and problem solve in a new and incredibly valuable way. If you are considering taking this course but are concerned about the difficulty level or your grade, I would say take on the challenge. It will be worth it.
This is a difficult course, but one of the most fulfilling that you'll ever take at Harvard
This isn't an easy class. It can be rewarding, but know that the class is a little more theoretical/abstract than some other math courses.
The concepts in this class are a lot of fun, but generally pretty easy for those who have a strong backing in math. To me at least, it felt pretty close to a collection of brain-teasers rather than a super serious class.
Very theoretical course, very math heavy towards the end.  Only take if you want to learn really fundamental material about statistics.
This course is a great way to learn probability. Blitzstein is amazing. Just be warned that this is not an easy course. The exams are difficult and the problem sets are time consuming.
Joe gives a good lecture, if you know the material.  He's nice and funny, but he is not (yet) fit to teach an introductory course.  This material is too important not to learn well. My suggestion: work through the first five chapters of DeGroot and Schervish on your own (with the solutions manual). Watch Joe's lectures online when you've already covered the material on your own, and you'll find the lectures are good. Unfortunately, you'll be out of sync with Joe's homeworks so go to an "office hours" where students are jamming out and leach off them.
Rivals CS50 in being one of those rare, nearly perfect analytical classes. Interesting, engaging, timely, and engendering a sense of community. Who knew statistics could be so much fun?
Greatt class, you will learn a ton about probability. Try not to fall behind on the material, especially after the midterm.
Best. Class. Ever.  It may be difficult (especially with regard to tests) but you will learn a tremendous amount.
This is perhaps the only class that I have taken at Harvard that I would unconditionally recommend to anyone and everyone. It is a true privilege to experience Prof. Blitzstein's lectures, sections are very helpful and well-designed, and the material is important and interesting. Probability can be counterintuitive and therefore difficult, but Stat 110 makes it as manageable and accessible as possible, and it is overall very fair. But mainly, you should take it because of how fantastic the professor is.
This is a really hard class. Joe is a nice guy and the T.F.'s are great, but at the end of the day, you can do all the homework and all the practice problems and still really struggle. Practice definitely helps, but the tests are just really, really hard.
Probability is a really challenging, but really important subject. This is a very good introduction to it, so you should take this class.
Amazing class!  Amazing professor!  Go to sections!  This class may be tough, but what you learn will forever help you, and it's one of the most rewarding experiences you can have at Harvard.  Also, Joe is easily one of my favorite professors now, as he loves interacting and getting to know his students (and is just awesome in general)
Pretty good class. I think it could have been better in a lot of ways, and my knowledge seems somewhat superficial.
It is a very interesting class, from which I learnt a great deal of probability. I would recommend this class to future students.
This was a great class. Challenging, but do-able. Interesting. Fun. A puzzle.
It's a fantastic class.  Go to section, go to office hours, and go to office hours.
Expect to put a lot of work into Stat 110. But it is definitely worth it.
Extremely interesting material that is sure to be useful in almost any field you go in! Also, Blitzstein is an amazing teacher, and that alone should be a strong enough reason to take his class! Another perk is that there is a lot of candy handed out in the course! A lot of the skills you learn in this course also prepares you for interview brainteasers.
It's a lot harder than you think, and the tests are designed so a 50% is the mean. Taking tests in this class make you feel like you didn't learn anything the whole semester.
This is a pretty hard class but Joe is super interesting and funny.
you will not learn stat as much as you will learn a very logical way of thinking and working through problems.
It's worth every bit of effort that you put in
Know that you are going into a class with a lot of smart/mathy people and that the class can get stressful especially near the end.  It would be really good if you did not let yourself get behind on the material especially after the midterm.  At the same time know that Stat 110 becomes a kind of community where you can feel very close to the professor, teaching fellows, and other students taking it.  The material is also a lot of fun, especially at the beginning.
The professor is wonderful and the TFs are competent. This should go without saying, but an interest in probability is a prerequisite. Don't fall behind on the problem sets!
This class is great, especially if Professor Blitzstein continues to teach it.
Stat 110 was a great class that kicked my ass. While I know I didn't get an A or A-, this isn't about the grades. I really learned a ton and enjoyed the process. It was a really hard class and the post-test experience was frustrating because I felt like my studying didn't pay off, but everything else was really good. Blitzstein is super approachable and a great teacher. He may also be the nerdiest peson I've ever met and is surprisingly funny (if only students wouldn't clap each time). Take this course, just be prepared to be confused and don't expect an A - it'll  be worth it!
good course.very interesting topics.
Joe is a friendly, dorky professor in an awesome way.  It makes him a human that we can all relate to, which makes lectures that much more enjoyable.  This class gave tough exams, but nothing too unreasonable.
Stat 100 teaches you very useful information, and is material that any quantitative based student MUST learn. That said, be forewarned, you better have a good grasp of proof based math and out-side of the box probability thinking if you want to excel in this class. Also you may not technically need multi-variable calculus or linear algebra, but you do actually need partial derivatives, double integrals and matrix multiplication to actually do the material in the course. It's a great course just be prepared to work really hard.
Take this class with Blitzstein - he's hilarious and a fantastic teacher. Otherwise this topic may be not so exciting.
This is a tough course, but if you keep up week-to-week, it's not too bad. Sections are great if you go to a good section.
The class is very hard and requires A LOT of time to do well in.  I read tons of comments just like this and thought my experience would be different ----> but now im writing the same thing. THIS CLASS IS HARD
Take it. It will be your favorite course at Harvard. I haven't talked to a single person in the class who didn't agree.
Go to section. Go to lecture. Practice, practice, practice problems.
Do the reading to reinforce lecture. Do as many practice problems as you can. It all comes together for the final.
This course requires a considerable amount of work, which is all worthy.
This class is great! Solving probability questions is really rewarding.
The material in lecture may be easy to follow, just be aware it's going to be 10 times harder to apply to the homework on your own. Go to office hours. The TF's are great, and you'll probably have time bonding with other students too.
This class is great! I was considering this and Math 154 - while I don't have anything to say about the latter, I can say that I definitely do not regret taking this class at all. The material and problems sets are extremely interesting and thought provoking, and the exams are fairly challenging. Stat 110 was a good experience and one of my favorite courses here.It's true that you just need calculus to take the course, but exposure to some more math will probably help you identify some deeper connections in the material as well.The lectures are great - the professor is extremely good at teaching, keeping your attention, and getting the material across. The textbook is entirely unnecessary (useful as a study tool I guess).
Its a really great class, but be ready to work hard!This is a tough class, problem sets are hard and tests are incredibly challenging.Dont take this class if you are not serious about it.
Great class but hard one!
This course teaches you some very useful and interesting material but after the first month it suddenly gets very very difficult!
Stat110 is challenging but rewarding.
This is a wonderful course, but only if you're looking for a very application-based introduction to stat. The course is rooted in specific cases, which don't necessarily generalize well. But Joe is a fantastic teacher and you will learn the basics of statistics.
Understand that this course is very, very hard. The people whose comment's you'll read saying it's "not so bad" are very, very smart math and applied math concentrators. If you are a very, very smart math or applied math concentrator, don't be scared. But if you're taking this course and are, like me, not really a "math person", you will have to work. Hard. Ec concentrators who are trying to seem "legit" by taking this course, beware. You'll get your butt kicked and your GPA will take a hit. This course also gets a LOT harder after the midterm.
Even if you don't plan on pursuing statistics or math, this course is worth taking: it will enhance your critical thinking skills and expose you to a wide variety of tools for problem solving.  It's also one of the most interesting, well-taught quantitative classes I've taken.
Fun class! You learn lots of new material. If you are good at math, this course will be quite easy.
Great class. Sort through the psets on your own. Go to lecture. Don't be afraid of the curve.
It's a fantastic course because of the teaching and the coolness of the material, but also a very difficult one.  Be prepared to spend more time than you think you need to, especially leading up to exams.  The material can still be presented in a very novel format in problems, which is both intimidating and awe-inspiring. Definitely better and probably more useful than math courses like 21a and 21b that you might take here.
Whatever your interests are, I would highly recommend this course. Statistics, and especially probability theory, is highly useful, whatever you're studying and you will get a lot out of this class. Joe Blitzstein is an amazing teacher and will present the material very clearly. Now, with that said, this is a serious class, and you will need to work hard to do well. The problem sets take a long time and the exams are very difficult, but the class is very rewarding and worth every bit of it.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It will be the best class you've ever taken in your life, and then you'll be depressed because no other class will ever be as good as this one.
This is a HARD CLASS.  You will end up studying a ton for the final and you may still feel very lost on parts of the exam.  However, its a valuable class to take.
Wonderful course, you should definitely take it if you have interest in math/stat.
Stat 110 is definitely one of the most interesting and best-taught classes at Harvard.  The problem sets and exams are pretty challenging, but it's definitely worth it if you're willing to put in the effort and you have a reasonably strong math background.
Awesome course. Blitzstein is a G. Take this course over those other scrub stat classes.
If you want to have a good introductory course in statistics you may want to consider taking something else. Statistics 110 requires too much math knowledge.
Pay attention in class. There aren't a lot of materials to use outside of lecture.
It's really challenging but it's a great class.
Fantastic course that builds a great foundation for why and how probability works.  Professor leads interesting lectures and presents material clearly.  Psets are not too time consuming and sections are well run.
This course is hard but worthwhile to those who want to understand probability, get insights into "randomness" and "chance", and develop their quantitative skills and logic. Expect to devote a significant amount of time to the course since the material is inherently very difficult. However, Joe and the TAs do an AMAZING job at teaching this material. I can't imagine this material being taught in a more effective way than it was.
Not near as interesting as you would hope. The first two weeks are really interesting and then the rest of the semester is just a bunch of letters and numbers that are hard to interpret. Prof. is awesome and you do learn some valuable skills. Take it only if you are interested in difficult and challenging problem solving.
This course provides a unique approach to probability, integrating examples and links to other subjects that are not usually available in this type of class.  Highly recommended.
Do the psets, do examples, go ot office hours, no other way to learn
Take this course.
Took this class as an elective bc it is SO useful to anything quant (or even science or even getting a job). You can "get by" by doing the amt of work you do in any quant class but to really learn the material it needs a solid amt of time and you should put that in.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Blitzstein is an amazing lecturer, even if the tests are brutal.
This class gets really hard really quickly, but is rewarding in the end if you enjoy theoretical concepts.  There is hardly any applied situations, it is mostly a theoretical class, and a lot of what you learn will not be useful in the future unless you are going into an academic field.
The class was excellent.  The professor makes the material very interesting, and the entire teaching staff is very helpful.
Unless you're a math genius or part of the hive mind, this call is going to be difficult for you.
I've thought a lot about what I would write here over the course of the semester. I think I'll settle for four points:1) The rave: This class is outstanding, probably the most interesting, useful and just...best that I've taken in 5 semesters at Harvard. Joe is fantastic at explaining things, coming up with very challenging, but workable and fascinating problems, and seems to care more about each and every student (both as students and as people) than any other professor I've known. He's very willing to help in office hours, email, etc, and explains things very well. He's also really funny. The TFs are also all super helpful and smart.2) The minor caveat: This class is really hard (approximately 6!/e times harder than Stat 104), and there are a huge number of subtle ways you can go totally astray solving problems. So if you are willing and able to spend the time working through the (fascinating) puzzles, definitely take this class. If not though, you're probably going to be overwhelmed, because this class is very hard. Also, even though the reading is 'redundant' do it anyway; the Degroot book has a different explanation (and examples) than lecture, which helps with understanding the concepts. 3) The analogy: If you've taken one of the really easy stat classes (100, 104, etc) then you learned how to operate a machine. Your role is that of a technician operating the arcane procedures of t-tests, statistical significance, Z-scores etc. If you take this class, you will understand how and why those arcane procedures work, and be able to shift from a technician operating a black-box to that of an artist modeling the randomness of our world.
This class is pretty theoretical and pretty difficult. If you are looking for a stat class that will help you be a better scientist and analyze data, this is absolutely not it.
It will kick your ass but you will understand probability better than with any other alternative.
Take this course!  It will not only teach you about probability, it will teach you how to think.  Joe Blitzstein is a great teacher.  He really cares about his students and is an engaging lecturer.  He is also very accessible outside of class, often holding extra office hours and review sessions to make sure everyone gains a better understanding of probability.
stat 110 is a hard, but exciting class. the midterm was hard, and so was the final. that said, I really feel like I learned a lot about probability and I internalized a lot of the material. Blitzstein is a great professor, and the teaching staff is very helpful.
This is a really hard class with a lot of complex, abstract ideas. Get ready to work hard to understand the material.
Use the videos and attend section
This is a good class and Professor Blitzstein is wonderful.  It starts out easy but gets hard fast, so don't be lulled into a false sense of security.
It is extremely difficult and requires some mental acrobatics. However, the material is quite interesting and I had a good time despite my probably dismal grade.
Excellent class that really teaches you probability. This class should be required for all people who want to understand numbers so they don't get hoodwinked by misleading statistics and probability statements. It will make you a more discerning citizen. And like most students, I found the class easy at first but extremely difficult starting around the 4th or 5th week. But the professor CARES SO MUCH about his students. I love Blitz.
Stat 110 is a challenging, but rewarding class.  Contrary to the popular conception of statistics as a boring field, Stat 110 will entertain you while improving the way you perceive the world.  Joe Blitzstein for president!
The class is challenging, but manageable. Blitzstein is a great lecturer, and he truly knows the material. You come out of the course feeling more confident analyzing probabilistic situations in everyday life, as well as probability questions seen so often in interviews. Section, while optional, is very helpful in doing the psets.
This class is very very hard, but very very interesting.
Take it! It's super useful
Be prepared to study a lot for this course.
Material is very difficult.  Tests and homework assignments are very difficult as well.  Don't expect to do well without putting in the effort.
This class is very challenging.  I struggled every day.  I think I learned a lot, but I did not do well.  If you can accept that, this class is for you.
Stat 110 will be very difficult and will challenge you to think in new ways. However, you will also learn a tremendous amount, and you will enjoy the process of solving tough problems. The professor is terrific, and the material is extremely useful. TAKE THIS CLASS!
I'm pretty sure everyone is going to say this, but this is the most amazing class I've taken at Harvard so far. Two words: Joe Blitzstein. Joe is the most amazing professor ever -- he's funny, really likeable, and presents material in a really clear and intuitive manner. That says a lot, especially because this class is very unintuitive and probability is a very difficult subject. Disclaimer, though, just because Joe is really good at explaining doesn't make this class easy -- it was really, really hard, and I'm pretty sure my GPA took a hit for it. I worked really hard on the problem sets but the exams are still really difficult and pretty tricky. But I don't regret in the slightest taking this class, because I learned so much and feel like I've gotten so much out of it. Also, you should really get to know Joe outside of class. He's a really great person and tries to get to know his students, even though there are hundreds of us (because this class is so popular)!
This is an amazing class that will change your way of looking at the world around you forever.  Take it with Blitzstein or you will regret missing this great opportunity to get excited by statistics!
You'll learn skills that are useful in everyday life and across almost all disciplines. Very well organized. All around great course.
I know I'm going to exceed the word limit, but let's see how much praise I can squeeze in before I do. I had never taken a serious probability class before Stat 110, but every unit of it was extraordinarily fascinating, from counting to beta distributions. I learned so many useful things from lecture, whereas in most other classes, I leave with the feeling that the information was only applicable for the exams but not in real life. The support from the TF's and the professor was the most amazing part of the course. The TF's were always there to help out with homework and exam review, and their excellent problem and solution sheets enlightened me on so many concepts I didn't grasp at first. Professor Blitzstein is unmatched in his status as my favorite professor of all time (not just at Harvard), and I'm pretty sure no one else is ever going to take that title. His extraordinary patience and understanding encouraged me to continue working hard and improving my understanding of the class despite a disappointing outcome on the midterm. The collection of his famous quotes from lecture is a must read. And lastly, I've never gotten as much candy from any class as I got from this one (yummmmm, chocolate and Haribo gummi bears). Most importantly, take it with your friends. It makes the experience so much more magical! I will always look upon Stat 110 with nostalgia.
Though this course is plenty of work, the holistic understanding of chance you receive by the end of the course are well worth it.
Stat 110 is all about learning the intuition behind why things work. You won't be tested on a bunch of messy calculations, but rather on how well you can step back and see what's really going on. That's a really valuable skill. Plus you get a decent exposure to many of the most important concepts in probability. AND Joe Blitzstein is one of the best teachers I've had at Harvard. Do it!!!
Professor Blitzstein is an amazing lecturer and an amazing person. He makes lecture so much fun. Don't be fooled by the first few weeks of the class, however. It starts out easy but then becomes quite difficult later in the semester. If you have the time to devote to this class, take it! You won't regret it.
A lot of work, but the lectures are fun and painless, and you learn a lot!
This is a course which, starting from the very basics, guides you toward a comprehensive understanding of probability and legitimately makes you feel smarter for having gone through it. The course is very challenging, but fun as well, and manages to create a sense of community among its students. Stat 110 is the CS 50 of Statistics.
This is the best class. Ever.
it is a hard class. prepare to commit a good amount of your time on the psets. Also, get ready to be used to going to office hours since most of the stuff on the homework you won't be able to do on your own.
You'll learn a lot and have fun doing it. Just need to put in enough time.
Be prepared to put in effort each week to not only do the problem sets but also to internalize the information.  This will not only pay out big with the course but also during interviews and other life situations.
This is hard. just be prepared for that. That doesn't mean its the most time consuming...only a midterm and a final which is nice, but a lot is dependent on those. also psets are touhg but shouldnt take more than  a few hours a week. the challenge is doing well on teh exams. there are a ton of resources, you have to put in time by yourself. most people are capable of getting it eventually but it takes time to get there.
The class starts out at a moderate difficulty but especially in the last few weeks it gets pretty difficult, and this is coming from someone with a fairly strong math background. Make sure you understand the big picture and how the theory relates to real life, and that should help a lot with the details.
Everything is about 10 times harder than Joe makes it seem in lecture
Take it with Joe Blitzstein.
it is very hard, don't fall behind
This course is very hard. Do not be fooled by the first few weeks of class when you talk about relatively easy counting probability. Ironically enough, as soon as add/drop period ended, this class gets really hard, really fast. Theoretical statistics come fast and furious. The hardest part is that Joe, while a great professor, is so smart that he just "knows" how to attack all of the problems we see. This is not as obvious to students in the class. If you are committed to learning about this stuff, go for it. But be warned that the homeworks can rarely be done alone, and office hours are a zoo. Have I learned some interesting stuff, but at a pretty huge time/effort cost.
This course is a great introduction to probability.  Though lectures were confusing at times, the course is smoothly run, and Blitzstein cares more about the class and his students than any other professor I've ever had.  If probability doesn't come naturally to you, this course may be quite challenging... but the material is fascinating and incredibly important!  If you enjoy quantitative courses, DEFINITELY take this course.
very interesting but also very difficult!
Take this class! It's a lot of fun and you learn a lot, even though it's hard! There's a lot of support from TFs and Joe to get you through it.
It is a very difficult course, so only take it if you are prepared to work very hard.
Hard, but valuable. Study consistently and carefully. This course covers a lot of material, but will be very beneficial to anyone needing to understand probability and statistics.
I very strongly recommend this course to anyone in a quantitative field. This course provides very useful information on probability that is relevant in a number of fields, but is taught at a high enough level that it is interesting in itself as well.
Great class. Prepares you really well for interviews and future courses. It's pretty hard and involves a lot of natural brilliance.
Blitzstein is the greatest professor EVER. Very funny, an amazing teacher, genuinely cares a lot about his students and this class, makes statistics so interesting you'll want to do more. Stat 110 was such a good class that when the last lecture was over, I think I saw some tears. Take this class. You will not regret it, guaranteed. I cannot recommend a class more enthusiastically.
You're going to work hard, but you're going to love the material. The curve is brutal though, so beware.
This class is for students who want a math class where they are forced to think and not work mechanically. Especially for those who aren't innately talented in math, expect to invest a lot of time if you want to do well - but don't worry, doing well in the class won't be beyond your reach either!
I love Joe, I love the course, and I worked my butt off.
Joe Blitzstein is the man- he is a great lecturer, is hilarious, and very good at explaining all the topics in an incredibly engaging way- an amazing teacher.  And moreover, the course itself covers both fascinating, fun and extremely useful information.
Take it to learn from Joe Blitzstein
The instructor is very enthusiastic about the subject and is a great public speaker, and we studied many interesting real-life examples.  However, the lecture does not really prepare you for the HW, and the HW, although similar in style to the exams, does not really prepare you for the exams (unless one has an extensive math background/is a math genius/has a knack for making mathematical connections, in which case such people probably do well regardless of how the course is taught - so my comments refer primarily to the students who do not fall into this category, which I estimate are 30-50% of the class). The HW is very difficult and tricky so you are left to rely on the TFs to explain how to do it (TF office hours are not office hours in the usual sense but rather a large study group where students do HW together and TFs are available to help). With the average score on exams being around 60% (albeit higher in some years), a large part of the class can't solve even half of the exam problems and are not understanding the material. More of an effort should be made to reach this group. I think this would be very doable in this course with a few modifications since students find the subject fascinating and are eager to learn.
Really didn't do it for me. I took this class because I felt I was "supposed to," even though I knew even before shopping period had ended that I wouldn't like it. Stupidest decision of my life. I can see why others might like this class, but I found it neither useful nor interesting. Through this class, I realized that I can't bring myself to care about stuff that doesn't interest me anymore. I'm glad, because this will probably make me happier in the long term, but this semester was miserable.
Joe Blitzstein makes it very clear in the first lecture: this is a hard class. If you have little to no background, prepare to put in a /lot/ of time. That said, the material is highly rewarding, though difficult.
Take the class, it's so much fun!
Definitely recommend it.  Blitzstein's lectures are clear and he's very dedicated.
Most of the meat of the course is in lecture.  I didn't have the textbook, which was fine.  I didn't go to sections and office hours as much as I should have- I discovered near the end of the course how useful they were to help put lecture into context.
This is hardly an "introduction" to probability.  Be prepared to learn things that just don't make any sense.  By the end of the class, you will probably want to give up on actually understanding the material and it will feel as if you have to enter Blitz's head to be able to successfully answer a question.
the blitz is awesome. take the class, you will learn a lot. Brush up on your integrals and Taylor series.
it is a difficult material but taught in such a well-organized and engaging way.  Prof. Blitzstein is not only enthusiastic but also funny.  Can't think of better way that this material can be taught.
Stat110 is a really great class that teaches you how to think about probability problems.  Joe does a great job at presenting the concepts through interesting examples that really make you think.  You learn to solve
You may suffer in this class, but it is extremely fun and entertaining, and you will learn a lot.
It is a really fun class with challenging assignments. If you aren't lazy (like me) and go to section and review course materials often, it is very easy to understand.
Stat 110 is the best! Take it! :)
I highly recommend it to everyone regardless of your concentration!  The professor is amazing, and the course is extremely well-organized.  You learn a great deal of material, and the homework is much less time consuming than in typical math/ science classes due to the absence of messy calculations.
Be ready to think. Hard.
this course is really hard. really, really hard. however, you can get good grades on the psets by going to office hours and working with other people. for the final and midterm, just study a ton
Challenging; but worth it. Definitely not un-doable.
AMAZING COURSE WOULD TAKE AGAIN A+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Joe Blitzstein is reason enough to take this course.  BUT if you need more reasons, the material is really interesting, and potentially helpful for job interviews.
This course is very difficult.  Make sure you set aside time to do all of the readings and choose problems out of the book to do on your own before attempting the homework problems.
Awesome class, similar to CS 50 in that it requires a completely new way of thinking and that you can only learn through the psets (not as time-consuming as CS50 though), Joe Blitzstein is a legend.
Very interesting and useful material.
Nothing.  If you're naturally gifted at math, great!  If not, it will take a bit more studying, but the curve is very good and Blitzstein is an EXCELLENT professor.  I didn't go to section, but I think it would have eased the amount of work I had in the long run. I would recommend going to section.
This class is very mathematically interesting but also very difficult. Just doing the problems sets is probably not enough to do well in this class.
This class is not easy, but it is a lot of fun! The professor is a great lecturer and makes the material quite interesting. Also, it is clear that the stuff we are learning is actually applicable in real life!
Awesome class. Interesting foundational material, taught well and easily absorbed.
Know what you're getting into - this is not a stats class that will be useful for anything outside of stats and if you want to do quant finance. It is difficult and theoretical and was definitely a mistake for me to take it.
Take this class, if only to experience Joe Blizstein. Just know that you will be largely on your own, and you will need to take the initiative to keep up with the work. That means attending the (optional) sections, going to office hours as necessary, and perhaps forming study groups to work on the problem sets. Because there are few opportunities for feedback, it is easy to fall into a false sense of security, but as long as you keep up with the material, you will do fine in the course.
This class is as good as people say it is.
This is a very hard course, but very rewarding.
Well taught, lectures are fun, and the material is interesting. Why not take it?
Blitzstein is hilarious  if you're prepared to work hard to wrap your mind around results that are very often the opposite of what you expect, then you will find this class very rewarding.
believe it when your friends tell you this class is really hard; worth it though because joe is awesome and the material is incredibly interesting (although if you're taking it as an elective, you should probably do pass/fail...)
Probability is a beautiful subject, but watch out for your GPA.
really, really difficult
It is hard, but there is a lot of help.  It is very well taught by Blitztein.  The sections can be hit or miss though, so make sure to shop them.
Take Stat 110 only if you enjoy math and are interested in learning probability. If not, it might be too much depth or material.
STAT 110 is a great class that teaches you a lot about probability. It is a very different type of math class that teaches you to think in new ways to solve problems. You'd be amazed how daunting problems can be solved in very creative, sneaky ways.
A fundamental, comprehensive course useful to almost anyone in quantitative science
Everything about this class is amazing.
The class is well taught but often seems disjointed, and it teaches probability, so it's not a class to get a general understanding of statistics.
Blitzstein is awesome.
Really well taught!
Not a lot of work but you learn a tremendous amount. Blitzstein makes lectures fun and the concepts easily understandable.
probability really connects a lot of disparate segments of math that didn't seem related. it's also practically useful to interpret any sort of empirical study or observations about the world.
If you want to get a lot out of the course either be a genius or be prepared to work your butt off.
This is a challenging class, but the professor is great and the material is interesting. Time commitment is moderate, but make sure you keep up, because it's easy to fall behind and the material is cumulative (each concept builds upon previous ones).
It is very, very hard... and only useful if you are going to use probability in interviews.
Interesting material is made very interesting by an amusing and thorough professor.
it's dominated by Applied Math students and if you're an Economics student but you want a challenge, Statistics 104 might be better. it is very rewarding but very challenging
The class seems much easier at the beginning than it actually is.  None the less, it's interesting subject matter.
Probability theory is a very important concept; however, the structure of the class makes it difficult to really understand complex concepts well. Those without a strong math background will definitely be at a significant disadvantage.
the problem sets can vary in difficulty alot.
Do a lot of practices and make use of the various class materials.
This class is difficult but rewarding. It's only worth it if you have significant time to put aside and learn the material.
You might be frustrated often with the classwork, but the hilarity of the occasional lecture or one of Kevin's section is worth it. Also, the teachers are really supportive and accessible. Don't expect busywork.
Joseph Blitzstein is one of the most entertaining lectures I have ever seen, especially in math and science classes at Harvard. Avoid the temptation to do homeworks on the last night. Do homework in groups, preferably after having looked over / worked on problems yourself first. Even the tricky concepts are not too bad if you look at them enough, so look at them enough. If the book and lectures are unclear, re-watch the lecture videos. Then search the Internet.
Think whether you really need it. If you have a good professional reason to take it, do so. Otherwise maybe look for an applied stats class or a logic course.
Blitzstein is amazing (ie. my lover). It's worth taking the course just for him. Though you do learn a lot and what is taught really makes you have to think in a different manner.
Be sure to get the help you need early on during the semester, before too much piles up.
first half is a breeze, but DON'T LET IT DECEIVE YOU!!! need to keep up or else u'll be lost very very very quickly.
Anyone who has any interest in statistics should take this course!
very interesting and well-taught class. gets difficult starting around the first midterm (takes a turn and becomes a lot more mathematically intensive). make sure to start your HW assignments earlier, so that you can make good use of the sections and office hours.
I cannot recommend this class more!
This is among the most fun courses I've taken at Harvard- the material is complex but understandable and is applicable to problems in a lot of fields.
if you don't HAVE to take it, then don't
It is not easy and it is boring at times, but it teaches you to think well
The professor makes this class a highly recommendable class if you are interested in Probability.
This professor is the best professor I've had in any mathematics/technical course.
Joe is a superb teacher, and this class is essential background for people who want to use quantitative empirical methods or formal modeling with probabilistic elements.
If you want a rigorous introduction to probability theory that will help provide the basis for empirical research in your future, then this class is a good place to start.
It's a great class if you are willing to put time into it!
Obviously, it's not a class for humanities types who need to fulfill a Stats requirement.  However, if you're a math person, it's awesome.  It's a whole new way of applying math knowledge and using it to analyze the world.
I would tell them that probability and statistics is extremely important (exciting and fun too once you get into it). There is so much data waiting for us to make sense of it! This course gives them the language that they need to be able to think and talk about these things. I would warn them though that it is somewhat easy to underestimate the subtleties of this subject (It's just sets and Bayes' rule, right?) maybe because so many courses and textbooks on other subjects start by covering probability in a nutshell! So I would recommend to take small, cautious, cumulative steps (Professor repeats this advice enough times I think) and always enjoy thinking.
I found the class quite manageable if you understood the material - and rather hellish if you didn't.  There didn't seem to be much a a gray area in between; I was either hopelessly lost, or easily understanding the concepts.  I found this class difficult, but manageable, mainly because I took full advanatage of the support offered.  The course is definitely worthwhile - but only if you are willing to be put the time in to make it worthwhile.
It is hard, but a good class to take to learn all you ever wanted to know about probability. Also, very good professor.
Teach yourself probability when you need it. This class is not worth it.
Recommend to people, who like the topic.
This is one of the best classes i've ever taken.  Blitzstein is the best lecturer I've had, and everything else about the course is as good as a probability course can get.
Good if you're willing to work hard and diligently.
It's a good course, but I got lost in it towards the end
You'll get the most out of it if you are interested in the topic, obviously. Read the textbook! It's actually pretty interesting.
much harder than stat at the 100-104 level
Stat 110 is fun and interesting and the subject matter, probability, is extremely useful.  The material is very cumulative though - stay on top of things.  Also, problem sets get hard fast after about week 3.  I did best when I had attempted every problem before Wednesday or Thursday so that I could make efficient use of TFs' office hours.
it's good. take it.
It's an excellent class. It's something anyone looking into applying mathematics should take.
Great professor, interesting material, I really came away from this course feeling that I understood many of the fundamental concepts in probability.
Good class. Hard but worth the effort.
A challenging class, but you really learn something.
Professor Blitzstein is a teddy bear of a man, though I'm afraid that he's not always as interesting as he is in the first few lectures.
Challenging but really cool if you understand
Professor Blitzstein is one of the best professors ever. At the last lecture we broke into the most enthusiastic, loud, and spontaneous applause I have ever heard. For quite a few minutes. You learn a lot about an interesting and counter-intuitive subject. At the beginning of the semester I couldn't tell the difference between a combination and a permutation. Now I throw around distributions like baseballs.
really good start for learning statistics
It's a fun class, the professor is hilarious but I advise you spend a lot of time on it.
sometimes takes out of the box thinking
Challenging but definitely worth it in the end
Take it if you're willing to work hard
Great class.
If not interested in statistics this will be a challenging course.
This is a a good class that is interesting and well taught, but definitely difficult in nature.
Poorly organized, and often asks questions about topics that weren't really taught.
You will get a solid foundation to probability and distributions of random variables while enjoying fun examples and exercises.
I would only take this, as opposed to other Statistics courses, if you're very interested in probability or need to take it as a concentration requirement. It starts out easy but becomes surprisingly difficult, and the exams are harder than expected.
A very interesting material, an amazing professor.
very well taught, very important
Prof. Blitzstein is an amazing lecturer. You may not think it at first, but then as he keeps talking and goes down the paths of all his random tangents, he ends up being a very interesting speaker. Paraphrased briefly from one comment: "... You shouldn't believe what I tell you. Well, you should believe what I tell you, but you have to believe what I'm saying after you think about it." My section TF was very good at explaining material. Also, on special occasions they passed out candy. This was probably my favorite class of the semester. :)
This class is wonderful though difficult.  The material is very interesting, and the professors and TFs are great.  The class is extremely well organized.  However, be prepared for a challenge!  People say it is at the level of math 21, but I found it more difficult in many ways.  However, a huge help network is available.  Office hours and section are essential if you're having difficulty!
Don't slack. The material is fun but tricky and you should think about it. Most of all, make ample use of all the office hours and sections, and contact them outside of those if you need to.
I never thought I'd take a stat class. Never. And then I shopped this class with a friend. And it was awesome.
It's a really fun class to take if you like math. And Blitzstein is awesome.
Joe is very amiable and lectures are always interesting, but don't let that fool you. This class is very difficult. I'd only recommend taking it if it is required. That being said, TF office hours are helpful, and I would suggest finding a section that you like early in the semester.
This class is very very hard, but if you are willing to work hard it is a great experience.  You will be happy to have taken it when you finish.
Professor Blitzstein is an amazing teacher but he requ8ires hard and consistent work throughout the semester.
Joe is amazing.
Really interesting class with a lot of useful material for all fields! Teaches you to question statistics used in life, as well.
If you don't like this class, I'm hard pressed to believe you will like any stats class.
Joe is hilarious. It is a hugely enjoyable learning experience.  TFs are generally wonderful and very helpful.  You will learn a lot.  But prepare to work very very very hard.  Problem sets and exams are very difficult.  This material definitely comes much quicker to some people than others.
One of those classes you will kick yourself for not taking earlier.
The class covers some fun brain teasers. Some find Blitz really entertaining; some don't.
it's very apparent that both the professor and the teaching fellows care a lot about how the material is presented, and it shows. this is something that i've been missing in a lot of other math and stats courses.
It is a great class, but very difficult.
If you're good at math/probability, you will find the class easy but may not come out with an A because there is no margin for error on the easy exams.
Take it if you are constantly asking yourself about the likelihood of something happening and would like it to be supported with some assumptions.
Great class, Blitzstein is a very effective lecturer - I used to hate probability but now I like it!
This course is much more difficult than I expected; if you are not one of the math geniuses that make up 50% of the people taking this course, you should be prepared to spend a lot of time on this course!
Take this class! This is some of the most useful material you'll ever learn.
This class covers very interesting material, or at least the way it is presented makes it fascinating.  The professor gives entertaining lectures, but overall it is a challenging course - make sure you have the necessary math background to succeed.
Professor Blitzstein is excellent, as is the subject matter.  It's a win-win situation.
It is a really good class, one of the most fun and best taught stats classes I have ever taken, plus very useful for any field of concentration.
This course is a fun, not-too-hard chance to dive into probability and realize how interesting it is.  If you're at all interested in trying to use math to reason about the world around you, you will enjoy this a lot.Oh, and Professor Blitzstein might be the most awesome person that you meet at Harvard.
I think that this is a great course for providing a sound foundation in probability theory
The professor is pretty well-organized, lectures enthusiastically, and has a good sense of humor.However, this doesn't really make up for the fact that there's a huge divide between the level of material in the lectures and the level of problems on the homework assignments. Most students cannot make that jump on their own; it doesn't bode well if a large portion of the class ends up having to rely on sections and office hours to explain how to solve the homework problems.The exams are very difficult, and it's not clear what effect the curve will have on grades. Be sure to write down *everything* on your exam reference sheets. If you miss some formula, it inevitably leave you unable to solve a problem on the exam.If you have a natural knack for making somewhat abstract connections in math and could breeze through courses like Math 23, you should be fine. Otherwise, you may struggle quite a bit.
dont worry about reading the book
challenging but interesting and useful
This course helped my love life.  I used to panic when talking to physicists and mathematicians, but now that I can discuss the gambler's ruin and the Monty Hall problem, I can pick them up with ease. Nothing catches them quite so well as pulling out the Poisson over martinis.  I absolutely recommend this course to anyone who either needs probability or who wants to date someone else who does.
The course was awesome, but it is quite difficult.
get ready for a math-intensive class!
This is a class _definitely_ worth taking if you're majoring in any science. It's both fun and relevant.
Joe is excellent lecturer.  Best you can find!  Also his homework questions are challenging but do-able.  Really great.
Doing well in this class is more about being smart than working hard... that may be frustrating for some people.
It's a great introduction to probability and random variables. Take it if you want a good understanding of randomness, probability and the basic ideas behind random variables and their distributions.
This was the best class I have taken at Harvard.
A tough class that can take a lot out of you, but is rewarding and interesting.
It's a great class but it will also dominate your semester, so plan accordingly.
A must take class for any science concentrator.
This class will change the way you see the world.
If it's taught like my year, don't worry about having math background as much as about having intuition for the stuff.
This is a fun and challenging course that offers an attractive alternative to the other introductory statistics courses, which seem much dryer.
Blitzstein is beyond amazing but the course is mathy.
It's great but it's hard. Be prepared for some mathematical challenges!
You need to be able to invest a significant amount of time into the course in order to completely understand the material.
This is a very difficult class, and I didn't do very well in it, but I learned an immense amount and was very glad to have taken it, despite the poor grade. This knowledge will help you in the future without a doubt.
If you're intimidated by math and stats, don't be afraid of this course. It'll teach you a lot without anxiety.
This class is definitely difficult, but undoubtedly worth the pain.  Professor Blitzstein and the TFs make it truly enjoyable, and the material you learn will surely be useful long after the course is done.
Prepare to be dominated
Fairly easy class; Prof Blitzstein is great.
The course is very challenging but you definitely learn a lot from it.
Problem sets can make your life Hell
The Blitz somehow makes statistics fun and interesting and compelling! TAKE THIS CLASS!
stay on top of material.  Work out simple examples to prove to yourself was is taught.
The material was often counter intuitive and time was necessary to fully learn it.
Spend the time and read the book!
Joe (the professor) is simply terrific! I wouldn't let anything prevent me from taking this class. You will learn a lot if you put time into it.
Fun intro to statistics, not too hard, taught well.
Take this class only if you have a strong interest in probability theory, need it for a concentration credit, or think you will enjoy it. It will be PAINFUL otherwise.
Your thinking will change after taking the class.
this is a great course. if it fulfills a requirement, absolutely take it, but maybe with a friend because the problem sets are pretty brutal otherwise.  joe is a really cool dude.
Awesome class. Blitzstein is the man.
Very rewarding but very difficult.
Definitely take this class if you're going into anything that counts this as credit. It is well taught and not one of the "hell" classes. It lets you look at probability from a new angle!
The material in this class is both useful and extremely interesting.  Joe is one of the best professors I have had at Harvard.  He likes the course, teaches well, and especially focuses on teaching specific ways to approach and solve problems.  Go to Kevin's section!!
Very good
It's cool, but challenging. Go to office hours often.
It's a really interesting class with an absolutely great professor who cares about students and does a great job presenting the material. That being said, the course is also very very challenging and theoretical. If you're looking for something more applied or are not very "math-y," this may not be the course for you. You may have a good understanding of concepts and be able to do the homework, but this doesn't necessarily translate into doing well on exams.
This is a difficult course from which you will learn a lot about how to break problems down, and estimate them when you can't solve them.
You learn so much about probability, and how to think conditionally.  Professor Blitzstein is awesome.  You have a pretty light workload yet still come away with so much.
It's an interesting and well-taught class. If you want to learn some probability and statistics it's a great class to take.
The material is good, but it is not extremely worth taking the class. If you are comfortable, you can probably learn the material by yourself and go directly to stat 210 instead.
be dedicated to it! do the homework by yourself first, seriously
this class is very difficult. stat is sooooo hard
Math 19a and 19b are not enough background for the course! (despite the course's description).
Material gets significantly more difficult after the midterm.
The class is well taught and interesting.  It gives you a solid basis for learning more statistics, and it teaches you to think in new ways.
This is an amazing class. It's very difficult, but nevertheless is worth it!
Statistics 110 is very useful and should be taken by anyone considering a career in economics or finance.
This class is a must for understanding the basis of economics, computer science, and obviously other mathematical related fields.
This class is hard. Its filled with Math 55 kids and Stat concentrators so if you're not one of those 2 its going to be a long semester. This is not Stat 104. This is much different and much harder.
Take the math dept version it's better. If you're afraid of doing interesting problems and still want to learn, I guess take this.
Interesting course. Take it after math 21a will be very pleasant.
This may be the best class I've taken at Harvard.  The professor is an amazing teacher, which you'll realize reviewing for the final exam when even concepts that seemed dauntingly difficult have become clear.  I recommend this to any person who has some facility with mathematics.  It's a perfect match of interesting mathematics with practical knowledge.
You have to stay on top of things, or else fall behind very fast.
If you want to understand life, you should take this course.
Good class, extremely lovable professor, but be prepared to work your butt off, particularly if you have multiple psets due on fridays
Great class, but pretty tough.
Best course ever! I tell everyone I can about this course. Joe is a great teacher, and he does a really good job of explaining concepts that are otherwise really difficult.
You have to be willing to work hard.
extremely useful stuff but may the homework may take a lot of work
You'll work hard and will grow in understanding. It's worth it, but be prepared to struggle at times with the problem sets- it's natural, and the problems will be explained.
This is an amazing class. Prof. Blitzstein is the best professor I have ever had at Harvard and the best professor I could ever hope to have!!!
This class is one the best classes at Harvard and has probably taught me more things than any other class. I will recommend everyone to take this class but only for a pass/fail. There are a lot of smart people in this class and a letter grade will your life miserable and you will not find this class just as fun.
The professor does a great job teaching the course.  The psets and tests are very difficult.  Do not think that Stat 110 is an "intro" class.
its a very good class. Its a lot of work but if you think you would like the subject and/or have to take some sort of prob/stat class I would definitely go for this one. Staff is great, and super helpful.
Seems easy, seems easy, seems easy, and then Bam! It hits you. You realize you have no idea what's going on in the class and you realize that the reason for that is the nihilistic, banal teaching style that you've been put through all semester.
This course starts off being easy and then suddenly becomes very difficult. Be careful not to get lulled over by the initial easiness - go to class, go to section (possibly more than one section), study the material, and make time to really figure out the problem sets.This is an interesting course and the professor is great (and very very lovable). If you're an econ major looking to challenge yourself - realize that you're going to take a more difficult and less useful course with this. Really really think about whether you're willing to devote the time to this course, because to do well you will really have to put a lot of time into it, and realize that the stuff you're learning here is much less useful to Econ research than Econ 104 would be.
Blitzstein was an amazing lecture who was able to explain difficult, and interesting concepts in an engaging way.
You'll realize that you've learned some pretty cool stuff at the end and appreciate the hard work you put into it - but just be warned that it's pretty hardcore stuff. Not recommended for people not comfortable with math at the 21a/b level. And that's speaking from personal experience: I wasn't and therefore had to struggle quite a bit - but it's definitely still doable. If that's the case for you, work hard from the beginning and go to lots of sections! If you are determined to learn this stuff, you can - but the class is not exactly for the faint of heart.
Go to office hours, and section.
Difficult, take if you have the interest.
Put the work in, or you'll fall behind and be lost.
The class is very impersonal, which can make the grading frustrating.
Stat110 is incredibly difficult but the class material is really cool.
This class is more demanding than your girlfriend!
Get used to tricky questions, thinking between the lines beyond intro math courses
Everything they said is probably true. Very difficult but very rewarding. Don't expect to tackle p-sets alone. I usually do all of my work individually, but if you want to do well in this class, there is no way around finding a good group of people to work with. Although it's not mandatory, I'd recommend buying the book. I made the mistake of barely using it until I started studying during reading period, but that's when I realized how much it really helps. It goes through a lot of the examples that were slightly unclear in lecture. Probably wouldn't recommend the class to someone who's not getting some sort of degree in stats because of its difficulty, but it definitely can be worth the struggle if you put the work in.
Stat 110 is not as hard as people play it out to be -- the material is not so difficult. However, it is extremely difficult to get an A in the class though; up to a certain point, studying for midterms doesn't really help because solving problems correctly relies more on intuition / innate ability than hard work.
This class is extremely hard, but you can learn a lot from it. Take it during a semester where you have relatively easy classes so you can dedicate a lot of time to it. Definitely go to office hours and don't wait until the last minute to start the homework.
Stat 110 was definitely an enjoyable but very challenging course and you should go into the class knowing that you will be putting quite a bit of work into it. Use your resources (sections are great, especially Theresa's and Ryan's), as well as the book (read it before/ after lecture!) and you should be okay. I feel like the exams were difficult to study with (I wish there were more intermediate practice problems) but if you're willing to put a lot of time into it, you'll be okay!
Stat 100 is one of rare classes that is both extremely challenging and worth the work. It'll be even better with Joe Blitzstein teaching it. Take it.
The HW mean is surprisingly high given the terrible exam mean, so make sure your HW scores are perfect if you want to stay ahead of the curve. The exam mean hovers around a 60-65, so you only need bout an 80 on both to get an A. Do the strategic practice every week until you see the patterns necessary to answer exam problems quickly. Remember your stories and your symmetries.
this class is very difficult but if you put in effort and do problem sets in advance you can SURVIVE and learn a lot.
It's hard to say if I would recommend this class; I certainly wouldn't if Kevin Rader is teaching it again. He didn't actually seem to understand the more theoretical aspect. At the very least, he didn't do a good job explaining it to us.
This is a great class, but it is incredibly difficult, especially when it comes to exams. Kevin is a good lecturer, but it can sometimes be hard to pay attention for the full 1.5 hours, especially in Sanders theater. Make sure you find people to do the pset with, otherwise the class would be impossible.
Stat 110 provides a fairly comprehensive but not overwhelming of probability, and will give you a very solid foundation in how to think about probability problems that show up in the real world. I'm not sure how it is with Blitzstein in comparison; but this year, the workload was substantial (problem sets are definitely time-consuming) but definitely not overwhelming. Take the class if you are willing to challenge yourself to learn a lot about an important area.
Stat 110 is a great class to take if you want to learn a lot about probabilities and how the world runs with them. It will get you to think about the world in a different way. I think everyone should take a stat class sometime in college!
Worth it, but you'll have to work hard (and mostly, CONSISTENTLY) for things to actually sink in.
This is a great course that really teaches you a lot about statistics. If you plan on being a statistics concentrator, I highly recommend this class and it will teach you a lot o how to think critically and solve problems.
Very worthwhile course for those who feel like they need probability.
If you're interested in statistics, definitely take this class. If not, you should probably be a bit wary -- it's not a walk in the park. Still worth taking.
For someone who has never done competitive math or is used to brain teaser questions, this class can be very challenging. You have to know all the tricks and how to apply them. Practice really helps and there are a lot of resources but it always ends up being the case that you don't have enough time to go through all the practice problems. Make time for this class if you want to take it and feel that you don't have a strong background.
This course is so useful!  While exams and assignments (particularly the midterm) may be challenging, the material is overall not too hard to understand, and will give a good background understanding of probability/stat for related fields (I took it alongside a stat-based chem course and it helped a lot).  Reading the textbook (Blitzstein) isn't mandated, but is very helpful if you'd like to make significant headway on the problem sets earlier than the day before they're due.  Course is large
This course is difficult, but rewarding.
It's tough. Be committed to learning the material.
This iteration was not as good as previous ones - I don't feel like I actually understood the material at a deep level. If Rader is teaching, maybe hold off. Blitzstein is worth waiting for.
Very well-run and well-taught class, even without Blitzstein. Rader did a good job. My math background was higher than most of the class (Math 25, USA(J)MO, etc.), so I found the course easy and not time consuming. Still useful though for sure.
You will struggle for the whole semester with this course, from the complex and fast-paced lectures to the arduous homework. Expect to have some late nights putting the finishing touches on homework. And be prepared to think harder than you may have before about the intuition behind problems. Overall, this ends up being more of a math course than a stats course. But in the end, you should be able to understand how the concepts relate and you will be amazed at the amount of knowledge that you have acquired.
Good class, standard large lecture format.
don't underestimate it. it gets hard fast.
It definitely takes a lot of collaboration and hours of TF office hours.
Stat 110 is a useful class that gives you really useful new ways to think about the world. It's very difficult, though, and a lot of work to wrap your head around.
TAKE THIS COURSE! It's going to be hard but it's also going to be rewarding. Also, go to section and do the strategic practice problems every week. You can't afford to only really understand everything a few days before the exams.
Really hard course but worth the effort. Material is incredibly applicable and is presented in a reasonably coherent way. Fall 2014 was Rader and people say Blitzstein is a lot better and makes a big difference. Other students are very strong academically so the curve isn't particularly good. Lots of grad students. Be ready to spend 10-15 hrs on the psets.
This is hard, but rewarding.  You will spend a lot of time in office hours working on problem sets.  You get out of this class what you put into it, in terms of both grade and the experience. It is by far the most difficult class I have taken at Harvard.
Watch out. If Blitztein isn't back, you might be in for a rough one on the exam -- meaning that studying previous exams will likely not help you at all.
Great class, must take.
This class is extremely difficult, and sometimes it feels a little like death. If you stick with it, though, it's extremely rewarding. If you're at all considering concentrating in stats, I definitely recommend it!
Excellent, decently challenging introduction to statistics and probability. Highly recommended to all majors, especially for computer science.
The class is very difficult but very rewarding. Be prepared to spend a lot of time in office hours, especially in the second half of the semester. I made the mistake of taking this class a freshman, and I'm glad I did now that it's over, but I'd recommend you wait until your sophomore year.
A good introduction to probability theory. Two thoughts. 1. In this iteration of the course, we were allowed to take 1 or 2 pages of notes to the midterm and final exams. I used such notes in the midterm and final. But upon reflection, it is clear to me that these notes generally create a sense of intellectual dependence that can actually reduce performance. Think carefully about the seemingly benign act of using notes on the final! 2. The class is challenging but necessary for further work in probability.
The way to succeed is to keep up with the material and understand how it fits together in the big picture. I don't think I really saw that until I started studying for the final, which made doing each pset just a grind of getting through it. Office hours are extremely useful for psets. Exams are difficult--the average for midterm was a 64 and final was a 58, but there should be an okay curve. It's not impossible to do well in the course, though it is challenging.
Very difficult but rewarding.
Great class.  The secret to this class might actually be the textbook.  It's a really incredible textbook that explains everything clearly, succinctly, with good connections and examples.  Also if you do the problem sets yourself (and then check with other people) but actually try to do every problem on your own, you will definitely get the grade you want. Don't fall behind!
the course itself is great, fascinating material and useful in many subjects.  probability is weird and ubiquitous.  
re: difficulty level, be prepared to work.  the psets require thinking through difficult logical and mathematical problems - plug'n'chug won't get you very far in this course.  
the instructor this semester, kevin rader, was pretty terrible - careless, defensive, insecure, no teaching presence, and low on empathy.  fortunately, he was only a stand-in for the regular instructor, who was on sabbatical this year.  but on the off-chance he ends up teaching this course again, you're probably better just following the lectures and notes online from previous years.
i would like to tell them that this course is ridiculously difficult, but filled with interesting material.
Too much material, too much work, too difficult, too much expected, too little time. You need a VERY, VERY strong math/proof background. DO NOT take this course as an "intro to probability" or "to explore statistics". This class is for hard-core math/stat people, nothing less. I came in thinking I could waltz my way into the class with an ok math background. I was WRONG. This class is incredibly demanding. For beginners like me, DO NOT take it. You're much better taking Stat 104 or Stat 139, where you will actually learn and retain some knowledge.
This class is quite difficult, but it is also quite helpful in gaining a further understanding of probability.  Probability, in my opinion, is one of the hardest part of statistics, and this class enables students to focus on just that aspect for the entire semester.
It would have been more efficient to learn the material myself. The material is not so difficult to grasp, and if you only need this as a pre-req for other courses, I don't think the time investment is worth it. The problem sets are the most useful element of the course. Lectures are very slow and relatively boring.
This class is no cake walk but is definitely worth it.  Go to kevin's OH to get help and get to know him.  You will do poorly, but so will everybody so in the end you're fine
It is not as difficult as people make it out to be. Getting high grades on the psets and exams are just a matter of being willing to do a bit of extra work, looking up ideas and concepts that you do not understand, and going over carefully previous years' materials. Kevi's version of the course is also a lot easier than Joe's.
Stat 110 is a great class and the material is super useful for future courses in a wide variety of areas. Under Kevin Rader, the course wasn't as exciting, but expect it to be better under Blizstein or if Kevin teaches it again since he will have more experience
STAT110 is a challenging but rewarding course. As a detailed examination of probability distributions, their behaviors, relatedness, and relationships with real-world problems, the course provides both immediately useful knowledge deployable in analysis, and a strong foundation from which to move confidently into more advanced statistical subjects. In particular, STAT110 helps to break down the assumptions underlying the use of different probability distubutions for various statistical processes.
This class is extremely difficult but also extremely rewarding.
This class was fairly frustrating. Lecture was spent doing derivations that were difficult to follow and very uninteresting. On top of that, homework was near impossible without handholding from TFs, which made it very difficult to actually learn the material. The topics are interesting, but this course could use some changes to how the lectures and homework is structured.
This class has been the hardest course I've ever taken, but if you are willing to put in the work, it can be very rewarding.  The resources are there, but you have to make the most of them.  Office hours and sections were key in understanding concepts and homework completion.  Looking back, I wish I could have dedicated more time to the class than I did.
It's tough but interesting
Very useful class! Professor Rader is super nice and approachable!
If you've done math club-type things in high school, it makes the beginning of this course (the probability part) easier, although I've definitely seen people be able to manage without any background. Very few things were that abstract or difficult conceptually, and while the examples make sense if you go to class, there were occasionally a few concepts that I didn't think were super clear from lecture. In those cases, though, it wasn't impossible to learn that on my own from reading the textbook. 
f
I think the hardest part was that the solutions to the problems make sense once you see it, but it can be really challenging to come up with it on your own. Except for a select few people, though, most of the class is in the same shoes as you, which created an environment that I really liked as we all struggled together. 

Kevin wasn't always the best at answering questions in a simple, understandable way, but the TF's and textbook tend to be pretty good for that. Office hours also tend to be pretty packed, so it helps to take it with a group of people you can also ask for help--or befriend people!
I took it as a stat requirement. If you're not taking this as a requirement, then I guess I would still recommend this class because it teaches you a new way to think about things, and it's just super useful. I had a job interview for a data science position that they basically asked me two stat 110 questions. It is really hard though and will probably drop my gpa because I did sooooo horribly on the first midterm. Also, Kevin's lectures are okay... but I basically learned everything from the textbook.
1) Unless you have previous statistics knowledge, don't take this class. The material is very hard
2) Exams are IMPOSSIBLE. Median was a 59 on the second exam
3) Problem sets generally take about 5 - 10 hours
4) While hard, material is generally really interesting. DEFINITELY BUY AND READ THE TEXTBOOK REGARDLESS OF WHAT PEOPLE SAY. TRUST ME ON THIS
We cover all sorts of concepts and keeping track of them can be tough, but it was definitely worth it for me.
This was a challenging class and many hours were spent in office hours trying to figure out the problem sets. I recommend getting a tutor from BSC ASAP because they're hard to come by, even if you're not going to necessarily use your tutor every week. Pretty challenging, but also pretty interesting material.
It's incredibly difficult. Go to section.
This is a great class. Really interesting. Just be ready to put in the time. If you respect it, it is totally doable.
This class is extremely difficult, make sure you have the time and passion to take it seriously
It's not as hard as people make it out to be. If you approach each problem with the mindset that it's not that hard, the class is not that hard. It's easy to psych yourself out though, because often the answers don't come to mind immediately.
You need to put in effort.
be prepared to be myopic
Stat 110 is the quintessential course to take if you're considering a concentration or secondary in Statistics. It covers a lot of bases and is a very thorough and comprehensive primer to probability. I enjoyed it very much!
This class is kind of hard.
Do everything you can to not take this class. It is poorly taught and the material is too hard to learn on your own. The tests test material that you haven't learned. Lectures are useless and boring. This class is impossible and there is no support system in the class to help you. DONT TAKE THIS CLASS.
This class earns its rep as one of the more difficult courses on campus. Problem sets are usually 4-6 problems long, and, if working alone, can easily take upwards of 10 hours to complete. Tests are very difficult, but the class is curved. The curve, however, is is a rough one. ~35% A/A- for a class where the most academic students take the class as well as grad students that tend to have a lighter workload. Just something to be aware of, especially since this is not common for most classes here.
Great class. Kevin Rader is a very clear lecturer and accessible through email. Blitzstein's textbook is tremendously well-written, and the online practice problems are very helpful.
Not a great class. Take only if necessary for concentration.
I can now (with a pretty poor confidence interval) say that I know how to model my time spent in this course: as a survival function that is doomed to failure. It is evident that there is a very large variance between the professor's expectation of students, and the realm of normal possibility. I felt that both the problem sets and (especially) the exams were uncorrelated to what was covered in lecture. But alas, life goes on like a continuous Cauchy distribution: I must ignore the moments of stat failure this semester, pretend that my GPA is unknown, and reflect on all the theoretical potential I now possess,|given the knowledge that I have acquired from this course.
Learn a lot, but very difficult.
This is a great class, and you definitely learn a lot.  For those not math/statistics inclined, it will definitely be rather challenging.  The problem sets can be tough and the midterm and final are brutal (don't worry though, the curve is generous).  If you like math/statistics though this class really isn't that bad.  You learn a lot and the work load is reasonable.  There's also more than enough resources if you need help.
This class is super cool. If you appreciate the beauty of probability, you will love this class.
Stat 110 is a quintessential Harvard class.  Not only are the types of questions asked and answered in stat 110 interesting, but there are interesting applications that are seen even in problem sets.  While some lectures this year were somewhat unorganized, Kevin was a great professor, and I hear it's even better with Blitzstein.

TLDR: If Blitzstein is teaching this course, you basically have to take it.  If anyone else is taking it, I still strongly recommend taking it at some point, especially if you can count it for some sort of requirement.
Great class - know what you're getting yourself into, it's definitely a lot of work and exams are very hard, but it is definitely manageable and worth the effort
Unless you are a Stat, CS, math, or applied math concentrator, I don't recommend taking this course due to how much work is necessary.  The problem sets take a lot of effort and time and the midterm and final are very challenging.  As somebody who has loved math my whole life, I struggled in this course and thought that the lectures should have been more about demonstrating how to think about solving problems and why some of the main concepts were important instead of just focusing on algebra and proofs.
This class is rewarding once you get through it, but there are definitely times where I became exceedingly frustrated with the difficulty of the course. Be prepared to work very hard.
Stat 110 is a great class  really interesting material that challenges you to think outside the box. The course will take up a significant amount of time, and the exams are really hard, but in the end I think the course is worth taking because probability is such an interesting subject.
Very difficult course, be prepared to go to office hours and section in order to get a good grade in this class.
This is a great class on probability and would definitely change how you think. The materials are hard but you will be able to master them through doing a lot of practice problems.
This is an extremely rewarding class to any students (particularly those entering quantitative research fields) who want to deeply understand the mechanics which underlie all statistical processes. It will contribute to a much deeper understanding of the methods you'll use every day, and help you diagnose many issues you'll encounter in your work. 

If you have the option, take the class Pass/Fail. This is from both personal experience and a healthy dose of hearsay, but cheating is widespread in the class, from trading solutions to homework problems, manipulating teaching fellows, using online and in-person expert resources (paid or otherwise) to get answers, to much more insidious issues  during exams, restrooms are full of students on their smartphones, students often exceed the "cheat sheet" limits, bringing three or four pages of notes in... probably worst of all, I overheard several people entering the final exam saying to one another "So who are you taking this for?" and discussing the students who had paid them to sit the exam. Attendance slips do nothing to stop this. 

This would be pretty much par for the course if it weren't that the class is graded on a curve. You'll be competing with such a shocking lack of academic integrity for your grade. Save yourself the trouble, avoid this competition, and take it pass/fail.
Be prepared to work hard, know when to ask questions
Stat110 was nearly everything that it was said to be. It's a hard class with alot to offer. Even if Joe wasn't teaching it this year, it certainly wasn't easy or shallow. Its a good course: highly recommend for those who may be interested in some statistical theory.
Be prepared to be surprised by some results you'll prove by yourself.
Stat110 is definitely one of the most difficult classes at Harvard, but if you're willing to work hard and put in A LOT of time, you're going to learn a lot and will be proud of yourself at the end of the semester for having survived such a difficult course.
The class is incredibly demanding but very rewarding at the same time. If you're a math or stat oriented student you will likely really enjoy the class, but be prepared to put in a lot of hours on psets and studying for exams. Most difficult class I've taken thus far but incredibly interesting material and a very worthwhile experience.
This class is really hard. I would definitely recommend reviewing material periodically throughout the semester so studying at the end isn't completely overwhelming (although it probably will be anyway). Definitely also do as many practice problems as possible to build intuition. And also find a great TF like Ryan Lee , and he will be your savior.
This class is tough, so make sure you develop some kind of support group. Go to office hours as much as possible and work with friends. If you try to do go it alone you will be lost.
Stat 110 is hard. You learn a lot of material, but don't really get to see how it is applied, which is part of what makes it hard.
Undoubtedly difficult-- be prepared to actually spend significant amounts of time with the material if you want to do well.
Be prepared to be challenged, just be persistent and try to keep up with the materials each week, the class can go very fast and cover lots of materials.
This class is difficult, but very rewarding.  You will learn to really struggle with problems, but with time, you learn how to solve them yourself.  The absolute best things you can do are collaborate with your peers and GO TO OFFICE HOURS.
This class is really hard, but if you really put work into it, it is extremely rewarding. That said, be prepared to be really challenged and ready to put in the work. Otherwise, it could very well be a very unenjoyable course.
Stat 110 is an incredible class! It is very well taught and organized, and the teaching staff is there to help you succeed. While the material is definitely difficult, it's pretty fun and widely applicable! The problem sets are fair and the exams are too. A tough class, but fair and worth it. You will learn a lot!
My life became centered around work for this class. :( Do not take this without prior statistic knowledge OR the required math requirement, or material will be unnecessarily more difficult. The psets are extremely hard (GO TO OFFICE HOURS) where the TFs will be super helpful. It's hard to feel like you learned a lot if you can't do the psets, but you definitely go through a TON of material. Do not fall behind in this class and make sure you understand everything from the beginning. Say goodbye to Thursday night social life unless you're really disciplined/on top of your work.
It's hard.
Great class!
Hard class that ll probably not be the best for your GPA but worth it to learn the basics of probability.
This class is definitely hard. It is challenging. It will keep you up at night until the point that you regret taking this class. But, after the final is over, you will be very happy that you decided to take this class. It makes you think in a very different way about statistics, as it is taught in a more theoretical manner. This course will definitely expand your problem solving ability. It is 100% one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.
This class was really interesting, but without a doubt the most challenging course I've ever taken in my life. Study for the final and midterm in advance.
If you are prepared for this course, you will enjoy it. Don't think, however, that you will be able to excel in this class without reaching out to TFs and putting in the time.
This is a good class that covers a lot of important material.
what a hard class...very very important, but oh so hard. youll think you understand how to do a problem, then see 0/6 on the midterm you get back.
A challenging subject - probability - is made interesting, organized, coherent in picking up - the course is very well structured  and organized. Professor Rader is great and engaging in lectures - the material is clarified and lectures are engaging to follow. They say it's one of the most challenging courses at Harvard - but all the resources are given to you so it is not so unpredictable.
I really enjoyed this class. After I got into a rhythm and learned which office hours and sections to go to, I didn't find it that difficult. Definitely befriend TFs! Overall you'll be able to absorb the information better if you go to section earlier in the week and start the problem sets ahead of time. The material definitely speeds up in the second half of the semester, so that's something to watch out for.
if you think you're smart, take this course. if you think you're average, just no.
Stat 110 is an incredible class that teaches you really cool things about probability. You cover some cool problems that are fun brain-teasers and teach cool concepts, but a lot of the class is also going to be technical problems, like proving relationships among different distributions.
You're also going to be spending a ton of time in office hours. Being in a class where you simply cannot figure out the problems on your own and need office hours is depressing at times, but at least you learn a lot of good material.
This is a class that really takes work and practice, though. Every day you should be doing one or two problems (this only has to be 5 minutes!) so that you're not cramming in material the few days before the midterm and final.
Re: difficulty:
For the average Harvard student who did Calc BC in high school, this class will be intermediate to hard and taking another pset class or two during the same semester will be fine. For people who didn't, this class will be your hardest class. (And for full-on math people, this class will be a fun stroll in the park.) I definitely recommend this class regardless of your background.
Stat 110 is a necessary evil. It's a required course for statistics concentrators and it is not easy--in fact, the statistics department prides itself on offering "one of the hardest classes at Harvard." Be prepared for many long hours devoted to problem sets and many, many stressful evenings.
Take this class! It's very rewarding.
The way this course was taught this semester was probably an anomaly, since Blitzstein will be teaching Stat 110 next year. The material was interesting, and I felt like I learned a decent amount, but the lectures and the homework felt more like busy work. I often spent more time trying to evaluate an integral correctly than setting up the problem/applying the relevant statistical concepts. Moreover, while the first third of the course was taught with story proofs, the last two thirds of the course taught material in (what felt like) a less elegant way. I never went to section, but I went to office hours a couple times, and the TFs were very helpful with clearing up any areas of confusion. Other supplemental material (extra practice problems, practice midterms, and practice exams) were available. In general, though, this course wasn't difficult. I'd recommend taking this course (especially since it's a prereq for so many classes), but I didn't get as much out of it as I'd hoped.
This class was unreasonably hard. It is incredibly unfortunate that we did not get to have the usual professor, Joe Blitzstein. Kevin Rader was a poor choice for a replacement. Kevin somehow turned a theoretical class into an applied class, which is sort of impossible given the subject. Kevin's lectures were absolutely awful and unhelpful. If it weren't for Joe's textbook, I don't think I would know a single thing about probability. It often seemed like Kevin himself didn't even understand the theory behind probability. One TF who really picked up Kevin's slack was Ryan Lee. Ryan's sections were so well-attended (And with good reason! Ryan actually taught us the material that we never learned elsewhere) that they had to be held in a lecture hall. If that's not a sign that this class has major problems, I don't know what is. The problem sets were also unreasonably difficult. Kevin even said that they were meant to be too difficult to do alone without TF help. That seems absurd! We're not really learning the material if we have to ask TFs to walk us through the problem sets each week. Kevin also did not give the TFs solutions to the problem sets, so two different TFs could lead you to two very different problem set answers. The exams were also ridiculously challenging and demoralizing. Especially because we couldn't solve the problem sets on our own, doing an exam on our own was incredibly difficult. This was one of the most brutal experiences I have ever had at Harvard. Somehow I still plan to concentrate in Statistics even after this disaster of a class (a decision that is based on the other classes I have taken in the department, which have been much, much better), but I now never want to take another class based on probability or randomness. Perhaps this class is better with Joe Blitzstein at the helm. But with Kevin Rader teaching this class, this is definitely a class you should run far, far away from. Unless you are a stat concentrator... in which case I am so, so sorry for the suffering you're about to endure.
This course is very tough, use office hours and groups to work through the psets.
It's a hard course, but once you get out of it, you definitely feel like you've learned a lot.
It is an extremely difficult course but overall worth the experience.
There's no other course like it. If you need an introduction to probability, take this. It's hard conceptually, but you'll be grateful in the end. And the work load isn't that bad.
This is a challenging class, and doing more practice problems is rewarding.
Most definitely not an easy class.
it's required for a master's degree in statistics
This class has some very interesting material, but is definitely challenging. It is not very well taught, either, so you might need to put in the extra work on your own in order to really learn the material.
This is the hardest, most rewarding class I have taken at Harvard so far. It challenged my intuitions and taught me to think about probability in a much more nuanced way. Not for the faint of heart though, it takes a lot of time -- get problem sets done early and come to office hours; expect about 15 hours a week + class time.
Stat is a good thing to learn, or so they tell me, and this class is a solid place to start if you're somewhat math-y. Not spectacular, but gets the job done. You'll learn probability, and a swath of distributions, and some basic tools to analyze them. All about the nuts and bolts.
Unless it is imperative that you take this course, don't. It is a weed out class at it's finest.
Probably best to take it when Blitzstein is teaching it.
Stat 110 is a great course. It's well set up so even though it's difficult, it's tough to fall behind if you use the support system of OHs, etc. Rader did an excellent job filling in and as a result of taking this class, I'm now concentrating in Stat.
If you like puzzles, this is a fun course.
Exams are very difficult, but homework is manageable in a collaborative setting. You certainly learn a lot, and you'll probably appreciate the skills you learn later in life, but don't expect a necessary life-changing experience in lectures and sections. It's simply a great and challenging course.
This course is a great introduction to the theory behind much of statistics, and it provides a useful way of thinking about probability. However, as a graduate student, I think I could have learned the important details by just buying Joe Blitzstein's book and/or watching his lectures on Youtube. The problem sets and exams certainly reinforce essential concepts, but if you just want a basic understanding of the ideas underlying statistics, they aren't necessary.
This is a very difficult course but the material is extremely useful in everyday life and outside the classroom. Almost anything you do in life can benefit from a background in statistics.
Definitely, definitely take this class. It's really cool to think about how distributions can be applied to daily life things, such as how often a bus stops at a bus stop. Be prepared to study for it, but it's really an enjoyable class.
Took it as freshman. If you have a math background it is not as hard as people say.
Very difficult. Make sure you go to Ryan's sections.
This is a tough class that makes you think about probability theory. If you are interested in probability theory, distributions, and other such things, take this. If you are satisfying an economics requirement, don't: take stat 104.
Take the class! You approach problems differently than any usual math class taken, which I really appreciate in this class. The psets help solidify the content, though the sometimes didn't sync with the lectures well, so you'd occasionally have problems that required concepts during Thursday's lecture, even though it's due less than 24 hours from then.
It was an informative class.
This class is ridiculously hard. You cannot get psets done outside of office hours and the tests are extremely difficult. It is very rewarding, but extremely hard.
I hated every second of this class. 
Lectures were snoozeville.
Psets were exceedingly difficult. 
Exams made people cry. 
This was probably because they assumed a level of mastery that the tf's and professor admitted they didn't have, and seemed to favor luck and brilliance over actual knowledge of the material.
I wouldn't take it unless absolutely necessary as you don't learn the applications of the math.
I really liked Stat 110! As a CS and Math concentrator, I really enjoyed the mathematical aspect of Stat 110. The problems on the homework were challenging, but they're doable and the sense of reward from solving the is great!
It's so fundamental to so many other courses + is one of the few courses that introduces a completely new way of thinking
It's difficult. Homework is impossible to do alone. Exams require a lot of studying. Brace yourself.
Great course, especially for CS concentrators (lots of concepts creep up in CS classes). Definitely expect to be challenged. However, if you're comfortable with math, you should be fine. The course really wants you to succeed. Plenty of helpful resources and TFs. Kevin is awesome and really approachable. I wouldn't recommend this to someone looking for a practical stats course. Although this has that, it focuses more on the mathy side to probability and such. I'd take Stat 104 instead if you want that. Overall, I enjoyed this course!
While this class is very difficult at times, it is nevertheless a worthwhile and engaging exploration of probability theory. With a great teaching staff and numerous office hours and sections, the class is good at providing you with the support you need. At times the problem sets did not feel as helpful for exam preparation as might be desirable, but that was not a real problem; the class is overall quite good.
If you are going to take it, definitely try to take it with friends.
One of the best courses I ever had. The topics of the course are not that hard, but problem sets make you really think about the concepts. Go to Ryan's sections/OH if he is TF next year again. He was an excellent TF and his sections / handouts helped a lot to do well in exams. This class really changed my way to think about probability. Great c
I have PTSD now
This is a very difficult course which may hurt your gpa but you will learn a lot and in the end it can be very rewarding.
I can't speak for the class with Blitzstein, but Rader did a good job filling in. Lectures often had tedious components (deriving the CLT was definitely one of them) but were engaging for the most part. Problem sets are difficult but didn't take as long as I had expected (5-10 hours/week instead of 15-20). Grading is fair, mean score is around a B+.
Not sure if this was a bad course, or if I was just always bored by it. Math was tedious, and the concepts were interesting but always tested in boring ways.
The concepts covered in the class are very intuitive, so no one should be intimidated by lack of background knowledge or experience in statistics.
Mind-numbingly hard and not that gratifying. Every week, you'd think, "The hype must be real. This must all pay off with some golden lecture that links everything," and it never really happens. Your mind will not be blown, but your Thursday nights will be.
This course teaches very useful material that is applicable to a lot of fields and will give you a strong understanding of the material through the problem sets and reviewing for exams. The exams as well as problem sets can be tough but the class is very rewarding.
Difficult class, but well worth it! Some incredibly important topics are introduced, which have relevance to any field dealing with data at all. You will need the intuitions given in this class to make effective and proper judgments with regards to data.
This is a really difficult course.  There is just so much material that you will learn and the coursework is tricky.  The homeworks take around 10 hours a week and to actually get the material, probably a few more hours.  If you are a person that is comfortable with math, this class should not be too bad but take only if your courseload isn't too bad already.
The material you learn in Stat 110 is extremely interesting and very applicable. I strongly recommend taking this class  it'll be helpful in almost any discipline and gives you the skills to look analytically at any real-world problem involving probability.

While the teaching this year left something to be desired, I still think this is an awesome class that anyone capable should take.
Wonderful course and persuaded me to concentrate in Stat.
take it, be ready to work hard, and rely on the book because it's great
It's one of the toughest courses at Harvard. Do not underestimate the amount of work, commitment, or stress this class will give you. If you can take an easier course instead, take it. If you do take it, make sure you understand the material that is taught each week--once you fall behind, it's going to be exceedingly difficult to come back. Collaborate with others.
It's a challenging course but you need to make sure you actually understand the work you get done weekly on the psets. It's important to get a lot of practice problems done before the exams because they are not easy and you need to be on your game for those.
Be prepared to work hard, with very difficult exams.
Stat 110 is a great class. For students who are interested in math and science fields, Stat 110 will be fairly easy and fun, as the problem sets don't take too long. In particular, with a good math background, Stat 110 is a light class with problems that are at times reminiscent of high school math contests.
Stat 110 will grind you. The lectures and book are fast. The content is waaay to broad to cover in one semester. But the joy of surviving it knows no bounds. The professors are great. If Joe Blitzstein's Stat 110 had pizzazz, Kevin Rader's has chutzpah, sisu (google it). In Archilochus archetypes immortalized by Isaiah Berlin, one is a hedgehog, the other a fox. Yes,  Multa novit vulpes, verum echinus unum magnum, but what about the lightness of not taking one's self too seriously? What about meta-cognition?  What about the importance of midstream-of-consciousness adjustments when one thinks the work has gone too far in any single direction? Reification leads only to quibbling. So let us dispense with these neat logical categories. The course is great. You should take it.
Heavy engagement with exceptional topics for those who enjoy Statistics.
Don't take it unless you really enjoy statistics and want to take a class that will challenge you to think in a more profound way.  However, if you are interested in stat and enjoy that kind of subject material, it is a fantastic class and READ THE BOOK.
Prepared to put in so much time and effort, but regardless if the grade is what you wanted, you definitely will take something away from this course.
Stat 110 lives up to its reputation.  It is definitely one of the hardest classes I have taken at Harvard so far, but unlike some other classes you really get back what you put into the class.  The resources are available- between the textbook, the teaching staff, and the other students in the class- that make each week's incredibly challenging PSet do-able.  If you have time in your schedule to put into this class definitely take it- it is such a satisfying and mind-stretching class.   Furthermore being with a self-selected group of students also makes this class fairly social and working on PSets a little more fun.
This was not a particularly fun course to take. The material is amazing, but the poor teaching and poor assignments made it a lot less fun than I had heard from previous students. If Blitzstein is teaching the course, take it; I was told this was a life changing course. It was not.
