This is an amazing opportunity to fill in gaps of the statistics curriculum, and learn from other students. However, do not take it unless you are a strong coder, or are ready to put in a large amount of time catching up at the beginning of the semester!
this class has no lectures, no exams, no real homework aside from presentations.  the main focus is on competing in data challenges, and there isn't much hand-holding.  if you want to test out your data science skills, it's a good course.  it's really fast-paced, and can be overwhelming at times switching from one challenge to the next.  three weeks per challenge is not that much, especially working with new people each time, new data, and (generally) totally new analytical approaches.  if you want to learn via more conventional instruction and practice, this is not the course for you.
More than most classes, you get what you put in. And if you're not willing to put in much, you'll bring your teammates down. Only take it if you're excited to learn the material.
This course has a ton of potential, but be cautious.  This first year was bumpy.  Take the course if the following issues are addressed, but don't otherwise:(1) It's a cool idea to work in groups for projects, but in practice, it fails.  Essentially, 100% of your group's final grade comes from your overall rank in the class- which means that, if you're not the one in the group who's most familiar with the algorithm required, you have no incentive to work, because your code will never be submitted anyways.  If youre the best one in the group, you have to do a TON of work, because the other two people in the group know theres no point in their working.  It would be SO much better to restructure the course so that each individual submits their own code.  This would give everyone a reason to work, but in order to keep the coursework reasonable since you can no longer split it up, youd have to do something like two iterations (instead of the current three) of three Kaggle competitions (instead of the current four) every two weeks (instead of the current one).(2) Luke seems like he'd be a really cool teacher, but the course is taught entirely by student presentations, which are pretty boring.  Also, the way material is presented is that students, who may or may not have a lot of familiarity with their given topic, giving a 10 minute presentation on a machine learning technique.  However, it would be infinitely more helpful to study 5 machine learning techniques in depth than to study 100 for 10 minutes apiece, because you really don't learn anything from the presentations.  Also, the order of presentations seems completely random and doesn't correlate with the HW.  This is particularly frustrating if you dont have background in the techniques necessary for that week.Luke also isn't great about office hours, which kind of sends a signal that he doesn't really care about teaching, though he seems like he'd be good at it.  Its it a bit odd to see how little work the class actually is for him- no teaching and no grading required, though that isnt necessarily a problem.R is the devil for machine learning, and that's what this course is about.  Luke really loosened up on this rule though, which was helpful.The results-only approach is also very frustrating because you can sometimes spend hours working on an assignment without getting an improvement.  This also means that once a group tries a certain approach and gets better than you, its the smartest strategy to look for minor ways to improve their code marginally rather than try a novel approach that could get worse results.  These issues are minor in light of the two major issues above.
Take it! If you are good at CS and are curious about stat applications and real problem-solving, this is for you! If you are good at stats and want to get more hands on time with the CS part, this is also for you!
Very fun and open ended course.
This is the ideal class for senior spring.
For now methods presentations are conducted by students, and not insightful enough.
Great new offering. Competing in public Kaggle competitions is an encouraging experience and challenges you beyond competing with your classmates. I had a background in CS but no extensive statistical knowledge. Teaming up with STAT or grad students from different fields was a great experience to share knowledge and learn from each other. The small size of the course makes the class even more intense. The lecture style (students give presentations on statistical topics to build a toolbox of all the knowledge that is needed) gives a broad overview. It also pushes you to gain an in-depth understanding of the topics you will present.
It's great for real-world application experience.
This class is very self-guided. You have to do and evaluate your own work very much on your own basis. Luke and Alex were good resources, but did not force you to discuss much with them or have check-ins. Also, there was no peer evaluations, so you can get stuck with bad partners who do not do much, but ultimately get the same grades as you.
Take it if you want to learn a lot about different fields.
This was the first year this class was taught, and understandably there were some road bumps.  The staff seems genuinely invested in the success of the students and this course, so I'm sure the second time around will go much more smoothly.
