very good for understanding important concepts in theoretical statistics
The class is hard work, the assignments are challenging, but you will learn a lot from Joe and Carl.  The tools learned in this class are absolutely essential for graduate studies in statistics.
A very challenging course but I learnt so much on the key elements of statistical inference
This is one of the statistics department's best courses. Take it when you have time for the challenge.Blitzstein and Morris are masters of the subject, and they are both both  opinionated and humorous regarding it. Considering that it is theoretical statistics, that is too good to be true. But it's true, so take the course.
A must for statistic quals
Better than 210, Carl Morris is a professor you should not miss.
Great course for those w/ serious interest in statistics.
A really unique look at inference that you can really only get in the Harvard stat department.  The theme of Bayes Frequentist unification worked really well for me and by the end, you really develop your own understanding of what this entails.  Homeworks were excellent (definitely no busy work here) and every problem was valuable.  Sections were also great for getting a deeper understanding of topics covered in class.   Just an awesome class overall.
pretty cool course; need some background in math and stat
This is a very challenging course. Without having taken Stat 210, be prepared for lots of catch-up work. I found the problem sets extremely challenging and time consuming. While I had to spend an incredible amount of time on this course, I feel like I've gained a much deeper understanding into the fundamental topics of inference that underlie the applied work I want to do. I am still not convinced that the amount of time this course required was worth it for an applied researcher, but if you are even considering doing methods work, this course will undoubtedly give you new insight. Be prepared for 20 hour weekly problem sets and learning a lot of the material on your own outside of class. After our semester, two sets of detailed "scribe notes" (student-recorded lecture notes) should be made available to you. Read those in the first week of the course and then decide if you want to stick with it.
be prepared and you will enjoy it
Very core subject material. Useful for anyone doing any statistical inference.
A nice course to summarize everything about statistics
Especially if you've taken 210, this will give you confidence in applying Statistical inference to problems in research. It provides a very good, deep understanding of the topics covered, and gives you a good foundation on which to build more specialized understandings in research.
Very difficult class, but I learned a lot.  The professors are very engaging.  Make sure you follow the textbook along with the lectures throughout the semester.
The topics are really interesting, but the teaching is so poor, if you don't have to take this course you'd be better off studying mathematical statistics on your own with a good book (another than the textbook from Davison we used in class; it's horrendous; there are several other classical good books, though).  Or wait until Carl Morris retire from teaching this course...
Excellent course to learn about statistical inference in a concrete and rigorous way. Organised and with coverage of wide material. The instructors, Prof. Blitzstein and Morris present the material in a comprehensive and enjoyable way.
You're Johnny Depp, stuck on a desert island. What would make life perfect is some quality rum: Stat 210 is that rum. Yet what good is rum without Coke? That's Stat 211: Stat 211 completes your life! Don't settle for anything less! After all, if you want *Diet* Coke, go to the Math department.
It's a well-taught course on inference with a very unconventional focus. I enjoyed the Bayesian/frequentist unification material, but the focus on NEFs and Bayesian hypothesis testing was excessive.
It's really, really hard.  Also really, really interesting.  If you're an undergrad, be prepared to put in more work and do more independent studying than you are used to.
Stat 211 is a very good class.  After taking this class I feel like I finally understand what statistics as a field is all about.  I highly recommend it.
Make enough time for this course to take it properly.
For undergraduates, this class will be a fly-by introduction to a number of central concepts in statistics. It will be very challenging if you've never taken a statistics class before. However, it is a fabulous class, so you should definitely consider taking it!
You will learn a ton, but this is not an easy class.
likely to recommend if they do not care gpa
Will totally change the way you think about statistics.  Comfort/context with applied statistics alongside the probability theory from Stat 210 is very helpful.
Start the assignments early, go to every lecture and section, spend time before exams preparing your 2 page cheatsheet, and you'll do well in this class.
This is a very tough course, but you won't find a better course on this material anywhere.
This course is really chill until the problem set comes out. And then, the subsequent week is pretty painful.
Based on my understanding, the selection of topics within this course gives a pretty solid introduction to statistical inference. Numerous concepts were taught better than they were in external texts I references.
Good course on inferential theory.
Work really hard, don't stop at the lecture materials and really ask yourself questions about what this all really means. If you're a master or phd in the stat department, I recommend taking all the classes you can *before* taking this one. Not that you can't do well otherwise, but doing well is not what matters. You can really learn *a lot* in this class if you are familiar with most of the topics, so you don't have to waste time picking up the basics, and focus on the insights and subtle points.
A great, serious introduction to statistics. Be prepared to work hard and also be rewarded.
Great class, but it can be very challenging at times.
