This is a great course to take to become a confident teacher
It is exciting and extremely useful for future TF's
At first it wasn't an enjoyable course. However, it really served its purpose: to make me a better teacher than I was when I got here.
For those who have a chance to take this course, I do not need to recommend. For those who do not, I would recommend, if possible, this course to their department chair:-)
Great course that prepares you for teaching
This is one of the best class that I've ever taken.
It's really hard to imagine how such a course can be helpful. It seems that great teachers are born that way, and that there's nothing one can do to get better at it. I think this is not true, and this class goes a long way to prove that with effort, it is possible to become a better teacher, and speaker.
easy but useful
worth taking if you are going to be tf.
To those who may teach courses in statistics.
If you're reading this, you probably have to take Stat303. But it's a fun class that you'll enjoy, so don't worry!
Have fun!
This course provides a very good practical introduction to teaching. It is a great way to make sure that TF's don't feel lost at the first section.
You will definitely learn a lot from the class and your teaching skills will largely been improved.
This class gives you an opportunity to get off to a great start as a TF.
You will learn not only how to teach, but also how to love teaching.
Just enjoy it
Helps prepare for TFing, also good for reviewing basic statistical concepts and learning to explain things to audiences who are learning the material for the first time.
Amazing training in pedagogy. If you can take it, you have to, but you would want to anyways.
it is not like a stat class but more a speech and communication class
This is a wonderful course which helps you prepare yourself to be an effective, and even popular, teaching fellow in stats.
It is a challenging course in the sense that it involves abilities that can always be improved and it can confront you with important deficiencies in your previous education and/or personality.
Unique and carefully though-out preparation for teaching statistics.
It is a great challenge to try to answer all the difficult questions that are posed during the practice sessions, but it definitely helps you understand concepts better and prepares you for real situations.
The course is mandatory, and you get what you put into it. So just go with the flow, play the game, and you'll have a pleasant and reasonably productive time
Very helpful teaching experience
This class has very useful aspects and will definitely make me more prepared for teaching.
