This class wasn't too much work, but -- accordingly -- I didn't get too much out of it.  I often felt as though I would have gotten more out of spending the equivalent number of hours at home with one of Gelman's books.
I wouldn't take this course with Gelman, I'm sure with Liu or Meng it is more difficult, but I feel I would have learned a lot more with either of these instructors as opposed to Gelman.  Gelman is an interesting and smart guy, but the focus of the course doesn't fit its purpose.
I would tell them that if they ever get a chance to take any class with Andrew Gelman that they definitely should take it!
the course material was fantastic, but if andy gelman teaches again, we need to have another prof in the room to keep him on course, potentially with a large stick or taser.
so many interesting topics and ideas it's impossible not to get something out of it
Good for grad students seeking a deeper understanding of Bayesian Statistics
If you like very very applied statistical computing, you should take this but if you are looking for some theoretical intutition, this is not taught or assumed knowledge.
A class that teaches methods that are immediately applicable to many problems which is taught well.
This is the course you should take if you want to apply statistics in this century.
connects statistics students are learning very well with actual problems.
Until Edo teaches this material in a more inspiring way (especially in lecture), I wouldn't recommend taking this course.
Amazing class - edo is great!
The class is definitely worth taking. I am aware that this was the first time Sergiy taught the class, so I am sure next time it will be better.
I would recommend this course for those interested in getting a deep knowledge of various algorithms in statistics, such as EM and MCMC. A lot of emphasis is on computing and coding and most of the time is spent writing and troubleshooting R code. The visualization component is useful, albeit not the main focus of the course. If you put your own time into the visualizations, you can learn a lot from the examples the course provides.
It's a niche class. The most accurate course title for Stat 221 is "EM and MCMC." If you want to get a  lot of exposure to modern MCMC techniques, this is your course. You won't get a great idea about how to build Bayesian models or how to assess their fit from this class. The final project is awesome, but is totally dependent on your commitment to the project, and your level of ability going into the class.
Be careful if you are not interested in visulization
This course was great, but it'll be taught very differently next time.  So there won't be cool final projects like this semester, which were the highlights of the course.
It will take a lot of time.
Definitely do the optional visualizations - I didn't and I regret it.
time consuming
The class provided a rigorous understanding of all elements of statistical modeling: problem abstraction, model design, efficient computation, validation, visualization and communication.To that end the course provided the necessary statistical theory (usually not more or less than absolutely required), practical computing applications (mainly through extremely well designed do-it-yourself homework assignments in R, and a final project) and data visualization components (both in R and interactive d3js). Another strength was an extremely committed and knowledgeable teaching staff. The class was also quite flexible, so that student input occasionally influenced what would be taught on the fly.All in all, it is clear an immense amount of work and attention has been put into designing and running this class. The outcome was of the highest quality, and benefited students of many backgrounds on multiple levels. Extremely professional work on the part of the teaching staff - not something you see every day.The fill-in-the-gaps hw concept was very useful and productive. The various assignments primarily attacked the same modeling problem throughout, while employing more advanced statistical and computing machinery from one to the next. This meant that the abstract modeling and efficient likelihood computation stages essentially had to be tackled once during the class, and afterwards one could turn all one's attention to the implementation of each new algorithm. It also provided a natural setting for comparing the pros-and-cons of each algorithm, as they were all used to address the same problem.The course does require more than most students would reasonably have time to do. However, a generous scheme of bonus points for extra work and the constructive and considerate approach of the teaching staff to late submissions meant every committed student could find the right balance and succeed.
Great course. Perfect balance of computation and visualization. Lectures were a bit dry but you'll learn a lot. Sergiy also really cares about the course and makes a concerted effort to ensure students are learning.
The content in this class is useful and interesting! This took some time, but we had really good course staff to help out.
This is an excellent class where you learn the absolute cutting edge methods in MCMC, Gibbs, HMC, etc. Is it hard? Yes. But you should be able to approach basically any statistical problem and be able to construct a model and estimate those parameters using these algorithms. It is going to be hard course, but with help from your classmates, TF and instructor, you'll gain a lot.
As an undergraduate this was the hardest class I've ever taken. Huge workload. Starts off easy, then gets insane. But you learn a lot. Instructors are passionate, though lectures aren't so engaging. Teaches you extremely useful material however, and if you're willing to struggle and spend >30 hrs on a pset, go for it. You'll learn so much. Visualization aspect is underdone but also very cool. You will become a beast at D3 and R if you put the effort
It's a great class to know about modeling and inference. I strongly recommend this class if you are familiar with probability.
Be very comfortable with R programming before taking this. Sections are helpful for tips, but nothing is a substitute for actual coding experience.
If the idea of being able to fit any model is appealing to you, take this course.  It won't be easy, but it will be incredibly beneficial to your research immediately.  Again, this will make you a better researcher. It will give you the skills you need to propose the right model for your data and then actually implement that model.
it's an extremely useful and excellently taught class, but be prepared for extreme time commitment
Provides experience coding up several useful techniques in statistical computing.
The course teaches you how to fit models using R. It is very useful for those considering doing serious research in statistics and machine learning. You learn a lot by doing the assignments. The course is definitely challenging, but rewarding.
The course material is at the forefront of modern research.Do not miss it. It requires hard work but it pays back.Edo is a great guy, do not miss the chance to talk to him about anything you have been working on or you want to work on. There is no way you will not get some useful feedback. Alex was the TF this year and it is not easy to find words to describe him. He is simply the smartest guy and the most helpful TF you will ever meet.
Edo is a wonderful lecturer -- if you want to learn how to implement models that use methods such as MCMC and EM, this is the class for you.
It is a challenging class that requires a lot of work on the assignments. But you also learn a lot from it.The content was taught with enthusiasm, and the learning experience was very positive.
Be prepared to spend many hours a week coding and debugging, but it pays off in the end.
Work as hard as possible on the problem sets, but realise that they are really hard assignments. Don't worry about your grade, just do your best and try to learn as much as possible about computational strategies in statistical inference.
This course helps you think about the statistical models in a very concrete way. By concrete, I mean you can lay out a very specific formulation for the model, build up a algorithm and then implement it by R code. It's rewarding when you find out you can replicate the results from JASA or Biometrics paper and even more, you may know how to do better than that. Dr. Airoldi is an excellent teacher.
This class is a fantastic way to learn the practical skills of statistical computing.  Over the course of the class I went from being flummoxed by Bayesian statistics to being able to fit any model I could write down.  The lectures are extremely clear and Edo is a wonderful teacher.  I can't overstate the value of this course for doing applied statistical research.  Even if you aren't a statistics student, you should be taking this class.  I am a social scientist and I found it extremely useful!
