You should never passe up an opportunity to spend time in the same room as Joe and Xiao-Li discussing deep statistical problems.
Very interesting and enjoyable. Will better inform your "big picture" understanding of the field, but probably won't help much with specific research problems you may be working on.
Topic changes every year but the quality of the discussions is always high. This course pushes you to grasp the thinking of the greatest minds in statistics. Trace how they developed their ideas and hear some great thoughts and reflections from other students.
This series seminars is a unique opportunity to read and discuss classic, foundational papers in our field with world-renowned researchers. I urge you to take advantage of it while you're a graduate student.
The Tuesday night reading courses in the statistics department are amazing! Come for good food, good discussion, and good thoughts. There is always more Yenching...
These reading courses are always fun and worth taking.
You should have at least Stat 210 and 211 and perhaps also 220. No matter who the subject of the course is, the topics covered in this course are often subtle require these foundations to explore thoroughly.
This has been one of my favorite classes as a graduate student in the department for a variety of reasons. Firstly, it gave me a chance to hear how two extremely deep thinkers (Xiao-Li and Joe) reason Statistically. Listening to the questions they ask and the way they interpret potentially ambiguous or difficult subject matter provided a learning experience very complementary to solving a deluge of textbook problems. Secondly, the subject matter touched upon some extremely deep concepts in Statistics and by debating and discussing such issues, I was able to get a better sense of them (Issues like: "What are the distinctions between the decision theoretic, frequentist, and Bayesian Statistics? What should one condition on? What role does geometry play in Statistical theory? Does conditioning on a parameter necessarily make one a Bayesian?) Finally, having a free meal was icing on the cake! Highly recommended to any graduate student who wants to gain a deeper understanding of the literature, and complement core knowledge received in Stat 210 and Stat 211.
It is hard to follow if you don't have adequate statistical knowledge.
The "Reading X" series is now a tradition. Grad students should attend at least one. Papers are interesting, discussions are sometimes lively and interesting, and there is food!
Enjoyable, may not be the most useful for research.
Like I said above, you get from this course as much as you put into it. Make sure you have a solid background in stats (210, 211, 220) before taking it, otherwise you won't get anything out of it.
