I found the course to be a good overview of multi-level modeling. I also appreciated that the instructor made an effort to link this with other statistical techniques for addressing multi-level data (e.g. clustering standard errors).
It's really tough, but the teaching staff is great and very helpful
This class had interesting material but was not well organized. The assignments varied greatly in their difficulty, and the grading was very incosistent
Good introduction to multilevel modeling. Expecting it to get better with time.
Being the first year of the class, it was not very well structured; however, the instructors are open and responsive to student feedback. Therefore, I think they will change the course drastically for next year, hopefully for the better. If you are interested in the course content, give it a shot!
Professor Miratrix and the teaching staff really care about helping you really learn the material--while there are definitely small things to iron out, overall the course is really great. The concepts themselves are cool, the assignments really help you understand the material, the project-based aspect is great, and the class has so much supplementary material that really helps! Take this class if you want a relatively easy workload while substantially learning some new material!
The material for this course is really interesting and generally presented well. However, since it was in its first year, it sometimes felt disorganized. Assignments were generally manageable and helpful in learning the material from lecture.
I think that some of the organizational/logistical mishaps from this year were due to this being the class's first year, but I think that the class content itself is very helpful, and it was clear that Professor Miratrix and the teaching staff really cared about the students.
A great introduction to hierarchical modeling.
I think the educational focus of this class is very interesting; however, there are definite improvements that can be made to the quality of lecture and the organizational aspects of the course.
An excellent class in multilevel modelling and one of the few in the university to cover the material in R. Taught with a pragmatic focus on being able to apply MLM techniques for research. Like many quantitative methods classes, challenging at the beginning but provides excellent opportunity to develop a practical understanding of MLM techniques. Useful to have done a course that covers GLMs before doing (but not essential).
Stat 151 was the worst stat class I have taken at Harvard, and as a stat concentrator, I've taken many of them. Prof. Miratrix tried hard but the class just didn't come together for me. The assignments for the most part were lengthy with ambiguous questions, and I didn't feel that they were worthwhile. Despite Prof. Miratrix's efforts in gaining feedback from the students during the course, I still felt dissatisfied with the course overall. I hope it will improve in future years, as I believe the material to be very important, albeit not much new information.
This course is time consuming.
This course is rewarding, but also a great deal of work. Someone who has little programming experience should be prepared to spend quite a bit of time learning R, particularly in the beginning of the course.
Things were a bit disorganized since it was the first iteration of this course ever taught. It seems like there were just too many people of too many backgrounds in the class, so it was hard for Luke to teach to everyone. Some people would be hopelessly lost and others would be bored by how easy the material was. If things improve, this might be worth taking.
This course was a rocky experiment because it was being offered for the first time. The material is interesting, and I suspect future administrations of this course will improve. This time, assignments were inconsistent in difficulty and scope. However, as a college student, it was a good experience working with students from the Graduate School of Education and the Chan School of Public Health.
This course is not organized at all. Do not recommend it unless you have no other options.
