CS109 is a really interesting class - the professors are really smart and the concepts are very cool. However, the lectures aren't that helpful in teaching the material and the PSETs are not as engaging as they could be. I felt like I went into the class with higher expectations of the return I would get on my time in the class but was a little disappointed. I learned python, I learned some concepts but I don't know how great of a data scientist I am, even after this class.
Until the syllabus is less packed, don't waste your time on this course. You're better off doing something more specific like machine learning or visualizations. This course barely scratches the surface of each topic and you leave only knowing these things exist but now how exactly they apply.
I learned a lot about coding in Python, but didn't feel that I really got better at data science. There is a bit too much hand holding through the problem sets, which are generally pretty easy.
This is a really great, well-rounded course. It's fun and asks you to do a lot of things, like program, understand statistics, and communicate.
Be prepared for a very steep learning curve at the beginning if you don't have much Python programming background.
This is 'survey' course of all the different components of data science. If you want a general exposure to all the different accepts, this is a good course.
This class covers a TON of material related to the field of data science. Basic statistics, data visualization principles, storytelling techniques, and machine learning algorithms are all covered. As a result, however, none of the topics are really covered that in-depth, and it is possible to get by without really understanding some of the material. I would recommend this class to anyone who knows they are interested in this stuff. Also know that, while this class still has it's kinks, it has been steadily improving from year to year and the staff seems to truly care.
This class is low stress in the sense that it's only problem sets and final project, but definitely start these early because they are by no means easy. I also would highly recommend taking the class with a squad of people, because it's so easy to get stuck on the problems sets. Lecture and section are pointless, the class is mostly you sitting with your computer googling and copy and pasting python code. But definitely forces you to learn a lot, as someone who isn't a huge coder I had a positive experience.
Be prepared to work a lot, and be frustrated, but to learn a lot as well.
This class is a lot of work and tries to cover more material than it realistically should, but you will learn a lot of useful skills. This was definitely the most useful statistics course I took as a student at Harvard.
It's really hard but worth it. A great class if you're interested in data work. I loved it. They need more office hours, so hopefully they'll increase the teaching staff (like 8 people for 400 students? Really?). They're apparently making changes to the psets that will make it easier to check your work, that would've been nice. Overall it was an awesome class and I'd recommend it!
Although the psets were long, I thought they were very manageable if you started early on them!
This class is worth taking if you have an interest in data science, a desire to learn python, and the motivation to devote a lot of time to this course.
Having only taken CS50 and CS171, this was a great next step and definitely a great way to gain skills that I wanted to learn (data scraping, cleaning, using APIs etc.) The psets are immaculate and you're really challenged to understand the progression of a very thorough analysis (rather than do it all from scratch) that gives good insight into the capabilities of what you're working with. One of the best classes I've taken and I really enjoyed the psets and project.
The sheer amount of information you cover in this course is incredible. Regardless of you're level when you start, you'll finish the course with enough knowledge to work as a competent entry-level data scientist. That being said, it's nearly impossible to retain even a significant fraction of the material presented. Section is only one hour each week, which isn't nearly enough time to cover all of the material in the labs. The problem sets are long and can be difficult, but the amount that you accomplish by the end is generally rewarding. Overall, I'm glad I took this course and would certainly recommend it to anyone interested in data science.
I recommend this class despite some flaws. This will teach you to use python for data analytics, and will give you a nice practical introduction to data gathering, visualization, and machine learning. The class is very focused on how to put the ideas into practice, which is very nice.
If you know how to code decently well, you'll be able to take the course. However, it is very easy to take the course, do well, and not learn a whole lot because much of the code is provided to you. To really learn the material requires a very substantial commitment, in terms of going to lecture and doing all the labs. Indeed, the course will be a substantial time commitment no matter what, since the problem sets take a long time. But if you space them out well over the two weeks (psets are biweekly), you shouldn't spend more than around 12 hours per week maximum, and it isn't hard to get good grades!
If you don't know Python, don't take this class. This class doesn't teach you Python. You should be able to use Pandas very well before taking this class. Also, some psets take you a long time. You should start a week before it's due if you want to get a good grade on it because you might get stuck or you have to do the writeup yourself. The project should be started in advance; it's 50% of you grade and you have a lot of stuff you need to do for it. It's very practical and can be used in any data science role.
This class is very time-consuming, tough, and sometimes frustrating. But it gives you an amazing introduction to data science.
This material in this class is interesting, but not taught very well.  You really have to force yourself to engage with it in order to learn anything.  Sometimes you feel really accomplished when looking at your completed psets, but the unguided struggle to get their doesn't quite make up for it.  This class could certainly do for an overhaul, which would then make it much better.  It has so much potential to be a phenomenal class, but really isn't quite there yet.  Also, be careful taking this class if you have little programming experience.  It is very programming heavy, in python, so if you have not been exposed to this, it will be a steep learning curve without much assistance.
This course is a lot of work -- long problem sets. The material is very interesting and is a great overview of Data Science topics. The lectures could definitely be improved and the continuity in the course could be enhanced. Lectures were not necessary to complete the homeworks. Labs were very helpful and previous homework assignments also helped. Start the project early.
There was a disconnect between the lectures, sections, and homework. It seemed as though a theoretical understanding of the material was not necessary to perform well on the homework, so often there was little to no incentive to go to lecture or engage with the statistical foundations of the methods we implemented. That said, the course assignments were helpful in allowing you to do real things with data - I leave the course with a much better understanding of how to perform data analysis in Python.
Great class! Super applicable and if you put in the work (which will be A LOT), you leave with a really rich set of knowledge and tools related to data science!
This course sounds like it should be very good based on its premise, but I was very disappointed. After spending an entire semester "learning" data science and earning a very good grade, I can't tell you a single thing I learned. The lectures probably taught interesting material, but they were so unnecessary to the problem sets that I don't know any undergraduates who were attending by the second half of the semester. The sections were mandatory, yet the TFs only read aloud material that we had access to on our own. The problem sets didn't take too long, but I also don't feel like I learned much from doing them because you didn't need to do much thinking to fill in the missing sections of code. The final project wasn't too bad, but the expectations were very unclear. The course staff was pretty disorganized and kept having technical issues from things like sectioning to grading. Overall this is a pretty easy course and most people can do quite well in it, but unless they do some major overhaul, don't expect to get too much out of it.
This course is good introduction to both python and data science generally. It provides a basic overview of various methods used in data science, but you will not come away from the course feeling like you could implement many of these methods yourself. You will feel very confident coding in python however.
This is a good introduction to data science.  It really helps if you have programmed in Python before.  The labs and sections are good preparation for the HWs but I did not find the lectures to be a good use of my time.
Great basic overview of how to work with data and incredibly useful for future job application. Can learn Python throughout the course, but definitely need to be comfortable with another language or programming concepts first. Lectures seemed pretty fluffy, but labs and psets do a great job walking you through the process of examining data and explaining why you're doing each step. Definitely leave yourself at least 20 hours to do the psets.
Youll learn the different processes of a data scientist but outside the project youll work on really narrow questions and wont really build anything from scratch. This course is more about teaching you the different existing methods than providing you the mindsets to build one from scratch.
it's a fun course. not too much work except for the bi-weekly panic sessions of, "holy crap this pset is due tomorrow and i have no idea where to even begin." interesting stuff too, and i really do enjoy coding in python. thought it was pretty manageable if you have a decent CS background. watch out for the final project & getting saddled with a useless TF.
It's always difficult to teach coding in a classroom. You learn by doing, and you have to make a lot of time for it. The assignments take forever -- the wording is confusing and there are lots of different ways to interpret the questions. The final project is a pain, especially the documentation part. It's all about having something presentable and pretty at the end and yet we don't receive any useful or helpful feedback.
Do not take this class!
I was really interested in data science when I took the class and wanted to learn some python, so in that since the class was useful, but goodness gracious the organization of this class was poor. Problem sets were all over the place and completely disregarding lectures to spend time swimming through the mess that was a problem set was definitely the way to go. For scientists, the instructors (or whoever wrote the problem sets) just had no grasp of what it meant to have clear instructions. They had their conception of what the answer should look like but did a very poor job of guiding us toward that with the framing of the question and examples. On Piazzas, TFs frequently sounded clueless despite their best efforts and that was discouraging. Take the class only if you really are interested in the material since the pain is not worth it otherwise.
Take it if you want to get a survey in data science. It is not rigorous at all, but a good hands-on class the exposes you to many techniques.
meh
For a sophomore or junior looking to fill a concentration requirement whike getting solid data analysis, python skills, it's great!
This class is essentially a glorified python tutorial. The psets suck if you start them the day before (like me!!!) but they're honestly not that difficult, particularly if you know python (unlike me), and they were every two weeks. My roommates also frequently forgot I was in this class because lecture is pointless and so all you really have to do is do a pset every two weeks.
This class could be better organized, but the material is very relevant and important especially in a time where big data is so prominent.
Hard to follow lectures, though the problem sets can be fun and useful
It's very broad...I learned about lots of topics, but I'm not sure how to apply them to many other types of problems.
I think this class has a ton of potential. The field of data science is incredibly interesting, and it is definitely becoming more and more relevant. This class, however, struggles to capture much of the excitement in data science. I'd  love to see more engaging lectures that talked about some of the awesome things data scientists do and how it affects industry, as well as some awesome case studies of how algorithms have been used. Additionally, the class doesn't go into the math behind machine learning algorithms, which I think is really important if we want to be applying them in this class. The psets can be tedious, and it feels like we're just playing around with Python pacakges until things work. I'd love to see a better framework developed for how we should approach difficult problems.
Prefer forming teams with other non-extension students.
There is nor reason this should be a class. It has zero content.
This is a good course to get to know some python and how to use it to implement statistical and machine learning methods. You also get a good exposure to several topics (bayesian statistics, regression, map-reduce, clustering, SVM, random forests) but they are not covered very deeply. 

It is a good course if you want to get a taste of different things to see which courses you want to take afterwards. If you want to get a deeper understanding of the topics, the course is definitely not enough.
A great idea for a course, but the execution was botched. Lectures were snoozeworthy. Assignments (except for assignment 5) were poorly written and confusing, which means I spent hours combing through documentation and didn't really learn anything. The course itself wasn't that hard. Not CS-y enough for the CS people, not Stat-y enough for the Stat people.
All the lectures were done as powerpoints and hard to pay attention to. The first four problem sets were quite confusing, especially the fourth. The amount of confusion and questions on Piazza speaks to that fact. I didn't really get as much as I wanted out of this course.
Sure, take this course but ONLY if Irizarry is gone. He might be the single worst professor at Harvard.
This course was interesting, and it taught me some useful data science skills that I think I could apply to real projects. However, lecture was not very helpful.
You will learn a lot of good skills for data mining and analysis, but you will pay with much more time any one class should reasonably take from your semester
Recommended to CS major students for introduction to statistical analysis
This class is nascent and unrefined - it shows us a variety of statistical methods rather than helping us learn when and how to use them.
Very time consuming problem sets that aren't necessarily hard.  Very interesting course material.
Great practice working with data. But you can easily learn all the material yourself.
Finally, a class on data science. While the size can get annoying, it's still a unique opportunity to learn about a field that's becoming increasingly important.
This class was very interesting and provided a broad overview of data science.
anything done in this class can be learned in 15 minutes by reading the f'in manual.
Terrible Class. Lectures are unfollowable and PSets are pointless.
I took this class without having taken CS50, so don't be intimidated by the requirement. I just knew a little bit of R and did very well in the class. You need to be willing to devote many hours to fixing bugs in your code, but the coding expected of you is really not that hard to learn. As for the Statistics... again, I feel Stat110 is more than you need. Most of what you need to know Joe will probably cover, and the problem sets spoon-feed you most of the statistics anyway. The key is really the final project where a lot of people tanked on the statistics requirement so make sure you get a partner who knows what they're doing if you feel shaky on the theory. I thought it was a fun class! I also took it with all my friends.
There is a lot of potential for a course like this to be great, particularly with a professor like Blitzstein. Unfortunately, it fell short. The problem was that they didn't really teach anything. Sure, we would hear about a lot of data science and bayesian techniques in class, but we were taught neither the math behind them nor how to actually use them. The psets consist of making histograms in ipython and filling one-liners into prewritten functions. I can't think of a single thing that I actually learned.
Great intro to data science for those truly interested. Takes a ton of work to get through but it's a VERY rewarding experience. Be warned though, there is a lot of programming and having taken stat 110 is a must. If you're up for a challenge or are interested in data science, it's a really worthwhile experience.
Do not take this class unless you have had some programming experience above CS50. The stats portions of the class were not particularly difficult, you should get by if you did really well in Stat 104. Labs and lectures were not useful to finishing the PSETs. Some of the TFs did not seem to know what was going on in the class; one of the TFs had the wrong answer when I went to his/her office hour and wasted about an hour of my time. Note that the project is worth 50% of your grade, which means that you do not have to do that well on the psets. Hopefully the class will be better run in future years, but as it is, you have to be fairly self-reliant in order to do well in this class.
It was the first time, so I imagine the instructors are still working out the kinks, but the logistical mishaps and inefficiencies made the experience extremely unpleasant and outweighed the benefit I think I derived from the data science practice.
This class goes through many useful concepts and models at an extremely shallow level. The homework is, in principle, very interesting but in practice holds your hand through anything requiring conceptual or deep thinking. You end up spending way more time configuring dumb packages or doing random visualizations than thinking about the Data Science process. All that said, the upsides are learning Python and the project, both of which will probably be very useful going forward.
I would say that it's a cool class - the homework assignments are definitely cool.  It's not that time-intensive either, but it's not the most inspiring class.  It's basically structured exploration rather than an experience through which you learn something from a teacher.  You don't learn much math, but you do learn how to use packages without knowing what's going on under the hood.
It's a very good class but the assignments really walk you through too much so you don't always come away having learned a lot. The grading scale is also quite subjective and being out of 4 points can easily mess your entire grade up, especially with the final project
I would not recommend this class in its current state. The course material is very interesting, so with a lot of work this could be a useful course.  Unfortunately, this semester it was disorganized, poorly structured, poorly taught, and incredibly time-consuming.
I can see the course being really hard if you don't have any programming background--I had CS50 and the psets were quite time-consuming. When you consider that the class doesn't have mandatory section though, it's not too much work. The course was a really good way for me to learn the basics of Python (I had no experience with it) and the project was fun!
The class gives you an opportunity to delve into interesting topics, while also letting you figure out the programming along the way. If you're not comfortable with Python and are also not interested in putting in the time, then this course is not for you.
Take this class if you would like to know how to do cool things with data and how to program in Python.  This is more of a CS class than a Statistics class, and the lectures were not very exciting, but the problem sets were actually quite enjoyable.
come ready to work.  the psets are no joke.
In many ways this class was a lot of fun; I learned how to scrape and clean data and some important methods of analyzing and visualizing data. I took the class primarily to learn statistics, but I feel I learned more computer science methods than anything else. Lectures aren't always very engaging, but the problem sets are interesting and involve very interesting analyses.
Interesting problem sets, but lectures try to cover so much you end up learning very little from them
Tons of work, learned a lot of really usable methods.
Since I already had experience with Python, I found the problem sets pretty interesting and not tedious but many people had varying experiences. That being said, the lectures were almost entirely non-essential for success on the psets and the lack of a midterm or any component other than the psets made it so class became even more useless to me. I did find the things I learned very useful but knowing Blitzstein I think future offerings of the class will continue to improve.
This class was hugely time-consuming and very challenging, especially since I had limited experience in coding in Python, but ultimately extremely rewarding. The skills I learned using Python, including using matplotlib, scipy, gephi, networkx, and other tools will definitely come in handy as I work with data as a biological researcher.
This is a big survey class. Fairly unorganized on the first iteration, but I'll write that off to it being the first iteration. You learn a wide array of things, but because this is such an organic topic, you could very much learn the same through online tutorials. Surf datatau.com for a month and you'll probably build out a library of resources better than this class.
be prepared to spend lots of time on the problem sets
Data science is really cool, but this course hasn't really figured out the lectures yet.
The amount of work is not outweighed by the amount learned.
This is a great survey course to Data Science. It's a good introduction, but it will not go into much depth.
Poor organization. Final project is weighted too highly
