Stat 210 is a great class! As advertised, the class is a continuation of Stat 110 on a more theoretical level. The ideas covered are quite manageable and understandable, and slightly easier than say, a theoretical mathematics course. Blitzstein is a great professor, and his lectures are engaging and interesting.
You don't need STAT110 or STAT111 (I never took any probability course before). It will be helpful if you took them. Some mathematical analysis will be nice, but I didn't take that before and I could do well in the course.
This class is extremely interesting for anyone that enjoyed Stat 110. Despite its difficulty, it still ends up being a pretty good experience.
This is a class in which you learn beautiful results in Probability. You'll enjoy it greatly if you have a good background in Probability and Analysis. If you don't have such a background, you might need to work hard and will enjoy it in the end.
This is a great class if you liked Stat 110.
Learn to reason by representation rigorously!  Simple answers to hard questions!
Take this course if you want a strong understanding of probability! This course is really difficult, prepare to spend more time in this course than any other course, but you'll come out feeling a lot stronger in probability.  Having taken multiple statistics courses before, I learned more from this course than any of my prior classes.
This was a great class. It was challenging, yes, but the problem sets don't take up too much time and really make you think. You're not a statistician until you fully cover the material in this class
This course is amazing.  It isn;t easy, but you will learn a lot.  Blitzstein is awesome.
I would recommend this course to everybody who enjoyed taking Stat 110. I really liked Stat 110 during my sophomore year, but I found Stat 210 even more enjoyable because while in Stat 110 you learn about some cool results in probability (for example the central limit theorem), after taking Stat 210 you feel quite amazed that these results are actually true.
Stat 210 is difficult but very rewarding.  The material is interesting, the lectures are fantastic, and the course materials are well-constructed.  Be prepared to work hard, but it is worth the effort!
It'll be difficult, but worth it if you really enjoyed Stat 110.  Be prepared to take a proof based approach (zero problems you solved in 110 really) on the material you did before.
Good course. Blitzstein is weird with his acronyms, but some of the stuff is actually useful. Definitely more formal version of Stat 110, and that helps. Reasoning by representation is very important.
Overall, Stat 210 is a phenomenal course, and Joe has a keen awareness of what is pedagogically important in the teaching of statistics and probability. However, be advised that this course should not be underestimated. There is an ENORMOUS amount of material that is covered (even for people who are very familiar with probability), and as an undergrad, it was difficult to find the necessary amount of time to devote to this course. Additionally, because the problem sets are fairly easily graded (and not too difficult), it is easy to underestimate your preparation for the exams, so be sure to study adequately and do practice problems. Nevertheless, the teaching is superb, the material is fantastic, and this is a great course to take.
Definitely worth taking if you envision a statistics major. Joe is a very good lecturer and the support book is just amazing. Problem sets are doable provided you are familiar with a few tricks. For those who may be concerned with measure theory, be reassured. All the technicalities are avoided.
This is a challenging course but worth taking.
Beware of how difficult this course is!  Unless you have a solid background in analysis and in probability at the undergraduate level, this class is likely to be quite the struggle.
As good as probability gets. If you are an undergrad who took stat 110 and loved it and are considering stat 210, then I would say go for it but know that stat 210 requires a very strong math background and that there's considerably less supplementary materials to practice with and support outside of class in general. But the homeworks are doable and not as time consuming as I expected they would be. Blitzstein tries to make this class as accessible as possible giving the difficulty of the material.
This class is very difficult, not necessarily in terms of workload but in terms of the material that you are covering. Blitzstein will challenge your comprehension of the material beyond a surface level but does an excellent teaching job. He makes very complicated material very relatable and teaches it in a more intuitive way than other professors.
Statistics 210 opened my eyes to a new way of looking at and representing randomness. It allowed me to think more clearly about distributions and how they relate to one another, and how to solve real problems with them.
I think if you mastered Stat 110 concepts and have a solid foundation in math, this is a very natural class for you to take. Joe does a great job at teaching this class and the TFs (at least Espen and DingDong) are a huge plus to the class. Beware that the class can get very theoretical and will not be as practical as Stat 110 was.
Blitzstein is a master of pedagogy--he puts great thought into conveying the most intuitive reasoning behind proofs. This is a great class for better understanding probability.
Great class, more different in flavor to Stat 110 than I expected: lots of proofs, measure theory/analysis, etc. Beautiful material but not too applicable. Only take if you like math.
It's not very hard, but it also felt like a course in probability problems that have clever solutions. It would have been nice and useful to have more problems that didn't have simple tricks to solve them, though probably less enjoyable.
This is an amazing class. If you love probability you should definitely take this class. Stat 110 teaches you how to use probability, but this class teachers you how to understand why you can do it all. The problem sets and exams are tricky but not ridiculous.
This is a perfect course.  Not too much work, 4-5 problems per week.  Lectures and the textbook are both astoundingly clear.  You also learn a lot of material.  What's not to love.
Take it if you need deeper understanding of the probility theory
Rigorous course in probability, very very challenging but you learn a lot!
Take other courses without weekly problem sets.Take other courses that conflict with professor Blitzstein's office hours --a group session that cannot be made up at another time.
challenging and interesting course
You should be prepared to work hard but you will learn a lot and the instructors are very good.
Be very prepared for a difficult semester
It's an essential course to understanding higher level probability theory and its applications. Blitzstein is an awesome professor.
It's a rough ride at times, but you leave with a much deeper understanding of probability than Stat 110.
On Day One, Blitzstein will try to convince you that you absolutely must take stat 110 before taking this class, and that math 55 without stat 110 is not sufficient background, for 55*2 = 110. This is not true. Generally, if you're an undergrad looking to take stat 210, you are probably pretty smart, and you'll be able to handle this course. Of course, stat 110 might be helpful to get an intuition about the different distributions because 210 abstracts that all away (it's like when you take a more advanced class on electricity and magnetism, magnets aren't even mentioned).Anyways, I did not like this class much. The textbook (written by the instructors) was not helpful (no index! proofs of propositions and theorems are very often left as exercises to the reader!), and unfortunately, neither was class. Both Morris and Blitstein talk way too slowly to the extent that normally they just introduce theorems in class and don't prove them. This is basically a math class--bad form. Also I am not a fan of all the ludicrous acronyms in this class. Why do we need an acronym for adding zero or multiplying by one (AZMO)? Why is that even necessary? It takes away from the level of this class and tries to drag it down to the crowd-pleasing level of 110.
If you like challenges, go for it and you will learn a lot!!
I think this course is definitely worth taking, just because probability theory actually has so many applications. As a mathematics concentrator, I don't think it's quite as interesting as most of the pure mathematics courses, but it presents a different perspective on things, and is legitimately useful material.
Be ready for devoting time into this challenging course
This course provided a strong introduction to probability, while still explaining details clearly and rigorously. The theory was surprisingly beautiful, and filled with short, sweet proofs. I recommend it as a class for people who enjoyed math team like activities in high school and for math concentrators interested in statistics.
it's a good course to take and you learn a lot, but it is difficult.
Pretty straightforward and fun class. The lectures did not add too much, as they were practically sections of lectures. The material was really fun and engaging, and the professors introduced them well.But to be honest, the section leaders were the best part about the class. Both Yang and Peng were very helpful, and the materials they presented during section were very well put together. Blitz also has very large cards.
I am an undergraduate; I have done well in both Math 25 sequence and Stat 110, but this course was really hard for me, mostly because I did not manage to put in enough time into it. Be prepared to work very hard consistently throughout the semester, even if you have the necessary background
This is an awesome class! If you loved Stat 110, take this class!
Take this class if you enjoy working on interesting problems. However, don't take this class if you expect it to prepare you to conduct research in the field of statistics.
How easy this course will be for you will correlate strongly with your mathematical maturity.
Joe is an awesome teacher. He will be on sabbatical in 2014-2015, so the class could be very different without him.
This class is difficult but manageable. If you took Stat 110, you can know what to expect. This class is more proof-based than 110, but the book is a great resource which helps you understand the important theorems. There are some key ideas you have to understand, and then Joe and Carl come up with really challenging problems to make you think. Definitely takes more time than 110, but if you enjoy it that shouldn't be a problem! I understand Joe is going on sabbatical next year. If Carl Morris is still teaching, then you should still take it. He has a different style from Joe, but he is also a good professor with great ideas. You should know that it is very theoretical. If proving the Central Limit Theorem, convergence in probability, etc. sounds good to you, then you should take this class. As Joe said (I think quoting someone else) one day, "It's better to know 5 ways to prove one thing than to know 5 different things." If that sounds like nonsense to you, then don't take the class. If that sounds good, then take it!
Stat 210 is a hard course - challenging, fulfilling and of course in amplified respects to Stat 110. It's like looking at the night sky from a distance and then taking a rocket out to see it up close. Take this class with friends, you will learn a lot more by having people to mull over concepts with. Also, please do take analysis before this class - analysis is not the focus of the course, but I think I would have gained a lot more from the course and have done better (don't get me wrong - I learned tons as it was and I'm somewhat glad I did take the course before both Professors this year went on sabbatical) had I taken real analysis before - that way I would have been able to spend much more time focusing on the probability rather than getting bogged down in details related to analysis.
This course is challenging but rewarding.
Expect to put in a lot of work for this class. The grading is also very rough and unless you are PhD student in statistics or willing to put in a lot of effort an A is probably not guaranteed. The first part of the class is slightly better then the second. Although this semester might have been an exception (e.g hurricane messing up class schedules) it seems like not enough time was spent on some latter, essential material - Central limits & martingales.
Stat 210 is a solid course.  It is well-taught and organized, although not quite as polished as stat 110.  Take it if you want a deeper and more mathematical treatment of probability.
The class seems a lot like a math class - but it's really fun. Many of the examples are very fun to work through, and I feel I learned a lot overall.
Don't be fooled by previous comments in course evaluations!! This class is not difficult at all!!!! I'm a (Systems-) Biology student and I still enjoyed it a lot~~ By the way, their homemade textbook is invaluable. It's beyond words how beautifully it was crafted!!
Professor Blitzstein is an amazing teacher, and Professor Morris is good too.  The exams can be tough, but the course is definitely manageable if you put your mind to it and get a good group to go over homework with. So many parts of the material-especially reasoning by representation, which is just using simple math tricks to avoid having to deal with ugly densities-are awesome and worthwhile. The level of rigor in the arguments changes a lot between lectures and concepts, but in general this is a great class!
I'd highly recommend this course to undergrads interested in learning more about grad-level probability. Be prepared to spend a lot of time on new concepts in probability, and still not doing very well on exams. Also, you really need to have taken Stat 110 first -- even if you have a strong math background and don't think this statement applies to you. It does.
a new idea of probability
Enjoy it!
This class is very, very difficult. You will have to work in groups to complete the problem sets. However, you learn a lot, and you will feel a great sense of accomplishment in the end.
It teaches a fundamentally powerful way of thinking that leads to good intuition for probabilistic modeling.
Be prepared to cover material largely more mathematical in nature in comparison to Statistics 110.  Basic analysis would be stongly recommended.
Difficulty is very high
You should have enough background before enrolling in the class.
Disclaimer: The class is way more probability than statistics.The good stuff: The material is very well thought out (using representation to reason about problems, rather than messy integrals). Problem sets are good (the right level of difficulty) - make sure to start early though. Exams can be tricky, but fair; your best bet is to do lots of practice problems.The bad stuff: Lectures are confusing and not very useful. Blitzstein spends a lot of time on explaining the intuition and doing fun things like giving several derivations for the normal moments (which isn't bad in itself), but then he rushes over the more challenging and crucial concepts, while at the same time pretending that the exposition should have been clear. Very, very frustrating. Also, the class dynamic was really weird. Some students would laugh like at the smallest hint of a joke, others would ask completely irrelevant questions. This only contributed to making the lectures less focused and useful. Which is too bad -- because I legitimately think that the rest of the course was outstanding.
If you are a graduate student from another department who has never taken probability, TAKE STAT 110 FIRST. If you are an undergraduate who has not taken Stat 110, TAKE STAT 110 FIRST. If you think you can ignore this because you're good at math/CS/physics, you are wrong a.s. Go to the Stat 110 website and download HW 7 to 11. If you cannot do the problems, TAKE STAT 110 FIRST.If you HAVE taken Stat 110 and you want more, this class is the perfect sequel and I can't recommend it highly enough. Just make sure you have the time for it (~40% more than 110), and you WILL love it and learn a ton.
This will be a demanding course. You'll learn a lot. If you are missing any of the required or recommended background material, be prepared to work very hard, and don't expect to do well in the course.
You MUST do all of the pencil problems and practice problems each week from the given chapter, contemplate those problems, think of extensions and how those results fit in to the theory...this rigorous approach is necessary to develop the intuition required by the exams.  Given you're willing to work, this course will be a very fulfilling and enriching experience.
great fun!
If you do well in Stat 110, and you loved Joe, take Stat 210 with him again! One other preparation I strongly recommend is a prior course in real analysis. Math 23 will probably do, but Math 25, 55, or 112 are better. No prior background in measure theory (Math 114 or 212) is necessary, but you have to be comfortable thinking of things in terms of epsilons an deltas. Caution: The analysis topics in the first half (continuity of probability, bounded/monotone/dominated convergence) are very important for the second half, so put more time on those since they are harder to understand than other topics. My favorite topic is reasoning by representation, it is just an elegant way to simplify complicated calculus problems to algebra. CAUTION: My feeling is that second half is much harder than the first half. So make sure you are comfortable with the topics in the first half or you might not want to take this course.
Beware! Only if you are interested in getting deeper with probabilityand/or interested to see Joe teaching it.
The course covers probability theory well.  It is tough -- be prepared to work hard -- but you will learn a lot from class and problem sets.  Prof Blitzstein's lectures are good.However, the course is marred a bit by his arrogance.  While Prof Blitzstein is a good lecturer, if you don't understand something the first time, he does a poor job of explaining the steps he is doing in his head, even when asked for more detail.  This same criticism carries over to the course materials, which were weak -- the book skips too many steps in its explanations, so if you don't understand something don't expect it to be of too much value.  I found that those shortcomings made some of the course material more difficult than it actually should have been.
This is a very difficult class that demands a lot of time
Amazing class, but only if you have the background for it. Do NOT take this course if you have not taken Stat 110 or an equivalent undergraduate probability course.
The class is not work the time and effort sacrificed. If you do take this course, make sure you have done an extensive review of your real analysis and find a solid group of people to work with.
This class will give you a great understanding of probability - not just what is on the surface but the foundational principles behind what you would learn in Stat 110. However, the problems are pretty advanced and one should only approach this class with a substantive experience in other advanced math classes. Joe is awesome!
You have not lived until you have taken this class. This class is amazing in so many ways and teaches you so much - Professor Blizstein and the TFs are accessible, the problems are masterfully crafted, and the textbook is a perfect complement to the course.
it will take a lot of work and will be frustrating at times, especially since studying the material does not correlate with how well you perform.
Only take this if you want to do a lot of work...
While this course is very theoretical, the applications are widespread. It will help you understand probability at a new level and change the way you approach problems. However, it is the opposite of spoonfed and can be incredibly frustrating. Only take this course if you are a grad student or have an enormous amount of time to dedicate to one course.
This will take some work, especially if you haven't taken stat 110. It is very cool though, and very well presented.
I'm a student in the econ phd program and I have little background in probability - not recommended to people who are similar to me. The level of the course was so above me that I learned close to nothing.
Probably one of the hardest classes you'll ever take, but it'll be worth it.  I feel like I learned a ton not just about statistics, but about how to learn difficult material and how to "read aggressively."
Possibly the hardest class you'll take at Harvard (by a long shot). You'll be in a class filled with high-achieving Mathematics/Statistics/Applied Math concentrators/graduate students, and will listen to an absolutely ingenious professor (Blitzstein) lecture about sigma-algebas, reasoning by representation, natural exponential families, martingales.... Of course, you should be well-prepared to make this class and probability theory your life for the entire semester.
A truly excellent course if you really want to understand probability and statistics - definitely a great asset if you plan on using stats in any extensive capacity in grad school or a future career.  Whereas 110 gives you some of the building blocks to use probability, 210 lets you truly understanding the concepts from the ground up.  It is important to note though that this is a fairly difficult course that requires your dedication to learn the material thoroughly.  Having a cursory understanding of the concepts might be ok for getting by on the psets, but will put you in a very bad position for the exams.  Only take 210 if you really have a strong interest in the material - you'll love it!
I would say that attending stat 210 after stat 110 is like reading a paperback version of the lord of the rings after watching the movie: you will still experience many epiphanies, but part of the excitement is gone, and you already know the end.. Also, with the joy of diving deeper in a subject comes the pain of describing some things in excruciating details, and spending entire lectures proving just one theorem.However, I would still highly recommend taking this class if only for the chapter on "Reasoning by representation". This is the single most beautiful and useful concept I have studied so far in all my academic life. It just completely changed the way I think about probabilities and statistics. It is not easy at first, but quickly becomes a second nature. I also liked how we try very hard to solve all the problems with a minimum of calculus, and a maximum of representation. The chapters on "conditioning" and "Expectations" also open new and very interesting perspectives. Overall, we learnt skills that are directly transferable to other statistics courses.Be prepared to spend some serious time on the homework though. There are not many "examples", and no "strategic practices (for those who've taken 110)" to ease your way into the problem sets, and this is often frustrating..
This is a very interesting and challenging course. Professor Blitzstein is great at explaining the material and showing beautiful and elegant solutions to difficult problems. This class does a lot to improve greatly your problem solving abilities and appreciation for probability.
If you're someone who enjoys pure math classes and solving mathematical puzzles and is also willing to work hard, you will likely get a lot out of this class. If you're required to take this class, well, this blurb won't help you. If you're somewhere in the middle, strongly consider the amount of time and effort you're willing to commit.
This is a fantastic course but absolutely 100% do not take it if you don't have the time to put into it. If you are taking other courses that are time consuming, and you are involved in extracurriculars, you will not have enough time for this class.
1. Do real analysis before this.2. RBR is useful but your knowledge, for the amount of work you put in, is not much bigger than after an introductory class.3. The textbook and material is fantastic, but the lectures can be quite dry and uninspiring.
This is a great class, but it's much harder to appreciate without a background in real analysis. Get the right training before taking it.
Two responses stood out from previous years: "this class is like a drug" and "you have not lived until you have taken this class" before. I feel like quoting a Hungarian MP who said "everything has already been said, but not everyone has said it." May I add my own comments, then? Here they are: "this class is like a drug," also, "you have not lived until you have taken this class."
Take this class if you want to know what the Statistics is.
Know what you're signing up for. The class moves quickly and the material is hard to wrap your mind around; that said, I thought the stuff we covered was really interesting (though still really challenging) and I'd probably have liked it more if I'd had more time to digest the topics.
Great class.  Very interesting material.  Make sure to do the pencil problem and end of chapter exercises throughout the course rather than right before the final. Workload is very reasonable.  Carl and Joe are very accessible outside of class for help.  If you put in the effort, you'll love the class and material.
Most of the material is interesting, though there are some topics that weren't taught very well. Challenging problem sets.
blitzstein is great, but morris makes it almost not worth taking
Enjoy!
Take this class.
Though it was a very good course, you should ask yourself if you need/would enjoy a deeper exposure to probability than that given in Stat 110. We cover many of the same topics, though much further on a analytic level. Representation (showing how the distributions are connected to each other) is very cool, and yet confusing. After the midterm, we turn to doing proofs of central limit theorems and in general, not as fun material as the first half.
Try to take this class with just one instructor, it would be a lot more coherent.
The class is very fun, but also tough. You will be pushed to understand old and new things in new ways. Definitely a challenging course, but you will get lots of help and before the end of the course, you'll realize the central role this course plays in the understanding of probability.
It was a fun class, useful, and one I got a lot out of.
most demanding course taken, but very inspiring, especially the first half, learnt staff that further my understand of probability to a much much deeper level.
This isn't for the faint of heart, or those without a solid math/stats background.
For  better or worse, tt's not just a stat 110 redux -- it's much more focused on statistics
The material is important to know, and the course is difficult, but the class itself is a bit of a waste of time -- the reason to take the class is that it forces you to go through the chapters carefully to do the problem, which is beneficial. In retrospect, I wouldn't have gone to lecture.
be well prepared before the class
There is a lot of material that has to be covered. It is a good idea to get a recommendation of the professors of a book that can help to better understand the topics. The professors are very helpful outside the classroom.
If you already have a probability theory background then perhaps this course may give you a different perspective on the subject. But if you would like a solid foundation in probability theory then I would look elsewhere.
It is very well-balenced course in probability between mathematically rigorosity and intuitive treatment.
The quality of the course depends on the instructors.  Have a look at who is teaching it first.  Prepare to work a lot.  It's a useful course.
Favorite class this term.  Worth the effort that is put into it.
Be prepared to be challenged.
Very interesting class, good material, you will learn a lot.
The professors are excellent, and the material is taught in a unique and useful way. However, it sometimes felt more like a collecting a bag of tricks than building a full box of tools.
Only take it if you intend to do fundamental research in statistics or probability. It is probably not worth taking if you only need statistics as a tool.
Very difficult course, but will learn a lot.
For business school students, Econ 2110 is probably sufficiently tough, though Stat 210 will provide the ability to extend methods (e.g., Stat 210 introduces multiple CLT theorems).
Overall, the class provides a very well-rounded understanding of probability theory in a way that is easy to understand and apply.
If you have not taken Stat 210, you have not lived! It's like a drug. Such a good drug...
This is a very good course to get comfortable with probability. It is very applied and it gives you a different perspective on how to think about distributions. Should definitely take it.
If you like theoretical math and loved 110, this course is awesome.
210a had one of the best textbooks and some of the worst lectures of any course I've taken at Harvard.
This class was the hardest I have ever taken. Professor Liu was the worst lecturer I have ever encountered. He frequently trailed off in class, lost his train of thought, and struggled to communicate in clear English. 

Professor Morris, on the other hand, was generally helpful and available for extra help. 

But then again, this was Blitzstein's off year.
This was an interesting class. It builds nicely upon Stat 110, but is significantly harder. Be prepared to put in a lot of work. The professors were really nice, but lecture often seemed like a waste of time since it was significantly less clear than the book. However, Blitzstein will also be back next year, so I don't know how that will change things.
Humph!
If you are an undergrad statistics concentrator I highly recommend this class to you! I am an undergrad who took the class junior year, one year after taking stat 110/111. I think it's definitely very doable if you are self-motivated and did well in 110. You will gain a very deep understanding of all the concepts behind stat 110 and enhance your understanding of probability in a very big way. Jun and Carl are good lecturers, but it's Joe and Carl's book that really shines. Read the book, do the pencil problems, and try the exercises, and you will come out with a great understanding of the material. The examples, problem sets, and exams in the class are all well-motivated and you will even gain some insights into techniques used in other stat classes. Overall this class will give you a solid theoretical foundation for all your other stat classes. It was an absolute joy taking this class. Highly recommended. 

difficulty: moderate. 3.5/5
8-10 hours of studying outside of class.
Maybe avoid this class unless you really have to take it.  It may be much better with different instructors.
This course does a great job of going over essential material for probability theory, and in particular goes over many important theorems that likely many statistics students have heard of (such as the Central Limit Theorem), but likely many students are not familiar with on a deep level. However, students will have to teach themselves most of the material. Often they will find the lectures and textbook are not enough to fully understand the material, and will have to rely on outside textbooks and lectures to truly learn the material.
This is a course for the deep theory of useful probability knowledge.
