The most accurate description of this year's offering might have been something like 'Seminar on Topics in Causal Inference and Design'. If that sounds good to you, you should take this course.
Overall, Stat 240 provides a unique experience for students. Hearing Don Rubin and TD discuss the fundamental questions in causal inference is fascinating. I especially appreciated Don's rich knowledge of the intellectual history of the causal inference literature. Would recommend for most quantitatively-oriented social/natural/behavioral scientists, as well as statisticians.
Excellent course and rewarding material
The class is more theoretical than applied. Take it if you'd like to learn how and why causal inference works, not if you'd like to get practice carrying out causal inference. Check the syllabus to see how it's going to be taught; this year we had weekly 3-hour lectures and 2 problem sets. In past it's been more of a seminar.
Great course to get started with research in causal inference.
The discussions in this course are extremely valuable. Don't hesitate to ask questions - questions in this class are a graduate student's best opportunity to learn more about causal inference and experimental design from those who know it best.
I enjoyed Stat 240 because it exposed me to a lot of interesting and useful material.  I liked the combination of topics--some classes were on canonical material, while others were more research-focused.  The class isn't particularly well organized, but it doesn't make a huge impact on your experience.  The problem sets are long but rare, and the project is a good impetus to explore a new area.  The weekly workload is very reasonable.
If you enjoy listening to Don Rubin talk, and already feel confident in causal inference, take this class. It is not good for an introduction to causal inference.
Students interested in causal effects should take the course.We were lucky to have Luke + Don on board. Luke is great in driving the discussion and raising good points,and Don ..has the answers.
This is great class if you want to delve into the field of causal inference. The professors are extremely knowledgeable and the discussion in each class is stimulating and challenging.
Best opportunity to learn about matching.
The final project is hard but it was a great experience to get started with research.
A good survey of methods in the field, new areas of exploration
Take Stat 140 or EC1127 (or both) before this course.
This is a reading course in literature just one stepped removed from practical application. It will be useful to you if you want to learn about the fundamental literature in matching, but it will require additional effort if you want to use this course to do your own contemporary theory or applied work since the readings for the course are mostly quite old.
A lot of what you'll get out of the course depends on who else is taking it. It's best if the other students have similar backgrounds/interests as you.
This is an interesting class to take if you want to expose yourself to a wide variety of interesting topics in experimental and study design.  Week-to-week, it isn't too much work, and is more about being exposed to material than rigorously learning new concepts.  However, without a very strong background in statistics and math, some of the material can be very confusing, so make sure you know what you will be able to get out of the class.  Essentially, if you don't have a strong enough background, you should take the class knowing you probably won't understand everything.  Overall, I enjoyed the class and I think it is useful for anyone doing research in related areas.
take stat 140 first
It's always a good idea to take a causal inference class with Don Rubin.
