Best class in the stat department if you want to become a finance practionist
Great class with an awesome professor.
This is an incredible course. If you are at all interested in finance (or even not, but interested in a very elegant application of statistics), take the course! Dr. Blyth was one of my favorite instructors at Harvard, and the class was one of the most intellectually challenging. The course is tough; certainly tougher than Stat 110, and perhaps around the difficulty level of Ec 1011a (but in a different way).
This class is great if you're already familiar with finance or have worked at a finance-y job before. Otherwise, you're putting yourself at a disadvantage compared to the rest of the class. The material is not always intuitive when you don't fully understand what the assets are or how they work. Sometimes no one can explain to you why a certain condition holds and you have to just accept that that's the way it is. It's easy to get lost during the trading project as they kind of just throw you in there. Don't miss lecture.
There's not much Stat 110 in this class, despite the prereq.
You will definitely enjoy the course if you are curious about finance. Homework and midterms are a lot of work though. Not mathematically speaking, but trying to digest all the finance jargonand make sense of it.
This class was amazing. It truly was one of the best I've taken. The staff provided great support. Professor Blyth is a great lecturer and conveys well the challenging material and was also a great person to talk to and hear about his experience. The material is challenging and really interesting. The trading project is cool. Do what you can to take advantage of what the course provides. Go to section and office hours for the TF's and definitely go to Professor Blyth's office hours.
This is a difficult stats course that definitely requires you to be on top of the material week in and week out.  The midterm and final were pretty difficult and the homeworks require more than one night to do.  As an athlete I would say make sure you have buddies that are taking the course with you because there would be no way I could have done well in this course without a group to help with homeworks and test prep.  This is an awesome class that is taught very enthusiastically with material that is very applicable to the real world and not just the classroom.
This is not a joke class, so don't be a joke. The class moves fairly quickly and does not mind leaving you behind. You have to put in the time and work. Although it might not pay off, considering how many geniuses and grad students are in this class, but it will be worth it nevertheless. You will get your ass whooped but it'd never felt better.A lot of people take the class pass/fail. I don't really see the point of doing that. Prof. Blyth *will* fail you if you don't put in the work. So if you're going to work hard anyway, you might as well make it count for something.
An amazing class but only if you are willing to put a lot of time in and struggle through parts
Very interesting material and very good lectures.
The class very challenging, but extremely useful if you want to enter the finance industry (or even if you don't know what you want to do with your life, like me). If you love finance with a passion, you should definitely take this class because it's the only "real," hardcore finance class in Harvard. However, if you hate finance with a vengeance, you may want to take this class too, since you may want to prove to the Wall Street financiers that they are not the only smart ones who can understand finance (oops, they actually screwed up). Overall, it is very well taught by Professor Blyth, who is humorous, brilliant and very approachable. Be prepared to work very hard and don't be afraid to approach Blyth and the TFs for help. Work in a group and have fun agonizing over the psets!
It will be challenging, but interesting.
This course rocks. He is going to make trades in class and teach you fancy stuff like caps, floors and swaptions. If you want to be a trader later one, this is a definite pick. If you hate making money, then no. The trading project is fun too.
It is a very challenging class but gives you a broad pictures of financial tools that are commonly used.
If you've ever wondered what it's like to be a trader, this class teaches you the material that people actually use in the real world on Wall St. You learn an incredibly practical skill set that will set you up nicely for a finance job. Even if you're not interested in a career in finance, the material is challenging and rewarding (think Stat 110) and you will definitely stretch your mental muscles.
If you have a busy semester and want to take this one - I recommend taking it as Pass/Fail - you're still going to work very very hard on it, but you won't have to be so terrified about your GPA.
The class is not impossible; it rewards dedication! I am long Stat 123, also because Stephen is really one of Harvard's best British options.
Stephen is awesome!
It is better to have some conceptual knowledge in finance although it is not the prerequisite.
If you're considering a career in quantitative finance, this course will give you a kick start.
This class was very difficult, but if you put in the effort, you will gain a lot.
We're lucky to have access to a class like this; I can't imagine many (if any) other schools can say the same. It's great to have an opportunity to learn about the intricacies of pricing derivatives from someone who has worked on it first-hand. There really is no book, journal, or other class where one can learn this stuff, so if you're interested, then you should definitely take this. It's very well taught, although very hard.
Take this class, even if it's just to listen to Stephen Blyth's dreamy accent and anecdotes about Cambridge life every Tuesday and Thursday...
Take it!  Stephen is amazing.  While I struggled through it, being able to watch live trades and study under such an amazing professor and under such caring TF's really shows the magic of Harvard.  Thank you so much for this opportunity.  I LOVED LOVED IT!!!11
Take this class! I don't know what is more exciting: seeing trades being executed in class; hearing stories about Lord Kelvin and the Cambridge football (soccer) team; or eating duty-free Cadbury chocolate. Actually, none of them measures up to the immense satisfaction that one feels after understanding and connecting all of the derivatives introduced in class. If nothing else, the thorough understanding of "discounting" will serve you well no matter what you do (well... maybe less true if you take up sewing or something like that... but definitely true for asset pricing)
Be aware that the people in this class are a lot smarter than in an average applied math, economics, engineering or other science class. There are also a good number of graduate students that I assume raise the bar. Of those insanely smart people a lot of them love this stuff a lot more than the average quantitative person would so you're up against the brightest and most hard-working you'll encounter. That being said, it is one of the best classes I have taken at harvard (this is my 8th semester) and if you are at all interested in understanding how some finance people think then take this class. Go to two sections a week - pick one section that you understand really well and pick a more challenging one to complement it. Finally, don't take this as a fifth class if you're an over-eager sophomore wanting to go into finance. Weed a pointless econ class out of your schedule and make this your fourth class - it'll be worth it. Stephen Blyth is one lecturer you don't want to miss.
Very hard class. Hardest class I have ever taken at Harvard. Prepare to work very hard and spend forever doing the problem sets.
Professor Blythe is one of the most fantastic people and professors you will ever meet. Not only is he a brilliant mathematician and excellent teacher, he genuinely cares about his students and is invested in your well-being. He is funny, charismatic, and intelligent. Not to mention the material is great, too. If you like math and are interested in finance, this is absolutely the class to take.
Make sure you are always up to pace. It takes time to build intuition
My favorite class at Harvard. Although it is extremely hard, it is worth all of the hard work, because it is all applicable to real life. Professor Blyth is an incredible lecturer, and person, and he always keeps the whole class engaged. His real life stories and examples are great. If you have any interest in finance, this a must take.
Blyth brings his experience, intellect, and wit without fail to every class.
This class was amazing.  The entire teaching staff is very dedicated and the material is very interesting.
The class offers an amazing insight into the world of derivatives trading, based on a very rigorous mathematical background. One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard, and I am not even remotely interested in working in Wall Street.
Take it if you're really interested, the difficulty of the course may make you question your decision. But it's worth it in the end.
Not worth it. Really hard class, and the material isn't worth the stress. The curve is awful-- you are graded against grad students, as well as the best and smartest of the applied math kids. People in the class are competetive and hard to work with. Not a lot of resources for students who don't fit the bill.
Great for those interested in practical or academic finance esp. concerning interest rate derivatives.
this class is NOT an introduction. you should understand stat 110 very well and have a background in finance (such as an internship or previous coursework). don't recommend taking as a sophomore, but it's doable. this a very thorough course. you go through basically every derivative that exists, and a thorough understanding of stocks and bonds is definitely necessary (at least to the extent they are taught in ec10). exams and problem sets are brutal. you won't be able to do them on your own. there is no text book, so you have to go to every lecture. again, this is a very hard course.
This is a great class and you will learn a lot. The professor is really interesting and it is worth taking for the trading project alone. However, it is really difficult so do not attempt unless you are prepared to put in the time working on the homework and unless you are very good at calculus. Although the course write up says you do not need a finance background, I would  not recommend taking the class without at least some knowledge of wall street as I think it would be a struggle. That being said it is a great class and definitely worth taking.
Attend lectures! It's hard to make up for materials missed out on lectures since there's no textbook that exactly maps onto lecture material.
should only take if you are interested in pursuing a career in finance
This course was awesome, and Blyth is an amazing professor. You will learn a lot about derivatives pricing and how trading on Wall St. works.
Professor Blyth is a great lecturer as well as an incredibly experienced practitioner of finance.  He may not seem like a super-star lecturer at first, because he isn't over-the-top with energy, like Andrew Berry, or amusing to watch, like Joe Blitzstein.  However, you'll appreciate his organization and attention to detail (no textbook, he essentially dictates one to you in lecture, compete with chapters and sections), as well as his humorous anecdotes about epic trades on the Street.  He takes a break at the middle of every (1.5 hour long) class to go off on a pre-planned tangent, making live trades in front of the class in some cases.  Basically, the material is pretty interesting in its own right, if a little difficult, but Professor Blyth is what really makes this course enjoyable.  If you get the chance, don't wait to take this course, because you never know when the market will go crazy and he'll be called back to spend all of his time managing the endowment.
It should help if you want to be a trader.
They don't post lecture notes online. That's a big discouragement. I miss classes inevitably from time to time, and it's rather inconvenient. Also, the materials sometimes are very good practical, sometimes are not so. Zhan is a good TF. Some TFs are really bad: they either don't care and don't prepare for their office hours/sections, or they thing they know about trading, and talk about useless/wrong stuff during sections.
This course was extremely interesting and taught me a lot about quantitative finance, especially in the fixed income realm.  Highly, highly recommended!
If you have questions, should go to office hour for help!
Expect to spend a lot of time to understand the materials if you have no finance background.
If you're interested in working in finance, this course is a great introduction to basic derivatives like forwards and options and pricing models. Even if you are unsure, this is a great course that will teach you very useful concepts.
Do not take this course if you do not intend to make a career out of finance or if you have not had extensive finance preparation before this course.
Great introduction to quantitative finance taught by someone who is extremely knowledgeable and able to communicate the topics clearly.
The problem sets are incredibly hard, and the tests are nearly impossible. But Stephen Blyth is a nice guy. This class is really only useful if you want to actually be a Quant on Wall Street -- Corporate Finance would be a better alternative if you just want to know about finance.
Excellent professor!
A uniquely useful course with a great professor, but very difficult to excel in if you're not a senior concentrating in statistics who has had an internship on Wall Street prior to enrollment.
Rigorous and engaging. The accent, that is. Ditto for the material.
this is a good course for those who want to better understand how financial markets work. The course will start off pretty easy, but the second half is significantly harder.
I'm a freshman but I'm glad I took it. Wonderful professor, interesting materials...oh and TFs are really amazing especially Bronwyn and Zhan.
Excellent preparation course for students heading out to Wall Street. The course gives a nice sampler of various derivative products and how they are priced in practice.
A great introduction to finance for quantitative thinkers.
This a great class if you are interested in working in finance, specifically if you are interested in being a trader.  Definitely a tough class, so only take it if you are willing to put in the time.
Make sure you are comfortable with stat 110.
TAKE THIS CLASS
Definitely take it!
This is a rigorous and interesting course that you should take if you have a vested interest in finance and/or trading. It will be very useful for anyone who desires to work in the field of quantitative finance.
great class, remember that time when Obama stayed back in 10th grade, yea it's better than that.
This was one of the best classes (if not the best class) I have taken here.
Although the content of this course seems very interesting at first glance, it turned out to be quite a headache. First, most of the quantitative finance that we learned (until about the last three weeks) was very similar to that found in Capital Markets (Ec1723). If you didn't like that class you probably won't like this class. Second, this class had a lot of EXTREMELY smart students (most had backgrounds in high level math or statistics. Think Math 23, 25. or 55 track rather than Math 21 track), which made the curves for this class extraordinarily difficult. The midterm mean was double that of the capital markets midterm which was of similar difficulty. Since this is ultimately a "curved class" as most stats classes are, it can mean that very smart students can end up with bad grades despite decent performance. Having said that, I ABSOLUTELY DO NOT REGRET taking this course. It is very rare to have an opportunity to learn from someone with as much experience as Prof. Blyth who is able to teach complex financial mathematics in simple (somewhat understandable) terms. Also the course had a few enrichment projects/activities including a trading simulation, which although at times gimicky was fun to work on. If I had to do it again, I would still take this course, but only as a pass/fail class.
You will learn a lot, but be ready to work for this class.
If you're interested in finance, take this course! Make sure you do practice problems when studying for exams- Blyth likes to reuse common problems. It's not as hard as people will tell you, and you'll get to learn a lot of cool stuff!
It's not going to teach you how to get rich on wall street; you simply learn a little bit of how finance works.
This class is very difficult if you do not put the time in to understanding the material. A lot of time. That being said, once you really get the core concepts, the questions aren't very hard at all. And the midterm/final questions were very derivative of the homework, further emphasizing that if you can really dive in and figure out how the underlying mechanics works, it shouldn't be too bad. But again, it is super hard until then.
Take the course.  If you are a statistician, the first half will be a little hard but the second half will be easy.  If you are an economist, I assume the opposite will be true.Fun course.  Great lecturer. Sometimes I did wonder if it was actually helpful for anything, though...
You'll like this class even though it's tough.
This is one of those "only at Harvard" classes. Professor Blyth is fascinating person who has led a fascinating life, and so it's a real treat to get to take a class with him.
If you're interested in finance (or the mathematics behind it), this is probably one of the best courses (in the world) in the field to take! Otherwise Blyth is really funny so take it anyways.
Before taking this class, make sure that you're very interested in the subject matter (i.e. browse some textbooks, etc).  For people who are not interested in quantitative finance (pricing derivative contracts, etc.), this class will seem very dry.  Also be comfortable with statistics and basic calculus.
Be ready to be overwhelmed with the number of derivatives we cover and the various notation. This class is much, much more difficult than stat 110.
This class is incredibly difficult. Don't take it if you're not into the material.  It is rewarding, but only if you really put in the effort.
Absolutely the hardest class I have ever taken at Harvard. Do not try to take this class if you haven't taken Stat 110. I tried to sneak in by signing up for P/F but it is extremely difficult if you don't understand the underlying probabilistic theories.
This class is extremely difficult. You will be with Statistics all stars, grad students, and PhD students. Be ready to work hard. The material is interesting and the class is very rewarding. Professor Blythe may end up being one of the more impressive men you'll meet.
This course is very entertaining and useful at the same time.
Please take this course, it is very interesting and informative! Be prepared to work hard though.It is a very great course if you loved Stats 110
This is a fun and interesting course but is very challenging and graded toughly
Class really isn't as difficult as Blyth makes it sound, and it is a really fun class.  The problems are interesting, as are the topics, and the teaching staff is phenomenal.  Blyth takes breaks during lectures to make the course more engaging, and, in general, it's a fun way to learn some very useful topics if you're going into quantitative finance.  (Note: if you want to do banking or consulting, you do not HAVE to take this class, and unfortunately those who do take it for pre-professional reasons only do poorly)
I took this class as someone who really liked Stat 110 and is only remotely interested in finance. I was a little disappointed that the course incorporated very little of the material from Stat 110, but that being said I don't regret taking the course at all. I still found the material very interesting and practical and the professor as one of the best I've had at Harvard.
You will learn a few things about finance, but be prepared to slog through much more calculus and proofs than you bargained for
This is not as rigorous as other people might make it sound. Much of the work is tedious.
Use google! A lot of times, reading investopedia or wikipedia really helped explain the core concepts on a basic level.
Read the textbook many times. Go to lectures. Do all the problems. Go to most of sections.
This course is tough, like really tough, and I can't really say it was worth it.
Great course with very interesting material taught by a great and devoted professor. Immeasurably useful for trading interviews. Will learn a lot.
I was MISERABLE every second I spent on this class. Don't recommend it at all. Very hard to find support if you're struggling.
While different people had different opinions on the matter, I felt this course was as difficult (or even more difficult) than Stat 110. The problem sets might not be as tough to figure out, but they take almost as much time to complete. The exams are equally brutal, but without the "midterm redemption" policy. That being said, Blyth is the perfect professor: he's a brilliant mathematician who knows the material inside and out -- with the added bonus that he's had (and still has) an impressive and fascinating career in finance and is willing to share his experience with the students. At the end of the day, this course is a solid introduction to quant. finance, and despite its difficulty, I'd highly recommend it.
Take it! Prof Blyth is the most entertaining lecturer. He always interjects fun breaks during the middle of his lectures to talk about interesting stories and demonstrations. This class is probably the most enjoyable part of finance you will encounter.
Definitely teaches you what it says will teach you.However, there is a lack of organization in the class.Sections are extremely helpful but the timing of the assignments and the midterm was HORRIBLE. PSET and Midterm on the same day and the pset covered material on the midterm. As a result, if you didn't know how to do it for the pset, you didn't even have a chance to look at the solutions before the midterm. In a way, you got penalized twice, which is extremely unfair. Requirements for the trading project was also very vague and unclear. You get marked off for no apparent reason.If you want to learn about trading, this is a good class to take. But just be aware of all of these issues. Definitely go to section though.
Interesting, especially if you plan on going into finance
Very good course if you are interested in finance in some capacity.  Probably not useful otherwise as the class is very applied.  You will learn a lot about derivatives.  Blyth is a very good lecturer, and the book is well written and helpful.  You do not need to go to lecture since the book has all the necessary material and is accessible.
If you've taken some theoretical math the class will be very easy. If you aren't very good at math or haven't done any proofs it could be challenging.
It's very beautiful, but very hard. expect to spend a ton of time studying for the test.
This class is excellent, and not too difficult if you put the time into it that it deserves.
Prof. Blyth is an exceptional teacher and comprehensive lecturer. However, this class is the equivalent to Stat110 in difficulty and the learning curve. Thus it is not a pass/fail class in any degree.
If you have no idea what finance is about and want to learn all the industry-specific terms, this is the class to take: it is effective, organized, & structured. You don't need to attend lecture. The exams  make sure that if you study, you will do decently well. However, if you want to do excellent, you still have to really understand the material.
This class isn't the most interesting, but I guess it's useful for people who want to know more about finance. Watch out, the problem sets can take a long time to write up, even when you get what's going on. The midterm can be a time crunch so you should make sure you know all the definitions and proofs for the first half of the course well-this isn't as much of a problem on the final.
My favorite course so far at Harvard. The material is really interesting and the course is outstandingly well taught. Problem sets are instructive and lectures are engaging. All the components of a great course.
This class is an experience.  Perhaps my favorite class at Harvard.  I honestly have no complaints.  Professor Blyth is engaging and entertaining, the material is fascinating, and there are lots of little extras (the breaks in the middle of each lecture when Professor Blyth talks about anything and everything, the time he brought chocolate from Britain for everyone in the class, the Stat 123 reception at the Faculty Club at the end of the semester, the prizes for students who find the most typos in his book, etc.) that make this class easily the most fun class that I've ever taken.  It's especially neat to get a glimpse into the world of trading on Wall Street that this class provides, especially for a non-finance person like myself.  All of that being said, this class is difficult.  If you are a non-stat person, you should definitely take this class, but if you're concerned about your grades, you might want to consider taking it pass-fail.
THis is an excellent course for students who are interested in Finance!
Sit back and enjoy the ride.
Best class at Harvard. Challenging yet do-able. This class has the best professor, best teaching fellows, and the best homework/exams. Everything is so well organized. I dont' know what else to say. If you are interested in finance, this is a MUST-TAKE course. You learn FAR more in this than any of the other finance classes from the ec department, mit accounting, etc. This is SO useful and defintiely my favorite class of my undergraduate career.
This is comparable to the difficulty of Stat110 but in a different way. Stat110 was difficult because you had to recognize problems and use a different way of thinking. 123 is hard because it had a lot of jargon and you need to understand each type of derivative backwards and forwards. Once you have each asset down and know the homeworks inside and out, the exams are fairly easy (they're almost always a copy of the homework problems) but  it takes a while to actually understand how to do the homework problems without office hours or section help. Go to them!
The class was great. Lectures and the book clearly presented material while section and assignments truly reinforced it. The class is not as hard as people make it out to be. It is definitely difficult at times but manageable if you pay attention and stay on top of the material.
Difficult and time-consuming, but very informed and eye-opening. Take it.
sections are more useful than lectures
This class is very challenging, but it's a great course to learn about financial derivatives. Do know a bit about discounting and financial terms before the class. Many take the class pass/fail.
There is a lot of material in this course. Make sure you start problem sets early, and that you understand the solutions after you've completed problem sets. The material in this course is also cumulative, so don't ignore a concept that you don't understand because you'll probably realize how important it is later on.
The class is an excellent introduction to a new subject and is probably a must-take for anyone wanting to enter finance.  Some of the core concepts can be very difficult to understand and are occasionally swept over without much thought, but if you work hard you can definitely get them by the end.
Great course! Very useful stuff to know if interested in finance.  Blyth is great; his random breaks are always fun. Also, the entire teaching staff were very helpful. Too bad most of them are graduating. The cours is definitely challenging but manageable if you study well the materials provided (textbook, HWs...) Overall, there is no surprises in the exam; they only test if you truly understand the material.
This is a good class. It is well-taught and well-organized. Honestly though, the material is dense and maybe not incredibly applicable unless you want to do more quantitative work.
Its hard and not hard at the same time. The exams can be very pedantic. You are expected to understand absolutely everything, which is possible, but challenging. The material is theoretic so dont expect to leave ready to take on Wall Street, but you will have a good idea of how the underlying mechanics of it works. Take it but know what youre getting yourself into.
This class is pretty tedious and it's easy to drown in the sea of derivatives. Make sure you're interested. Grading is really harsh. I liked Blyth's stories and the trading project
The exams are homework question focused. Trying to understand and memorize everything in the book might not be the best strategy, although all the important proofs are fair game.
Stat 123 was definitely one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard in my three years here so far. The course was an amazing combination of interesting material, excellent lectures, an extremely competent teaching staff, well-designed course materials, and flawless course organization - everything just felt so in place. Professor Blyth is very effective as a lecturer and super generous with his time during office hours, and his credibility and experience within the financial world means that he really really knows what he's talking about, and he can provide some awesome in-class demos. The class basically goes over the most important derivative products and derives both model-independent and model-dependent results about their valuation, bounds, relationships with other products, etc. I recommend this course to everyone with an interest in buy-side finance - really, everyone should know what a call option is. Seriously, TAKE THIS COURSE - you won't regret it!
Not very glamorous, but well worth it if you put in the time and work hard.
This is a great class.  Very well organized and the assignments/exams were fair and interesting.  If you're at all interested in the trading side of finance, definitely take this class.
Be prepared for the LONG exam.
One of the best courses I have had at Harvard. It is challenging, but also very rewarding in terms of what you learn and how much fun you will have in lectures, with problem sets and during the trading project.
It'll remove a lot of the mystery around important financial concepts.
This course covers very interesting material and Professor Blyth is absolutely amazing at teaching it. However, the material is definitely not easy to grasp, and if you want to succeed in the course, you really MUST be willing to put in the time. If you have more than one other difficult course in your schedule, I wouldn't recommend this class as well. But if you can actually devote time to studying the material and preparing appropriately, you will take so much away from the course. Plus, Professor Blyth's breaks are some of the best times I've spent in a Harvard classroom.
Awesome class. If you're looking for an extension of Stat 110 ideas, this is a fantastic option as a higher level probability-based class. Also way less mindfuck than Stat 110
It doesn't require a strong stats background.
This is a pretty good class. The book is excellent, and all you need to get through the course. Blythe is a pretty good lecturer, but lectures can be boring. He's also not very nice in person and does not take questions / comments very well. The material, however, is really excellent. The reason why I cannot 100% recommend this course is because of the course staff, but the material is interesting and manageable.
The course is challenging but simultaneously rewarding. Professor Blyth is a very good lecturer and his knowledge of finance is incredibly helpful if you are looking to work on the Street. His textbook is also well-written (even if it could be fleshed out a bit more in some parts). Assignments are applicable and exams are challenging. Definitely go to lecture; his lecture breaks are worth your time!
Please notice that you need to prepare well: solid background in calculus is important, perhaps some financial intuition will help a lot!
do whatever you can to keep up. it's really fast and overwhelming and therefore hard, but if you're really diligent (which i wasn't...), i don't think it would be as miserable as i made it for myself.also, i wish i had taken it pass/fail.
Great class if you're interested in the more quantitative aspects of financial markets, i.e., derivatives. Blyth is the man
Take this class! It's one of the few classes at Harvard that teaches you valuable skills. Albeit Stat 110 is required, there's no real reliance on a lot of STAT 110 material. However, be prepared to get pummeled and work hard.
I enjoyed taking this course for the most part. Professor Blyth was incredibly entertaining and impressively got to know most people in the large class. His lectures were always enjoyable and interesting. With that said, this class is not easy. Most people made it harder than it needed to be by not keeping up with homeworks and lectures throughout the semester, but it still is not easy to grasp the material.
If you are at all interested in finance you should take this course. You learn so much relevant material and Professor Blyth is amazing.
Personally I really liked the course. I found derivative contract valuation extremely interesting and I enjoyed how stat was integrated with the course. Prof Blyth is a great lecturer and his stories in the middle of lectures does a good job of both teaching us about asset valuation and what its like to work on wall st. That said, this course will be pretty boring if you don't find the idea of making money interesting.
There is almost no probability in this class.
very challenging course. stephen blyth is a great teacher, speaks with enthusiasm, and really engages you in the material, especially how it's applied to real quantitative finance. in comparison to stat 110, psets are less challenging but exams are extremely difficult especially this year's midterm. the course materials are great: the textbook, section notes (Jessy & Raj), and all the pset problems really helped me learn the material. i took this course because i wanted to learn about what quantitative finance really entails. At the end of the day, I feel like I've learned a lot and am well prepared.
Blyth is awesome. The class was fantastic.
Among the best classes at Harvard. Take it or look forward to getting run over by a libor-in-arrears trade. #thatsnotjustacurveflattener
As someone who's not studying stat/applied math/economics, I took this class because I was curious about the mathematics of what happens on Wall Street, and this class did teach me a lot about that. I wouldn't take it, however, solely because you find probability fascinating; you might find that there's not enough probability and too many derivatives to remember if that's the case. Exams and problem sets are challenging and proof-oriented. The trading project was a lot of fun, and a great chance to see if your inner trader is dominated more by fear or by greed.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard thus far. rant/ STEPHEN BLYTH IS THE MAN. Like, he just eats swag for breakfast, lunch, and dinner, and keeps a little bit in his pocket at all times. He is a legitimate mathematician and statistician, but also a straight baller (son, 8 million dollars a year?! You can't top that, fam), while remaining modest, amiable, and overall mad chill. His lectures are engaging and really informative, and his textbook is so straightforward that he covers what other people take 800 pages to cover in like, 150, while keeping it all simple. Go to his office hours every week. It's the one thing I regret not doing. #STEPHENISBASED #STEPHENBLYTH4PREZThis message paid for by "I <3 STEPHEN BLYTH" and Co. /rantThe topics covered are really interesting, the problem sets are challenging and engaging, and the exams are tough but fair. You will love this class or I hate you. #ThankYouBasedBlyth
This is an awesome class.  If you want to learn all about the mathematics behind derivatives, take this course!  Stephen Blythe is a fantastic and very interesting lecturer who really makes the material come alive.
If you didn't understand all of the probability distributions in Stat 110 or didn't like them, don't take this course.  The class starts out hard, but certainly doable and enjoyable.  However, it got really hard after Spring Break when the class started to depend more upon material from Stat 110 that I was shaky with.
This was one of the best if not the best course I've taken in 4 years at Harvard.  You learn extremely useful material for trading and also how to survive a bear attack, which could be similarly life changing!
Definitely read the material in the book before the lecture on that topic! It'll help you a lot in following the lecture.
This was my favorite course of the semester, and I recommend it with unreserved enthusiasm. It is admittedly very challenging, but the difficulty is not insurmountable as long as you keep up with the material from Day 1 and clarify doubts as soon as they arise. Consistency is key. If you found Stat 110 manageable, you're likely a good candidate for this course. I would also recommend going to office hours regularly, whether to discuss your academic/career plans or the course material (especially the latter since 15min with Prof. Blyth might save you an hour of head-scratching at home). He might seem intimidating, but he's really very personable and cares about his students!
This is a fascinating course that touches on an array of core ideas and formulas that underlie much of the financial system. More than the subject material, though, it's an exercise in critical thinking, and a rewarding one at that. Prof. Blyth is a great lecturer, and his quirky study breaks make the 90 minutes particularly enjoyable.
This class gives you a great overview of quantitative finance, and Blythe's lectures are always very interesting.
By far, the most practical class I've taken at Harvard. A must if you're thinking of working in quantitative finance and/or sales and trading. The resources for the class are amazing and Professor Blyth is extremely well organized and a very good lecturer.
The course teaches you A LOT about the financial derivatives market. It is extremely interesting material tied together with some fundamental statistical concepts. The homework problems were extremely rewarding. Professor Blyth's effort to make this a great class is blatantly evident. The support staff was also incredibly helpful.
Take it. If you read and understand the book, go to class, and attend section, the homeworks won't take too long. Extremely interesting and elegant application of probability, in an exciting field that is still developing.
This was a pretty solid class. The material is cool and not too difficult.
This class is perfectly well run and well taught, the material is just surprisingly and shockingly mind-numbingly boring. Psets often devolve into pages of algebra and calculus not because Prof. Blyth wrote dull psets because frankly that's just what quantitative finance is. I was sucked in by the idea that being academically literate in the modern world requires knowledge of finance, but the subject matter of this course was far too esoteric. If that's a large part of the reason you want to take this class, you'd probably be better served by something in the econ department.
Not for the faint-hearted. This class is intense.
Very difficult. Do if you like money. Blyth is British and amazing
I liken this class as doing physics with interest rates. It's pretty theoretical when it comes down to a bunch of it, and this class will NOT teach you how to trade, although some of the problems and examples are about trades. you WILL learn the theoretical basis behind pricing financial products though. I'm not going to be a bonds trader, but the framework in this class will give you a strong foundation to think about some of this stuff. and maybe some of it will come to use for me, as I trade options myself on my spare time (which was why I was interested in taking this class in the first place). So if you have close to 0 interest in the quant finance world or options/derivatives/interest rates/FX, don't take this class! Take this class if you've always wanted to know what a forward numeraire is...
Blyth is a great lecturer. Lots of funny stories. Topics can get a little crazy at times since he doesn't really stop to let people think about things sometimes, but the book definitely helps.
It's really not as hard as Stat 110.  It is probably the same amount of work, but everything is quite straightforward.  Go to lecture -- really the main reason for taking the class is Blyth, and he's an awesome lecturer.  I took this class having zero exposure to finance, and I really liked the material, though I am still not interested in going into finance.  Really it is good for teaching you why finance involves skill and not just luck, and shows how people actually make money in finance -- which I think is interesting whether or not you plan to have a career in it.  The math behind it is really cool.
Overall, this is a great class for people who are curious about what goes on in the financial industry. The class is very difficult at the beginning (especially for those with no background other than the required Stat 110). But, if you stick with it and spend some time with the material, it actually gets better after the midterm as the concepts start sinking in and everything starts coming together (at least somewhat)in the second half of the course.
Professor Blyth is an amazing lecturer, and be sure to visit him during office hours!
Take this course! I always looked forward to the next lecture, and enjoyed doing the psets.
It's very interesting material, but also quite dense so if you don't have an interest in statistics or finance, don't take this class.
Be wary of a few things:1) This is NOT a stat class. It's a math class. The only "stat" you'll do is integrating over normal/log-normal distributions, which is actually calculus.2) While the book is good, he leaves some very important concepts to the exercises. Since there is no solutions manual, you won't always learn this stuff.3) The lectures themselves don't add much to your understanding. He basically just writes the book on the board. It would be nice if he instead spent the lectures building intuition and left much of the rigor to the book. The lecture breaks were always entertaining.4) Start the Black-Scholes homework early. It is a lot of messy integrals and they take a while to do.To summarize, I found the material interesting, but I think there are better ways of learning it. Also, this isn't a stat class at all.
Professor Blyth is a wonderful teacher.  This class is a very cool application of Stat 110 to understanding financial derivatives.  Highest recommendation!
It's a great class. I would definitely recommend it to anyone interested in quantitative fields with any interest in finance. It was a very nice change of pace from my normal chemistry and physics classes. It isn't that much work and the problem sets generally are very interesting (although 1 did have a good amount of annoying calculus)
You pick up a lot of very interesting model-independent results about financial derivatives, that can be derived without too much heavy statistical machinery. You learn a lot about a wide variety of derivatives that are commonly traded and form the basis of our financial system, and from a professor who is intimately involved with the industry (and who has awesome stories to tell during lecture breaks!).
Professor Blyth is a pretty good professor, but I did not feel like I left the class with a much better understanding/intuition for major concepts in finance (which is what I was hoping for). We spent a lot more time on nitty-gritty math/proofs than I expected, but perhaps that's my fault. I also wish the lectures covered material that was not straight from the book (and also wish the lectures were videotaped).
Know that you're getting into a difficult course. You need to stay up with the material or else you WILL fall behind. Each point leads into the next and it is a process of building your understanding of everything because it all joins together.
This class was a good follow-up to Stat 110. It was about the same difficulty, though with more of an emphasis on computations than on clever pattern-matching. Blyth's lectures are engaging and convincingly explain the fundamentals of quantitative finance. Problem sets were due at intervals of a little more than a week, which gave you a break every time you completed one. The course staff was very helpful.
While you do learn a lot about different derivatives and how to value them... I'm not particularly sure how useful any of this will be for a finance job. Maybe it's just helpful to build familiarity with all these instruments, I'm not sure. Being a more mathy person, I  found the more mathy topics a lot easier (options) than the bevy of financial terms and concepts in other topics. I suspect almost everyone else was opposite.
If curios about the engineering of derivatives and their complexity, take the course. You are not likely to find a similarly well-taught, inspiring and fundamental class at undergraduate level elsewhere. Prof. Blyth is a professor you would benefit from having learnt from.
Stat 123 is a rigorous but interesting class. It is a great course because Professor Blyth is an amazing professor and the material is fairly unique to this course. Learning about all the complex financial instruments you hear about in the movies and on trading floors is cool. The course can be difficult at times but the textbook is a great resource.
You should take this class, even if you don't have any interest in perusing a career in finance. The concepts and problems that are covered throughout the class are interesting puzzles with rewarding solutions. Moreover, Stephen is an excellent lecturer and class is a pleasure to attend.
I cannot recommend this course enough. I don't think there is any course at Harvard where I learned more and I really wish I had taken it much earlier than senior spring. Walking in with a tiny bit of interest in finance, I built a lot of enthusiasm and interest on the subject and got to know excellent people like Professor Blyth, Raj, Carlos and Tim. Definitely take it!
Incredibly useful if you wish to pursue a career in finance.
Take this class for Blyth. He is an inspiring teacher and I can promise you will learn a lot.
Awesome stuff but difficult
This course is one of a kind. If you are interested in the intersection of mathematics and finance, this class is for you. Be ready to put in the time and effort to learn from one of the most enthusiastic professor and his great teaching staff. This is not an easy class, but an interesting one, make sure you use all the resources and give yourself a sufficient amount of time for each pset.
Take this class. Professor Blyth is the best lecturer I've had at Harvard. Material is challenging but taught very well and it's worth coming along every week to listen to the stories in the break. By the end of this course you'll have a strong grasp of derivatives for sure. Definitely recommend.
Very good course; take if you have any interest in a quant career.  There's a lot of jargon introduced early on, and the math is more difficult to apply than it appears.  Work can be tedious at times and the ways the material builds on Stat 110 are more narrow than advertised.  The upside, however, is spectacular: Blyth and his TFs are brilliant and interesting both as people and as resources (which I regret not taking greater advantage of during the semester).
It's a privilege to be in Prof. Blyth's class. It's a little theoretical. The first part, with arbitrage and replication, has kind of logic-based proofs. The second part has more probability, like integrating expectations. Overall, pretty theoretical approach while giving you some idea of the financial real world reality. It's a pretty different mode of reasoning from other stat or math, which is cool. Obviously most helpful if you are considering a quantitative derivatives trading position.
Don't get lost in the jargon. The math is never very complicated, although the notation might make it seem like it is
The content of the class is super interesting, especially if you're interested in markets and finance. Professor Blyth is also a fantastic lecturer and generates a lot of enthusiasm for the material. The anecdotes told in class breaks were especially pleasant. However, don't take the class unless you're really willing to commit a great deal to the material - it's very difficult at times.
This class was my favorite at Harvard. Stephen Blyth is an inspiring and energetic professor, and I thoroughly enjoyed this entire semester learning from him. You learn about some incredible topics in finance, so if you're into it, then take this class.
amazingly to see so many contents covered in one semester and with great illustrations
It is just so hard. I found myself hating the corse for most of the year but it was just because I was treating it like any other Harvard course. You really need to put a little bit more effort than you think in to stay above water. Once I did start understanding everything I actually really enjoyed it. But through the first midterm I was just miserable in this class. Put in the work and it's not so bad.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Great follow-up to STAT 110. Similarities include: brilliant Professor, great textbook that closely follows the lectures, homework that is interesting and well thought out, exams that are challenging but straightforward (easy to prepare for from previous exams). Blyth is an absolute LEGEND. God, I loved this class.
This was a great course! Stephen is a terrific lecturer who has so much great wisdom and humor to share during lecture breaks. Everything was so well organized, and assignments/exams were all very fair and stimulating. A lot of this course is being able to work well with signs (buying vs. selling) and understanding/working with the definitions of various derivative contracts; there is actually not terribly much probability or statistics used in the course.
I loved this course! The material was so interesting and applicable, and Professor Blyth was extremely enthusiastic and knowledgeable about the class. His stories and passion for quantitative finance were the reasons why I went to every class senior spring!
its good just less interesting than you would expect
Personally, I struggled way more in this class than I thought I would. It takes a lot of time to gain intuition about financial instruments and how they operate, and for someone with no experience with finance prior to this, the only parts of the class that I found rewarding were those relevant to probability and Stat 110. Just be aware that this class requires a lot from you and be willing to put that time in.
Gets you familiar/up to speed with a lot of financial instruments, but can feel redundant at times.
This is a great course to learn about quantitative finance on the wall street. However this is not really a stat class, besides taking expected values and integrating a normal distribution. Nonetheless, you learn a good deal about stocks, options, arbitrage and asset pricing. You could probably learn the same thing just by reading his book, however lectures are a lot of fun, and Blyth always tells stories about his Finance experience, which are always fun and interesting.
This course provides a solid but brief introduction to the quantitative aspects of finance. However, it never really gets at proofs for the very deep theorems, and instead opts to spend an inordinate amount of time on interest rate derivatives.
Very tough but one of the best learning experiences at Harvard. Blyth and the TFs are all great teachers and the amount you learn is incredible.
This is a great introduction into the world of quantitative finance. Prof. Blyth is an excellent instructor, and if you are interested in finance or statistics I would strongly recommend the course.
Stephen Blyth is amazing. He teaches the material so well, and always works in his real-world experiences so lecture is never dry. He didn't mention this often during lecture, but he was actually going through chemotherapy this past semester. It was such an inspiration to see him battling cancer while still putting in so much time and effort into the class. At the last lecture, he announced that his cancer was in remission, which was such a fitting way to end the class. By far the best class I've taken at Harvard.
Blyth is passionate about the subject and has years of industry experience. I did a bad job of going to lecture, but you shouldn't. He goes to great lengths to conversational breaks that he takes mid-lecture interesting and impactful. The textbook maps well to the lectures so it's good to read along in the textbook as he speaks.
Fun course that provides a very solid background for the math and statistics behind finance. It sometimes felt like topics were skimmed over, while other times material was explained in a lengthy, unintuitive manner. Despite this it was a good course that provided a strong understanding for derivative valuation methods.
Blyth is the man. This is his masterpiece. He is a witty, charismatic professor. He has gained so much knowledge through his work at Wall street and otherwise, so make sure you attend all his darn office hours and absorb his intellect through osmosis. As for the course, I was a bit dissatisfied with the statistics that we actually did. Come on. The whole thing boils down (more or less) to the fact that the price of a call option is it's discounted risk neutral expectation w.r.t. some information. Sounds fancy - I agree - and there are elegant ways to apply this smartly, but not worth being called a Stat course. Also, be ready to be wrecked on the midterm and write an infinitely long final exam.
If you're trying to get a job at Goldman Sachs or Jane Street, don't immediately try to take this class. Stat 123 is a very theoretically based course, and you will do no trading, and little actual application. What you will get instead is a very nuanced and in-depth study of pricing different assets that you might run into in the future. This class has a very steep learning curve, and if you haven't figured it out by the midterm, you need to sit down and go through all of the material again. Luckily, the textbook is literally the lectures, and resources are readily available for you to take advantage of. Once you understand the base of this course, the rest is surprisingly easy -- so make sure you can get over that hump of difficulty.
BLYTH IS THE BEST! This course is an elegant introduction to finance, motivated by probability and statistics. The lectures are well-organized and do not try to cram too much material. While the problem sets and exams were challenging, I came out of this course with a deep appreciation for quantitative finance.To succeed in this course, I'd recommend starting the homework early, going to office hours, and going to section (Raj is an especially great TF)!
This course provides a solid introduction to financial markets, their tools and how statistics are important within them, something I had very little understanding or experience with beforehand. Professor Blyth is an extremely interesting person to talk to with a fascinating life story. It may take a while to appreciate during the process of learning a good amount of new derivatives, their terminology and their relationships, even before statistics is heavily mixed in.
Good class overall.  If you want to take this for the stat and math, however, just be aware that at least half of the class is working through the definitions of different assets.  It's nice to have this specific knowledge, but the class definitely involved less theoretical math than I expected based on previous Q comments I had read.  If you want to do finance, though, you really need to do this class not because you need to know the material necessarily, but because Professor Blyth gives amazing resources and advice.  TFs are also amazing.
This is an excellent course for what it is supposed to be: an introduction to quant finance. It is a true introduction that sets out the language of the field more than delves into the complexity.
Blyth is a fantastic lecturer, no doubt. The material itself is relatively dry though, so only take it if you're legitimately interested in derivatives pricing.
Don't fall behind. Go to lecture and sections and read the book. Stephen's book is quite dense and it won't likely make sense on the first reading. So re-read the chapters and refer to other books, e.g. one by Hull, to supplement your readings. Investopedia has high level summaries of the topics discussed in this course; they can help you see the bigger picture.
This class is easily one of the best I've taken, although it was certainly challenging. People who love probability/statistics or are interested in pursuing a quantitative finance job should definitely take this class. Even those who don't fit into those categories should consider taking the course, as Blyth is an incredible teacher and has written very eloquently on a complicated topic. You will  come out of the course with a solid understanding of a lot of the mathematics of derivatives pricing in the discrete setting, as well as some knowledge of the overall financial system. Be warned that exams make up 80% of the grade, which can certainly be stressful as they were very difficult (average grade on the midterm was 54%).
Though this is quite a hard class, it's very enjoyable and rewarding. I learned a lot about the structure of the derivatives market and became really interested in the theory behind it. As a CS concentrator who knows almost no stat beyond 110, it took a while to get into the course, but Blyth is an incredible professor and I had a good time overall. Cool class!!
Not applied - very difficult, unrewarding
Psets for this class are due every 10 days, so while the work load may not seem heavy, the psets are hard and so is the material for this class. Going to section was really helpful for me because the lectures are very similar to the information in the text (which is pretty dense and compact, and as a result sometimes hard to digest). Professor Blyth is extremely dedicated and talented at teaching, and so are the TFs. This is not a class to be neglected by any means. You'll learn a lot of very useful information, but it proved to be a pretty difficult class for many of my friends studying statistics or math. I think it's really important to have a pset group, because sometimes office hours are at pretty inconvenient/inaccessible times, and often only last for about 1 hour.
Great class. Blyth is a boss. Definitely not easy, but manageable.
This is one of my favorite classes at Harvard--it's been fun to take something challenging but still manageable if you put in the work, and it's rewarding to now understand what various financial instruments are. The course staff is wonderful, and Professor Blyth makes the effort to get to know all the students, which was really heartwarming and made for a great classroom environment.
Outstanding class, but know that it is very difficult. Blyth is the man, one of the most inspiring people you will ever meet.
This is an excellent class. If you have any interest in finance I'd recommend it. Professor Blythe is amazing. I'd recommend getting to know him. His stories during the breaks are very entertaining and interesting. They range from talking about famous mathematicians to famous athletes. This class has definitely encouraged me to both work in industry and pursue more education. The information I learned in this class helped me get my summer job in quant finance. Definitely my favorite class this semester and maybe my favorite class so far at Harvard,
I have only a moderate interest in finance, but I really enjoyed the class and took quite a bit away from it. Blyth is an excellent lecturer, and I recommend the class on the strength of his teaching alone.
Take it if you can, you won't regret it.
Definitely worthwhile class that you should take if you're considering going into quantitative finance
Useful if you are interested in finance. The beginning of the course is a little confusing bc it is counterintuitive but looking back it makes sense. Course is fairly difficult and the test is hard.
The course is a very interesting and challenging introduction to quantitative finance. There are many interesting proofs and concepts to learn.
The course with Moore will be different than it is with the regular guy. The material is interesting if you care about finance a lot. If not, you should probably steer clear.
You should be very strong in math, proofs and probability.  The course starts out slow but really picks up steam toward the second half.  Exams are difficult
Great TFs, incredibly interesting material but also really hard. Need to be able to commit time to the class to get anything out of it/not fail.
Only take this course if you want a career in finance. The material is pretty boring, and not worth learning if you will not use the material in the future. The final is extremely hard, but curved.
Unreasonably difficult. Why should I have to memorize what every asset's payout function, numeraire, etc. is? How does this help in my understanding of the subject?
My favorite class at Harvard. If you are doing trading/thinking of working at a HF, it's super useful.
The exams are very difficult in this course. It strongly benefits one to have a background in finance.
Definitely a must take for those interested in Quantitative Finance.
This course is very effective and instructive. You will learn a lot of useful information and will learn the applications of many concepts.
Great class! You will learn all about financial instruments in a relatively rigorous manner. And at least historically, you were taught by a scholarly Englishman extremely well-versed in the practice of finance, not simply its theoretical nuances.
Better off just buying the book and reading it.  I doubt this class will be offered again though, so it might not even matter.
this class's book is excellent. blyth is a genius. this professor does not know what the hell he is doing and does not know how to engage his students. just keeping it real.
You will learn a lot about financial derivatives in the class.  The material is extremely research if you intend to learn how to value a derivative. On the other hand, the lectures were pretty dull and the class could have been more engaging.
Great class
Take it!
If you're interested in a career in quantitative finance and want to learn the ins and outs of concepts like forwards and options, you should take this class.
Only take this if you're committed to or deeply interested in a career in finance. Otherwise its miserable. The prof basically reads out loud from the book, the material is very confusing, and everything is very difficult. If you don't have a finance background, be prepared to be lost in finance terminology. I had a terrible time, although I'm sure part of this was because I have zero interest in finance.
Certainly not a walk in the park, and you might find it boring unless you're considering a career in finance. I feel like interest rate derivatives probably aren't the most universally exciting thing in the world, but any quantitative individual can probably appreciate the pricing models presented.
Moore did a great job picking up this course. Course follows the Blyth book, solid and useful concepts.
This class was very very challenging - definitely pushing me to work harder than many other classes. Although chapters in the text book were very short, they took a very long time to read and understand. Classes were mostly theoretical - explaining theorems in depth and long derivations of financial results. The homeworks and exams were extremely difficult - a very big learning curve was involved. The strengths were definitely in the TFs - Evan and Zach both really knew their stuff and were always willing to help. Professor Moore loved the experience of teaching - it was his first class as a teacher and I think that made the class a little bit difficult at the beginning. As he got more confident, however, the class got better and going to lectures became more worthwhile. At the end of the day, the class taught me to be a better thinker and I came away with a good foundation for future finance classes.
The course doesn't involve a lot of hard math but is challenging conceptually. If you want to know about trading you definitely take it
This class might disgust you from the very thought of finance. It is a mixture of superfluous jargon and unnecessarily complicated and seemingly unrelated math. It feels so theoretical and abstract that you might not feel like you got anything from it that related even remotely to the real world.
Very onteresting material that is very poorly taught.
