Stat 111 is a disaster. It's like Defence Against the Dark Arts -- a cursed class where lecturers don't last much longer than a year. As a result, they will be inexperienced and disorganized. The material is taught in a haphazard manner. You will feel miserable and confused. This class really isn't worth it -- take Astronomy 16 instead.
Only take this course if you have to. It is not that fun and you don't learn a lot. It's a shame that this is a requirement for so many things and it is so poorly taught.
Not a very well-organized class, but maybe better once the kinks are worked out.
To really learn the material, you will have to sit down with some supplemental texts.  The professor focuses more on applications but I feel the theory in Casella and Berger is really helpful in actually understanding what is going on.  It is a very cool course in helping you to understand what statistics is really about.  You really have to be excited about the subject though to like the course.
Stat 111 ideally should be taken after stat 110 to get a complete story however don't expect this course to be anywhere as good as stat 110.  Whereas the Blitz was amazing and enthusiastic and we learned a lot, here you'll learn very little unless the course changes and the professor doesn't really care about the class.  He canceled class over 5 times! I've never had a prof do anything like this.
Take the class if it's required, but make sure to attend sections otherwise you may find yourself a bit lost in the material.
Take this course if you're really really smart and can teach yourself the material, because you aren't gaining anything from lectures/the textbook.
it was hard at the beginning but you will eventually get used to the professor's teaching style at the end. no need to panic about getting loss.
Definitely attend section. The TFs clarify much of the more difficult course material.
Repetition of various concepts that have already been taught in other courses at a slightly higher level, thus I didn't feel that I have learned enough.
If they get a better professor, DO!! take this class.  The TFs (especially Sam) are generally great and the material is interesting.  The lectures were completely useless.
There are more interesting statistics courses if you don't need this as a requirement. Compared to the experience of Stat 110, this course disappoints.
It's just too easy and you don't cover enough stuff to make it worth your while.  I mean, we didn't even cover regression.  Also the professor is SO boring and mumbles.
The professor was well meaning but his lectures were poor. He should be better the next time around as he'll be teaching the class a second time.
I would only take this course if really necessary. You could learn all the important concepts in classes that use Bayesian updating like CS182, or other statistics class. Not as important as Stat110 at all. Moreover, the class was not that easy to be called an easy A.
You MUST take this class! Stat 111 is a necessary component of your education. Regardless of anything else, you need to invest in statistics. I know plenty of people who regretted not taking 111 as an undergraduate. Employers are impressed by your knowledge of statistics.
The material the class covers is interesting and good, but the class does a VERY poor treatment of presenting it and consequently I did not really learn it until the final. That being said, it could be better in future years than what we had to deal with--especially if they have another textbook or another Professor. Be ready to work hard though. The curve is pretty tough.
I would not recommend taking this class. It was very difficult and it was a challenge to do the homeworks as the textbook was useless. The TF's were helpful when they were at office hours, but I often got the impression they did not really care about the class at all. I don't think I ever saw a TF attending a lecture and sometimes they had different ways of solving the problem to the professor and the book, which was confusing. Overall, I thought the class was very disorganized, with TF's and the professor occasionally giving out conflicting information. Lectures were also often confusing.
Despite some troubles with the prof's lecturing style, I do feel as though I learned quite a bit in the class. I think the class could have done more to improve our in-depth understanding and intuition behind the statistical concepts--but that is a criticism which can be applied to far more classes than just this one. The sections were really what made the class decent for me.
work with people. Go to SECTION
Might be ok if Airoldi is not teaching it.
This class was overly difficult. The material is way down in the weeds and not taught in a way that leaves you understanding the fundamental concepts
I would recommend against taking this class: the professor cancels lecture frequently (4 times this semester); lectures are straight from the textbook so they don't provide any additional information; the textbook itself is unnecessarily complicated and confusing.  I feel I could summarize the concepts I learned in this class in a few sentences.
I really enjoyed this class despite it's shortcomings.  The course was disorganized, the book was largely unhelpful, and problem sets could sometimes be frustrating.  However, the material consistently interesting, and the problems of the course were never so problematic to ruin the experience.
Better than some alternatives like Econ 1126, now that it counts as econometrics for Applied Math: Economics. Some of the material was useful and I learned it effectively. However, lectures were not very useful, the problem sets took a very long time and were not always fair, and much of the material was too abstract and theoretical to be very relevant.
Take this class so that you can take higher-level stats classes. Don't take this class for its own sake.
You have to rely a lot on other students and the section TFs, but it's hard to justify a career/ concentration/anything in statistics without the class. It's definitely core material.
Sam and Kevin are awesome TFs, the material of the class is good, but the textbook and the lectures leave more to be desired.
This course does not help you build any understanding of statistical inference.
This course is potentially extremely interesting. It is supposed to cover material that is both fascinating in its own right, and widely applicable. However, the quality of teaching, particularly the lectures, must improve dramatically to make it worth anyone's time. If the course stays the way it was this semester, there are probably better and more effective ways of learning basic statistical theory than taking stat 111.
This class is good if you're smart; if you aren't, you'll have difficulty, but it won't be impossible.
Not a terribly bad course, just not a terribly good one either.   Actually quite a bit easier than Stat 110, for what its worth.  But what it gains by being easier it makes up for by being many, many times more boring than Stat 110.  Lecture isn't always worth going to, but the book is abysmal (they changed it this year because apparently last year it was even worse), so you really have to go to section to learn the material.
go to Edo's office hours; he is very nice and much more helpful in person than in lecture. be sure to go to Kevin's section also as he is the most comprehensible TF. you will not survive the class unless you go to tf office hours and sections--homework is unrelated to lecture.
Be willing to work and you will be fine.
Get Airoldi to change the book and start teaching something useful. I don't mind theory, but at least give some motivation behind the concepts.
You will likely learn much of the material in section - the text and lectures are often only mildly useful.
Shop this class to see if they have their stuff together before committing to it.
Still a work in progress.  Not structured well.  It needs a consistent Prof to mold it over time.
I would say that reading the text, in many instances, was a good way to supplement my understanding of the material.
programming experience is helpful
really good content, but difficult and depending on teaching may just be confusing.
Stat 111 has the potential to be a great course, if the professor becomes better organized and improves his lectures.  The material is useful and interesting.
Course materials are very important,so if you plan to study deeper in statistics, you'd better take this course(or learn the materials by yourself). Neither the course nor the book was not very helpful. Check who's teaching before you decide to take this course.
This course has many organizational issues it needs to figure out. For instance, notations. A student could literally spend the whole time just learning notations (and not the material) because the professor, TFs, and the textbook all use different notations. The professor clearly needs to communicate with his TFs more. Furthermore, the professor needs to be more faithful to his textbook, even though the textbook is awful.
The professor was a nice guy but his teaching was horrendous. The TFs should have taught the class.
If Edo is teaching it, do not take it. It is a complete waste of your time.
If you don't want a more theoretical understanding of statistics and only seek to learn the tools applicable in real life, you don't have to take this class. You'll learn the whole toolbox in Statistics 104. This class is for only those who want to take their statistical knowledge to the next level. Professor Airoldi is very helpful in office hours, so make sure you go to those if some concepts are not clear.
wait for a better professor
It's subject matter that that is really useful, and this is stuff you should know, but the class wasn't all that great, especially compared to stat 110.
It's pretty dry compared to Stat 110.
Kevin is a fantastic lecturer, and this is REALLY IMPORTANT material for anyone who hopes to write research papers in economics. Ryan was an excellent TF.
Not as hard as 110, but the course really picks up speed after the midterm.  You should have experience in R before taking the class, it'll make your life so much easier.
Take the class if you're still interested in Stats after powering through 110. Some may disagree, but I thought 111 was slightly easier than 110, but make sure you're prepared to spend a lot of hours on each pset. Sometimes making the time commitment is more difficult than tackling the material itself.
If you're concentrating in stat, then you have to take this course. If you're not, don't bother taking this course. Take Stat 139 or 186 instead. Kevin had a  major typo on the midterm, several typos in his homework solutions, typos in the practice exams and typos in the practice exam solutions. This made learning very difficult because you never knew if you could trust the solutions you were given. My advice is to always question his solutions if the answer doesn't make sense to you. If you can't figure something out on the midterm, forge on because it could be a typo and you might get points just for trying. Also, if you see something, do something. I caught typos on last year's practice exam materials which means that students all last year were studying from incorrect solutions. If you don't email Kevin with the mistake, it won't be fixed!
It's mostly Stat 104 all over again, and then they throw in a little more vocab at the end.
It's easier than Stat 110 in my opinion, but the problem sets take longer and R coding can be annoying. I would say that it's a useful class to take (but would recommend Ec 1126 instead if people are looking to fulfill the Applied Math requirement).
Go to section.
Kevin Rader is an awesome teacher and this class is definitely not as difficult as Stat 110.
I liked this class more than Stat 110. Still a lot of work and very challenging, but more data driven and involving code, so if you aren't a super theoretical person, you'll like this better. I mea def only do it if you need it, but I think definitely a more enjoyable class than last semester. Office hours are not as much of a thing as 110, so definitely have friends in the class or a study group.
teacher is awesome!
Be prepared to work. The exams are not like the preparation material or the problem sets but the TFs are very helpful.
In the past, Stat111 has received pretty low ratings. I noticed that in previous offerings of Stat111 taught by Kevin Rader, some people pointed out that he makes a lot of errors. I want to emphasize that this is NO LONGER THE CASE; Rader's lectures are very clear and accompanied with helpful examples. Homework assignments are well thought-out and give a good indication of how difficult exams might be. Rader provides plenty of practice problems and practice tests to make it easy to practice for the exam. The course is by no means easy; I would say it's slightly easier than Stat110 conceptually, but algebra is much more messy and it's harder to know whether your answer is right or not in the end. But I think Stat111 will teach you very important concepts in statistical inference that will be very useful for people interested in doing this type of modeling.
I would discuss its difficulty candidly
Stat 111 shifts focus from Theoretical Probability in Stat 110 to a more inference-based side. You'll see less math than Stat 110, and more about statistical tests.
This course felt different than Stat 110. There is much more focus on R programming, but it guides you through R pretty well if you don't have a lot of experience with it. The psets will take a few hours, but are very much doable if you set aside time for them.
It's true that Stat 111 is easier than Stat 110 by far, but that doesn't mean that it isn't difficult in it's own right. Be sure to understand all the psets because the midterm and final are derived directly from lecture, pset, section, and practice exam material. Nearly everything you do for the class is relevant for the exams (the R isn't tested but if you're interested in doing Stat research it's a good intro to R, mind you I had no coding background before this). Be prepared to work hard but you really do reap the benefits of your effort.
Interesting class.  If you have an interest in statistics then you will enjoy this course.
This class was very difficult but also useful.
Take if you have to, don't if you don't.
Tough, but definitely worth it.  Necessary for Stat concentrators and useful for those interested in applications of math and CS.
It's a good class. Not extremely applicable, but gives you good ways to look at the world and understand it.
If you loved the cool probability stuff from Stat 110 get ready to be dissappointed.  This class, especially towards the end, is much more rooted in R.  Overall you come out with a solid set of statistical skills to apply.  Definitely a much more manageable class in terms of workload than Stat 110 but not a walk in the park.
This class is a lot more difficult than people realize.
Stat 111, while a required class that is sometimes blown off by students relative to Stat 110, is a solid class. I think overall I liked the class and the material was interesting. It covers a lot of material very quickly. I found oftentimes the midterm and finals were tough to do well on. The problem sets are where you have the most control over your grade, so make sure to prioritize those. Other than that, study for the exams, and I'm sure it'll be fine, but committing a lot of time to studying doesn't always yield a good grade.
I really enjoyed this course. It's one of the few courses that I come out of feeling like I learned something that I can use in the future (especially with all the R we learned). It was difficult, but the trick is really finding which office hours are helpful. After that, psets become a lot more manageable. It's not really easy to do well in this course, since the tests are so challenging, but I would still recommend it.
Amazing course. All the fun of stat110 but makes more sense and is less work.
Good, but a lot of just using R and not enough theory for a course labeled Theoretical Statistics.
The different components of this course don't really mesh well: lecture doesn't help much with the homeworks and nothing will help you on the tests. Finding a section-leader you like and attending every one of their sections is your best bet for learning the material. I was frustrated because I thought this course would be more theoretical, and really give a rigorous and mathematical explanation of statistics. Instead, you memorize some formulas before the test and scramble for partial credit.
It's a lot of learning on your own.
If you have to take it, you have to take it.
Stat 111 is great! Not as fun as Stat 110, I'd say, but definitely incredibly useful and applicable. In terms of structure, the class is very similar to Stat 110, but not as difficult. I enjoyed learning how to use R because it gave us the tools to tackle problems that seemed more applicable. Kevin is great -- really knows his stuff and is a great lecturer! Also, always willing to meet at office hours and help out.
This class can be difficult, but don't be too worried if you're struggling with the psets or only do average on the exams, since it's still likely you'll get a decent grade in the class! Also, always collaborate with people to avoid making silly mistakes.
This is a necessary course for any stat concentrator or secondary. It could be a great course, but Kevin Rader is not a very good professor. Lectures were pretty useless, and by the end of the semester very few people were in attendance. The material and the problem sets were pretty easy (though office hours are very helpful), but the exams are really, really difficult. Make sure you have a strong grasp on the Stat 110 material, because often the exams questions are impossible without it. This class has a lot of overlap with Stat 139 and Stat 149.
This class is essential for statisticians. Not very cool for pure math concentrators - take stat 171 instead.
P-sets will take up all of your Thursday night.Also, really try to go to section every now and then.
Professor Rader is great, really accessible.  Love the structure of sections, can always find a good TF.  Useful material, not quite as interesting or difficult as Stat 110, but definitely still difficult.
This course covers a lot of topics that would be useful in future research and also clarifies, at least for me, some of the statistical procedures from previous courses. Although lectures can be dry it is really a result of the material. Kevin does a really good job of making it as interesting as he can and also running the course.
Good intro statistics course.
Take stat 111 if you want to continue what you started in stat 110. Rather than calculating probability based off of distributions, you will learn to approach statistics from several other angles.
I liked Stat 110 a lot better, but that's also because I think I liked the theoretical version of having to think better. There are a lot of terms and concepts that sound similar and can get confusing, but in the end, if you sort it out, it's not so bad and probably more useful for data-related purposes.
Be prepared to work hard.
Rader does a great job teaching this course. The material would otherwise be boring but I felt like I enjoyed the class. Did I go to lecture? No, but the slides were written well!
This is a really useful foundational class if you would like to continue learning about statistics
You pretty much need to take it if you are going to do more stats. If you aren't going to do more stats then don't take it.
STAT111 is a useful course to take if you are looking for awareness of the theoretical underpinnings of statistical tests, and principled ways to learn about the parameters of an assumed generative distribution from experimental data. You will finish not yet as an expert, but aware of diverse approaches and well placed to take more advanced courses.
This is a pretty hard course. It is demanding but very satisfying. Slightly easier than stat 110.
Do the psets in study groups and prepare like hell for the exams. And get your butt to section.
Great introduction to statistical inference. Kevin makes the sometimes abstract ideas tangible and clear. A necessary foundation to additional work in statistics.
This class does a great job of teaching basic material including MLEs, hypothesis tests and solid introductions to a lot of statistical tools. If you're familiar with coding then the class may be slow at times.
Liked this course very much. Very helpful for learning about statistical inference! Definitely take it!
Stat 111 is a course you have to take if you're a stat major but it's not too bad. You learn some useful things (R, especially).
The course provides a satisfying statistical grounding for a lot of basic but fundamental statistical concepts that come up in research. That said, it's not heavily applications oriented (look elsewhere if you just want to learn a bunch of tests). As someone who isn't looking to become a statistician, I found the exercises at times overly focused on deriving results, but there is steadily more emphasis on coding and data/model interpretation as the course progresses. Do know that Kevin, while generally quite clear, makes a fair number of arithmetic errors and that exams often have confusing errors (learn from my failures and ask when you get confused).
This is a difficult course, about as hard as Stat 110. Find a section you like early and attend often. Go to office hours to work on the problem sets.
Still a very theoretical course, but Kevin presents the topics in a concrete manner. You will most likely understand the topics in lecture and on the homework better than in 110, but that is no guarantee that the tests will be easy. There tends to be a good balance of theoretical material and actual applied statistics, so certain lectures may be a bit more interesting than others. Though you may not realize it immediately, this class will definitely help you out in later stats classes when the topics are more applied.
if youre a stat/machine learning guy, you really have to take this course. this is what people mean when they say statistics, and is where you see its relevancy in the world. lectures can be dry sometimes, especially towards the beginning of the semester when he shows off R. However, if you go to section, youll be fine.
Although figuring out R and error-checking your code can be a bother, the psets are genuinely interesting and worth the time they take.
This class is probably the least organized class I've ever taken at Harvard. There are so many typos on midterms and finals and some of them directly interfere with how you approach the problem. The proofreading of the exams is probably really carelessly done. Also, there are a couple points in the course slides that could be presented in a lot less convoluted ways. I seriously hope Rader could talk to TFs during course preparation and exam preparation so that all these mistakes and issues could be avoided. The material in this class is useful though, but Stat139 seems to be a way better choice.
This class is pretty much as hard as stat110. Will kick your ass all over again.
Don't take it unless you have to
The course's content is crucial for anyone who wishes to do statistics. However, the field is highly complex and requires a very strong professor to make this content accessible. This makes Professor Rader's strengths essential as he (1) makes highly abstract theory accessible, (2) walks your through applying theory to real data with great poise, and (2) helps students focus their attention on a few key points so one does miss the forest for the trees.
Stat 111 is a necessary evil if you're a statistics concentrator. In my opinion, it's more interesting, more manageable, and easier than Stat 110. Prof. Rader is a nice guy--his lectures are sometimes dry but that's more a fault of the material than him per se. I would only take this course if it's required of you by your concentration.
It's definitely better to do Stat 111 after 110, but it may be helpful to do it either after or concurrent to some other Stat classes such as 104, 139, 149, or 120. Stat 111 itself is not difficult to begin with; some familiarity with the concepts of hypothesis testing, of inference statistics or statistical distributions from the other classes would make this course a complete stroll in the park.
Not as bad as Stat 110 mostly because you've been prepared for it. Don't take it for fun but if you have to take it its not that bad.
This is a really great class and you learn a ton.  Rader was a great instructor and there's a ton of TFs to help you.  However, this class definitely does take a lot of work and isn't easy.  I consistently spent at least 10 hours a week on homework and the material was always challenging.  Great class but definitely challenging.
If you have to take this class: It's not quite as bad as people say, but you're not going to like it.If you don't have to take this class: Don't take it. It's not that bad, but there are better ones out there.
The class was much easier than stat 110 but also less interesting. Exams weren't too bad but still relatively difficult.
This class requires a lot of time and going to office hours in order to be succesful, so make sure not to overload yourself with other classes
Great class with a great teacher! I took this in conjunction with Stat 139, and I highly recommend the combination, especially if Kevin is teaching both! It's really neat to understand the theoretical basis for why certain methods in statistics are performed a certain way.
Interesting class, much easier than Stat 110.  Go to section, it's very useful for understanding the material at the level you need to for midterms.
Much more applied than stat 110
Stat 111 is a good introduction to statistical inference. However, for me it was not rigorous enough. If you're looking for a class like Stat 110, you will be disappointed with its lack of mathematical rigor. If you're looking for a class like Stat 139, you will be surprised by too much rigor. The course tries to strike a balance between the two, which it does a pretty good job of. However, I was looking for a course like Stat 110, so I was a bit disappointed.
This class is definitely worth the work! I enjoyed it more than Stat 110. Kevin is a great professor!
A necessary evil.  Material is useful, but a little boring.  Class moves at a slow pace, and nowhere near as chock-full as courses like Stat 110.
Great course definitely take it even for elective! You don't have to be stats to enjoy this class
It's so hard
You really should know R going in. Also, he referenced 139 ALL THE TIME in lecture, and the problem sets were a lot easier for the kids who were taking 139 at the same time. I thought that was kind of unfair and really frustrating, because I felt like I was being penalized for not taking 139 at the same time.
Start problem sets early.  Lectures are definitely worth going to
This is definitely a solid course, and is important if you are going further into statistics. However, there are other courses that offer similar syllabi, and they are probably better (for example, I learned just as much about maximum likelihood estimation in a much shorter amount of time in CS181).
Stat 111 seems to have been much better this year with Kevin Rader teaching it now. It was a challenging class but it is necessary for any stat concentrator. I really enjoyed Kevin's teaching style but it would have very helpful to have had more example and practice problems.
Stat 111 was a great course - so much better than 110! Rader is a great professor and is always accessible outside of class! The problem sets are manageable and you can really see how the material can be applied in real-world situations.
This class feels very useful
I loved the material of this class. Puts all the concepts you learned in 110 to use. The class isn't too difficult and the workload is definitely manageable. Kevin was great at explaining the concepts to us in lecture. Although sometimes, I wish he did a little bit more proofs to help us understand the equations better. I think Kevin is a great guy, but my goodness he was terribly slow. For the final, he took forever to upload his practice problems. And then he didn't even finish uploading the solutions to the practice problems until like midway through the day before the final. I was so very frustrated with this. He also makes like 10 million typos and it's quite difficult to deal with sometimes. But other than that, he's a great lecturer and I loved the class. He just needs to not make typos everyday.
I find the topic of statistical inference interesting, so despite the terrible disorganization of this course, I nonetheless enjoyed engaging with the material.  There were way too many typos in the problem sets and exam practice problems (both the questions and the solutions), and even in the exams! And also, the posting of many of the practice problems were way too late into the studying period for the final.
This course was frustrating at times because the homework was made unnecessarily time consuming. Lectures were difficult to follow along with. A good, practical introduction to R. Not terribly difficult, but at times frustratingly time consuming.
This class is very doable.  You learn some useful things and it's not very painful.  There's a lot of algebra involved and the problem sets are a little tedious, but overall, it's a pretty standard class.
Stat 111 is a really dry course with a great professor. Kevin Rader rocks; I'm had him in 104, 107, and now 111. He really really knows his stuff, and he's an absolute pleasure to listen to in lecture. His humor also can't be beat. Overall, the psets aren't bad, exams can be a bit tricky (though nothing like 110) and perhaps harshly graded, and the R code can get a tad annoying though not that overwhelming. I don't know what can salvage this class though because the material just isn't that interesting. Take it if you have to, but focus on the good things, like Kevin.
Until the kinks of this course are worked out and the exams are better written, I cannot recommend this course. Filled with typos and exams with questions that to beyond material we've seen before are unacceptable. Unfortunately it is a statistics requirement.
Only take it if you need it for your concentration or secondary.
It's difficult, but not as conceptually difficult as Stat 110. Stay on top of the lectures and psets, and be sure you actually understand the material. The course material is actually kind of cool. If you're thinking about taking 111, it's probably b/c you want to concentrate or do a secondary in stat. As I'm sure you found out in 110, only the strong survive.
Statistical inference is an interesting topic, this course is a good introduction to it.
Great class! Rader is an awesome lecturer.
Interesting and useful application of Stat 110 to understanding inference at a more theoretical level than the 100/104 series.
Some concepts in 111 are cool extension of 110. You'll see some interesting new takes on random variables (where their parameters aren't necessarily constant) and learn about the basics of Bayesian inference. If you like statistics enough, you'll be able to soldier through the class. That said, the course felt disorganized this year; we didn't make it through all the material we should have, and the course materials (lecture slides, practice midterms/finals) often had errors. Kevin and the TFs are very open and helpful in office hours, but the class can definitely get frustrating if you can't make it to them.
This class is great if you do a lot of research and want to know how to rigorously analyze your data. The class is more focused on teaching you tools than on teaching theory.
check who's teaching the course before signing up
Kevin is a great lecturer! Take this course if you want to learn more in-depth about hypothesis testing and statistical model fitting.
Great introduction to R, for those who don't know how to use it. Lectures have a good balance of theoretical concepts and practice problems - you don't really need the textbook! Problem sets are also very manageable.
The material itself may not be hard as Stat110 per say, but I felt the things we learned and the Rader's teaching style to be much less engaging than 110, so I struggled much more in this class. But for stat, it's kind of something you just have to slog through.
This was, in my opinion, a great complement and extension of STAT110. I thought that data manipulation was super cool, and it's basically the inverse of STAT110. You can do much more with the techniques that you learn in this class than with STAT110, and you are definitely more aware of common statistical techniques used in academic literature.
Stat 111 is much improved under Kevin Rader's leadership. It's still not a perfect course. I feel like I didn't learn as much as I could have, because the psets ended up being so much about R code, rather than the deeper underlying concepts. It's not like Stat 110 where the psets really challenge you to learn and process the material.
This is a really great followup to Stat110! It provides a completely different perspective and twist on what was learned in that course. I personally also really liked Kevin as a lecturer, and felt that the class was really well-organized.
This class is a requirement for Stats but is kind of a pain, just saying
sighyou have to take itjust power through it.
Let me tell you a little story about the end of the semester. I had back-to-back-to-back finals on the last three days, with 111 smack in the middle of it all. I was a bit worried- I had done disastrously on the midterm and had not really learned much in lecture. (I don't know about you, but an hour and a half of uninterrupted lecturing about log-likelihood ratio test statistics does for the soul what the Lannisters do to captured Starks.) Luckily, Professor Rader promised us three sets of practice problems, complete with answers and explanations, to be posted during reading week so we could all study with ample time to prepare our cheat sheets (magnifying glasses sold separately). Now, little did we know, Prof. Rader was also defending a thesis, or dissertation, or Winterfell, or something that sounded vaguely academic. Of course, he could have simply asked his TF staff to prepare problems from their section notes. Lo and behold, he does not. Instead, I go all reading period, preparing for my first exam, waiting for practice problems to fall like manna from heaven so I can finally learn exactly what a log is, much less a log-likelihood ratio test statistic. The first set of problems finally arrives, maybe four days before the exam. (It might have been four and a half, but it certainly wasn't during reading period. Remember, this final was on the second-to-last possible day, which means that all the while I get to look out at all my beautiful friends returning home to Florida, and California, and sending me these demoralizing and de-incentivizing pictures of beaches and other scantily-clad beautiful people.) So finally, midway through exam week, I get to work on these practice problems, and then wait another day and a half for the solutions to be put up. Practice problem set number two finally gets posted two days before the exam, with the answers following the next day. Waiting for practice problem set number three was more excruciating than watching Tyrion wrongly accused of murder, and yet lasted infinitely longer. You see, practice problem set number three doesn't exist, and probably never has. Kind of like my friend's sympathy when I told him this saga, and he politely reminded me that he was in five classes, and had five finals, none of which involved made up tests about logs, likelihoods, or pretty much anything else that started with the letter l. "Check your whining privilege," he told me. I told him to shove it. Now I know what you're thinking: why did I just read this ridiculously long and pointless story? Good question. You could've just scrolled down.          My TF was great though.
Solid course that covers very useful material, especially if you are interested in doing scientific research. Not the most exciting course, but Professor Rader does his best at making the material interesting and his enthusiasm is great! I would recommend this course simply because the material is useful. It's also not too hard.
You'll hear so much about likelihood functions.  Although the material can get very dry at some points, Kevin really does a fantastic job lecturing.
The exam questions may not be like the practice problems.
A lot of R, but the assignments were all pretty interesting.
I thought the class could have been taught much better than it was. Towards the end of the semester, I still showed up to lecture but hardly payed attention. I found that sometimes, going to lecture confused me to the extent that I spent more time than necessary on the problem set, and that not paying attention in lecture often resulted in less confusion. Obviously that is not a very good sign. Kevin uses powerpoint slides for lecture and only answers the questions he has in the slides in lecture, but he often doesn't explain fully, which is confusing at times. Also, there were an inordinate amount of typos on everything he produced, whether it was lecture slides, homework, or exams. But other than that, I learned a lot about inference.
Kevin is a phenomenally clear lecturer and very accessible and reasonable. However, sometimes mistakes were made in the class that confused me and other students I talked to and did homework with. You get much more out of the class by asking more questions.
STAT 111 is a good class to follow STAT 110; the teaching staff is extremely helpful and willing to assist in any way that they can.
The course offers a Bayesian and Frequentist approach to inferential statistics. Essentially, one learns how to make claims about parameters of populations which is an essential part of many academic disciplines. You also get a very hands on approach since almost every pset is accompanied by a full data set.
Stat 111 covers much of the same material as Stat 104, but at a more rigorous mathematical level. Instead of simply plugging numbers into given equations, you learn to decide which concepts to use to answer a given question and how to adapt standard methods to different settings. As a result, Stat 111 is much more rewarding and generally applicable.
This is overall a good course. The material is relevant and interesting, and it's not difficult. Kevin is very personable, and his lectures are very comprehensible.
This course is a little dry but its so necessary for everything that you should sit through. Kevin Rader is a good lecturer and he makes it as interesting as it can be. There's also lots of applications and computation problems.
Kevin Rader is the best teacher at Harvard. The material is fantastic and really interesting, I liked it a lot better than 110 to be honest. The stuff is really cool and is more applicable to how statistics are used in the real world, in my opinion. Great class!
If youre a statistics major you basically have to take this course. Its about inference, and if Kevin Rader teaches it, it will probably be very application-based. If you were hoping this class would be rigorous and beautiful like Stat 110, be prepared to be a bit disappointed. This class focused more on applying methods we learned, and we did not delve too deeply into the theory or necessarily learn why certain things were true. The homework questions were pretty well-written, though, but you will probably find yourself doing a lot of R coding. This is very tedious but is necessary and its a good exercise, so make sure you have some experience in R or programming in general before you start in the class. Overall, probably wont match up to Stat 110 in terms of beauty, but a pretty decent statistics class.
Great course, Kevin is the man. You should take it fer sure
It's a good class. Kevin Rader knows what he's doing. Go to section.
What can I say...Kevin is Kevin. And I mean that in a very positive way. He is very down to earth, and he treats the material as something anybody can get with some effort. He's also very approachable and funny, with his favorite transition in lecture being, "So what the HECK does that mean??" I'm gonna start busting that one out in random corners of my life. Overall, this is a good introductory statistics course. I feel like I'm leaving with a solid understanding of basic statistical theory. You will learn precisely what p-values and all that stuff meanwhich is pretty important, since stats are everywhere.Oh, and I never realized that guys and girls, on average, face different directions when showering. Which is to say, the way Kevin incorporated the surveys from the first day of class into the course was awesome.
The midterm is not very relevant to the kinds of questions asked on the homework, so make sure to really understand the concepts of the course
It's important who the professor is.
Not sure why the stat department can't get this one right. Part of it is that the material is inherently less interesting. Would be a lot better if they integrated more 110 into the course. Kevin does a pretty good job explaining the material, but he makes a few typos in the lectures which are distracting and generally, the class lacks the mathematical umph that made 110 challenging but very rewarding.
The class was ok overall. It felt a bit disorganized this first iteration, but things will probably improve in future iterations. Also, the class is taught using powerpoint, which means that there was often a lot of information presented all at once and sometimes just too much information.
Great class but if you are not a fan of applied statistics, it can be boring.
A good class to get the basics of statistics, if you want to become reasonably familiar with the principles of it.
Kevin is a great teacher. going to lecture is very helpful on the problem sets, which can be fairly time consuming.
Hopefully the number of typos and mistakes will decrease next year. There was often conflicting material on lecture slides, HW, and section notes, which was frustrating. The midterm and final this year was also hit-or-miss, as this was the first year of Kevin teaching....
Kevin is nice but he makes more mistakes per lecture than most professors will make in a semester, so don't print the slides until after kids correct them in class.I wouldn't take this course unless it's a requirement. The material is dry, the class moves really slowly, and the examples in class don't build intuition at all, as you just sit there and watch Kevin set derivatives equal to zero.The psets were repetitive to a comical degree - seriously, the number of times we had to calculate a exponential/normal/poisson mle or write a function called expo.loglik...
Very good course overall
Needed for stat secondary. Really boring course, boring material, and unnecessarily difficult.
Awesome class! Kevin Rader is a great instructor and his assignments actually involve real data (will learn to code in R). Fair exams, moderate workload.
Kevin is great although his exams can be ridiculous in that they will test previously untested material.
Rader is awesome and the course is better than people give it credit for.
A pretty tedious course.
It's hard but very useful
The class material is great, and Rader has a lot of the right traits of being a great teacher. The problem is, he wasn't quite there this year. He made a lot of mistakes in lectures, and didn't seem too concerned when he was corrected. It took him a long time to post practice problems for exams online, and when he finally put answers (24 hours before the exam), there were still mistakes. Still, he's enthusiastic, and if he gets his act together this could be a really good class
Enthusiastic professor - won't be taught the material from anyone else more effectively.
If you don't want practice problems for the tests posted the day before the exam, don't take this class.
It's not the most alluring subject material, but you'll learn a lot (esp. about likelihood). Dr. Rader does a really good job making it as interesting as possible, and the problem sets are very helpful in understanding the material.
it's pretty interesting and practical
It's harder than people make it out to be.. and a lot of messy algebra.
This class teaches you a lot of useful tools. It's not as difficult as Stat 110, but it's not as interesting either.
Don't let this class stop you from getting an ec secondary! I thought it would be terrible and really hard, but compared to Stat 110, Stat 123 or a lot of quant classes, this is pretty straightforward. The course had some organizational issues this year, (as Kevin said at the midterm, "it wouldn't be Stat 111 without a typo") but nothing egregious, just enough to make people who like to work ahead mad. Kevin is really accessible, and Lo-Hua was an awesome TF.
Stat 111 is not as fun as stat 110. I don't think this is the fault of the professor, or the course staff, or any logistics of the course; I think the material is just inherently less interesting. There is much more algebra, either to piece together tedious proofs or to calculate desired quantities, and it can get really ugly. I feel like there are fewer concepts than stat 110, and just much more tedious work. I would not recommend it as an elective because it's not really enjoyable and you can get the same data analysis skills from stat 104 for much less work.
Definitely take this course if Kevin is teaching it again--he is a fantastic lecturer and really cares about the students! There were many typos since this was the first iteration of the course, but these are bound to get better in future iterations. I took Stat 111 as an elective even without Stat 110 and found it manageable (but hard work!), and now feel like I have a solid foundation in statistical inference. You will also feel semi-proficient in R after taking this course!
Go to sections. TFs really help you process the material.
Stat 111 is among one of the most applicable courses Ive taken here. The course teaches you the basic tools of inference statistics, delineates Frequentist vs. Bayesian perspective nicely, and is a great extension of Stat 110, showing you how to think intuitively about probability distributions in modeling and how the language of random variables, expectation, variance, and distribution apply to real world settings through simulation, computation, and problem solving. In terms of preparation, having a solid grasp of Stat 110s concepts (in particular random variables, distributions, properties and stories between them and definitions of expectation, variance, and covariance) is essential. Being good with summation manipulation, algebra, and derivatives is also useful. Essentially all the applied math skills! Having MATLAB/CS50/basic coding experience is useful too, as the usage of R is a nice touch to make the theory more applied.Kevin Rader did a fantastic job modeling this course after Stat 110. Especially after 111 did not get fantastic reviews last year, Kevin did a good job building off of Stat 110s probability foundation. The material itself is hard to understand conceptuallyit is more subtle in some sense than 110, and I think I would still need future stat courses to really understand inference. But this course was a fantastic start. TFs also did their best to helpJoseph in particular designed his section handouts to reinforce concepts from class and help with the HW. I was also really excited to see concepts come up in life science research I was conducting at the timeI think its phenomenal to see to how many things Stat 111 can be applied.
This is the most badly taught course I've ever taken. Problem sets were tedious and handed back weeks late or not at all. Half the midterm relied on material not touched on before, which the instructor slipped into review notes the day before without telling everyone. Practice problems for the final were handed out at the last minute, even though exam was one of the latest. If you have to take this, wait until they change instructor.
This class is really interesting, and has some really cool applications to applicable statistics. The professor is really enthusiastic, and although class can seem a little long, the psets are very intriguing. It's very interesting to learn the background to many of the tests we learned to use in stat 104.
Beware of typos and not really learning much theory at all
A good introduction to statistics that is more rigorous than Stat 104. It may not be as challenging or rewarding as Stat 110, but it is a decent course if you'd to like to learn some inference using your knowledge of distributions.
One of the more challenging courses at Harvard. Be prepared to work hard and spend your nights doing problem sets. Definitely go to section. Kevin is a great teacher and really cares about his students. Exams are very tough though
I like Kevin's teaching style. It is a course you shouldn't miss in Harvard.
This class provides a practical grounding for the material covered in 110 and is far more straight-forward (and thus, easier). It recapitulates much of the material from STAT 104 or STAT 139, but with a slightly deeper sense of the estimation issues involved, so it's somewhat but not entirely repetitive.
This course is a great complement to Stat 110, and makes sense to be taken immediately after it. I think with a little logistical improvements, this class has the potential to become one of the "great courses" at Harvard, akin to Stat 110, CS 50 etc. The material is super interesting, and Kevin makes sure it is always connected to the real world. While he isn't always the most structured, Kevin truly wants to see you learn and enjoy the class. Also he's just a great guy - you should make an effort to get to know him!Take this class to learn about "actual" statistics!
Don't come to this course expecting STAT110 all over again - it's not as well taught or organized or engaging. Personally, I always ended up watching the lectures in my own rhythm and skipping over some review parts that dragged on too much - it allowed me to focus better. But Professor Rader is far from being as bad as some claim him to be; he's actually very nice and helpful. Overall I actually really enjoyed the course and it does give you a strong background in inference, so I'd recommend it.
Stat 111 is an excellent counterpart to Stat 110 & a useful course for further study in the Stat department
The class is really only helpful if you're a concentrating in Stats, otherwise I probably wouldn't recommend this class. As its name suggests, it really delves into the theory about how various tests are built and why they are built the way they are. The class will often ask you to mathematically calculate something by hand and verify by using the built-in R command to see if the answers match. The weekly psets contain a lot of R work and take a significant amount of time to complete. The midterm and final are also very challenging.
This is actually a fantastic class to tie together statistics and probability! I was convinced that I only really liked the "mathier" stuff like probability and stochastic processes, but 111 revealed some of beauty underlying previously boring and opaque methods introduced in Stat 104/139. Take it to feel like a real statistician.
It's probably not that interesting if you're not concentrating in Statistics, and it definitely doesn't have the appeal of 110.  It's probably more useful though; in 110 you make assumptions about the world and then find the probability of observing a certain subset of results, which almost never happens in real life.  111 is like the opposite direction, where you observe some results and then try to generalize what you see to make a statement about the world, which seems more useful in reality.  Not super interesting, but not that much work.
Be prepared to do a lot of computational work, including a lot of programming in R. If you have a CS background, it will be fairly easy, but otherwise I can see it being rather annoying. The tests are also very hard, and the material on the tests seems to correlate rather loosely with what we cover in class. However, you will have learned statistical inference, and you will feel that you have learned it.
Take it if you have to or for some reason have an incredible love for statistics
Lectures aren't that helpful, but slides don't contain all the info covered in lecture. Overall, you'll learn important statistical techniques.
Stat 111 delivers exactly what it promises: it teaches you the fundamentals of statistics in a rigorous fashion. You are left with a flexible ability to tackle a number of statistical problems both by hand and using computer methods, or at least to know what initial approach to take on them. It should be noted that the class is difficult and calls for hard work, and I personally did not find it fun the same way Stat 110 was.
If you put in enough effort, you should be able to learn a lot, but some of the flaws that the course has makes learning the material more difficult than it has to be.Lectures often spend way too much time on tedious algebra, exams place too much of an emphasis on computation, and the homework/exam solutions are littered with mistakes. You should probably take this course, but proceed with caution.
great class, learn lots of cool stat things useful for stat 139, stat 149, data science, machine learning, and more! Pretty difficult material and the exams are very different from the lectures/psets...
The exams can be hard. It can be hard to follow the lectures sometimes. Kevin talks SO FAST.
incredible lectures; engaging, informative
If you've even made it to this page, it's only because you're trying to figure out exactly how bad this required class is going to be. The lectures are simply impossible to follow, so don't bother going. Try to learn the material by yourself/from the TFs, and God speed to you. Also, they say that Stat110 is the only prerequisite, but that's a complete farce. Professor Rader is constantly referring to stuff "you learned in Stat104". If you didn't take 104, you might be at a bit of a disadvantage.
This is a good pairing with CS181. Be familiar with Stat 110 concepts if you want to take this.
A more useful but less exciting course than Stat 110
Stat 111 is difficult, not as hard as stat 110, but definitely still hard. Psets take a lot of time, although it's nice that there's only one midterm. Lectures are recorded, which is convenient
If you have no previous coding experience, don't take this class. If you took 110, liked it, and thought "Hey maybe I'll do a stat secondary, it's only 4 classes!" don't take this class (that was me, and I'm no longer considering a stat secondary). If you don't like doing random atrocious algebra for no apparent reason, don't take this class. The teaching is worse than 110 and the material is less interesting and more convoluted.
I like analyzing actual data sets - it makes the material seem a lot more applicable and real than probability questions seen in Stat110
This is a requirement for Stat concentrators but it is a requirement because these concepts are that important to know. You basically learn why the stuff that you learn in Stat 104 makes sense and actually work, so it's pretty cool from that perspective. Rader was pretty reasonable this year with the number of psets and his exams (although the final was pretty hard)
I think it's good stuff to know. Make sure to really attend sections. Don't take the class for granted, and make sure to get an early start on psets
I'm tempted to say that Stat 111 is a vanilla class, but I feel like that would be doing a great disservice to the flavor of vanilla. I mean, people actively seek out vanilla-flavored products. Nobody's clamoring for anything Stat 111-flavored.This class is one of the most poorly taught classes at Harvard. It will disappoint you. Especially if you're coming off the heels of Stat 110, this class will fail to meet a single expectation that you had from your fall semester. The lectures and notes are awful and are often not relevant to homework or exam material. Professor Rader is inconsistent, and there is no structure to his class. The material for this class is substantively easier than Stat 110, but the instruction is so awful that it makes Stat 111 a much more difficult class.Other reviews might tell you that "you have to eat your vegetables" with Stat 111 to get to the other fun classes in the Stat department, but they won't tell you that these brussel sprouts are laced with arsenic. Honestly, if you're thinking about a Stat concentration, keep in mind this class is required. Consider if you want to put yourself through a semester of torture, or just take the easy way out with an Econ major.
MUCH harder than STAT 110, most likely because of how poorly taught it is. Kevin is a terrible teacher, capable of making even the simplest of concepts impossible to understand. One of the worst classes I've taken at Harvard. It's a shame, since the material is so important/useful, and could probably be interesting if it were well taught.
If you're interested in stat and willing to put in the work, great class. I like that the problem sets use real data sets, and while lectures are sometimes dry, you do learn a lot and the workload is reasonable.
This class has a reputation of being bad, and I can't disagree. If you're taking it's its probably a requirement, so you have no choice either way. That said, this class would have been much better had I taken Stat 104 first.
Very useful class, makes you more comfortable with data, well-organized
This is a very difficult class, so be prepared to put the work in if you want to succeed.
Unless you are a Stat concentrator, this is not a particularly interesting course. Good foundation for stat majors but not very fun/interesting for other quanty students
Everything is pretty hand-wavy, so if you like actually understanding things you might not like this course. Overall, this class was pretty frustrating for me. I ended up having to accept a lot of things without understanding why they are true. In retrospect I would have taken 211 instead. Kevin is nice, and does include derivations on his lecture slides, but doesn't go through them in class.
It's not as bad as people say it is. It's not as great as 110 but it certainly is a lot more useful.
some repetitive to stat 139. should probably take just one of them
This course is challenging.  The p-sets are pretty brutal without help and often require long and difficult algebraic calculations (lots of summations, products, etc.), as well as lengthy portions of R.  Go to section as it will help a lot with the p-sets.  Do not fall behind at the beginning of this course and make sure you really build a good understanding of the most important concepts as you go along (estimation, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, etc.), because they all inter-relate.  With that said, don't be scared to take this course - the material you learn is very applicable, Rader's a super good guy, the course staff do a great job of teaching it and are all very accessible, and I certainly left this course feeling like I struggled and learned something valuable.
Very hard class, the lecture notes are essentially useless. I think there is a book coming for the class (if there is then that will probably vastly improve the situation!).
Not a great class but you have to take it for a Stat major or minor. Gateway to more exciting Stat department courses
This class is definitely not as fun as Stat 110 but isn't as bad as many make it out to be. Problem sets can be tedious due to a lot of R coding. Rader is a good lecturer who explains things clearly.
very useful course. not as difficult as stat 110. the lecture notes are great but the lectures are boring.
Don't take this class as long as Rader is teaching it unless you have to. If you want to learn this material, go google maximum likelihood estimation, Bayesian inference, hypothesis testing, and whichever statistical tests interest you, and save yourself a ton of wasted time trying to understand what the hell Rader is talking about. It seems from talking to people that you either knew most of this stuff from other classes, and therefore did well but didn't learn anything, or you didn't learn a damn thing and got ravaged by an extremely unfair final. Do yourself a favor and avoid this class.
Hard class, much more technical involving much more computation than 110, but useful to know. Some lectures are not clear, expectations on the tests are not so clear either, but teaches you a lot.
This class teaches you a lot about statistical inference, and the material is very interesting and useful. Unfortunately, Professor Rader may be too smart for his own good, and tends to lecture in a manner where a lot of information can get lost amidst his incessant use of technical terms. Overall an interesting class, but be prepared to work to learn a lot of the material on your own.
Not nearly as elegant as Stat 110. Probably easier, but just kind of annoying. Don't get the textbook
the material is lowkey really interesting, but problem sets and exams are quite difficult. learn some R before taking the course because it will help on the problem sets - some psets are literally half coding in R
This class is pretty tough. You learn a lot though.
If you're a statistics concentrator, this class is necessary, but really don't dread it at all because it's not that bad. It is difficult, but not as bad as Stat110, and if Nicole is still a TF, she is really great and will help make the course a lot better. Rader is a pretty boring lecturer, and the class overall is not that exciting, but it's necessary. If you don't have to take Stat111 I'm not sure I would recommend it as you don't learn a lot of widely applicable skills, and don't become super sufficient in R by taking the course (which is something I was hoping to get out of the course).
If you did well in Stat 110, you will do fine in Stat 111 - just be prepared to Google things a lot because the lecture slides are not useful and the textbook is awful, unlike Stat 110.
Kevin does an excellent job of making sure you really work through and understand the material, so if you're interested in actually learning something, this class is a good one.
really great class to learn a lot about probability inference and hypothesis testing. the psets can be a lot of computation at times but you will learn a lot about hypothesis testing and it's a really helpful background to have if you will be in any field that requires probability inference (most fields)
It's a good introduction to inference. Classes are less exciting when compared to Stat 110 but the material is certainly dryer. I enjoyed learning R thanks to this class.
This class isn't stat 110. It's a lot more applied, and there isn't the same mathematical rigor.
Sure, it's not very well organized still, but it's manageable. If you only take 110, you probably will be fine for a lot of interviews, but 111 frankly interested me a lot more because you actually see how to do stuff with data rather than just theoretical stuff in 110. Would definitely take it, even if you are not stat
This course will give you the basic grounding needed to start doing basic inference work in Statistics.
I found that the material in this class was useful and interesting, but I had a lot of trouble understanding it. There are not a lot of practice problems, and the book is not very helpful. Kevin uses slides for his lectures, which I found really helpful for note-taking purposes. Something nice about this course is that it also helped me become comfortable with R.I would say that you shouldn't be afraid of this course, but know that it is really challenging, and evaluate whether you have room in your schedule for that. It is a nice follow-up to 110.
I think this course provides a good foundation for other statistics courses as well as machine learning. In ML and stats, you will see maximum likelihood estimation and maximum a posteriori estimation show up over and over again, and you go over those thoroughly in this class. I found this course very useful for CS 181. You'll also go over things like confidence intervals and hypothesis testing. You will get exposure to R in the homework assignments.
If you're taking this class it's because you have to as a stat concentrator - Kevin is Kevin and the class isn't the most straightforward. Find a good section early on and competent pset partners. If you're familiar with R it will be helpful, but otherwise the class isn't great but could be worse.
standard required course. important material to know.
Don't take this class unless you're a statistics concentrator. It could on the surface be interesting and important material, but the presentation is pretty much absolutely pitiful, and the problem sets are all a nuisance. The presentation of the material lacks rigor and coherency, and it's really hard to feel like you learn all that much from this class.
This course teaches fascinating material, and is incredibly useful. However, it is not as organized or as resource-heavy as Stat110. Find the good TFs early on, and they'll be great resources in section and office hours.
It's an important subject that's worth studying. Lectures are a waste, but at least you get through the material.
It's not as fun or interesting as Stat 110, but it is pretty crucial content for handling data and making decisions in the real world.
This class is easier / takes a lot less time than stat 110.
Class material is super dry and the lectures are really boring. The assignments are way too long and excessively R-heavy which doesn't make sense since R is never tested on exams.
If you're a stat concentrator like me you have to take this, but it is not the greatest course in the department. All the techniques used in this class are really useful and Professor Rader is a cool and considerate guy, but his teaching style didn't really get through to me. The CS in me enjoyed doing a lot of R on the psets but this course sucked the fun out of probability that Stat 110 instilled in me. Pay attention to random details on the lecture slides, they will appear randomly on exams so memorizing more stuff can help.
This class is really hard. It's a lot of work and not a ton of fun. That said, Kevin does a good job making the problem sets interesting, and the class is rewarding. I went from zero R knowledge to being relatively competent.
It is a solid class, but the material is somewhat tedious. The work takes decently long to complete but is not mentally challenging.
It's certainly not Stat 110, but it's still a good theoretical stat class. Definitely an important class to take if you want to go onto higher level stat/data science courses.
I didn't find this class as bad as people make it out to be. The material is super interesting and Kevin definitely isn't a dull lecturer. If you find a good section to go to you can really learn a lot in this course. Questions on psets/exams can often be vague and give you a weird sense of not knowing quite what they are asking, but overall not too difficult of a course.
The material is incredibly interesting and important, it's just taught really badly. Especially coming out of Stat 110, the teaching seems horrible. Rader is super nice, but not very good at explaining, so if you feel excited about the material, definitely take this class, but be prepared to be frustrated. If you are just loosely considering taking this class and aren't a maths wiz, this class is probably more frustration than it is worth.
This course teaches you how to think about statistics in a very different way from Stat 110. It is more grounded on real-world applications and the analysis of data. It is very challenging but also extremely rewarding. I would suggest going to lectures and sections and office hours. Stay on top of the material, in particular during the first half, because it then becomes increasingly more challenging and it builds upon the first part pretty heavily.
everything you heard about this class is true, but also it's still one of the most interesting courses i've taken
Take this class only if you have to.
Do a ton of practice problems and try to spend time every day either reviewing the lecture notes/videos or working on the pset. I left a lot of my stat 111 work until Wednesdays and Thursdays, and this definitely hurt in the long run.
Don't think it's an easy class - it's not. But it's definitely manageable if you put in enough time on the homework and with studying.
This is a good course, but much easier if you've had 139 or a similar regression course.  It took me as much time as 110, but the type of work was different (more coding, rather than puzzles).  Problem sets don't necessarily prepare you for exams.  I found exams were harder than in 110 as you were much more likely to be thrown a curve ball, but that might change as more practice material is developed.  This material is super important to understand so even though it's a tough class, definitely consider taking it!
Rader is not the most engaging lecturer, confusing more often than he clarifies. Exams are pretty difficult too. Unfortunately, you can't avoid this class if you're a stat concentrator.
Lacks rigor, but it's an introduction to stat so take it.
Stat 111 is much better than Stat 110. If you did poorly in Stat 110, don't feel discouraged from Stat 111. It's a completely different ballgame. You learn less topics but the topics you do learn, you learn much more in depth. Rader tries to delve into topics and his lecture slides are really easy to follow. The homeworks are also very doable. Whereas Stat 110 you could get stuck on a problem for hours, in Stat 111 you are always able to keep problems going. Yes, the class is challenging, but it is a very doable class if you are willing to put in the work.
Take this is you want to be a Stat concentrator. Otherwise look for a class that is more applicable.
Don't go into this class expecting it to be as awesome as 110. The content behind 111 is just fundamentally a little bit drier. That being said, when you finish this course, you have a good grasp of the ideas behind most of the statistical analysis that takes place in the world, which is pretty rewarding. Kevin isn't the most exciting lecturer, but his office hours are extremely helpful.
You are likely taking this class because you have to for the stat department, but it is actually a great class.  Kevin is the best and you will certainly learn a lot.  This class can be frustrating at times, so you need to be patient, but if you engage with the material a lot, you will get it.  Very different feel than 110 which is much better, so don't worry that you are reliving 110 with this class.
Important concepts to know (inference). Kevin can be a confusing lecturer sometimes because of the amount of material you need to learn in a very short period of time. Lecture slides often end with question marks that Kevin answers in class but in a somewhat obfuscated manner, so sometimes you just won't get the important concepts.Section notes and homeworks will be good resources for doing well.
Great class - you walk away really feeling like you've learned a lot not only about how to use statistical inference but also understanding some of the ways that the different tests/concepts tie together in their derivations. TF's and professor are fantastic!
This class is super useful and applicable to practically every field. It is truly a basis for further statistics studies. It basically goes into more depth than Stat 104 and builds off Stat 110. Kevin is approachable for questions. He knows the stuff real well. He has an alpaca on his farm.Advice-- go to section! Section is necessary because lecture is confusing, especially since it's the first time you're seeing new material. Section consolidates everything. Be BFFs with your TFs. Kevin also holds OH, which are helpful, but do look at the pset before going to OH.Beware-- the exams are hard. And there's only a midterm and a final.
Useful, but disorganized and confusing slides and bad lectures.
Take this course seriously and be ready to work extremely hard.
Probably more useful than Stat110, but there's probably better alternatives if you're not really a statistics enthusiast.
Pretty solid foundation of statistical inference. Not as well organized as Stat110 but definitely worth taking. I personally felt that it was harder than 110, exams were more difficult and there weren't as many resources (office hours, practice problems, etc. )for psets and exams.
Take this if hypothesis testing, maximum likelihood estimation, and bayesian stat sounds cool to you. Also, Kevin's a BOSS. A BOSS.
Slightly easier than Stat 110, but I found the exams to be harder. Homework is heavily R-focused, so prior exposure may be helpful.
In my opinion, it's easier than STAT 110, but STAT 110 is more organized and taught better
Definitely attend lecture.  It is very helpful to learn tricks regarding R code.
Quite hard, has good bit of coding
This class was difficult, and the teaching style was not as effective as in Stat 110, but it can be rewarding as well.
Take this class only if you are seriously considering either a concentration or secondary in statistics.
I took this as a CS concentrator interested in learning a bit more about theoretical stat. Ultimately, I felt like it was really not particularly interesting from a CS perspective as we spent a lot of time on hypothesis testing and the psets were extremely heavy on R, which is pretty easy if you come from a coding background and not very interesting. I would probably recommend that CS concentrators skip this class and take CS181  instead which covers a decent amount of stat and a lot of similar concepts (Bayesian inference, MLEs, etc.) but more from a CS perspective.
It is overall quite an interesting class, and needed for anyone who has ambitions to take higher level statistics classes, but I can't imagine anyone who hasn't a primary interest in statistics taking this course.
Material was very rigorous, but turned me off from statistics as a discipline to be honest. I felt that all the different testing methods and the easily neglected but crucial changes to be made depending on the context of the question, were extremely tedious. Lecture explains concepts quite well, but the homework is significantly more complex than lecture examples, and requires extensive use of R often without much guidance.
Stat 111 moves a little slow, and is plagued by many errors on problem sets and exams. That being said, it covers important material, and is definitely necessary. Try to take it with another professor and not Kevin Rader.
If Kevin Rader is teaching it I would wait to take it
I really enjoyed 110probably more so in its execution than 111but I'll be the first to admit that the concepts taught in 111 are far more useful if you're looking to get into applied statistics/data science. Psets are fair; exams are difficult-ish but fair. Take this course!
It is not easy but you get to learn a lot.
This class is hard, and made harder because the professor struggles to convey material to students. I felt like I got nothing out of the 3 hours every week with Rader. There is also no textbook, so you are left on your own. The exams were much harder than the practice exams online.
Don't take unless you enjoy studying a lot for midterms/finals!
If you don't need to take this class, I would not recommend it.  Much of the material can be learned in a more applied manner in other STAT courses!
The course material is very interesting. Unfortunately, it is poorly taught, without much intuition or proof of the results being provided. As a result, the class turns into a lot of memorization, which is incredibly unsatisfying. The PSETs are also pretty boring for the most part, with large R components that are pretty tedious and uninteresting. The exams were also pretty bad, focusing on topics that were not at all emphasized during the course (this was reflected in the low averages of the exams). Take it if you want the logical next step after Stat 110, but be prepared for a much worse class.
The overall feeling of this course is more straightforward than Stat 110. The R component allows you to learn more potential applications, though it's a very basic background in R.
Use all the resources available!
This class is hard! You should go to section, read Matt's helpful hints, and always check how your points add up.
If you have to take it you have to take it. The course is interesting but frustrating. Psets are plug and chug or algebra bashing a lot of the time. Exams are a moving target and difficult to study for. But if you're interested in statistical applications (that is more real world stuff than Stat 110) you get that out of this class, which is awesome. Work hard and ask questions.
Kevin is a phenomenal professor and really walks you through the material. You will leave with far more knowledge than you came in with.
Really good foundational course for understanding core statistical concepts, even (especially) if you've already been running regressions for a while
Material is so important in addressing statistical concepts and understanding.
This is still a very difficult class even after getting through Stat110. You REALLY have to understand the material, and don't slack off on the psets because they are very helpful.
Take it if you need it. I would NOT recommend this as an elective.
I took this course as an elective in combination CS181. There is overlap between the two classes, both of which are focused on inference. However, it cool to get some of the theoretical underpinnings of inference from Stat111 and the practical applications from CS181 at the same time. It's a pairing I would highly recommend. Rader can be a dry lecturer sometimes and a bit cheesy, but ultimately Rader is a good professor. He and teaching staff made the course feel smooth logistically for the students and that is a tremendous challenge in and of itself. The course covers alot of material, but it goes together well and it is very useful to know. After all, statistics is used everywhere and learning about inference is super useful for all fields.
Good class, for applied math ec probably less painful than 1126 just kind of boring and can get unnecessarily confusing
Pretty straightforward class. I attended lecture 0 times, just watched the lecture videos at 2x speed the night before HW was due, learned a TON about statistics and will probably get away with a B. As a PhD student, I consider this a success. Recommend this class to anyone who wants a straightforward and rigorous introduction to this super valuable and applicable field.
Not a very enjoyable experience.  Lectures felt disorganized, and were interrupted often by the same students asking many tedious questions (which should be asked in office hours instead) and wasting everyone's time.  Lecture notes were confusing and unsatisfying, and the course skipped over many important mathematical results, without at least giving a brief intuition.  However, statistics is cool and this course is required for the concentration, so because of that I do not regret taking the course.  I also wish I had started problem sets earlier.
This is a fantastic class with very interesting subject matter.  I was terrible at Stat 110, but I found this class much easier to understand.  This is also largely because the course material (i.e. the slides) are comprehensive and actually prepare you for what you have to do on the homework and teach you the concepts you need to know for the test.
The problem sets are not very useful for preparing for exams, because they are largely computational problems in R. I enjoyed this class less than STAT110, but this is a good introduction to using R and analyzing data sets, and combines the theoretical concepts in STAT110 with practical application. Also, the textbook (Degroot) is unnecessary and will not help you. To succeed in this class, start with a solid grounding in the Central Limit Theorem, properties of conditional expectation/variance, the stories of the distributions, and joint distributions. Everything builds from these concepts.
I had hoped that this course would be less demanding than Stat 110, but I had to drop a bunch of extracurriculars to stay afloat in this class. I think that the material is probably easier than Stat 110's, but the resources just aren't as good - the 110 textbook was an incredible resource for me to study, revise, and reference throughout the course, but there's a real gap in this class - the lecture notes had a lot of rhetorical questions, and the DeGroot textbook was rubbish.Big, long psets: get a study buddy, and a good TF/OH kinda schedule that works for you. Section can be really useful.I wouldn't recommend this class unless you are taking it as a requirement/pre-requisite for other things. As a standalone, I found it more frustrating than fulfilling, unfortunately.
Budget a lot of time for this class, and find pset buddies early, you will be each other's lifesavers, because office hours are often not helpful.
Stat 111 is a fantastic course! Kevin is great - very organized and makes sure everyone understands everything. Homework is useful and interesting, but never busy-work.
Something was hinky about this year's Stat 111. It's generally a great course -- much easier than 110 and the material is super interesting and useful. Though it's probably an anomaly, this semester's assignments systematically had unclear expectations and/or were poorly written. At times the teaching staff were not helpful at all. However, you shouldn't let this keep you from taking the course. It's very useful, and Kevin will at least try to be helpful in office hours even if you can't follow his algebra in lecture.
This course is very useful and interesting, and enables you to be very familiar with many statistical concepts and tools.
It's a pretty decent class.  Not super interesting but you're probably only looking at this class since you need it for a secondary or concentration.  Rader is pretty cool though!
Kevin is a great lecturer and explains the concepts very clearly and concisely, and the homework is a reasonable workload.
Most of the relevant material comes from the lecture slides. Rader is a pretty good lecturer and knows what he's talking about. Psets are pretty good most of the time. Exams are pretty hard and usually have some whack questions. Overall interesting class in terms of applications of stat and not as theoretical as stat 110.
You just have to slog through it for the concentration/secondary - Kevin is great and it's probably as well-taught as it could be, but there's so much material to cover and the psets and tests include so many weird variations on what you've learned that it's hard to get a solid grasp of the material
I'm an applied math concentrator who took the class instead of econometrics. They aren't really the same, so if you just want to fulfill your econometrics requirement, take Ec 1126. However, 111 is useful for learning inference techniques and also giving your experience with R.Topics seemed kind of disjointed at times, and lectures did not include and real derivation of results, which was kind of frustrating.
I came in thinking that this course would be easier than Stats 110 and quickly realized it was not. The material sometimes gets very confusing maybe because of the way it is presented, assignments are sometimes very long with a small added utility to such a length. However, the material you come out with at the end of the semester is very interesting and very useful in many areas of studies.
Take this if(f) it allows you to access other requirements in the department.
pretty solid class, teaches you about inference. thought it was pretty interesting, and rader teaches it pretty well.
This class is pretty solid. As for the material, you really get a nitty-gritty introduction to inference, which is an insanely powerful and useful tool (although sometimes it feels like you're just memorizing a bunch of facts since the derivations require a lot of math). Kevin Rader is a pretty decent lecturer (PowerPoint slides aside), and it is clear that he really cares about his students, given that he goes out of his way to answer student questions during lecture. The difficulty in my opinion is slightly above that of 110 with Blitzstein since there is more brute math involved, and exams are designed to trip you up, but the homework assignments are generally manageable (though sometimes quite tedious). Having some basic understanding of hypothesis tests and confidence intervals going into the class would be helpful, though definitely not necessary.
Rader is a really bad lecturer. This course could be so good, but Rader does not give any intuitive understanding behind the material. If someone else is teaching it, take it: inference seems like a great topic. But with Rader, everything reduces to algebra and formulas. The romance is lost.
This class teaches very useful theoretical knowledge about stats, as well as practical R-coding skills.
Difficult class but obviously necessary if you are a stat concentrator/secondary
Really a great, fundamental class if you're interested in statistics.
Get ready to work (or have a bunch of friends in the class). Section is your friend. "If you haven't taken Stat 110, you're gonna struggle."
This class requires a very different skillset than the skill set required in Stat110. However, it still requires a strong foundation in Stat110. It was kind of cool how all the homework problems fit together looking back, so I would definitely look back to them for exam preparation.
This course is not at all like Stat 110; if you're looking for questions that challenge you in a math competition/puzzle type of way like Stat 110, this is probably not the course you want to take. Through stat 111 you'll learn how to use R, and sometimes it's frustrating because the problem sets require you to use R in ways not covered thoroughly in class and as a completely inexperienced user (which I was) you'll spend a lot of time fixing coding errors. The problem sets are very time consuming and the exams are HARD. But in the end I think it's pretty neat to have learned how to code basic things and model data. Stat 111 goes much more deeply into the theory behind hypothesis testing covered in stat 104.
I wouldn't take this unless I had to--at least in its current iteration.
This course has the problem of being half rigorous--it doesn't give abundant experience in application, but it also omits proofs of most results. It attempts a bit of both and ends up doing neither highly effectively. That being said, I didn't know statistical inference before, and now I do... overall, I'm not sure that it's worth taking (unless you are a statistics concentrator, which I am not--then the situation may be different).
This class honestly requires more than Stat 110 for preparation, in my opinion. An inference based class like Stat 104 or 139 seemed to help students understand the material. As someone who had only taken 110 prior to this semester, 111 was quite difficult for me (I thought it was harder than 110, myself, even though popular opinion tends to say 111 is easier than 110).
Interesting course, but difficult.
it's hard as hell
This was the single most painful class I've taken at Harvard, not difficult, painful
This class is hard, but you can do it.
Better than Stat110, but still a difficult class. Psets are time consuming, while lectures tend to be boring. Lecture notes are very helpful, but exams are generally applications of material learned rather than simple regurgitation of concepts.
Anyone that wants to be rigorously introduced to understanding this class just take it! Really fun and  challenging at the same time!
I was not a fan of this horribly frustrating course. I really disliked one or both of Kevins teaching and the material. I loved Stat 110, but this class was completely inferior to Blitzsteins masterpiece. The material was presented in a way that was very difficult to apply, and we spent more time in lecture bashing through algebra rather than focusing on concepts that would be relevant for tests and psets. I also think there were far too few TFs, and far too few resources. The psets were almost never released on time, which left less time to complete them. Feedback on psets was also very slow, and often entirely unhelpful. The two exams were completely out of the blue, and the majority of the class (including myself) felt that we hadnt learned nearly enough to answer the questions properly. Kevin was also highly unsympathetic and almost condescending during office hours.
Not as terrible as I thought it'd be. The material is actually super useful and practical which is neat. Assignments are fair but the exams were pretty brutal.
This isnt a good course. The topic is interesting but Rader isnt a good lecturer, often doesnt make things clear and makes arbitrarily hard exams.
If you're taking this class, chances are it's because you have to as a concentration/secondary requirement. That being said, it's an interesting class that illuminates the math behind stat 104 topics. I found the class challenging in a different way from 110 -- while 110 was intuitive, 111 relied much more heavily on formulas. 111 took a lot more work to succeed.
If you're Stat or AM (and maybe CS) you pretty much have to take this class.  Which sucks.  Because this class sucks.  The psets are hard and tedious, very unnecessarily so.  Kevin is not a good professor.  The organization of the class is terrible.  Exams are hard af.  I'm sorry if you have to take this class.  You will not enjoy it.
Would not recommend unless you are a statistics concentrator. The material is interesting, but goes into extreme depth for certain topics that might not be interesting unless you are very interested in statistics or it is a required course. Kevin is a great instructor and he teaches the material very well. His exams are very fair and reasonable, but are quite challenging.
This is an excellent followup to Stat 110.  If you took 110 and enjoyed it, I strongly recommend taking 111 the next semester, since it builds on concepts from 110.  It also serves as an introduction to various statistical concepts that you may develop an interest in and want to pursue later (such as Bayesian statistics).  This is a great elective even for those not concentrating in statistics.
Don't take this course unless you really enjoyed 110 or other classes like 139. It is more difficult than it needs to be and often times you feel you are getting nothing out of it. I recommend it only if you really need to do it. It feels like this course really has potential, it just didn't meet any of my expectations this year. Attend section because that's when it's easiest to learn. Also, don't bother asking questions in lecture because Kevin generally just doesn't answer them, nor ever gets back to you.
NO GOOD TEXTBOOK
