Neil's lectures were fantastic. Would recommend to anyone even remotely interested in time series
This course is very interesting, but we never get to learn enough applications and the exams are very algebra/time-based instead of testing your understanding of the material.
This course is a decent introduction to time series and gives you the tools to analyze a wide variety of models. Prof. Shephard focused considerably on computational implementation, which might change if someone else teaches the class next year.
If you don't need to use time series knowledge in the future, you may not need to take this class.
really interesting material, very well taught, TFs are very helpful, only downside is lack of practice problems to improve conceptual understanding of material
This course was organized poorly and had poor support from the teaching staff. That said, if you're looking for a low-workload stat class, this could be it: it had only 9 psets (about 2 every 3 weeks or so) and 1 midterm and 1 final. Also, the psets can be done easily if you go to office hours, where TFs go over problems and essentially do the problem set for you on the board. I hated this aspect of the class, since it made it hard to actually learn anything and gave kids who went to OH an unfair advantage, but the resource is there.
It is a good course to learn time series from the beginning.
If you are interested in modeling data(even not just time series data), you should really consider taking this class. Professor Shephard is a fantastic lecturer and the examples he brings to lecture are quite interesting.
I hate to say this because Neil is wonderful, but this class was atrocious.  No one learned anything.  We were just constantly frustrated more than anything.  Also, none of the TFs spoke English so they couldn't even be of help.  This class and the material had the potential to be so fascinating and engaging, but instead was so wretched.
Stat 131 has a lot of potential because time series is a fascinating field in statistics. In addition, Professor Shephard is a pioneer in the field with a deep grasp of the material. However, the class is quite disorganized and Professor Shephard's method of teaching is to use broad strokes and gloss over derivations. In addition, the guest lecturer, Pavlos Protopapas, in the course did a very poor job of lecturing.
Very interesting and helpful class.
It is a good introduction to time series. Although to get a lot out of it you would have to spend some time on your own to get the big picture of the topics. To be fair, this was the first time Neil has taught it, and I'm sure if he teaches it again it will only improve.
Time series sounds fund and useful, but in fact many time series courses are drag and not very useful at all. Neil did a great job selecting topics and putting them together in a way that was rigorous but satisfying.
Not super interesting, thought this class would be more applied. Lots of algebra and theoretical musing.
Interesting and relatively chill, but definitely a smart peer group, which makes it harder.
The material is very interesting but it is terribly taught. Neil provides much theory but does not help students understand the applications of the models presented in class. If you give me a time series data, I still would have no idea how to analyze it. I only learned how to make theoretical calculations from it.
Stat 131 is a cool statistics elective, but because it isn't a regularly taught course, its quality will depend a lot on who is teaching it, what they choose to cover, and how they choose to cover it. In Neil's version, don't be misled by the promise that the course will be "very applied" (loose quote) -- there are a couple of applications in the homework, in which you need to cook up some R code that is 90% provided by the TFs, but for the most part the overwhelming bulk of the work, including on the exams, is theoretical and sometimes annoyingly algebraic. That said, I feel a lot more comfortable working with the concepts the course tries to teach -- how to properly react to relaxed independence assumptions, model selection, that sort of thing. While it wasn't always exciting, I thought the class was worthwhile. Neil is also a very interesting professor and clearly an expert on the topic.
This course will provide you with a good overview of different methods for analyzing time series. The lectures are somewhat dry and the problem sets are not all that interesting, but it's not a terribly difficult class.
Neil is a great professor. He's hilarious but you definitely don't need to go to class. The lecture slides are great and complete. His exams are very straightforward. However I'm still not sure, if given some time series data, how to pick a model (since we learned a bunch) and how to determine if it was a good fit (besides looking at maybe 1 or 2 values) so I think the class is super important and a lot of info was  included but I think it could've included more things from the entire time series modeling process from picking a model to diagnostics.
This course gives a great overview of the different techniques of time series analysis and prediction. But there are many times when you won't have any idea what is going on except to copy what the TAs write.
Time series analysis is important, interesting, and different from a lot of other statistical analysis because some key assumptions are different. (Example: You can't assume that observations are independent.) Stat 131 gave me a decent foundation in time series analysis, by introducing the important assumptions, models, and inferential techniques. The class was not particularly mathematically rigorous, which was sometimes frustrating. The only prerequisite is some comfort with basic probability theory (taking the expectation, variance, and covariance of scalar and vector random variables), and Stat 110 (or some self-study) would suffice. Overall, the course could have covered more and was generally not particularly challenging (which was reflected in the fact that the average grades on each pset were almost all >90 and sometimes >95).
This is a very well-taught and useful course.
This is important material. The section component wasn't very relevant to the lecture. I would recommend finding problems to do in the text book because there is very little application between lecture/ section.
This class is good for learning the theory behind timeseries, but the assignments are often focused on sometimes mechanical proofs rather than applications. I would recommend it if you really need it for stat credit or have a strong interest in learning about timeseries.
Material is useful, but not too well executed.
This class was the worst statistics class I have ever taken. The lecture slides either consisted of equations that Neil referred to as "top 10 time series concepts" or review slides that repeated everything we had already covered. Each class, the review slides started out by clarifying that "time series is a data that appears through time." Thanks Neil. Thanks a lot
Go to section.
Very interesting course taught by great professor. Definitely recommend!
During my summer internships in the past couple of years, I've run into time series data multiple times. Each time, I didn't know what to do. This class makes me feel that I'm finally equipped to try to tackle these problems.
I feel like this course was all about calculating expectation and variance and covariance, but we didn't really learn how/when to apply the models we learned. Yes we learned a lot about the different models but if someone gave me a time series data set I would not be able to analyze it after taking this course. This is something very important that was missing. You will basically be doing stat 110 level calculations and not learn too much about how to actually use these models.
Interesting material and a very fun professor! The treatment is somewhat old-school, with a heavy focus on deriving properties of certain models and not much of an applied/computational component.
Great for preparing for careers in finance.
This class gives you a good understanding of basic time series mathematics. I found the class to be a little tedious and full of busy work. If you're looking for an intellectually stimulating course, this is probably not the course for you, but if you just want to get a better understanding of time series, this course does a good job.
Hard homework
In order to excel in this class, you need to be very comfortable with the concepts introduced in Stat 110. It's touted as a data-heavy class, but without a project component, you don't really walk away feeling like you'd know what to do given a time series and told to analyze it.
great overview of time series methods. ARIMA models for the first half and HMMs for the second half.
Very interesting material.  Neil is very engaging.
There's not a lot of theory that this class covers; instead the problem sets and exams mostly test your ability to do covariance algebra.
Time series is a really cool and useful concept in statistics, though the class as is does not focus as much on actually applying such analyses as it does on identifying certain types of concepts or processes over and over. Shepard is hilarious, and there are definitely very helpful TFs in the class, but I found that the structure of the class didn't really help me really understand time series as much as just know specific concepts since they appear again and again in the materials for the class.
Be prepared for a lot of work. It's very mathy and not very applied. Assignments take longer than Professor Shephard says they will. Professor is nice and approachable if you need help. More rewarding to go to his office hours than to TF:s office hours.
This class is HARD. Be aware that most of the homeworks and the exams are proof-based and highly theoretical. Don't take this if you want a grounded, practical understanding of time series. At the same time, Shephard is a great teacher and a giant in the field, so if you want to learn an important topic from someone cool, this is the class for you.
Material is super relevant, but instructor is not that engaging and the psets seemed not that relevant. Didn't learn that many things that I could actually apply to real life situations.
Taught really poorly (lectures are extraordinarily boring), psets have very little relation to lectures and are sometimes ridiculously long / difficult.
TAKE THIS CLASS PASS/FAIL. It's important and helpful material, but it's also really hard. If you didn't do well in Stat 110 or Stat 111, you'll do just as poorly in this class. If you're stat concentrator, remember that you can use one pass/fail class towards your concentration requirement. I thought I could do well in this class because I felt comfortable with the assignments, but I SHOULD HAVE TAKEN THIS CLASS PASS/FAIL. I was in an okay place before the final, but after taking it, I fully expect this class to take a giant and unnecessary dump on my GPA.
The assignment means are very high (at least under Professor Shephard) so make sure you're try-harding as much as everyone else is. As far as logistics, we only had one section for this course, though there were easily over 100 people enrolled, so that was major organizational failure. In all honestly, I'm not sure I learned that much in this class. I think people take this with an eye towards finance, but no bank or firm is really going to expect you to know about time series out of undergrad (especially out of a liberal arts school without a finance major like Harvard). There are more fulfilling classes to take in the stat department.
If you look for a hands-on experience in analyzing time series, this might NOT be the right course for you. If you are looking for a very mathy, technical statistics course, it definitely is the right course.
More theoretical than application. If you were interested in STAT111, take this course. If you feel sick of formula derivation, don't take.
I was so lost throughout the entire class. Lectures were not engaging and it was very hard to learn from the professor. He assumes everyone understands the material and moves on quickly. Doesn't give very good examples in class and learning is probably more efficient from the textbook. Section was useful though.
The course is very good.
Challenging but useful subject matter. While the book was wonderful, I learned very little from lecture.
A good class! Psets are easy (and short) but don't really prepare you for the tests, which are surprisingly difficult.
Take good notes in class. Always go to class. Do your problem sets and do them again before midterm and final exam. Ask questions when needed.
solid course, very useful knowledge but dont underestimate
This class is awesome! Tirthankar especially. The material in this class will help you understand data analysis for a different kind of model, and you will leave both empowered and more intelligent!
Useful course, could be organized better.
Stat 131 has been one of the best classes I've taken here. The materials are very interesting and useful. Prof. Dasgupta is an excellent lecturer, and he's incredibly kind and helpful too.
This class is fun but not so easy.
for people simply wanting to learn how to interpret ACF plots and learn about software tools that can perform the analysis, this class is overkill as it delves into quite a bit of theory, i imagine more than a non-stats or math student could care for.
time series is awesome!  though it's much harder than stat 110 to get help
Solid class. The materials covered are very useful. However, because there was only one TF (who's still pretty great), the logistics didn't run as smoothly as most other classes.
Great class for Stat concentrators. This was one of my favorite stat classes and easier than some of the higher numbered ones. It is fairly interesting material, and isn't too difficult.
This could be a great course if it's revamped next year.  Dasgupta is a good lecturer but the course lacked structure and it didn't seem like the teaching staff were overly invested in the course.
It's really, really, really boring.  Take it if you need to, but you either won't go to lecture or won't pay attention.  You won't do enough work during the semester and your cramming won't prepare you for the exams.
The homework load is relatively light but the concepts run deep and the methods are powerful.  to make sure not to be taken off guard by the exams, be sure to follow closely throughout the semester--it will be also be very intellectually rewarding.
You should definitely take this class. It's both practical and theoretical. The Professor is amazing and  really cares about teaching and his students.
You learn some really neat stuff, and professor Dasgupta is great.  It's a deceptively hard course.
Very thorough introduction to Time Series. No previous knowledge required on the subject, the course introduces first the basic tools, and builds up entirely on these tools. The classes are very interactive, and the topic itself is both useful and interesting. The ratio "stuff learned doing homework" / "time spent on homework" is excellent: the homework is to the point and makes good use of your time.Finally, the project you create at the end makes you realize how much you've learned, and how applicable these tools are.Definitely recommend this course.
This is a great course on time series analysis. Tirthankar is a clear and approachable lecturer, and the course is not overly demanding, but you still learn a lot. It's amazing what well modeled time series can predict, and the final project is lots of fun!
If you want to apply statistics to any business or financial context, this course is a must. Basically, any study of a random variable that changes over time in some predictable fashion would greatly benefit from the tools of this course.
Take this class.  It is extremely practical and extremely interesting.  Tirthankar is an excellent teacher and it is easy to see how the topics in this class apply in the real world.
It's pretty useful material, and the class is taught in a very easy, clear format.
it is really useful, but the beginning may seem directionless and dry
