I'd recommend with STRONG STRONG reservations. I would have to be honest with potential students and say that this class is more work than other classes. Each simulation requires 50+ of solid work, maybe more for the first one. That's more than most problem set-based classes and pretty much rivals Gov 2000/01 in terms of work. It's rewarding, but a lot of work.Also, the work really is front loaded. Expect to spend 20+ hrs per week on this class in the weeks leading up to the first expert report being due. It helps that it eases up at the end, closer to generals and finals, but it's still more work than other classes.
For experts, it hones your skills presenting a statistical argument for lay audiences.
The course is very time intensive but enormously rewarding. This was the first statistics class that required I think deeply about implications of quantitative findings and pay attention to how those results are communicated.
The workload is extremely variable. There are weeks when this is the only thing you will have time to do; there are other weeks when nothing at all is required. During the busy weeks, your time sometimes belongs to your lawyers and not to you.The payoff is enormous in terms of statistics learned, training in explaining concepts to non-experts, legal applications, presentation skills, writing skills, coding skills, and satisfaction.
Don't take this if you're a PhD student. It doesn't move you closer to your dissertation, it just helps you communicate better, and there are plenty of other classes that can help you with that without taking up so much of your time. The class is very structured for the law students, but relatively little effort is put into making sure the GSAS students are learning new skills. The quantitative work is really tedious and unnecessarily time-consuming,
You will get a opportunity to use what you know on a applied project, but we did not learn new methods.
This class is a lot of work and will take over your life for at least two weeks during the semester.  However, you learn skills you can't learn in any other class and the teaching is fantastic.
This class demands a lot of work; especially towards the end of the semester. It is a high commitment course, in which you learn a lot.
This course is an incredible opportunity to learn how to analyze legal questions from a statistical perspective and to communicate statistical analyses to a nontechnical audience. The class is very unique in that you learn through actually acting as an expert witness and doing everything from expert reports to depositions.  The simulations are very well-designed, and Professor Greiner is an amazing teacher.  Moreover, the students in the class are truly engaged and motivated, so the group aspect of the experience is actually one of the most fulfilling and enjoyable aspects. This was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard, so I would highly recommend it!  The one caveat is that the workload is very significant, so to get the most out of the class, it is best if you are excited about the intersection of law and statistica and are willing to dedicate the time and energy necessary.  The good thing though is that you will learn an amazing amount for what you put in!
This class is a unique opportunity to develop as a communicator. Rarely in statistics are we taught to think about how we present our results until we try to publish. You will learn to be a better writer and speaker if you take this class.
This course is a lot of work, and surprisingly eats up a lot of time, so plan the rest of your courseload accordingly.  It's a great way to get out of the normal routine of weekly problem sets and to get exposed to statistics in a different context.  Lots of valuable career skills to be learned, and new ways of thinking and doing things.  I think this course has made me more questioning (undoubtedly the influence of spending many hours with future lawyers) which is a good skill to have, as it makes me more thorough with my work.
