This course is very practical, straightforward and useful. I feel good about having taken it.
You probably are just wanting one of these languages.  So really focus on that section and just bear the rest of it.
Take it to do something specific (research) so that you can apply what you are learning in useful ways.
I think this is a good course to take to balance your workload, but not the ideal beginning programming course.  I felt that I gained exposure to a new programming language but did not learn how to program because the lecture style was not engaging.  The professor is extremely nice and genuinely cares about his students, but has not chosen the best way to present the material.  I really did enjoy working on my data analysis projects, since it gave me the opportunity to try out something I'd had in mind for a long time.
This was one of my favorite classes so far at Harvard.  Steve Finch is so smart and is willing to help you truly understand the material.  If you have an interest in statistics and the computational side of it, this is a must-take course.
It is a great course to learn how to use programs like R which will make other stat classes a lot easier.
This course will get you exposed to some fantastic programming. You might work under a little pressure in the midterm or final projects, but the instructor is fair and always makes the course rewarding (to those working very hard).
work hard
I'm not the biggest fan of the stat department here after the past semester, so it has that going against it. If you need it for a concentration (Applied Math, Stat), it's definitely not bad, definitely manageable. If it's not a concentration class...if you think you'll need to know R or SAS, it accomplishes that just fine. Not too difficult or anything. The material is a little dry, so I wouldn't recommend it as an elective.
This is a great class if you are going into an industry that uses SAS or R. It is difficult to get skills to use SAS at Harvard. To get the most out of the class, I would recommend doing the homework assignments...it definitely helps you prepare for the midterm and final presentation.
There are only two assignments: midterm project and final project.  The requirements are ambiguous, and there is little feedback, which is problematic if you want to get feedback on statistical programming. Otherwise a great way to learn R and SAS.
Stat 135 will get you coding fast and efficiently. Learned a lot of great skills that I know will be useful in future courses and in the workplace.
Take this course for a very manageable Stats class. You can get a lot out of the course, specifically learning R, but only if you put the effort in. It's really easy to skate by  graded on attendance and two projects, optional homework assignments.
The entire course is based on your effort and performance on two projects, which can be both a good and a bad thing. Unfortunately, the lectures are not particularly engaging, and the course's lack of organization makes it tough to know what exactly you're supposed to be getting out of each class. Professor Finch really cares, but framing the grades on the projects (and hence in the course) as a sort of competition between students in the class makes for a bit of a strange dynamic.
Pretty easy class. Homework isn't mandatory, though attendance (3x a week) is. Make sure to spend time on the graphics component of your projects - Steve pretty much grades on that more than programming skills.
Steve Finch is a great instructor.
Though this class provides an excellent foundation to both programming softwares, highly recommend outside research and exploration throughout the course as well as keeping up with the various homework in a timely fashion (it helps tremendously when it comes time for the midterm and final projects).
You'll have to put a lot of time in outside of class to learn R/SAS. The lecture format are perhaps not as efficient as they could be.
The Professor is what makes this class! He is really enthusiastic and is devoted to your learning. I fully recommend taking this class if you would like to learn coding. I learned an awful lot in a very short period of time. I would reccomn that you are a stats concentrator or have a math background. The individual projects are great and presention to the professor is great practice for job interviews. The most enjoyable class I have taken at Harvard by far, I did no want to miss a lecture.
This course isn't very demanding.  I found that it was a nice balance to an otherwise overwhelming courseload.  Steve is a nice guy.  SAS isn't available for download through Harvard, so I ended up working on my midterm in the basement of the Science Center, which is awful.  Choose topics for your midterm and final that interest you!
Finch was amazing in the course and generated loads of enthusiasm for the material! Very interesting and fun course, and I would definitely recommend to anyone trying to better their R skills.
if you don't know how to code before taking this class, don't bother taking this class. it won't teach you anything, and you'll only be penalized for not knowing how to code. the senior lecturer "teaches" from code that he gets from other sources, meaning that he doesn't always understand it all, and there's no structure overall. you're getting random chunks of random problems that random people have talked about online, but you're not actually learning how to program. ie, what's a variable? how do you define one? what's a for loop? what's an array? why use one language over another? none of this is covered unless it happens to be briefly touched upon in the arbitrary chunk of code you're looking at. i got through the class because i had programming experience before, and because there are great lectures online from other schools about the material that you're supposed to be covering in a class about SAS/R. you're graded on attendance, so you have to show up to class, but you don't actually learn anything -- massive waste of time. the projects (2 that make up 80% of your grade) are "graded compared to your classmates," and there's no rubric; the only guidelines are "treat this like a job interview." so basically your entire grade depends on a very subjective ranking of you compared to other people that you have no control over. Use all the material covered in class? great, you're maybe getting a B. Go above and beyond? good for you, probably still not getting an A. the expectations are ridiculous because they're not defined; when you ask for feedback, all that comes back is a nebulous, "your classmates are so wonderful" ... thanks, but i want to know specifics on how i can improve, not that there are people out there who are doing better than i am (duh. unhelpful especially when there are grad students in the course. one should hope they know more than an undergrad does).to be fair, steve seems like a nice guy. he's trying, but it's just not enough. i'm bummed that i wasted 1/32 of my harvard career on this course. you only have so many classes you get to take--don't make the mistake of taking this one. you'd learn as much by spending a weekend or two on stackoverflow, and you won't have to deal with the frustration of an asinine course.
Take this course if you would like an introduction to SAS and/or RAND if you are sufficiently motivated to learn them. The way the course is set up makes it especially the case that those who are self-motivated will get a lot more from it than those who are not. Steve is extremely kind, and he is genuinely interested in his students learning the material.
It's an awesome course if you're self-motivated to learn the material and you have a project you are interested in working on.
this is the course you learn statistical computation if you never did that before.
Don't fall behind on this class, coz it's really hard to catch up. Meet up with Steve to talk about class problems/projects. He's of great help.
The midterm and final are all presentations and you need to "show you skills" as much as you can. You can always put as much time as you can in the project since you're competing whit your classmate and the more programing skills you put in the better you get. No homework usually, but do watch out for the exams.
Very useful
One of the most useful classes you will take at Harvard
Steve is very nice man and he is very approachable.  Even if you have no coding experience, this class will be fine.  A nice way to learn coding.
It's hard to keep up with the day-to-day assignments and course content because none of it is graded so the projects can come as a slight shock, but overall I feel that I learned a great deal from this class and am happy to have taken it.
It is easy to learn the SAS/R language in this way!
Go to class, Steve takes attendance. If you can't go chronically, send him an email every time with appropriate reasons. Just pay attention in class, and the class will be easy. Projects are fun to do.
You'll learn a lot. Steve is a nice guy, a bit tough with grading, but this is good. You are only graded on two final projects, so if you put a lot of effort into them you'll become a solid R and SAS programmer. My interest in statistics increased dramatically after taking this course. Really teaches you how applicable statistics is.
With no problem sets and only a midterm and a final, this class is definitely worth taking. However, in order to get the most out of this class you have to keep up with the class work and assignments. You definitely get out of this class what you put in.
This class is very useful and fun.
Great project class to learn R and SAS. I would strongly recommend this class. Do not expect easy A though.
Steve's enthusiasm for the subject matter is infectious.  He is quite passionate about the potential for using SAS and R in real-world applications, the underlying math and statistics, and helping his students succeed.  I would highly recommend this course to someone else.
A great class for anyone who wants to learn more about stat programming, especially R. Steve makes the class enjoyable and lighthearted while being incredibly informative.
This is a great class to learn R and SAS and to help with programming in general. This class made me a better programmer. I feel like I will also be able to pick up other languages quickly as well.  The work load is pretty light on a weekly basis with optional homework. I recommend doing the homework to learn the languages and so the projects are easier. The projects are a lot of work however so during the weeks those are due expect to put in a lot more time to the class. Steve, the professor, is one of the most excited and enthusiastic professors I have had and his enthusiasm is infectious!
This is one of the easier classes to take for fulfilling a stats requirement. The main work for the class is two big projects, which essentially count for your whole grade. The other homework doesn't have to be turned in, but is helpful to do anyway. The class definitely gives you some useful experience with SAS and R but isn't anything you couldn't figure out yourself if you had prior coding background. A good beginning class.
Unique in that you are evaluated only through two projects, which you build top to bottom from your own ideas and interests. Great!
You have to work really hard, but it's worth it.
Stat 135 will get you comfortable with the two of the main packages used in statistical computing - SAS and R.  Prof. Finch is very approachable and great explaining the material, but be prepared to explore SAS / R (particularly R) on your own to get more out of the course.
This class is pretty tough, but going through it will lead to a better ability to use R and SAS. A lot of work is necessary for the projects; only take if you are able to code well or have the time to put into the class. Try not to skip class!
It is a fun and good way to learn R and basic SAS.
Be forewarned that the simulation exercises are difficult. Would appreciate more applicable problem sets, ie. data analysis/data cleaning.
is really useful if one needs to use R or SAS at the same time of taking this course. Otherwise, the knowledge can be easily forgotten, and the motivation for learning won't be as strong.
Low time commitment, but lecture is required (at 10am). The projects are fun if you find an interesting topic that you are actually interested in.
Steve is awesome. Great preceptor. Very understanding and friendly all the time. He knows his material too.
This is a great class. You learn a lot and it is not too stressful in terms of problem sets which makes the projects more fun to work on as you are not too overwhelmed by work. Steve is also a great lecturer, he explains everything very clearly and does not assume any prior knowledge which is helpful even if you have it!
You may want to take another class that requires R at the same time as this class. That way you can apply some of the stuff you learn in 135 in the other class. I think i learned more R programming in stat 139 than I even did in 135.
Most of the learning in this course is done outside of class. Don't expect getting a good grade.
Great class! Steve is excellent. The workload really varies based on your individual programming/data analysis/statistics background. The projects are incredibly time consuming if you want to get an A but after completing them you feel really accomplished. You get out of the class what you put in - but since you can choose the subjects of your projects it is easy to enjoy working for the class.
Great instructor! Explains the material clearly, is helpful and answers students' questions well. This course provides an excellent foundation in R and SAS.
Ask Steve to do more in class exercises. He kept saying he would and then didn't. Press him on it. You will learn a lot more.
Ask Steve questions. He's very helpful.
While the title of this course may seem slightly dry, Steve Finch's enthusiasm for the topic is infectious.   Mr. Finch has put a lot of effort into creating this course.  He sincerely enjoys this topic and wants his students to be able to use the statistical computing packages covered in this course to answer the questions presented in their research.  The midterm and final presentations help make the course more relevant by allowing students to apply the statistical computing techniques they have learned to problems that interest them.
Instructor is excellent - very willing to talk with students and help students outside of class.  Excellent way to learn programming as well.
This class is very much self-paced, which can be a good thing if you keep up with the work but also a bad thing if you wait until you have to start a project before trying to understand the codes. Steve is also a very amiable lecturer.
Useful if you need to learn SAS or R.
It's an enjoyable statistics course that does not require in-depth statistical theory, and it's a low pressure way to familiarize oneself with both SAS and R.
Beware of the number of graduate students in your course because they know more than you and the grades go in their favor.
This course is extremely practical. It will give you the chance to explore quantitative projects that have interested you but were too time-comsuming to complete on your free time.
Be ready to teach yourself. The professor is helpful but the material is just hard.
Take if no scientific programming experience.
Highly recommend only for those interested in the material.
Very beneficial class, but lots of work and time commitment are necessary.
Little work required for most of the course, but midterm and final projects are very discretionary.  Expectations of students are unclear.
You should expect more time spent on your own studying the materials.
It's a good way to get to know SAS and R, and in this day and age these skills are rather essential.  But with the way the course is structured, you really have to be self-motivated.
This course is crucial for anyone interested in scientific computing.
It was a good course. I'd recommend it, but it depends if the student would rather spend their time learning something else.
It's pretty easy, and you should put yourself into work if you want to learn.
Steven is an excellent teacher.
The preceptor is readily available and enthusiastic to converse with students; asking for help is very much encouraged.
