Hard course but lots of fun.
Good introduction but need to learn everything on your own. Class is not that helpful.
The course is very interesting and applicable, but don't take it if you don't understand probability already.
- one of the hardest courses I have ever attended, you really have to be interested in the subject, otherwise the amount of work is not worth it
Do it only if you like pain.  And spending a lot of time.
Very good course if you want to work in quantitative finance or just generally interested in Brownian motion, stochastic calculus with applications in finance
This is a great class to build both conceptual understanding of derivative securities pricing and building up necessary programming skills to implement solutions to analytical problems.
Difficult, but useful.
If you would like to take this course, you should be familiar with stochastic calculus.
Make sure you focus on the psets, since the exams will be quite difficult.
One of the most enjoyable classes I have taken.  If you're interested in the math behind the Black Scholes equation, this is an excellent class.  A lot of people shopped the class thinking that it would teach you how to make money.  It won't, and that's not the point.
Students who are interested in the quantitative aspects of finance should definitely take this class as it lays some of the key foundations.  Students wanting to see real-world finance may want to think twice before taking the class.  Students should also be prepared to struggle through the material as it is challenging, however, understanding the material by the end of the class is very rewarding.
The class is really cool and well organized. The assignments are manageable, though challenging, but beware the final project!
Good introduction to quant finance. It is not over-complicated + Hull textbook is of great help
If you are interested in quantitative finance take it. Otherwise its probably wont be that interesting or useful. I liked the class alot, but I dont think its for everyone.
Learn a lot of topics related to quantitative finance - important for those interested in technical, practical finance or academic finance.
You need to really want to know the technical aspects of quant finance. If you're not interested in being a full-on quant, do Stat 123 instead
study a lot for the exam
Take this course. This is taught by Neil, and he is a true legend in this field. He explained the material really well. Stochastic differential equation, volatility and Ito calculus are not easy to understand. But he explained so well so you will understand. Also, learning from such an established professor is great experience.
The course's various components tie together very well, even though it may be hard to grasp immediately. Also, Prof. Shephard is fantastic.
If you are interest in financial modelling and volatility, this class has no equals. Prof. Shephard is a great professor with lots of experience on the subject and Justin is a great TF. A note of warning though: If you are not comfortable with R, stat110, and/or analysis, it might get very difficult at times.
This was probably my favorite class at Harvard so far. If you are at all interested in quantitative finance, this is essentially the one and only class that you must take. Stat 123 is okay, but has a lot of "this is an option, and this is a swap", while 170 will really teach you the fundamental tools for thinking about all sorts of derivatives and asset pricing. When you really see and understand where the Black-Scholes PDE comes from, you just feel awesome. There's a great mix of stochastic processes, quantitative finance theory, and the applied+theoretical problem sets are always a joy to work on. I would start these problem sets first because they were so fun and interesting. If you are interested in quant finance at all, take this class. Also, the material itself is quite challenging, but the exams are always very fair.
I work in the economic policy field, and this course helped me a lot to grasp many concepts concerning financial market/modelling. I struggled a lot because I wasn't properly equipped with the math behind it, but exam after exam I found the learning extremely rewarding. I strongly recommend it to other Business school and Kennedy school students -- the marginal benefit will be particularly high for you.
Professor Shephard is an amazing lecturer. Be prepared to work hard (especially coding in R). I took Stat 123 last year, and felt this course was a great extension
This is a difficult class, but definitely worth the effort. It's an excellent follow-up to Stat 110/123 and is one of the few classes around that covers quantitative finance. Prior knowledge of R would be helpful.
Although this is a challenging course, it is definitely worth putting your time into it. You'll learn a lot by the end of the semester and surprise yourself with how much you can do.
This class ultimately does not deliver on what is promised. The math is complicated but unenlightening, and the course doesn't flow smoothly in terms of tying everything together. You will learn a few pricing models, and you will learn how to derive black scholes, and become quite familiar with properties of brownian motion, and of martingales. You will also code various finical processes and constructions such as Markowitz portfolios. The problem with the class is that it presents the material as more of a hodge podge of methods, and doesn't tie things together well. It is not difficult though if you are competent in mathematics
There were aspects of this course that were interesting and then there were aspects of this course that were tedious and seemingly worthless. Lectures constantly toggle back and forth between really easy to follow and impossible to follow. That being said, this class is worth taking to expose yourself to common financial models, if that is your cup of tea. The assignments are semi-interesting and the exams are super easy.
Neil is a great teacher and he really understand what he is doing, but his slides can be very confusing sometimes. So try best not to skip classes, otherwise would be very difficult to catch up. 
Justin is a great TF and he knows his business. He is very helpful in sessions, so make sure to go. Only thing is that he has very strong personality and sometimes losses patience.
This class really has some interesting material, but I personally found the disorganization of the course difficult to overcome, and something that affected by ability to learn effectively. Be aware of this before you enroll.
The material is really interesting. Neil is a great lecturer and makes the material pretty accessible, but unless you're a statistics whiz with strong knowledge of matrix calculus and a great R programmer, this class will wreck you. It's more than 60% grad students too so say goodbye to your GPA. In retrospect, great class to take pass/fail for the stat major.
This course has interesting material, but it is not taught particularly well.  The section component of the course was pretty unhelpful, and the TF held his office hours at an inconvenient time (Monday morning at 9am).  Half of the students taking the class were grad students, and undergrads are graded on the same level, making it difficult to perform well in the course.
Come to every lecture. Neil is a great lecturer.
