I'd tell them that if they want to learn more about these specific statistical methods, they should definitely take it!  I had fun!
This class is an interesting look at bootstrapping, a very, very cool and strange topic.
This was an absolutely wonderful course on an extremely important topic. Courses on the bootstrap are often too applied - it becomes a cookbook without teaching you how to invent your own recipes - or it is too theoretical - it becomes an exercise in asymptotics. Luke struck a near perfect balance between the two extremes, developing our intuition as well as giving necessary technical details. He was engaging. His humor acted as an emulsifier to help us digest the material, and he was never afraid to pursue tangents which almost always gave us greater understanding of the material (though perhaps not the original material we set out to understand :). The homeworks were initially a bit long (understandable for a first class), but Luke fixed this by the end so next time around everything should be well tuned. A great course with a great instructor - don't miss it when it's given again.
Very, very cool methods not taught elsewhere in the department!  Enjoy!
It was nice that this class wasn't all-consuming class (in terms of time) and I still learned a lot. I didn't realize how inception-like bootstrapping can be. A lot of the exercises were seemingly simple, but actually very clever and mind-blowing. The practicals were also really helpful as guiding examples.
The core idea of the bootstrap and permutation/rank tests are very simple. There is definitely not a whole semester's material -- it almost seems like most of the time we talked about asides or background. That being said, this class is great if you're looking to apply the bootstrap to your research.
You should have taken stat100 , stat110 and some regression based courses like stat139, stat 149.  You need to have some knowledge about LLN and CLT.
This is one of the most useful and interesting courses I've taken. Bootstrap is very useful, and Luke is a great teacher and person.This course gave me a much more versatile understanding of the bootstrap, and I felt like it really opened up my mind.  It changed the way I look at every statistical problem; all the difficult statistical issues I've run into in the past this course made me think back to a lot of it and say, "what if I had used this kind of simulation/bootstrap?".  I feel really empowered to have this useful tool under my belt and it makes me more excited about doing research in general.
Luke, I'm not sure if you're planning on teaching this course again but if you so many people will benefit from this.
It is really interesting material!  Also, Luke Miratrix is a kind person who is very willing to help students learn (no matter what level they're at).
This class covers much more than just the bootstrap! Anyone can learn a basic bootstrap in a single lecture. This course goes on to spend a period on methods to slightly improve your bootstrap estimates, then also touches on a range of other nonparametric methods I didn't know existed. The course might vary year-to-year based on who is in it, so you might want to talk with the professor and see what topics might be covered. Overall, it's an interesting introduction to an area of statistics in which many Harvard stat students have little experience.
