When I took this course, I expected it to be focused primarily in translation like a high school Latin class, with students translating in turn and graded on their performance. It turns out that this course is heavily based on discussion, and although translation is required for homework, there is no translation in class, except when Professor Tarrant opens the floor for questions about any difficulties in translation. Instead, discussion (usually about themes and connections in the Odes) takes precedent in each class. This makes participation a little more arbitrary, but if you enjoy discussing themes in Latin poetry and Roman history, this is your course.
This is a class in literature, not language, so I definitely recommend it if you want to learn about Horace's poetry (you will learn a lot about Horace's poetry), but not if you are more interested in improving your understanding of the Latin language.
This is a wonderful class. Prof. Tarrant's care for all of the students will probably allow a camaraderie to grow up in your class as it did this year. After a term studying Horace I can be sure that he is a really vivid, worthwhile, and rewarding poet. The readings are reasonably short. But it feels as if one could contemplate them on and on, in the views that Prof. Tarrant and classmates give for them.
Whatever your reason would be for taking this class, I highly recommend this class! You should not leave Harvard without taking a class with Professor Tarrant!
Take this class! Professor Tarrant was always excited and interesting in our lecture/discussions. He was very open to student opinions and feedback. The course gives you a more comprehensive view of the Odes of Horace.
Do not fall behind on translating the poems. You will regret it when studying for and taking the final exam.
Overall, this class seemed more like an English class than a Latin class.  When I say that I mean that we tended to focus more on "what" Horace was writing about (i.e. the content) rather than, as in a typical Latin class, "how" he wrote (i.e. the poetic style or syntax).  However, Tarrant is a very nice guy, and his kindness is surpassed by his enthusiasm for the material, which makes it worth it.
Professor Tarrant is amazing! He is very knowledgeable and helpful. The translation assignments were manageable and the tests and essays were straight-forward. Tarrant is willing to meet with you (outside of office hours if necessary) to help with translation problems and essays. He also answers e-mails properly. If you can't take Horace with him, take a different course.
This is a fun class for any Latin poetry enthusiasts.  Horace is a fabulous writer and this class will help you explore and appreciate his poetry.  Expect to do homework for every class, but not an overwhelming amount.
This class very thoroughly looks at each of Horace's Odes, both in context of each other and the context of the time in which they were written. The material is interesting and well taught, and is furthermore done with enthusiasm.
Definitely take this class if you're interested in Latin because it allows you to study Horace in a very open-discussion format, so your opinion counts!
