This course allows you to read Latin and to discuss it with the same zeal and life as an English text.
Professor Tarrant is amazing, and this class is right in his wheelhouse. Expect to work, but also expect to love it.
Neronian Literature is an excellent course, and Professor Tarrant is one of the most eloquent and thoughtful professors at Harvard. The readings are fascinating and manageable in length (with some previous Latin experience) and the in-class discussions provide a detailed and comprehensive view of not only the texts, but also the culture, philosophy, politics, and artistic production of this literary period. Furthermore, the commentary that Professor Tarrant provides for each text is, without exception, incisive and deftly articulated. I highly recommend taking this course if you have even an ounce of appreciation for Latin, whether you are a Classics concentrator or not!
I highly recommend this course for students looking for a Latin course to take. It will familiarize you with several authors (Seneca, Lucan, Petronius), and you will read both poetry and prose.
This class, as is an course taught by Professor Tarrant, is fantastic and I highly recommend.
This class was one of the most interesting and enriching I have taken.  I learned an incredible amount about each piece of literature we read, and feel a much deeper appreciation for the Latin language on the whole than I did prior to the course.  Discussions were deep and involved, the assessments were fair, and the extended assignments (such as our final paper) gave us an opportunity to take the information that we had covered during the semester and reach beyond the syllabus.
One thing to know about this class is that it's quite a bit of reading: when I did the reading carefully it often took me about 4 hours / class, which is a lot considering the class meets 3 times / week. Additionally, Neronian Literature isn't always my favorite genre; it can be weird, dark, and stylistically thorny. But sometimes it's also beautiful, and there could be no better teacher than Professor Tarrant to help us see that beauty. His ability to lead discussions, to supplement our readings with well-chosen background material, and to make his students laugh never ceases to amaze me. I would enthusiastically recommend taking just about any course he teaches because you'll learn more about all of Latin literature and improve your reading skills no matter what particular genre the class focuses on. Get ready to dig deeply into texts, to laugh at Petronius, to have a love-hate relationship with Lucan and to be a little mesmerized by Seneca. This course is a great time.
Professor Tarrant's insight on the topic is phenomenal. He has a deep understanding of Latin literature (and for this in particular, Neronian literature) the likes of which I have seen nowhere else. He teaches with great enthusiasm, and he instills the same in all of his students.
The quality of critical discussion in this course is immensely high. However, this is not the course to take if you are trying to shore up your foundation of Latin grammar.
A lot of reading Latin, but not enough discussion of the Latin itself.
