I would recommend this class to anyone that is considering a Classics Concentration or to anyone who has taken Latin in the past. The work is doable, challenging, and you learn a lot along the way about Caesar and his writing style. Professor Zanker is great in class and is easily approachable outside of class. Also, it is easy to make meetings with him to go over any sections that seemed difficult or that you had trouble with during class. With around 130 lines per assignment, 260 lines per week, and one outside reading a week, I would recommend this course with enthusiasm as a great introductory latin course for students that took extensive Latin in high school through the AP course.
The course provided a comprehensive overview of Caesar's works and helped me to see him as more than a simple author fitting for students starting to read Latin literature. The course is also a good refresher of late Republican Roman history through both the primary and secondary readings.
It's very interesting.
I would argue that this class is a good intro to the expectations of 100 level Classics courses and the general expectations of serious and committed Latin study. The course is relatively unforgiving and relies upon students feeling comfortable reading complex, specific, and important secondary source materials to enhance their understanding of the actual Latin text. Translation in this course is not enough - it requires translation influenced by historical context and an understanding of the course material. Nonetheless, it is a great start to an academic pursuit of Latin at the highest level, and although at times students may feel challenged, the professor is always available to discuss questions, leaving no problem unaddressed.
Take this course if you are interested in the text and want to improve your translation abilities. There is a fair amount of translation as the course progresses, so you should expect that you most likely won't be able to do the homework for class just one night before.
Caesar's writings, a high-school staple, are probably familiar to many students, but this course offers a much more thorough study of the texts and a much deeper investigation of Caesar's world.
Incredibly difficult but incredibly rewarding.
