As preparation for the General Exams and as an excellent graduate-level survey of Latin literature, I recommend this course very highly.
This class is very useful for students wishing to make progress on the Latin reading list. The volume of reading proscribed for a given week (e.g. 40 OCT pages) may seem high to students who have not taken a similar class before, but it is helpful to get used to this sooner rather than later. Thankfully, the class makes few other demands on students. Assessment is not time-consuming and does not distract from the real work of reading.
Read carefully, but not so carefully that it prevents you from making it through the assignments.
There is a lot of reading and it is very enjoyable.
The workload is demanding, but the experience you gain reading widely differing styles of Latin is invaluable.
This course demanded more time than any other course I have ever taken - count on a minimum of twenty hours per week.
There is no better way to improve your Latin and to get an understanding of what it's all about, but the course will not pull punches.
The course is invaluable for getting through the graduate reading list.  I would be wary of recommending the class to any but the most advanced undergraduates.My understanding is that this year's class required the students to do more, at least for the purposes of assessment, than in previous years with other professors.  Potential students might like to consider this when deciding whether to take the course.
It was such a delightful experience reading Latin Canons with Prof. Thomas. He draws parallels between texts with effortless grace and great clarity. Although this course is mainly designed for students on the classical philology track to prepare for the generals, I learned a lot as an advanced graduated student outside the field.
Make sure you the instructor is energetic and focused enough to run the course in a way that exerts the kind of pressure on students that is necessary for growth.
The course demands a lot of work, but it improves immensely the command of the Latin language.
Reading Latin is an excellent course to take to get through a large amount and great variety of Latin within a short period of time.
