be prepared to work more hours on this class than you expect to, with not as much yield on homework or midterm grades
There is no better way to improve you command of Latin than to take this course.
The book in this class is a little outdated, written by some crusty Brit who is pretentious and aloof in his writing. But the grammar for the most part is solid. I did doubt on several occasions the validity of the rules, for he was overly prescriptive, but all in all, a solid book.
You must take prose composition.  It will force you to appreciate the fine points of Latin grammar that you never had to worry about when you were only responsible for translating, and so will enrich your experience of reading Latin.  Fitting for any Harvard education in the Classics.
This class is especially helpful as a way to reinforce one's command of Latin. The focus is entirely on understanding the grammar and syntax of Latin, and not on analyzing texts (as is the case for 100-level courses). This class is ideal for someone like me who placed into 100-level Latin but wasn't yet comfortable with such advanced classes. An extremely useful course.
The course is good for a review of Latin idiom and syntax, but suffers from a lack of organization. There is little reference to actual Latin authors, and the composition assignments are too short to be effective. Dr. Vesella is a nice and great leader, but the course could use more organization.
Lots of self-motivation required to succeed, but superbly satisfying by the end of it all.
This is sort of an arcane skill, so you should really have a thing for Latin.
if you want to become really, really solid on latin, then this class is the way to go.  but it won't be easy; there's no formula success.  you have to know a lot of latin vocabulary, do a lot of practice sentences, learn the grammar, and hope that you don't get tested on idioms or words you dont know.
You'll re-learn Latin grammar that has become natural enough for you not to think about it rigorously, and in a fun and engaging environment with an instructor with a flair for the dramatic. You won't know exactly in what way and how rigorously you'll be assessed, but it'll turn out all right.
prose comp is the most important tool for understanding latin on a deeper level and for building facility with the language.
