It's awesome
The reading list is great!  As long as you have an animated professor, you will have a great time.
Be prepared to do lots of Latin and realize that you can't show up to class without doing homework. This is the hardest Latin course I have ever taken.
it is very helpful for generals. take it, but be sure to keep up with the reading.
it was an excellent class.  professor tipping was fantastic.
Readings are long, but the teachers are fantastic and it is a great way to sample a wide range of authors and get a lot of practice reading Latin.
Take a 112 as early as you can; the translation is rigorous, but you will reap the benefits in any subsequent Latin courses you take.
This is a course for people looking to read a lot of Latin. Fine grammatical points have to be sacrificed for speed.
This course offers a great opportunity to cover a range of readings over a broad historical period. It is a big commitment and a challenge to keep up, but very rewarding!
Prof. Tipping runs a very reasonable and impassioned show.
Latin 112b is a good survey course.  It's valuable to look at several different authors in one course, and the more time you invest in it the more you will get out of it.  Don't get too far behind on the readings, because you're not likely to catch up!
While hard, 112b is a fantastic survey of Principate-era Latin literature.  Get ready for lots of translation but also the reward of learning so much
Hard to comment as Professor Tipping is leaving. I'm not sure I would have wanted to take this course taught by anybody other than him.
It is great to get a larger picture of latin literary history before going to literary courses on specific topics.
You can't read everything on the syllabus and still be human (i.e. shower, eat, sleep). Take it anyway and do what you can. What you don't have time to read in Latin, at least read in translation.
This is bread-and-butter Classics material, and it's taught well. Look forward to it, even though it may be simply a requirement for you.
112b isn't as popular as 112a, but there's some really interesting and underrated material to read. While you will still be able to read some great A-listers like Ovid, Horace, Seneca, Tacitus, Lucan, etc. you also get to read some hidden gems like Calpurnius Siculus, some later texts like Claudian, and some downright awful prose like Velleius Paterculus (which is at least worth it, if only for the experience). Since the syllabus might vary from professor to professor, future iterations of this course might have different examples of imperial literature to fit into those categories!
There is a great deal of translation. If you fall behind, it is very difficult to catch up.
This course is challenging not because any individual text is hard (though some texts are harder than others, of course), but because there is so very much. Stay on top of things and you'll be fine. And then, when you get through the final, you'll realize how much you've covered and it's pretty amazing.
You may never again read so much Latin in such a such a short amount of time and, because of that, this class is uniquely challenging and uniquely rewarding. You will finish the semester, look back at the syllabus or stack of Latin that you've read, and not believe it. It can be overwhelming at time so I do not recommend that you take this class together with other heavy reading classes because it drains quite a bit of your time. I assure you that the sense of accomplishment you will feel after finishing this class is well worth the huge time commitment.
This course truly broadened my horizons within Roman literature. Since most high school and even college courses don't focus on work past the early empire, a lot of these texts were unfamiliar to me (e.g., Statius? Tacitus? Augustine?). Obviously keep up with the reading and treat this as a reading course, as if you were reading several texts a week in English in another humanities class.
Latin 112b is a demanding but thoroughly rewarding experience. It is a great privilege to be able to read almost every major author of the post-Augustan classical Latin period up to Apuleius. This course is a fantastic opportunity to gain familiarity with a wide variety of authors which you otherwise may not encounter, and provides a rich exploration of imperial Latin literature and its major themes. I would recommend it with enthusiasm to Classics concentrators, even if you have already fulfilled the 112 requirement with 112a.
This is a great class!! It provided a thorough, informative survey of imperial Roman literature. While it was a lot of work, I feel that I gained a detailed understanding of the development of Latin literature during the Roman empire.
A lot of work
