The reading load is unforgiving -- if you fall behind, you will likely stay behind. That being said, the readings also get progressively more interesting and complex. Professor Tarrant is also a wonderful teacher.
RJT is a great professor, and I always looked forward to coming to class to listen to what he had to say about Propertius, Tibullus, and Ovid. These texts are really fun to read; Propertius and Tibullus often aren't covered very much, so I was glad to get a chance to read those two. Ovid is a fan favorite, and was universally welcomed when we started reading him in the second half of the course. (Above all else, take this course because of Professor Tarrant's impersonation of the parrot in Amores 2.6.)
Tarrant is a brilliant man who will really open you up to this poetry. Stay on time with reading!
It's useful to keep up with the reading and to take seriously the questions Prof. Tarrant emails before each class.
Go for the course description, stay for the amazing teaching.
You get to read a variety of fascinating authors, and Tarrant is very cool
Professor Tarrant is the best! Just make sure to keep up with the translations--they become progressively longer as the semester goes on, so it is easy to fall behind.
This class is enjoyable, worthwhile, and not overly difficult.  Take this course if you enjoy Latin poetry, and want to understand its context and place in Ancient Rome.  Professor Tarrant is amazing, and you will likely not find anyone as well-versed.  This is a great class--take it.
This class is a delight for anyone who enjoys translating Latin poetry. With many years of high school Latin and one other Harvard class under my belt, this one was the most difficult Latin class I have ever taken. The translation assignments are long and only get longer as the class goes on, and Professor Tarrant does not go over them line by line in class like some instructors. If you are prepared to put effort into it, you'll be rewarded with fantastic texts and the calm, pleasant guidance of a very smart professor.
Tarrant's lecturing is fabulous. He's eloquent and hilarious while being the most knowledgeable. Take this class if you have any interest at all in latin elegy! The readings (minus Sulpicia, I don't think anybody liked her) were great and extremely enjoyable homework, and the class was the highlight of my year.
Elegy is beauty. Enjoy!
You should definitely take this course! Professor Tarrant is phenomenal and the works we read were also interesting.
Professor Tarrant is a great teacher, and the readings for this course are wonderful.
Lots of fun, very relaxed.
This class is greatly based on the interpretation and reaction to the poems that go on in class meetings, which Prof. Tarrant guides flexibly. Prof. Tarrant was a wonderful professor to have, and the poems were really worth reading. He set it up so that we moved back and forth among the successive books of Propertius and Tibullus and then read Ovid.
This is a great class, but there is a good amount of work. It's not easy, but Professor Tarrant makes it enjoyable.
If you're at all interested in Classics, you can't graduate without having taken a course with Professor Tarrant. This is a very manageable class and a lot of fun.
It's definitely worth taking
You read a lot of great poetry ] with a great professor. Professor Tarrant is an incredibly talented classicist, but is just a sweet guy in the classroom.
Professor Tarrant is awesome!! Definitely take a class with him. Also Ovid is the bomb. After all, he's the one who said, "Rident stolidi verba Latina."
This class is amazing, without a doubt one of the best I have ever taken.  Do the readings, go to class and participate, and it is extremely enjoyable!
Interesting material and a professor who both cares about the students and has a deep knowledge of the material. Of 100-level Latin classes, probably among the less difficult.
Keep up with translating as much as you can.
For someone with significant background in the study of Latin, this is a good course to take to further one's study in the field.
This was one of the most enjoyable 100 level Latin courses I have taken. The reading is light but rich in content and Professor Tarrant is a joy to work with.
A great introduction to a crucial literary genre, and to generic oppositions and codes - epic/elegy - that have marked literature as a whole. And the pleasure of Professor Tarrant's humanistic and aesthetic approach of these texts.
This class is ideal if you enjoy reading and discussing Latin texts.
If you are interested in Latin poetry, take any class Tarrant offers, and learn the material well.
Do the work!
Take it! It is a great course and very fun! It is more discussion based and, as a freshman, I believe this is a great course for first-time students/Latin majors because most have read Ovid, so there is some familiarity, however fewer have read Propertius and Tibullus, letting you test the waters of other Latin Elegists! And the Professor is amazing!
A must-take course--Professor Tarrant is phenomenal.
Professor Tarrant is so nice.
It is a great class! Fun and challenging, the class was a perfect balance of difficulty and interesting subject matter.
Its fun. I had a great group of students in my class who along with Professor Tarrant made the subject matter come alive for me.
