Take it if you are ready to put in the work of translating the poem. It may be too much for a more inexperienced Latin student.
I used to be a fan of Vergil but slowly moved to being more of a fan of Ovid. This class definitely solidified that for me. Professor Tarrant is great. Take classes with him.
I don't know if this class is being offered again, but I'll comment as though it is. Practical things first, before I gush: if you want to enjoy and get the most out of this class, be prepared to read a lot of Latin--150 lines a night minimum. And as a result, you should also expect that exams, though they are very fair, will take a long time to study for (there were 3000 lines of Latin to review for the final!)

Ok, now I get to gush. Ovid's poetry is beautiful and a pleasure to read. But what really made me love this class was the opportunity to learn from Professor Tarrant. He is the best college professor I have ever had and one of the best educators I've ever known. His ability to effortlessly guide and supplement discussion in class, without even making you feel like he's doing it, is totally awe-inspiring. He takes you to profound ideas and makes you feel like you've gotten there all by yourself. Outside of the classroom, Professor Tarrant is simply a gem: such a good listener, so willing to help with everything from the most tedious translation questions to discussions about papers and next-semester plans. His rigor, patience and delight in the text will make you find the Latin so much more beautiful than you could ever have done without his help.  No matter what he is teaching, you should take every chance you get to study with this great and good man.
Professor Tarrant is amazing!  Take a course with him.  The reading is a lot and hard to keep up with, but the course is worth it!
Be ready for a quick reading pace. Tarrant is very good in the classroom and is the world's expert on Ovid, so this is a fantastic way to get one of your 100-level Latin courses out of the way.
Professor Tarrant is a master with Ovid. The discussions are fantastic.
Professor Tarrant's lectures are always insightful and intriguing. I always looked forward to going to class and to reading the different myths in Ovid. Take the class!
Professor Tarrant is an excellent teacher and "Metamorphoses" is his bread and butter. Take it.
This course is a great middle between something like Latin Ba or Ac and a Latin 112. You are doing 500-700 lines of latin a week, which requires a fair bit of time, but the stories are super engaging. And Professor Tarrant knows his Ovid in and out. He also is always good about students inputting their own thoughts. And the exams will cover thousands of line, but Tarrant makes sure not to try to trip you up with obscure passages.
The readings aren't always possible to get done depending on how much other work you have. Make sure to read the emails Professor Tarrant sends out in order to make sure you read the most important passages.
