Professor Thomas is a wonderful and caring professor, and the subject matter here speaks for itself. In a time of politics embroiled with corruption and intrigue, not much could be more useful than taking this class. That said, it's hard and demanding.
Professor Thomas is a king among men. Take this class. Sometimes I got a little bored in class, but that is just because of the chairs.
Professor Thomas is a great instructor, truly one of the most enjoyable teachers at the College. If you get the chance in any circumstance, take a class with him. The course was fascinating and held a lot of parallels with the contemporary politics of our day, which always made for fascinating class discussions. Brought the texts to life.
This was class was very interesting, and Professor Thomas is a very engaging and humorous instructor.
Professor Thomas is simply the best. His teaching style makes the classroom dynamic informal, comfortable, and student-led. Basically only have to prep the readings in advance so you can translate when you're called on. The structure of the class is very straightforward. Weekly quizzes but just graded for check or check minus and can handle without reading in advance (or like who knows how a check factors into a grade). The midterm was also manageable, and the class is supplemented by pleasant diversions like discussing or reading from other texts.
I would strongly encourage future students to take this course or any others taught by Professor Thomas.
Professor Thomas is a great professor, and what is striking about him is his ability to connect so well with students and get to know them. He is very kind, and pleasure to be with.
Great course with a great teacher.
Prof. Thomas is amazing, and Cicero and Sallust are a pleasure to read. Make sure to review Latin grammar before you start though, because terms get very specific very quickly.
Expect Professor Thomas to take at least one humorous tangent per class - which only makes the class so much better!
Professor Thomas' class on Cicero and Sallust's takes on Catiline is superb, and explores this fascinating period of late Republican history by diving straight into the material.
This is a challenging but rewarding class - Cicero and Sallust are by no means easy grammatically, but it is more than worth it for the fascinating discussions on Roman and modern politics and justice. Make sure you are prepared for the in depth grammar discussions, but definitely take this class!
