I give my highest recommendation to this course. Tacitus--a brooding historian with a distinctive style--is an author every Latin student should read. This course will give you a thorough familiarity with the Tacitus' Agricola and Annales. Professor Thomas' command of the entire body of Latin literature enables him constantly to draw connections between Tacitus and other authors, so you'll also learn a lot about Latin literature as a whole. Be forewarned, however, this class is not for the faint of heart: The amount of Latin you'll have to read is not overwhelming, but it is substantial. You should have taken at least one other 100-level Latin course before taking this one.
If you are looking for an outstanding prose analysis course with a heavy focus on intertextuality, Roman history, and discussion of human nature, look no further than Tacitus and the Principate. Professor Thomas is an excellent  professor and lecturer who facilitates class discussion and encourages student input when analyzing the text. Overall, this course teaches students how to analyze Latin with a philological mindset - that is to say how to interpret and internalize, not just merely translate - the text. It provides its students with a strong foundation in prose analysis and a better understanding of how philologists approach their work.That said, the course is very difficult because Tacitus is a notoriously tricky prose author. The assignment load in this course is moderate (around 7 chapters of reading per night, but sometimes up to 10), but given how challenging Tacitus can be, the workload can become steep quickly. It is important to do all of the readings and not to fall behind. I would eagerly recommend this course to any student with a *very* strong Latin foundation (post-AP, with experience in at least one other 100-level prose course) who wants to learn more about Roman history through analysis of primary literature or who is intrigued by the more subtle (but tricky to translate)conventions of the Latin language which Tacitus utilizes with remarkable ease.
It's tough--come on, it's Tacitus--but it's incredible.
Tacitus is hard, don't be scared by the Proem on day 1
What can I say?  This was probably my favorite course the semester I took it.  RFT is a wonderful teacher and a wonderful person and Tacitus is the greatest Latin prose writer after Cicero.  A good introduction is made to the secondary scholarship on Tacitus.  The reading is tough going at first, but becomes easier as time progresses.  A real A-1 course.
