Fairly demanding introduction to medieval Latin poetry.  Is likely to improve your translating abilities because the readings are fairly long for a class of this level.
This is a great chance to take a fun, small class that doesn't require excessive background or work.
Provides a useful introduction the the conventions of medieval Latin poetry and the major works of the period, but could have gone more in-depth. Vocabulary and historical context of the poetry could have received more emphasis.
It's probably a little tougher than you expect - at least if you're coming out of Harvard's first year sequence - but that shouldn't dissuade you. The class is truly Intermediate in the sense that it means not to allow you to use first-year knowledge to read Latin for a semester, but to push you to read more, faster, better. You'll also probably learn more about the background for the poetry than you'd expect, which will be rewarding for those with a real interest in the period's literature. Those without much particular interest may be better served - not necessarily better improved, but better served - by Latin Ba/b.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard to date. Justin was the most incredibly kind, funny and charming TF I have had and I enjoyed every minute, even if it was struggling through the Walter of Speyer. I recommend this class very highly to anyone who needs to practice their Latin, as it is fun and you can learn a lot, without wanting to pull your hair out with fury and frustration. Of all the latin classes I have taken, and indeed, of all the language courses here at Harvard, this one was my favorite.
Medieval poetry is very engaging.
I thoroughly enjoyed this course. You get to engage with some great, often very entertaining material that you wouldn't otherwise be exposed to in a latin course. The readings span fro the 4th century to the 13th so you can a good sense of changes in latin over this period, as well as some exposure to history. The class is even better if you ask questions about the material and the authors--often there are great backstories to the readings that are worth hearing! You'll also get so much more out of it if you go to class prepared to translate, so do put in the time to prep the assignments.
Great class! Wonderful variety of authors. Some of the written assignments were incredibly annoying, but there were only six non-translation assignments total so suck it up and take this class. I'm not sure I feel 100% prepared for translating 100-200 lines a night in higher level Latin classes, but I still think it was worth it. Also, make sure to take notes on the history and classical references etc. because they have a tendency to come back and bite you on the midterm/final.
This is a very good class, which I would definitely recommend taking!  If you haven't translated much Latin before, it is a good way of easing into it, and it you are a little rusty it shouldn't be too difficult.  The readings are manageable and very enjoyable.
This course is a good introduction to medieval Latin. You learn a lot about standards of style and topic. The readings can be difficult if you have not had much experience with classical Latin.
The class is excellent! Tyler makes the classroom very comfortable so if you're someone who gets nervous translating out loud you shouldn't worry. It provides a great overview of Medieval Latin poetry and if there is something you're particularly fond of there is the chance to go more in depth into that author. In terms of working on reading Latin there isn't a jarring transition between classical and medieval so that shouldn't be a concern if you've only ever done classical. The quantity of poetry read and the different styles covered really improve both the speed of your reading and your ability to understand what the text is saying more closely.
This is an awesome class and a cool change of pace for those accustomed to reading Classical authors or Latin prose. Definitely take it if you like small classes. Don't be afraid that you'll forget how to read Classical style. Many of the authors featured in this course were very good students of Classical Latin and stylistically/grammatically there is little difference.
This is a really interesting deviation from classical Latin. Translationally, it isn't very different from classical latin, but has really different background and subject matter. It functions as a good course to keep up and improve Latin translational skills and also learn about medieval history.
If you have a Classical Latin background--BEWARE this class is MEDIEVAL Latin and therefore your learning/studying habits will have to adapt to new vocab/new grammatical constructions. However, it is worth it if you are willing to try something new.
The body of literature produced in Medieval Times is too large and colorful for any person to master, but why not take a taste? Read lines written in monasteries that haven't been read for centuries. Revive the artistry and melody of poetry so often forgotten, but worth every minute of understanding. Take this course and keep an era of scholarship alive.
Though he won't be returning, Tyler was a delight to have and helped make the class as good as it was. There's definitely a lot of reading, so don't think this is a class that you can get away without having to do a lot of work for. It is important to have a firm grasp on Latin grammar (forms) and to know a good handful of vocabulary -- or be prepared to painfully learn a lot through this course.
Great class with very few students. Get to know TF well. Need to stay on top of assignments because they add up though.
