Be ready to work throughout. This is not a class to slack off in and expect to make up ground in.
It takes work to stay on top of the reading, but the payoff is great; the class atmosphere, because all the students are interested and there are just enough for a great dynamic, is really enjoyable, and the professor is consistently impressive.
If you're a Classics major you will need to take this class anyway for generals, so you don't get much of a choice. If you only want to take one Latin class as an elective and you think this one would be good because you took AP Vergil, there are other, more fun Latin classes. Shop Ovid or something.
While there is a lot of out-of-class translation for homework, it is a very worthwhile course because Professor Thomas is just so intelligent.  The class may get a bit boring towards the hour mark but if you pay attention, you will learn some amazing things.
I would caution them that it's a huge amount of day-to-day work, but recommend it for the reading, which (obviously) is good, and for Thomas.
Even if you already took a class on Virgil in high school or elsewhere, Professor Thomas will make it seem new again. If you are still struggling with your Latin, this may not be the right course, but if you're skills are solid, don't let the 300-400 lines per week intimidate you. You'll learn speed as you go. This is a class worth taking even if you don't intend to concentrate in the Classics. Everyone should experience the Aeneid.
It is very informative and thorough. However, there is not a lot of idea exchange. There is a lot of translation.
An excellent course with a brilliant professor who truly cares about his students and provides insightful analysis of the text, shedding light on all its literary, metrical, historical nuances, etc. Be prepared to read lots of Latin, with occasional changes of pace like listening to Bob Dylan and watching clips from Sam Peckinpah westerns in class (all tied into Vergil, of course).
If you're willing to put in the time it takes to be prepared for this class and get something out it, then this class is incredibly rewarding - the text is incredible, and you will also feel proud of being able to read such an OLD poem so directly. Professor Thomas is wonderful, and your classmates are likely to be very interesting people :)... but the class can be a little stressful if you weren't expecting such a time commitment.
This is such an awesome class, especially if this is the first Latin class you are taking in college or if you have a lot of past Latin experience but haven't taken a Latin class in awhile. Prof. Thomas is very funny and engaging, and even if you took AP Latin: Vergil in high school, this class gives you a fresh perspective on how to read the Aeneid and examine the reading.
Professor Thomas is great! He really brings the Aeneid to life with his presentations on reception and translation.
This class is great in the fact that it goes beyond the AP syllabus and gives a larger and more thorough spectrum of the "Aeneid". It challenges the speed at which one reads Latin.
I would tell them it's a great way to learn more about Virgil from one of the masters in the field, but the reading load is heavy to impossible.
There are moments in this class where I was simultaneously floored by the knowledge of Professor Thomas and the poetic mastery of Vergil.
Take the class. The Aeneid is the most important work of Latin literature; this class is taught by an expert on Virgil and an extremely fair and humorous instructor at the same time.
There is probably no better professor in the world with whom you could take a class on the Aeneid. There is a certain, unmatchable authority that accompanies a professor teaching a class on the Aeneid, leading a discussion, reading from a copy of the Aeneid annotated by Wendell Clausen himself.
VIRGIL EUGE
AMAZING!
The Aeneid is amazing and Professor Thomas does a really great job of teaching it. If you're comfortable with doing a good chunk of translation on a regular basis (be prepared for several hours a night if you're a slow translator like I am!) then I highly recommend the class.
Prof. Thomas is really good. Whether or not you have already read from the Aeneid, this class is well worth taking.
There is so much work to be done for this class (re: hours of reading), but it is so worth it to have Thomas as an instructor. By far my favorite class for freshman fall.
I had taken AP Vergil in high school, and it was definitely worth doing the Aeneid again. We read much more than the AP syllabus, and I got much more out of it. The reading load is much greater (150-200 lines per class), but not overwhelming. Professor Thomas is great, and I learned a lot in this course.
