Great class with Professor Thomas. The course was very grammar heavy, and he picked weird passages for the quizzes and examinations, which was quite frustrating. Nevertheless, Catullus is a great author and Professor Thomas gives valuable insight into grammar and meter. The in-class presentations were quite boring at times, but if there isa smaller class than 20~, they should be more interesting.
This class is wonderful to take if you're not an expert in Latin poetry, particularly if you want to build your skills.
Catullus is a relevant today as ever. A great way to learn a ton about one of the most important poets ever. By studying this poet in depth with one of the subjects eminent experts, you will walk away from the experience with a far greater appreciation for the genre of poetry and the study of the Classics than you ever imagined. Two thumbs up.
By the end of this course, you will have a great grasp on almost everything Catullus ever wrote. Through class discussion and individual study, you will come to appreciate the poet's novelty and skill.
This class wasn't perfect. But if you want to study Catullus, this is the way to go. Thomas has a very sound perspective on the poet. I hope that the class will incorporate more discussion on a daily basis.
Everyone should take a course with Professor Thomas -- watching him analyze Catullus and the intertexts in the corpus with the rest of classical literature (all of which Professor Thomas seems to know like the back of his hand) is truly a privilege.
Catullus is a delight, and getting to read everything he wrote while being instructed by Thomas was a treat indeed!
Professor Thomas is very well versed and very well spoken on a variety of subjects - he really pulls together a lot of interesting information from a variety of sources when talking about Catullus.
good course, but too many people took it when i did, leading to a pretty low participation rate from students. lectures for this class weren't fantastic. not much work though which was nice. a good fourth class
Latin 102 provides an excellent introduction to Latin poetry at a reasonable pace which is perfect for students who want to take a 100 level for the first time. The flexibility of the course work, as well as the student presentations, still leave plenty of engaging material to explore for students who are already used to the rigor of 100 level courses. Definitely take this class if you want a refresher on poetry that is illuminating but not too demanding. That said, effort and preparation are required to succeed in this course as there are weekly quizzes which assess translation, grammar, meter, and textual interpretation to keep you on your toes.
Both the professor and the content of this course are fabulous.  The assignments are a consistent amount of work--not a blow-off class by any means but not an overwhelming amount.  Class can on occasion be a little dry, but the content is so great that it saves it.
Pretty good class. Great course material and not too much time required for homework.
This class covers a fascinating aspect of Roman literature, and at the end, you get the satisfaction of having read all of Catullus. The pace is rapid, but not more so than other 100-level classes. Prof. Thomas is an absolute delight, and Catullus's poetry is sometimes beautiful, sometimes fun, always a joy.
The material shines through. Catullus is a remarkable poet, not to mention entertaining. RFT is a wealth of knowledge, and it's worth it just to listen to him talk, too!
