Tarrant is an excellent, knowledgeable, and immensely likable professor.
it's really, really hard, but necessary for generals.  if you keep on the ball, it should be helpful for generals, if not, it's just overwelming.  it was also interesting to study the various latin authors in respect to each other.  you don't really get to do that in other latin classes here, because they usually focus on just one author.
If you have not worked extensively with Latin, though you are eager to do so, accept this challenge.
Attempt to have as much contact as possible with all course authors before enrolling.
Lots of reading--make sure to keep up.
While the workload is heavy, in the end there is a lot of benefit to taking a course like 112a, and in the end you are happy that you did.
This class is thoroughly rewarding, but--like most rewarding things--it is also a challenge. The reading list is massive: It's imperative to keep up with the readings each week, because it's so difficult to catch up if you get behind. Finding a partner to do the readings with really helped me get through such a massive amount of Latin, and constantly reviewing newly encountered words helped me increase my reading speed. Professor Thomas is an excellent professor and a delightful individual, so be sure to get to know him.
Latin 112a with Professor Thomas is one of the best courses I have taken in the Classics department. He is a wonderful Vergilian, as everyone knows, but he also provides sensitive treatments of Horace, Catullus, Propertius, Lucretius, and Cicero.
If you can dedicate the time to this course, it's totally worth it! Don't give up on lang/lit track in Classics! You can handle this course, but you do need to put in a lot of work to do well!
This class is a lot of reading but is worth it. You read a wide range of authors as Rome goes through a critical period in its history.
This course covers a lot of Latin in a fairly brief amount of time.  I, personally, liked this.  However, if 1) you don't feel strong enough in your Latin to do 600< lines/week or 2) you like to smell the roses and linger over every single word lovingly in reading and in class, this course is not for you.  RFT is a great teacher, and very accessible and personable inside and outside the classroom.  Classes themselves tend to be a little aimless, but RFT nevertheless imparts a lot of information by hook or by crook.  James Townshend, who was TF when I enrolled, was an astonishingly good section leader and substitute lecturer.
You'll get three great things out of this course. 1) An understanding of the totality of the first half of Latin literature, how it fits together. 2) You'll discover some amazing authors you've never read before: for me, Plautus, Lucretius and Propertius. 3) You get the chance to do all this with Professor Tarrant.
This class is extremely rewarding, if you allocate time for it. Do not be fooled; it moves incredibly fast, and falling behind can be a real problem if you do not watch out.
Definitely take this over 112b, if you're only choosing one and you haven't touched much of the readings in the syllabus! In order to consider yourself a Classicist, you must have read the authors in this course. Yes, you'll find it at first overwhelming, but you'll have a great professor and TF (as all Classics classes do). And if you get extra lucky, you'll have Professor Tarrant and Sarah!
This class is not for the faint of heart--however I highly recommend it to anyone looking to work hard, drastically improve your Latin, and gain familiarity with many of the most important Latin writers and texts up to the Augustine Age.
You may want to clear out a lot of your schedule the semester you take this class, because it will get very demanding very quickly.  It is worth it though.
It's a lot of reading and a lot of poetry, so come prepared.
Presumably you're taking this class because you have to. But don't look at it that way! Though the readings are long, and it can be frustrating to read only a handful of poems from a collection, or a few chapters of a longer work, or 600 lines of a comedy, this is an immensely rewarding class that will enable you to view the larger picture of the first two centuries of Latin literature. Tarrant is wonderful leader, and his comments -- and ability to elicit others' and respond to them -- made a potentially stressful class very very very very good.
This class is very difficult but very rewarding.
This course takes a lot of time but is certainly worth the effort.  It is a pleasure to go to class.
Great class, and Thomas especially is great (enormous amount of insightful knowledge, great teacher). Make sure you are very comfortable with reading lots of Latin quickly and accurately.
Great for Latin enthusiasts who are also Classics concentrators - you really do learn a lot (Prof. Thomas must have photographic memory; I'm sure of it!), and your Latin improves tenfold if you manage to keep up with all of the reading. Lauren is also an awesome TF and very helpful. I wouldn't take this if you just like Latin on the side; the workload is pretty heavy.
This class is fantastic and you should definitely take it. If you're prepared, though, ignore the department's advice to wait until junior or senior year; I took it as a sophomore and think I have a much better basis for choosing author-specific classes in the future. Beyond that, though, the reading list is all stuff you really should read in order to have the breadth of knowledge about Latin literature that a classics major ought to. Not for nothing, it'll also REALLY help your Latin, no matter how good it already is.
Latin 112a requires much of time and effort, since 600-800 lines are covered a week. However, the variety of authors and their works make the toil worthwhile, and I truly feel that I have a greater understanding of Latin literature. Labor omnia vincit.
Difficult course, but worthwhile.
Readings are wonderful (it's early and Golden-Age Latin literature, what could be better!) but heavy. Be prepared. The final is not too bad, at least with Prof. Thomas, and his lectures are a treat.
Lots of reading, but not actually that much work other than the reading. Professor Thomas is great.
Expect a lot of reading.
You should take this class if you are interested in working very hard and seriously improving your latin.  Otherwise, don't take it.
take it with tarrant if at all possible.
The reading list is great, as is the professor, but discussion in class is limited, and the reading list is literally impossible to finish.
Only take this class if you have to and if you're sure you can handle the workload. Otherwise you will be miserable and a burden to your classmates.
Loved this class for ultimately giving me a great overview of the first half of latin literature, but not sure if I would take it --because it moves so fast without much deep attention to text--if it were not for the general exams.
Take it!
This class is challenging, but you will love Professor Tarrant and the coursework. It will also force you to dramatically improve your Latin.
The course offers a great overview of Latin literature through Augustus.  The amount of reading required and the number of authors covered makes the course a difficult but rewarding capstone experience for a classics concentrator.  It's also fun, because, for the most part, your classmates will have been pursuing the program with you for several years, so you'll know one another and can share stories and reminisce.
If you're a Classics Concentrator, you're going to have to take this course. Thank god it's so amazing!
Professor Tarrant's command and passion for Latin literature are contagious.  Any student choosing this course will be happy he did.
Know your poetry!
The volume of material covered in this course is quite demanding, but it is definitely worth the effort.
Prof. Tarrant is a brilliant scholar who will open your eyes to all of the gems in Latin literature.  The course is not as difficult as the syllabus looks because of the choice available on exams.
Great class.  You read loads of amazing works and discuss them with a brilliant member of the Harvard Classics Department.  What more could you want?
This class can be a bear at times because of the sheer amount of reading assigned - that being said, the insight and focus on every author is unlike what you will find anywhere else. More important, though, is the context in which you'll experience each of them, because the attention to the growth and evolution of Latin as a literary language is huge and, at least for this period, can only be found in this class.
This class is amazing. You read so much material in one semester that it is mind blowing. With this being said, you do read about 600 lines a week, which is a ton to translate in one week, and the workload can pile up if you start slacking off. So the trick to the class is to really stay on top of your work. Being really good/fast at translating Latin really helps, but you can pull through if you are decent. Professor Tarrant is fantastic and really gets you to appreciate the texts of Catullus, Lucretius, Horace, Virgil and many others. I do recommend this course, just be prepared for hard-working semester.
Professor Tarrant is amazing. 112 is a challenging course, but Professor Tarrant makes it worthwhile. He knows so much and makes amazing connections across texts. He chooses texts specifically so that comparisons can be made and you get more than one look at, e.g., drama. (Seriously, if not this course, take a course, any course, with Professor Tarrant.) The biggest challenge of the course is the quantity of Latin, not the quality of Latin. There are a few texts that are difficult (hi Lucretius!), but mostly you get into a rhythm and you're fine (if you can commit the time; it is a time commitment). The final was much more challenging than the midterm so be prepared for that. The essays are short and doable. Section can feel like a pain because it's yet another hour, but it is helpful to go over some of the Latin in depth and to make sure you're getting it.
If you feel that you have holes in your knowledge of early Latin literature, then this course is for you. It provides a great foundation for those students planning to write theses about Latin literature or those students considering graduate school in Classics.
I haven't taken the others, but I do get the sense that Latin 112a is the best of all of the 112 level classes. A fun class, and with subject matter including Lucretius, Virgil, and Horace! It's also exciting to read Propertius and Ovid toward the end in close succession. The section translating helps you make sure you are understanding these texts carefully, and it is conducted in a helpful way.
Take this only if you need to for your concentration, or if you anticipate an easy semester in other classes and are genuinely interested in Latin literature
