I really felt my spoken Turkish improve over the course of this semester. Professor Takmr is enthusiastic, knowledgeable, and accessible, and did a great job of teaching both grammatical and cultural aspects of the language.
This is a great continuation of an elementary Turkish course. Himmet Bey is an incredibly intelligent man and very kind/approachable/skilled teacher. Turkish is not an easy language per se, but I was incredibly surprised by how much my speaking, reading, writing, and listening skills improved after just one semester. I can't wait for the 2nd semester!
Language classes, especially at this level, are always going to be challenging. It's frustrating to have class every day at the same time, long and somewhat mechanical daily assignments, and weekly vocabulary quizzes, etc. Still, looking back, it's hard to believe how much I've learned. You will see a real improvement in your speaking, writing, and understanding, and learn a fair bit of English grammar along the way. Totally worth it.
Turkey is a really interesting (and beautiful) place and Turkish is a really fun language to learn. But sometimes this class makes it more difficult to learn Turkish than it should be. There's a lot of homework and often it's hard to tell what exactly you're supposed to be learning from it. Still, I wouldn't give up learning Turkish for anything.
The amount of work is overwhelming and it can cost you time that you can spend for your other courses.
It is a huge time commitment, so make sure you are truly committed to learning the language. If you have just a casual interest in learning Turkish, you may wonder why you're spending 2-3 hours every night doing homework for something you may not encounter again. The class is fairly flexible, for better or for worse-- you can help mold the syllabus if you feel that it should change, but it also can surprise you with unexpected work.
This class is really, really hard, with a heavy workload. Tests and essays due twice a week is extremely difficult to get done, and almost every night you have to do a reading to discuss in class the next day. Definitely think twice unless you really want to learn the language.
