It's a lot of work, and you'll need to find a way to practice speaking outside of class in order to improve in speaking ability as well as reading/writing/listening, but it's a very good course, and ideal if your interest in Turkish is primarily scholarly/historical.
Very good class, a lot of work.
I have a great deal of respect for the instructors as teachers and as individuals; being in their class was wonderful.  Apart from which, Turkish is a fascinating language.
The class is fantastic. I felt that I learned much more and than just Elementary Turkish during the course of one year. It is totally worth the time committment and 9am effort every day.
Turkish is a challenging language (like any) but this class builds skills quickly and effectively nonetheless.  I feel like I am already able to communicate slowly and basically with native speakers, which I was skeptical of at the beginning of the course.
This course is nothing but an unbroken stream of grammar principles explained in English and grammar drills from a book.  Do NOT take this course if you wish to learn how to speak Turkish and understand spoken Turkish.
Engin Bey is a substitute this year but I've heard that, in general, Turkish instruction here is great and he's no exception.
That Turkish is great and that the course is systematic but that the teaching at times can get very frustrating.
You need to put in a lot of time to do the daily homework and stay on top of the material (2 quizzes/week), but as long as you put the time in, you should do fairly well. If you're interested in the language/country, though, I would definitely recommend it! It's nice to have a different type of work than your other classes.
Himmet is incredibly generous with his time and knowledge, and if you take this course your Turkish will improve at a rate of knots.
That the course is useful by the instructor is very unorganized and follows very traditional and medieval methods of teaching. I would tell them to take into consideration that the instructor expects his students to invest time one would invest in two graduate courses.
Take it! Himmet Bey is a great professor and it's a really amazing introduction to a more difficult language. The professor and the people in the class are great.  It's really easy to feel like you are learning and you will always get a chance to practice.
This is an EXCELLENT COURSE! I cannot recommend Turkish enough; the language itself is fun to learn, and it is an exceedingly well-taught course. The materials are helpful, well-written, and cumulative, and the instructors are engaged, wonderful people!
I would tell someone that if they were interested in this course they should be prepared to give a serious time commitment.
This course was quite challenging and rewarding.  Turkish is a rare language at colleges in the USA (only 638 students were enrolled across the entire country last year - MLA Foreign Language Study), so you might as well take advantage of the opportunity to learn something you won't be able to pick up at a community college after you graduate.
You have to WANT to learn Turkish.  Then it's great.  There is no sitting on your hands in this class, though.
If you want to learn Turkish, this class is time consuming but definitely worth it - you'll learn so much so quickly.
It is totally worth it if you want to learn Turkish but be prepared for the work load, as with any language.
You had better have a whole lot of patience, and a really strong desire to learn Turkish. This course isn't going to provide motivation for learning what is a fascinating language, but a very challenging one for English speakers. The course is immensely frustrating and requires students to do an unfair and overwhelming amount of work, in exchange for disappointing in-class instruction and very badly organized syllabus and system of assessment. We started the year with 14 students and ended with 7, who were hanging on by the skin of their teeth at the end of the year.
This class has given me a greater knowledge of Turkish than any of my friends have from their first-year language courses.  If you take this class you will definitely learn Turkish.  However, this semester's class was very difficult and time-consuming, so if you don't really want to learn Turkish then you might find it to be a waste of your time.  However, the instruction staff is excellent and the people who you will find in this class are amazing, so I would definitely recommend the class to someone who was interested.
Turkish is a wonderful language that is unique and beautiful, and I have attained unimaginable fluency through this class. I would recommend taking this course, but be prepared for a hefty workload and a lot of class time.
Eda and Akif are simply excellent instructors and very kind and understanding people, who will patiently work with you until you feel comfortable with new grammatical forms and vocabulary. This is essential for learning a language. It was a pleasure learning under them, and I look forward to their future instruction.
My experience in this class is not typical, as I have prior language experience that has helped me a lot. That said, I've really enjoyed studying Turkish this semester, and I think the instruction has been adequate.
A solid introduction to Turkish.
Great course, but it's a lot of time. It's different work than your other classes, so it balances well, but expect a lot of homework.
You need to set aside a lot of time for homework, and you probably need to visit Turkey the summer after taking it - it's a very grammatically-driven course and there will be lots of gaps to fill in yourself if you actually want to learn to use the grammar in real-life situations.
This class is challenging (like any introductory language course) and moves quickly but is well worth the effort.  After a semester, things are beginning to settle nicely.
It's a solid introduction to first-year Turkish with great instructors.
It is a lot of work.
Make an effort not to miss to many classes or assignments, as it's quite easy to get behind.
I have and shall continue to recommend the course and the exceptional Turkish department faculty to my fellow students. Everyone talks about the excellence of Harvard's Arabic instruction, but in my eyes it is the Turkish department that is its real gem, unsung though it may be.
If you want to learn Turkish, take this class!
It might be slow going initially, but you will learn Turkish!
You must want to learn Turkish, but this is my favorite of all the courses I have taken at Harvard.  In my opinion, the quality of a course is really dependent on the enthusiasm of the teachers; their involvement either makes me want to learn, or makes me disinterested.  These instructors were wonderful.
This is a great course taught by incredibly resourceful and brilliant teachers.
Given my prior language experience before enrolling in this course, I am unable to speak to the experience of a truly "elementary" Turkish learner in it. I, personally, was able to deal with the onslaught of grammar rules; many of my classmates without prior experience seemed to struggle a bit more with it. All that I can say is that while Turkish is a fairly fun and easy language in general, this course is certainly not slow-paced.
This was an excellent introduction to Turkish language and culture. We covered most basic and intermediate grammar. My reading and writing improved a great deal; speaking and listening less so, but you really have to travel to Turkey to solidify those skills. I'm sure the course varies year to year given the instructors, but if Akif and Eda are teaching, it will be well worth it.
