If you want to learn Turkish, you'll take it.
This class is not as difficult as it is incredibly time-consuming. There's a lot of homework that takes a long time to do, and you have to master a lot in a short period of time--it can definitely be stressful.
The professor is intelligent and well-intentioned, but the class is very ineffectively organized. Large amounts of work served as a substitute for pedagogy.  It was frustrating to deal with a structure that damaged my grasp of the material rather than enhanced it. This course could benefit from a thoughtful restructuring of the rate at which material is taught. The workload is such that only those who have lived in Turkey or are expecting to live in Turkey will have enough willpower to finish it; this course is not for those with a casual interest in the subject.
Volume of material covered does not logically correspond with allocated course time. THERE WAS NO TIME TO DIGEST RECEIVED MATERIAL ESPECIALLY IN CASE OF GRAMMAR.Course meets FIVE hours a week EVERYDAY. Course requires a minimum of TWO HOURS of daily preparation (homework (daily), vocab quiz (weekly), 300 word essay (weekly), quiz (bi-weekly)
It is a great opportunity to really delve into the nuts and bolts of Turkish grammar. My reading, writing, and grammar skills greatly improved after taking this course.
This class can be a lot of work at times, but if you stick with it, your Turkish will improve dramatically!
Buckle in for a lot of work, but it's well worth it at the end when you can actually write coherently in Turkish. This is not an easy course, mostly because of stamina--five times a week, with nightly homework--but it is incredibly rewarding. The class, along with Himmet and Eda, really feel like a team by the end, and I know that helped me personally with my own learning. Could not recommend higher if you are interested in studying Turkish.
My skills in all aspects of the Turkish language improved drastically as a result of taking the 120a/b series. It is indeed a lot of work and homework assignments, in addition to being given and collected on a daily basis, are often long and tedious. However, this course will truly make it so that you can read, write, and communicate proficiently.
I wouldn't recommend this class.
