It's difficult material but the workload is light.
It's an interesting class with a great teacher.
If you think that nonlinear dynamics is fun, and S. Norris is still teaching the course, this is a must-take.
This class is not too flashy. But it is an effective and efficient tool to learn methods of solving and/or approximating nonlinear dynamic systems.
Important for physicists and engineers alike. I wish we could have gotten to talk about chaos more, and how it shows up in meteorology.
The course material is interesting and not too difficult. Though lectures were a little lackluster and I think we could have covered more material - we didn't get to see too much chaos - overall I was pleased. Avi is very nice and makes himself available for office hours. I do feel like I learned most from the book itself, which is very accessible. Don't expect to learn much matlab. But do expect to see some really useful and interesting concepts that relate to many different fields.
This course material is AMAZING. Seriously, it details such a beautiful way to describe the world around us. Like it's unreal how much I learned from this course. It teaches you how to take insanely difficult problems and analyze their components in rather easy ways. Avi was a fair lecturer. Much better one-on-one.
AM 147 was a fun class, with material not covered in a lot of other math courses. We didn't get to spend much time on chaos, but the other material was still interesting. Avi is a clear lecturer and very accessible. The workload isn't too intense, but I learned a lot!
Its not as easy as it looks, but do-able. Workload is also moderate - high.
If you're an applied math major, you'd be better off taking optimization or modeling. This class seems to focus more on physics and engineering majors. Applied math people may find this class quite useless. This class is called 'nonlinear dynamics and chaos.' But we covered linear systems for half the class and touched a little bit on nonlinear systems for the other half. We never even reached the 'chaos' part of the course.
This course was a ton of fun. First, the material itself was very interesting and different than what you normally see in a math class like 21a or 21b. It is very applicable to a wide range of disciplines, so really everyone can benefit from learning it. Second, Avi is an awesome lecturer and teacher. You can tell that he put a lot of effort into preparing for the lectures, which showed in how much detail they contained. He also did little things like sketch graphs in a ton of different colors, which made my notes much more useful when it came time to study. So all in all, great material, great teacher, great textbook--take this class!
This material of this class is extremely interesting, especially if you like thinking about problems geometrically instead of numerically. Reading the textbook really helps on problem sets and exams, and the textbook is well written.
This class is a good way to fulfill your differential equation requirement for Applied Math if you don't want to take AM 105. The class is fairly reasonable work wise except for the exams, which are tough and don't have any practice materials to help you prepare. The section component of the class is also not great. Avi is a very helpful instructor, though, and is willing to spend a lot of time with students.
The course's material, esp. towards the end, is really cool. Chaos (and nonlinearity in general) is fascinating. However, the exams were tricky and the course seemed disorganized.
This course consists entirely of the Strogatz Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos textbook. Frankly I sympathize with anyone who is asked to teach this course because it's difficult to add value beyond the book, which is written beautifully. I honestly don't really know why I took this class since I already finished my concentration requirements. I didn't study enough for the midterms and performed below where I normally would. Having said that, there is value in taking a nonlinear dynamics course if you're interested in physics or mathematical biology. Just be aware that the homeworks will be tedious and your grade is determined by your ability to draw phase portraits, not how smart you actually are.
The material is definitely useful and comes up a lot in many fields such as economics and physics. Saying that, depending on the teacher, you may not get to see some of the more interesting material, and the course can be a bit repetitive at times. Just reading the book and working through some problems would you leave you just as well prepared to tackle the subject.
Easy class not very relevant material for non-engineers
Unless there's a significant overhaul in the teaching staff, I don't think anyone should really taking this course. While the material itself is deeply interesting and useful, and the textbook is oftentimes all you need to work through the concepts and understand them, the class wasn't enjoyable as it was taught this year. Professor Shapiro, though a very nice individual, sometimes comes off as unprepared, and lectures were extremely dry this semester. Attendance was often below 20%.
Avi is a great lecturer and a great person to get to know. The teaching fellows are disorganized; problem set solutions are very hackish, difficult to read, late to be posted (e.g. the solutions to the final problem set were not posted before the final), and often missing problems.
If you are looking for an interesting, while very easy math course, take AM147 with Avi Shapiro.  This class was extremely manageable yet intriguing, and left me with a genuine appreciation for dynamical systems.
This was a very self-taught course in my opinion. The book is very good and is widely used, but the teaching staff was not very helpful and often did not fully understand the material, and also could not answer questions readily in a thorough manner.
Solving problems in this class can be fun at times, since it is a more qualitative approach to math. However, the subject matter can get very dry. The applications are not obvious, especially for someone who does not study sciences - it might be more interesting for someone interested in physics or biology.
Keep up with the work and you will be fine.
The material is fascinating.
I quite enjoyed the course.  Cluzel is a solid lecturer and I didn't find the homework very time consuming.  I enjoyed the material, but wouldn't have minded a more challenging course.
It was interesting, but not too difficult. It was a good 4th class to add on for a graduate student, who has never taken a class like it.
This is a good course with a reasonable workload and I would recommend it especially if Professor Cluzel is teaching it as it is much more straightforward than other versions of the class and Kevin is a really helpful TF.  It pretty applied but does get a bit theoretical in the last month, which can be challenging.
If you like chalkboard based math classes and Phillipe Cluzel is teaching the class, this might be the class for you.
This course was an interesting experience. Sometimes I had no idea what was going on in lecture... But the Professor and Kevin did a good job making sure that exams weren't things to stress about, which was nice. Homework, however, was stressful and I found myself staring at problems or looking up solutions online. Also, material learned in lecture rarely ever showed up on the HW. You need to read the textbook to understand the material
This is a really great course to take if you liked applied math 105b.  The problem sets aren't too bad and the final project allows you to apply what you learned in the class to a topic that you're interested in.
A great course with interesting material. The course is very organized and taught so that everyone can understand. However, the tests were long and often the majority of the class could not get anywhere near finishing.
AM 147 was a superb class this year. Professor Levine gave great lectures and, unlike many professors of other math/science classes I have experienced at Harvard, was extremely reasonable in her expectations of what we should be learning.  The homeworks and exams were challenging in a way that helped teach the material.  My only complaint would be the final project, which I felt was difficult as there was not much direction on how to select a topic for it and what was expected of it.
This class was really cool. Margo really made it awesome to go to lecture and be into the material all the time. There are a ton of really cool applications, but an important thing I got out of this class was learning to analyze systems qualitatively. It's surprising how much there is for one to know about a system without doing a ton of computation. And I never liked qualitative analysis before this semester, but this class has given me an appreciation for it. Really recommend it if the subject appeals to you and especially if Margo's teaching it!
The materials can be learned from reading the book.
The variation among students in previous knowledge of the material is wide.
Take it if you don't mind or like a somewhat informal treatment and lecture about a subject that sounds harder than it is when treated.
The concepts behind the course are very interesting. Take it if Margo is teaching. The model for the course seems relatively new and so will continue to improve and develop according to what students would like to see. The final project is also nice because you can make of it what you want and have the opportunity to research whatever it is (related to dynamics) that interests you.
If you have an interest in mathematics, take this class no matter what concentration you are.
Lectures were engaging and clearly structured to correspond with the easily understood Strogatz textbook. I found the material very helpful for understanding nonlinear systems, which show up everywhere, and I actually used this material in other courses this semester as well. My one caveat would be that the workload is fairly heavy. No problem sets can be dropped, and the course requires both a final before reading period and a final project.
Great class!  The psets were really hard and lengthy, but I enjoyed the material.  If you didn't like differential equations though, I wouldn't recommend it.  However, I really like the class and how it was taught!
The lectures in this class were among the most enjoyable. As a math concentrator, it was nice to have a class that was a little less focused on proving theorems  but I definitely still learned a lot.
Margo does a great job teaching this class and the homeworks are appropriate length.  The tests were difficult but the final project was enjoyable
You will leave this course able to apply the basic techniques for analyzing nonlinear dynamical systems.  If you have a strong background in basic college-level math, don't expect to be challenged.  If you don't need the credit, just get a copy of the excellent textbook (Strogatz "Nonlinear Dynamical Systems") and read it instead.
It's a nice class to take for an introduction to nonlinear dynamics. We didn't really get to chaos theory, the class could have gone much faster but overall was enjoyable. The final project at the end was very encouraging!
It's a well-structured course on an interesting topic. Especially helpful for those looking to go into the computational life sciences.
You may not quite learn how the brain works or how to predict the weather - but you will learn very practical tools and vocabulary for asking questions about nonlinear systems.
This is what you would consider a typical math class at Harvard. Weekly problem sets (answers are, for the most part, easily found), 2 midterms, and a final project instead of a final. It's taught in a small lecture format, so you're not necessarily required to participate but it's very easy if you'd like to. Margo is very energetic and is certainly a good prof to take this class with. If you're applied math, consider this a very good option to fulfill a math requirement.
I really liked this course. Margo is great and the nicest person ever. While sometimes she made mistakes on the blackboard, she always explained things well, quickly corrected her mistakes and really cared about the kids. I hope she teaches again because this was her first time and I bet it will be even better next year. Take it - it's interesting material, material you can actually understand, and useful, plus again, Margo is the nicest ever.
Fun class, practical and applied!
If Cluzel is teaching it, don't even come close to this class. Otherwise, if it's taught by another Instructor, you should consider taking this course.
The subject is interesting, the class is slightly disorganized, the assignments are totally reasonable and it's a great applied math class to take if you don't mind that Cluzel's lectures lack excitement. If Kevin is TFing, he's really helpful and a great resource.
It is a lot more interesting than it sounds! Not very much studying of chaos however so if that's what you're looking for I would suggest elsewhere.
Very well taught course by an instructor who actually cares about teaching the material well.
This is a great class with a great professor who cares about her students. You do have to be disciplined to watch the lecture videos before class. I did find the books to be one of the best math books I have ever read. You could probably read that instead of watching lecture videos generally. Overall, a good class. The flipped aspect adds a little more work outside of class but homework is generally fair as is grading.
This class is great. However you have to do a lot of work outside of class. If you keep up with the work it is definitely worth while. Sarah does her best to answer piazza posts almost immediately and honestly she tries her hardest to make the class incredibly doable. However do not take this course if you are not willing to work outside of class.
Sarah is awesome!! Really cares about this class. Not easy material, but definitely take it
There is quite a bit of out-of-class work involved (watching lectures, competing psets) but overall, it is manageable. The textbook is very well written and Sarah does great job in explaining concepts. Keep in mind that the course is taught in an inverted classroom format, which could be a blessing or curse depending on how you learn. You will learn a lot in the course of the semester.
It's a pretty good class, but do realize that it is a flipped classroom and consider everything that comes with that.
Fun and easy course that teaches you about nonlinear dynamics. You get to learn about some pretty cool stuff, including chaos (the "butterfly effect"), the so-called "scary bifurcation" (a subcritical Hopf), and fractals with dimensions that are not integers. The homework can be tedious at times but overall it is a very good, and well-taught, course
This is a pretty good applied math class, and is generally very manageable and interesting. However, it often feels a little disconnected from the "applied" part, and pacing is not good throughout the course (too slow for much of it, then way too fast at the end). While the problem sets are of very manageable length, the piazza participation component can feel a little empty, and watching lectures before class (it's a flipped classroom) can take some time. What points are taken off for can sometimes feel arbitrary, though feedback is generally good. Overall, it's a fine class to take, especially in a busier semester, but in the end the material can feel like it could have been self taught to a degree more quickly.
Interesting material, Iams is extremely engaging and enthusiastic. You'll learn a fair bit and your math skills will improve.
It takes time but isnt stressful
Definitely take it! Really cool class
This is a course with fancy materials.It has good class organizations and reasonable course load and difficulties.
Material is quite interesting but the class could be better taught. Although I appreciate the effort they put into facilitating cooperation and self-learning, it would have been helpful to give us better notes and instructions on what exactly was expected.
