Work hard to understand concepts and ask questions, very good staff will help.
Professor Vahid is very knowledgeable and is a great lecturer, but the problem sets and material covered in class are not at all representative of the material covered on the midterms and final.
So AM101 was definitely an improvement this year (at least from what I could gauge from student comments for it last year). Collaboration was allowed (which made problem sets less stressful). Professor Tarokh was very helpful and willing to help us understand the material. We had an added take-home midterm component. It was clear from the get-go that the teaching staff wanted to make the class a lot more reasonable and more enriching for the students. Unfortunately, as with classes taught by new professors, there's still a lot to be worked out. There was a glaring disconnect between the professor and the TFs, and everything was so disorganized that I never knew when we had a new pset or a review session. I think that if the course had been more organized (and the TFs and professor had communicated more about material being covered in class and on the problem sets), things would have been substantially improved. That said, I will say that for an applied math class, things get theoretical quite a bit. This is important in helping you understand the math, but we kind of lose understanding of how to apply the theory to solve problems (and in sections, TF never fully worked out problems for us). So there will definitely be a moment when you'll have to teach yourself A LOT of the math and figure out how to apply it by looking through old material. Luckily that's supplied to you from the get-go, so if you just stay on top of understanding the material, you should end up okay.
I would recommend this course to anyone who wants to learn inferential statistics and how probability contributes to inference. Also, anyone who wants to take this course should be prepared to spend a significant amount of time not only working on problem sets, but learning the material on your own whether through the textbook or another resource.
It's NOT as bad as it was last year, for those of you who have heard the AM101 nightmare stories... the professor changed the grading system, made the homework assignments more manageable, and now allows collaboration. Not a walk in the park, but it was a fair course overall. Use the textbook!
This professor is way too good to pass up this class. It might be a little disorganized but that is mostly the fault of the teaching staff. This class could be improved by doing more examples in lecture but the materials given were helpful.
This class was a very painless way of learning some really interesting concepts in Statistics. Vahid provided the right dose of challenge and nurture. Made learning difficult materials very bearable. I loved that the class went beyond just teaching you formulas; I learned a lot from the proofs we learned in class (note that no one was expected to reproduce these on exams, but they helped crystalized the material in my mind--would be very hard to forget the foundational concepts).
The professor is great and tries really hard to tailor the class to the students' needs. Because of this, most of the difficulties that come with the class are not insurmountable, and any confusion can be easily solved by talking tot he professor.
This was a class in transition, it seemed to me. It definitely got much better as the semester went on and I started to understand more of the material as things started to improve. Professor Tarokh is an underrated prof who I think has a ton more potential than the previous years give him. I think the class will get much better as Professor Tarokh gets a better feel for how he wants to run the class.
problem sets are challenging but doable.
If you are a scientist, you need to understand statistics. This course will teach you how to use statistical tools, but the best part is that the concepts underlying them are the focus-- you'll be able to assess statistics critically, a skill every informed citizen really ought to have... Yet it doesn't get bogged down in the proofs or algebraic details. And, the teaching is excellent.
This is an easy A but practical class that does not give you too much pressure but still let you learn a lot of things.
I recommend this class to scientists who want to learn statistics in a way that will be useful to them.  It is an excellent opportunity to learn methods that can be applied to research without spending too much time on theoretical proofs.
it is a great class if you want to learn about statistics as a tool.
This class is probably the best alternative for engineering students wishing to fufil the statistics requirement.
This class really helps you appreciate and evaluate the millions of statistics that are thrown at us.
This course is not incredibly difficult, but you must be practically perfect to do well.
Hit the ground running. Read ahead. Ask the professor what chapters he will assign and read it word for word and copy down every useful equation. Your life will be much easier.
It's well taught and the material is not frustrating.
Want to learn useful statistics painlessly?  This is it!
Prof. Howe is a great professor.  The lectures are fun.  The material is interesting and the specific examples are enjoyable.
pretty good course, although not super interesting. Do what is asked of you and you will be fine
Go to Pemberton's section and office hours. She is the best! Also, Professor Howe is very approachable and personable. Don't be afraid to ask him questions or go to his office hours.
A good course if you want to get a basic overview of probability and statistics.
This course was a lot more difficult this year compared to last year, which made it difficult to study for and do well on the exams. I wish there were more exam preparation materials, especially as the exams given in past years were not indicative of what was going to be on the exam this year. The class doesn't require a lot of work on a week to week basis (one problem set a week), but I found the exams to be pretty difficult and sometimes not well worded. Professor Howe tries to make the material engaging, but it can be very dry at times. It helps to have previous Stat background (i.e. Stat 104) for this course as there is some overlap.
This course is definitely an easier alternative to STAT 110. The problem sets are not that hard, and nor is the material. If you use the textbook, you will do fine.
If you are looking to learn statistics as a component of your future field (as a scientist, or engineer), this is the class to take. It strips away all of the higher-level (less useful) material that is covered in the STAT classes, and teaches you what you need to know in a practical sense.
For engineering students, this is a good option to fulfill the statistics and probability requirement.
This course is a great broad introduction to statistics to those who may not have taken the subject before. The homework doesn't take too long, but still drills the subjects home. Exams are somewhat difficult, but manageable so long as you stay up to date in the course.
1. The 5th edition textbook is available for free through the Harvard library (!!!)2. Very straightforward class (with the exception of 1 curveball question on the 2nd midterm).3. Start psets late... assignments were not proofread extensively before release so often multiple "revised" copies would be uploaded.
Pretty painless intro to stats/probability class which covers a broad range of topics.
The class was a decent statistics and probability course of medium difficulty. It provides a necessary foundation for future coursework. Homework doesn't generally take very long but exams are more difficult.
This is the best way to fulfill your higher level statistics requirement over courses like stat 110. The course is mostly based on application problems rather than theory and easier to understand.
Though some Applied Math concentrators might take this in lieu of Stat 110 (as I did), do not assume it is any less difficult. Stat 110 is more in depth and theoretical, but in the end they cover different topics and both have their difficulties. Look into your options before deciding.
Complete joke class if you have any stat background. Take it only as an easy way out instead of stat 110 for AM requirement
The only reason you are probably considering this course is to fulfill a requirement. It is true that it is probably less work than stat110, but beyond that aspect, there are no plusses to the class. The lectures couldn't be more boring and less relevant to our homeworks and exams. The exams are super short -- usually an very easy question (which everyone gets right), a hard question (which basically no one gets right), and then two other questions... so your whole grade for each midterm is based on your answers to two questions. Also, there are basically no practice materials for preparing for midterms or the final. It is simply an awfully run class in which you will learn nothing. I would completely recommend taking stat110 instead because the people in the class come out knowing something (and usually liking parts of it) and you will get the grade you deserve if you study well.
Not too difficult.  I didn't really go to lecture and didnt find it too hard; got to learn a good amount.  Take this instead of Stat 110 for sure.
Class moves very quickly so you must be keeping up with the readings and going to lecture. Professor Howe is great and funny, and the TFs are very dedicated. Great class, but definitely not easy! Don't take it if that's what you need from 101.
Rob Howe is a great professor and definitely consider this as an alternative to stat 110. It probably is a more useful class in terms of real world applications of statistics.
Great class to fulfill probability and statistics requirement for concentration and a great alternative to stat 110 (since i did not take the class i can't comment on the differences but i was less stressed/freaked out about the class than my friends in stat 110). Exams are not hard if you go over the textbook before hand (book is straightforward and explains EVERYTHING). you're allowed 1 self made formula sheet front and back for each exam (so you get 1 on exam 1, 2 on exam 2 and 3 for the final). making the sheets is great for studying. Final mini-project a little too close to the final exam than i would've liked, but its not actually that bad. classes are filmed so you don't even need to go to class if you don't want. GO TO SECTION WITH PEMBERTON IF YOURE CONFUSED ABOUT ANYTHING! Basic knowledge of matlab is helpful for psets and the mini project but the TFs and rob are willing to help you with anything if you don't understand. I had 0 statistics background before this class and did not find is that hard. Prof Howe is amazing, such a nice and helpful guy. Great intro statistical course for students in the applied sciences and engineering.
A good introduction to statistics that touches on al the different disciplines of stats without being too difficult.
This course is really straight forward. Exams are based entirely on homework, homework comes straight from class notes, and the class notes directly follow a helpful textbook. I took this class hoping to learn how to analyze sets of data, and that is precisely what it taught.
It's a fair and very manageable class with great examples from real life issues.
Take this class if you can! Harder than stat 104, easier than stat 110. Prof Howe is a good teacher.
well-structured, not too difficult, just don't get lazy on the midterms because they're easy but also easy to lose points on
This course is definitely for students who like stats but not have enough time for stay 110
This class is an awesome intro to stats. The project, pset during reading week, and final exam are a bit of a crunch at the end, but all around a GREAT math class!
Good for learning basic stats, but hard without prior exposure to MatLab.
This class teaches you about various tools for statistical analysis. Each week you learn about a new way of analyzing a new type of data set. It's good if you're interested in being able to use statistics and perform the practical, 'plug n' chug' to analyze data.
This is a great, painless way to fill a statistics requirement. Prof. Howe is one of the few people who is able to make intro statistics interesting and relevant, and although a bit too close to finals for comfort, the final project allows you to apply the class topics to real world data of your choosing.
Not a bad alternative to STAT110, much less work and stress. You will come away with practical skills, but probably not as deep of understanding as your peers in 110. I was happy with my decision though.
You can find all the stuff on the text book. If you don't like to go to lecture, that's fine. This course requires use of Matlab, but not very often. Be sure to know some coding language. The teacher won't teach you how to use Matlab.
If you're a engineer or applied math concentrator and deciding between Stats 110, ES150, or this class, take this class. It presents a good breadth (instead of depth) of statistics, meaning that you learn a lot of comprehensive and useful material for someone who is not a stats concentrator or taking upper level stat classes. Also, don't focus too much on the equations since you can bring a cheat sheet. Instead, spend time understanding the concepts and the bigger picture.
This is a great substitute for Stat 110 if allowed.  There are fewer people in the class, and the material is presented using applicable examples.  I would definitely suggest this if an engineer needs to fulfill a math/statistics requirement.
It's a better alternative to any other stats course.  It seems to have been improved over the years.  HOWEVER, make sure that you will be able to take advantage of other resources because teaching doesn't really help you understand the material.
I would recommend future students to take this class to fulfill a requirement, but not otherwise.
Painless way to learn statistics and probability. Professor Howe is a great lecturer and does well explaining the material. The psets become more difficult as time goes on, however, they're never unbearable.
Take stat 110/111 instead. Not that this course is bad, it isn't, just stat 110/111 is clearly better, I wish I had taken that sequence instead. It won't be much harder, and at least stat 110 will be better taught, because Blitzstein is supposed to be amazing. Stat 110 is often one of the most favorite courses taken by harvard students. AM 101 isn't bad, but it certainly isn't anyone's favorite course at harvard.
This class is an intro to statistics.  Very straight forward and not too difficult.  You don't even have to go to class if you buy the book.
Having AP Statistics and prior/concurrent Matlab experience is highly recommended, but make sure to keep up with the workload. Lectures are fast-paced. Exams aren't out of many points so grading can be unpredictable. Can be very frustrating at times.
It is a pretty easy course which is nice for engineers who are usually overloaded with challenging courses. It teaches basic practical statistics pretty well without getting too deep into hard theoretical stuff like some of the classes do. However, if this is not a requirement and you really like statistics, I would consider taking Stats 110 or something more mathematically comprehensive.
I would probably not take this course unless you had to for a concentration requirement.
Don't expect to receive similar material as the previous years' examples.
The knowledge you obtain is important, but lectures and assignments are boring.
Do the homework. There are a lot of subtleties and if you don't do all the work and think it through, you will end up thinking that all the statistics methods are the same. They are not.
The class was pretty straightforward, although it could be boring at times. Lectures closely followed the book. If you've taken AP Stat then this class will be fine.
A good class as far as statistics go. Review notes and psets for the midterms, and be familiar with everything they cover.
Don't take this class if Miranda is teaching it
This course is a lot more difficult than it sounds. Miranda is a really strict grader and I found my grades not improving after I started spending much more time in the course... Also, the course is poorly taught and organized. Though the TFs and Miranda are available to help (which I very much appreciated), their teaching methods are not effective. But because you do spend a lot of time staring at the material, you do end up learning a few things..
Dont take this unless you have to.
I would only recommend taking this course if you absolutely have to for a concentration requirement. It's not a terrible class, but the lectures are basically taught right out of the book and things aren't 100% clear all of the time. In addition, you're kind of thrown into stats so if you haven't taken it before, you'll be learning some difficult concepts on the fly.
Only take it if you have to. Bring coffee to the lectures if you decide to go.  The book is excellent.
Going to lecture is a bit redundant. Just read the book.
Lectures are not very helpful.
This class is not as easy as you would like it to be.  It's not that the material is horribly complicated but the mixture of poor teaching and overly long psets with dreary class time made this class not something I would wish upon someone.
Although this class isn't easy, its a lot less painful than I've heard sat 110 is.
It's a pretty hum-ho class. Some assignments can be pretty tedious and somewhat pointless involving large data sets and Matlab. Exams are pretty fair and can sometimes test conceptual information.
A statistics class taught within the statistics department may be a better option, if you're not just taking it for the Engineering Sciences requirement. It seemed like very little theory was presented in this class.
This course will give you a comprehensive understanding of basic and intermediate statistics.  You will learn valuable mathematical techniques, but a substantial amount of work will be expected of you.
Pretty boring and annoying, but informative and not a bad way to fill the requirement.
Pretty basic stuff.  Do the practice midterms and the midterms should be fine.  Lecture can be a bit dry, and the assignments are occasionally boring or frustrating but pretty fair and not graded very hard.  Not my hardest class by a long shot.  The text is nice and useful.
Do not go to class. You can learn everything from the book. Easy as long as you understand what is going on in the book.
You probably won't like it. But you'll end up knowing stat and stuff, so take it anyway.
This is definitely a different approach to stats and probability than I've ever done! (I've taken AP stats.)
Be ready for some tedious problem sets.
Very useful material.  Don't be deceived.  This course requires a very substantial input of time to succeed.  I took multiple difficult classes this semester because I thought this would be my "joke" class. It was NOT such. Take it seriously.
The course is an easy stats requirement for engineering students.
The course, at times, lacks direction. There is a large sense of self-taught learning that pervades the course, which makes concepts difficult for those with no prior knowledge of statistics. Miranda works very hard to make the course useful to students, but oftentimes, examples are a little too abstract.
Takes a lot of time, difficult course.
Don't take this class. The lectures are lamentable, the exams are difficult (and they were nothing like the practice exams posted on the website), and the problem sets are impossible to complete on your own unless you have good MatLab skills.
This class is taught exactly according to the book.
It's a good, straightforward introductory stats class. You won't learn all that much more than you learned in an AP stats class, but overall very solid and you'll come away with a good understanding of the material.
If you just need an easy class, go ahead and take it.  Be prepared to be annoyed by unnecessarily long psets and random changes to exams.
Statistics is a really useful tool, which is necessary for almost all kinds of scientific and engineering fields. Thus, I would highly recommend that you think about taking this class, as it introduces you to the tools that are used and needed to validate data and experiments. The class is one that requires a consistent amount of work, in that psets are due each week, but if you pay attention in lecture, the psets should be relatively straight forward.  A basic understanding of matlab is also necessary, as you will do a little bit of coding.
It's a solid course that does its job in teaching the basics of stats.
Take it if you have to or want to learn statistics but it isn't very fun
Problem sets are challenging and can sometimes be Mat-Lab heavy, but it's definitely a rewarding class in terms of learning about regression and statistics. You definitely learn a lot about using terminology correctly as well.
This class may have been not so well taught as in previous years, because of the change in professors. Personally, I found lectures to be quite useless. It's really helpful to work on the homeworks really early and go to office hours for Miranda (She's been helpful during office hours). Other than that, go to tf office hours for homework help
The class is super easy, the material is straightforward, and the assignments are relatively painless, but lectures are not that helpful. COuld just read the textbook.
It isn't a very good course.
If this is required because you're an engineering major, definitely take it instead of Stat 110.  So so much easier.
The textbook is good and easy to understand, but lectures and problem sets were not as helpful. Problem sets could have connected to exams a lot better. The instructor was not very knowledgeable and made lectures very unappealing.
This course's material was less theoretical Stat 110 but lacked the direction useful to really understand the material. Stay away unless you need to fulfill that requirement. The exams also do not match most of the work you do in class, and the examples are weak.
This material itself is not that interesting, but it is well-taught. Miranda is a great teacher, although she is a bit stricter than most instructors with deadlines. Overall, a moderately challenging course but that is relatively pain-free. I'd say definitely harder than stat 100, 101, and 104, but much easier than stat 110.
This class is exactly what it promises to be. It teaches you statistics for scientists and engineers. Its very straight forward and pretty painless. I found that it was unnecessary to go to class and I just learned everything from the book. It probably wasn't my most inspiring/interesting class but I learned what I needed to learn painlessly (except for a couple of the psets that were very long/annoying).
From what I heard Stat 110 would probably be a better choice for statistics.
Make sure this class is required before you take it. It's a pretty easy class so if it is you should take it. To do well in the class, do one of the following: read the textbook OR go to lecture; one or the other.
ggrrrrrrreat!
Read the book.
The assignments are tediously long, boring and are full of mechanical calculations.
A great alternative to Stat110
Not too challenging, in fact I'd go so far as to call it predictable, but you do come away with an understanding of the essential topics about statistical inference for scientists.
I found this course to be very challenging. I came in under the impression that it wouldn't require as much work as other similar statistics classes, but I found that I had to put in a lot more time just to understand the material and make sure I really knew the importance of what we were learning.
not the easiest, not the hardest. i feel like you could a lot more out of other stat courses.
This class is easy if you can teach yourself, but don't expect to get much out of lecture.
If you're an engineer, this isn't the most intensive class you'll be taking, but it certainly requires keeping up with the lectures and understanding the general concepts; don't be lulled into a false sense of security. Exams will require more than plug-and-chug, so you should try your best to understand the concepts.
the most basic stats class you can get, i went into it with no experience in stats but feel very comfortable with it now. TAKE IT
I wouldn't recommend this course because I'm just not a fan of statistics. I would tell students that this course gives a good one semester survey of statistic, but the exams are really tough so be careful.
psets are a lot of work, but professor is funny and seems like a fair grade-assigner
I would tell them to take this class to learn stats skills and how to apply stats methods, not learn theory.
Enjoyable course that covers interesting material.
Take this class if you need to satisfy your Statistics requirement-- a relatively painless class!
Make sure you take AM101 with Professor Wolfe. It's a good mid-level stats course,... somewhere between Stat104 and Stat110.
very good intro class to statistics, the textbook is really helpful and the work is not to difficult.
AM 101 provides solid background in the basics of statistics and probability, while maintaining a generally relaxed and enjoyable atmosphere.
It actually is a perfect amount of statistics for engineers to know.  Prof Wolfe did a very good job of distilling the topics into a manageable, but useful amount of material.
This is a great class. You will be lucky to find a professor who explains the material as well and cares about the class and his students as much as professor Wolfe.
wonderful class!
Very hard but if complicated mathematical concepts come to you easily it should not be too bad
The problem sets vary hugely in terms of difficulty so start them early so you can determine whether it's an easy or hard set for any given week.
If Vahid Tarokh is teaching, take Stat 110 or ES150. Do NOT take this course. Long live Rob Howe.
Proceed with caution. The teaching staff did try to make up for some initial hardships so I will give them credit for recognizing midway through the course that change was needed. If these changes are retained next year then perhaps this course will start out on the right foot and be more reasonable. The instructors will recognize hard work, commitment to the class, and a genuine desire to learn and improve so I know they aren't heartless and were possibly overly zealous in the beginning stages of the course. They did try to rectify this as the semester continued but I would not take this course for Gen Ed purposes. Took it because I had to.
So many feelings about this course: Never have I become more convinced that Harvard does not value teaching or its undergraduates. 

This was a highly disorganized class. Psets did not come back in a  timely manner (because they had one poor grad student grading all psets all the time. Because the people who were teaching us the material NEVER graded psets, they had no way to gauge how well we understood the concepts.) 

Vahid's lectures had nothing to do with the psets, so sections and office hours were the only way we learned the material. I spent a lot of time reading the textbook, watching Kahn Academy videos, googling, and reading lecture notes from stat courses at OTHER UNIVERSITIES!!

Kamyar was practically useless. Manish was our saving grace.
Disorganized, unclear expectations. Prof. started by saying "This will be an easy class." Turned out to not be the case at all
not as easy as it used to be
be weary if you're just trying to get by
Prepare yourself for a lot of independent learning and a very unguided journey along this roller coaster. Everything in this class is unclear from what the subject matter truly entails to what the knowledge is necessary to complete the problems on an exam.
This course covers a wide variety of basica statistics and provides a great overview. However, as a result exams can be difficult to study for, since there is a wide breadth of material and the material often does not build on itself (ie. there are many separate topics covered in this course). Psets and exams are fair when compared to other engineering and applied math courses, though may take longer than you think. Section is helpful, but the textbook is not. I recommend reading the textbook examples and going to section / OH for help/
This class is easy. Take it if you want to have an easy workload and have no desire to learn statistics. However, during exam times, you will need to do a bit of cramming.
Don't take this course as long as Vahid Tarokh is teaching it. It was a miserble experience. You're better off taking stat 110 and getting something out of it.
If the course remains the same, the workload and difficulty is close enough to stat 110 that you may as well take it. I don't see any other benefit in taking this course.
The class was incredibly stressful. The no-collaboration policy on homework meant that it was hard to know if you were doing something wrong on the homework because you couldn't check with anyone else.  The lectures were not very helpful in giving you the information you needed for the psets and tests. Everything was graded harshly but on a curve, so it was difficult to know how well you were doing in the class because it was all in comparison to how everyone else was doing.
This course is very difficult - section is a must.
Overall, this class isn't bad. Don't expect it to be easy, but you do learn a lot about probability and statistics. The exams and assignments are hard, but reasonable. If you are willing to put in the work, then you will find the course worthwhile.
The problem of unreasonable psets is compounded by the expectation that there is no collaboration in the course. The exams are hard, and I don't think they are a reflection of what one has learned. There is little use in attending lecture. A lot of lecture is spent going over proofs that are completely unnecessary in helping you to solve problems, and this makes it unbearable. I stopped going after 5 lectures, and I think this actually helped my performance in the class by not wasting my time. That being said, Vahid, Manish and the rest of the teaching staff do care about their students, and do want to help. However, there were simply not enough office hours to reflect this. Office hours were generally early in the week, far in advance of the psets being due on Monday. Also, there was constant confusion of what was expected for us to know and what would be provided to us, in terms of formulas, on the exams. On top of this, because the first midterm was a bit ridiculous and not very reflective of knowledge learned up to that point, they added a second take-home midterm, which was also very difficult. Overall, it was quite the nightmare of a course. I wouldn't recommend it.
This class is definitely a challenge -- as it is currently taught, it is very tough to understand how to apply the material that is presented, or why a specific topic is taught at a given time within the course; you need a strong math background, at at least a calculus level, to be successful in the class
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. It is absolutely brutal. Every student absolutely despised this class and everything to do with it. The teaching staff mocked students when they didn't grasp a concept and assumed that everything was "easy" regardless of how many students contacted them. Student complaints were completely disregard and often taken as jokes. The class was overall the worst experience I have had so far at Harvard and I do not wish it upon anyone else.
If Vahid is teaching this class stay away. He may be good for grad students, but he is too smart for undergrads.
First off, definitely ignore all of the Q Guide reviews of this class before this year - the professor has changed, and it is no longer the "easy stat requirement for engineers". I cannot emphasize this enough - this class is NOT an easy class. You will definitely be exposed to a variety of concepts, and by that I mean, it is like a fast-paced course in both Stat 110 and Stat 111, judging by the comments made by my stat peers as they looked at my AM 101 problem sets. This year, there was a no-collaboration policy, which means no pset-checking with your classmates to learn the material - so definitely take that into consideration as well when shopping this class. I feel like the teaching staff will be more organized and change the class a bit next time it's offered, so it will likely be better in coming years. So the only advice I have is to be wary of taking other hard classes (like physics and orgo) in conjunction with this class, as it will likely be more difficult and time-consuming than you think it will be.
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE IF VAHID TAROKH IS TEACHING IT. This class was by far the worst I've ever taken at Harvard and possibly the worst I've ever taken in my life. Vahid's lectures were filled with mistake after mistake after mistake because he would show up without any lecture notes and just wing every lecture. They were the most insane lectures I've ever seen and had everyone else in the class scratching their heads trying to figure out what was happening. The book was terrible too - most of the major equations had typos, and it was not written in a way for a beginner to understand. The lecture notes were just updated from last year's, so they had nothing to do with what Vahid had been rambling about in lecture, so they were pretty much useless as well. A lot of time was put into the section notes by the TFs, but they weren't great either, and it was sad that a summary of what we were supposed to have learned in lecture was all the students had to teach themselves from. Overall, this class was a terrible experience and is proof of how far SEAS has fallen. I hope Harvard puts in the effort to find out what went wrong with this class and restructures it for next year, but I don't really see that happening. A new professor will be a huge step in the right direction, so shop it if that's the case, but completely forget about the class if Vahid is teaching again. Stat 110 will be easier, and you'll leave actually knowing something.
I get the feeling the course will get a low Q score.  If it does, it doesn't deserve it. A lot of students (surprisingly, engineers) came in expecting the course to be Stat 104 due to previous years.  They got a rude awakening, but unfortunately were allowed to dictate the flow of the course because they complained a lot.  Their problems would have been resolved if they read the appropriate chapter in the very readable textbook (albeit typo-ridden) rather than complaining to the professor to make the course easier.

The course was exactly what an integrated statistics course should be without being as trivial as 104 and intense as 110 - it fit the right balance.  We spent time on the important distributions (not spending so much time on extra probability topics as the first half of 110) and then went right into parameter estimation, confidence intervals, and then regression.  Rather than 104 giving you tools with no theoretical context, and 110 giving you theory with even less context for application, am101 gives the derivation of the tool along with the use.  So, for example, you will learn how to do method of moments estimation and maximum likelihood estimation (MLE), and then you will actually use those estimators in practice, while 110 would just move on, and you wouldn't really intuitively feel why MLE is sooooo important.

Vahid is an excellent lecturer (and also brilliant), very, very clearly wants his students to learn (he offered a ton of OH throughout the semester), Manish's section notes were invaluable, and Antonio was all-around awesome.
Never have I been more disappointed in my Harvard education. The applied math department and SEAS generally should be ashamed that this class is offered as a requirement for so many degrees. This class was genuinely a disservice to the students that took it. All evaluations in this class were unreasonably difficult and did not at all correlate to the material learned in class. It's truly a sad state of affairs when a 6 minute youtube video can teach you more than 3 hours of lecture with this professor. This class was an enormous drain of my semester and it's truly a shame that I, like so many other students, was more or less forced to take it.
Don't take this class unless you have to. The teaching staff wasn't great except for the head TF Manish. For my major, this was one of two options to fulfill my stats requirement, and the other class had stat 110 as a prereq, so I had to take this. They don't let you work with anyone else on homeworks, you don't get anything out of lectures, and the only useful part of the course offerings is the section (which can be hit or miss depending on who is teaching). OH were generally useful, although it depending again on whose you went to. You better like AM 21a material, since this course heavily uses it.
I don't know if the course will be structured in the same way next year, but there were far too many whiney people. So what if the course changed completely from what the Q said last year? Professors are allowed to do whatever they want with a course that they are teaching. With that being said, lectures were not good, and most of my learning came from reading the textbook and going to Manish's office hours.
This class is proof that the teacher makes the class. I would not suggest taking any classes with Vahid - he doesn't lecture on relevant material and derides students publicly when they don't understand the material.
This class is the worst class I have taken in my entire life.  The teaching staff was poor, the material was difficult and not taught well.  If you have the option to not take this class, please don't for your personal sanity.
I bet every comment says this, but there is a NO COLLABORATION policy in this course. Don't take this class unless you know that this policy has changed. Also, there were promises towards the beginning of the course that the p-sets would get significantly easier. The first p-set was accompanied with the guarantee "I know this is hard, but the next one will be easier." The same guarantee came with the second. And the third. But don't worry, if you hang in there it will get easier! The very last p-set was a breeze.
A pretty ordinary Harvard statistics class that will give you many methods and tools to do statistical tests.
If Tarokh is still teaching, do not take this course (Take ES150). It was the most unorganized and frustrating course I have taken at Harvard. Not only did the teaching staff expect everyone to remember random theorems from calc I and precalc, but they were condescending when we forgot something. And if we asked him to explain a concept, he would be quite rude about it, making it seem like we were a hassle to him. Also, they would randomly make things extra credit, or optional, which might sound good, but imagine spending hours and hours on a homework assignment, only to find out after you turn it in that they are now making it optional. Also, there was so much conflicting information between members of the teaching staff as to what would be on the exams, and what information we would be given. I have not taken a worse course at Harvard. Also, it was extremely frustrating, because statistics should be one of the most useful courses an engineer can have (particularly with regards to thesis data interpretation). However, I learned hardly anything that could be applied to actual data, as most of it was entirely theoretical, and thus NOT an APPLIED MATH course.
The TF's attempted to put out the flames on this burning train wreck of a class, but it was beyond repair. Because few people understood much of anything and thus failed the midterms, Vahid curved the heck out of everything and added tons of bonus points, so everyone left with a satisfactory grade though not much understanding of statistics.
Problem sets, while not necessarily difficult, are long and can take up most of your weekend, unless you are comfortable with submitting unfinished problem sets. Because there is a no collaboration policy on homeworks, you never know if you are doing the problems correctly and if you are stuck, you are on your own. The textbook is not the most straightforward read. Section notes and office hours are your best friends in this class.
This course was a terrible experience. Between the disorganization, the unintelligibility of lectures, and the lack of communication about expectations, it was very difficult to learn the material. Manish, the head TF, is incredible and the only way I made it through this course was by attending his section and office hours. Unless absolutely necessary do not take this class--take Stat 110 if you actually want to learn the material, or Stat 104 if you simply need a stat class for a requirement.
Hard class because its not taught well. If you take it and you're struggling read the textbook (which sometimes had errors) and talk to vahid one-on-one- usually helpful then.
This class was by far the worst class I've taken at Harvard. Vahid is a very nice man, but he is a hopelessly bad teacher. The number of mistakes that were made every lecture were uncountable. It was a difficult course, but really it only seemed hard because we learned NOTHING in lecture. The concepts are actually quite straightforward, but the way the course was taught presented in a completely confusing way. The TFs were helpful, but it was hard to make up for the terrible lectures. When I was studying for the final exam, I had to completely teach myself a dozen concepts from scratch because (even though I attended nearly every lecture) I felt like I had never seen them before.
Do not take this course.
It has some kinks to work out.
