You will learn how a few basic ideas of information theory apply to biological systems.
Be prepared to be surprised and made change your mind about the way statistical analysis should be done. Be open minded. Get ready for conceptual insights. Patiently listen to explanations, even if you know the topic well.
This is a great course to teach you about making a real meaning of data. Even if you are not doing biological related research, it gives a good framework for understanding hypothesis testing, image processing, and other topics.
Course as it is needs to be polished. But the material is useful and important and it's worth knowing.
This class was a bit shakey, but this was the first time it was offered. I would recommend people check this out next year - the topics are great and I think it will improve.
In the end, I've learned a lot about statistics and math methods taking this class--as a math person, though, I was hoping for more on the biology end. I think the material here is great and not something you're going to get elsewhere...but be careful while this course is still new, because Venky and Sharad have a lot to work out to make lectures more effective and problem sets clearer. Also, KNOW HOW TO CODE if you're going to take this class. Programming should really be listed as a prereq.
This class is interesting, and you should consider taking it.  It provides a good introduction to information theory in the context of biology (and perhaps chemistry), and it's generally accessible to people interested in the physical sciences.  The work load varies dramatically between nothing on some weeks and difficult problem sets on other weeks.  The lectures are generally good, although some drone on about the same basic thing.  The class could stand to be much better organized, so make sure that the teaching staff has a better plan if you take it.
not bad for a course first time round
Great topics covered, but organized poorly. I think it will be much better in the future though, given this was the first time it was taught.
This class was very good. Sharad is a great lecturer and really cares about his teaching and his students. He included a number of cool concepts in information and probability theory: entropy, maximum likelihood estimators, hidden markov models, to name a few. The lectures and the assignments often included actual research papers/problems and required you to understand what was going on in them using the concepts from the class.Venky was a terrible lecturer and his lectures were often entirely discursive, unnecessary, and actually slowed down the progress of the class. I think this course should be offered again because it does what other courses at Harvard don't: it teaches you practical, useful things applicable in experimental and theoretical research problems.
I've learned more useful and fascinating things in this class than I have in perhaps any other class. Just make sure you ask for clarifications on the problem sets. You might even want to go past asking and start demanding.
This class is much more fun and much more useful than more traditional classes - I learned more here than in any of my upper-level, theoretical physics classes, and expect to use some of the tools in the future (and not just for other classes).  Take it!
Great course. Fascinating material. Would be a good complement to someone with some programming skills, stat 110, and statisti al mechanics.
I recommend this course with enthusiasm to any students interested in the implementation of information theory, SVD, and machine-learning type approaches to the analysis of any data. A course covering material similar to this should be a requirement for any person wanting to build a career in the quantitative sciences.
This class is very valuable for anyone doing non-trivial data analysis. Most of the topics covered I had never been exposed to before but seem like they will be very useful in the future. The new-ness of the class is somewhat clear - the organization and communication could be better - but I suspect that will improve. In any case, I still learned a great deal from the course and am very glad that I took it.Expect to spend a lot of time coding in matlab, especially in the second half of the course.
Make sure you can put in more time than just that required to do the problem sets. Thinking about the techniques a little outside of that and reading the papers posted to the sites will help you get a lot more out of the course.
The content is the greatest strength of this course. It covers powerful mathematical and computational techniques that can not only be applied in biology (despite the title!) but probably in all fields of science and engineering. To benefit the most from this course, one should have a solid background in undergrad math or physics; those from the biology side might have a harder time.
This course unifies topics from information theory, machine learning, and statistical physics in a way that most likely would not be found in other courses.  I will think about inference and information forever differently because of this course.  Sharad does a great job of trying to make this accessible to students from any background.  Even in the case of the 10% or so of the time he does not succeed in doing this, most of the time the lectures are very well thought out and very well constructed, and he constantly and actively seeks feedback from students both in and out of class and takes the feedback very seriously.  This course strikes (in my opinion) a very good balance between losing perspective by going deep into the weeds with rigorous proofs of all mathematical tools being used and presented, and skimming too superficially across the surface by presenting only conceptual intuition without mathematical substance and support.
This class presented a lot of interesting and useful material in a manner that was insightful and thought-provoking. I think I will be able to apply much of what I learned in my future endeavors.The problem sets were instructive and useful, but not always fully polished.
If you want to stay in science or engineering, you must take this course. This course gives you a nice sense of how the future of those fields will be shaped.
if interested in one of the particular topics in depth should take a different course but good for a survey, course is not appropriately titled should be called Information Theory rather than biological signal processing (bio was only used as an example in homework assignments) and would appeal to broader audience
It's a really hard course if your Math background is not extremely rigorous, (mine is not) but you will still learn a lot! The title when I tooke the course was "Fundamentals of Biological Signal Processing", but in reality the course is much broader than that. Be prepared to learn a lot about a lot of topics.
Sharad was a good instructor, but he usually made a lot of "typos" on board, which made the lecture very confusing sometimes. On average he made a "typo" (such as missing a term in an equation, or missing a factor for a term) every 3 lines when he derived something on board during the first half of course; but it was better in the second half of the course.
This class did a great job covering a large number of topics in enough depth for me to feel comfortable digging deeper into the literature. The homework assignments were great for getting practice with the methods covered in class. As someone who has had a hard time developing an intuition for probability, I finally felt comfortable with major concepts after this course.
Sharad's lectures are an engaging mix of technical detail and philosophical musing. The course covers incredibly useful material that would normally be spread across multiple courses, and it teaches these skills in the context of complex biological systems rather than boring engineering applications. It is perfect for students from math and physics backgrounds who have moved into quantitative biology. This was easily my favorite class at Harvard, and it's a shame it is not offered more frequently.
AM 215 was a very enjoyable course.  Sharad is an extremely engaging lecturer and a kind  guy who is very willing to help out with projects and in helping students better understand the material.  The problem sets were difficult but interesting (although some problems were just nightmarishly hard, and it felt like 80% of the time was spent on 5% of the problems), and the final project was a lot of fun.  Covers a lot of ML stuff which might seem like review but is being approached from a different perspective.  Would be very difficult for someone without a strong computational background, and you will need (/definitely want) to pick up some Matlab.
Although titled as "biological" signal processing, this class isn't just about biological problems. It gives a broad overview of a lot of interesting techniques, but does not go into a lot of depth for any particular topic. This isn't necessarily bad or good - just know what to expect.Because the class is taught infrequently, it was kind of disorganized. This was most frustrating for the problem sets, where there were sometimes mistakes or incredibly confusing questions that it would take a long time for the TFs to clear up. If you tried to go to office hours early, they often wouldn't be able to help because no one had solutions to the pset yet.Sharad really seems to care about the material and the class, though.
