On the first day of class I was just going to stay in the music practice room since I thought nothing of diff eqs. I just happened to venture into the class and was so impressed with Brenner and his presentation of the material that I stayed for the entire semester. It was really well taught for the first two sections. The third section, however, was a bit too confusing. Diff eqs come up in a lot of places, so it is worth taking even just for the material.
I thoroughly enjoyed this class. Prof. Brenner is wonderful to speak to-- attend office hours, ask him questions-- useful as sometimes lectures can be confusing. Overall though it was a cohesive whole-- my lecture notes from the clas saved my life-- there is so much to do with Diff Eq that one could get lost without a good professor. Brenner mentioned how computers can do whatever we're going to learn in the class in the first lecture but also mentioned how it's important to know the theory behind it. I think the material *could* be learned in other classes too that require diff eq, so if you work hard, etc. you *may* consider skipping this. I personally thought it was a solid, well delivered course with a manageable workload that taught me to think analytically without overwhelming me (and that is why I liked it).
Brenner is great in that he tries really hard and he's really receptive to feedback, but at the same time he is really disorganized so it might be better to take the class with a different professor.
This is a self-study course. You should not take this course if you want to learn from somebody in class or section. Unless you're willing to study by yourself, and get graded for it, take the mathematics department version.
Although many people seemed to feel the class was disorganized, I enjoyed the class a lot. I took a systems biology class at the same time and realized that Professor Brenner was teaching us incredibly useful applied concepts. He did a great job of emphasizing what was important and letting us know not to stress about the less important parts of the course material. Problem sets were not terribly challenging and got interesting toward the end of the course.
The course content was certainly important and interesting knowledge to have regarding differential equations. I felt the instruction of the course was poorly executed however. Brenner could have made greater efforts to improve the clarity of his lectures, and do practice examples rather than go off on tangents. Exams were fair nonetheless.
kinda cool the first 1/2 the semester, and really the first few weeks is probably everything you would ever want to know about differential equations, but is confusing / weird once you hit eigenvalue problems.
It is not easy. This is not to say it is extremely difficult. It is important to devote some time to learning the conceptsnot learning how to solve problems.
Probably useful material to know, but perhaps not worth taking the course due to the lack of organization of the class. Definitely go to Dany's and David's sections, they are the best TFs. Be prepared to do a lot of work just because the problem sets, lecture notes, and exam reviews are riddled with errors. Overall a good class, glad a I took it, not terribly painful but definitely really frustrating.
If you have taken a lot of physics courses (e.g. Physics 15b, 15c, stat mech, fluid mechanics...) you should think seriously about what you want to get out of this course, as most of the major topics (Fourier series, and the diffusion and wave equations) are covered in greater detail in physics courses. AM 105 is good for providing you with a set of tools to approach differential equations from a general perspective, and will fill in the gaps left by these physics courses. In any case, you should probably take this course as a sophomore, rather than as a senior, if you're interested in physics.
This is an excellent course for introducing a lot of methods for solving differential equations as well as some techniques to help you get a feel for the form of the equation and/or its solution without requiring you to actually solve it.  Brenner is very enthusiastic about the material and there is a lot of help staff (use the help they provide!  Go to section!).  I wish I would have taken this before taking es125 and es183.
This course was only fair to poor and one of the worse math classes I've taken here.  It lacked a lot of central organization.  The worst was that we would get about 5 emails a day from TFs who cancelled/rescheduled office hours and/or section.  The first third of the class was a review of differential equations, mostly stuff from 21b.  After that, the class started going downhill.  Lectures were always very unclear, and psets were quite tedious.  The exams were pretty straightforward, and the practice exams were good indications of the real thing.  A good thing was that we were allowed a cheat sheet for exams, one of the few good things about the class.  Overall, this class was poorly taught, the psets were frustrating, and there was no real logistical organization.
I think what this class is like depends strongly on who's teaching it. Professor Brenner is an interesting and brilliant person, but I did not find his lectures helpful. In general, the class was not well-organized, and veered between simple topics we'd already covered in Math 21b and more difficult ones, which were generally explained inadequately. The material that was new, like Sturm-Liouville theory, was pretty interesting, and I enjoyed discussing approximations and assessing their quality. However, in general I think I would have been happier learning the material on my own, as that's pretty much what I ended up doing in this class.
For a requirement, it's not too tough and if Brenner is teaching, you are in for a fun ride.
This isn't an easy course - but it wasn't as hard as I thought it would be. It might sound like a bummer to take three midterms, but it means that you'll actually understand what's up when you take the final.
The class certainly has its strengths: Michael is an engaging lecturer, and the class material is widely applicable to a number of fields. Not to mention, solving a differential equation when you know all of the proper techniques is wildly satisfying in a tedious but rewarding way. At the same time, the class itself was wildly disorganized almost from the first day. Because the first third of the class is covered in some form in Math or AM21b, the teaching staff seemed to assume that people had already seen the material, leaving those of us who took higher level math freshman year to fend for ourselves. There was no explanation of why anything was going on, and we wasted the first half of each hour-long lecture recapping the previous lecture before rushing through the new material at the end, creating an eternal backlog of explaining. Lecture notes at the beginning of the year were very disorganized, and despite having a brick of a textbook, additional references were not given for when the professor's handwriting on the lecture slides was illegible. Fortunately, lecture notes became increasingly typed as the semester progressed, which was extremely helpful.The teaching staff seemed to be largely hit-or-miss. Some TFs took the time and energy to patiently explain poorly-covered lecture material during section ahd office hours while others seemed unprepared for section and even less prepared in office hours and lost when the solution set was not available. The trouble is that the two groups of TFs seemed to fluctuate as the semester progressed, meaning that you needed to attend 2-3 sections to probabilistically hit one of the good TFs.The class seems to be experimenting with videos supplementing lecture materials as well as Skype office hours. To be honest, Im not a huge fan although I suppose other people might have enjoyed the videos. Typed solutions to practice problems would have been much more useful to me and probably would have taken as much time considering the time needed to film the video and answer additional questions from confused students. Midterm and final review question solutions were riddled with errors, which only served to confuse students more. Extra credit criteria was unclear, and grading on midterms was arbitrarily harsh and often incorrect. Advice to future students: stay on top of the material. There are many online resources explaining all of the concepts described in the class although dominated balance and PDE material might be harder to find. Use all available resources! Grading in this class seems more based on trivial errors than actual understanding (the only three proofs we were required to know, you could have written them on your cheat sheet and copied them onto the midterm), so do as many practice problems as you can find, and then make sure you have correct solutions against which to compare them. It can be a fun class if you let it, but be proactive because the teaching staff will not. Professor Brenner is a passionate instructor, but some of the logistical details of the class were neglected.
Differential equations are pretty powerful and useful things, but the methods used to solve them and the solutions themselves are generally pretty "messy" and algorithmic. I would recommend taking this course only if differential equations are vital to your field. Otherwise, you can probably get by with learning about them on your own when (if) you have to.
The problem sets are really really hard. You'll likely spend most of your week grueling through them. The worst part is, it gets worse and worse throughout the semester.
Professor Brenner is great and really excited about teaching the course.  The exams were really fair, I never felt like Professor Brenner would try to trick us on the exams they were all very straight forward.  I thought the class was very applicable to other classes for engineering so I'm really glad I took it.
It's pretty tedious and seems more like a basic math requirement (calculus, linear algebra).  So it's not that interesting in itself but necessary to take more interesting math classes later.
Great class; the material was interesting and made easy to learn. Brenner is an engaging, funny lecturer, and there are a lot of resources available to students -- everything from student videos to TFs on Skype at late hours. Expectations of what we needed to know for exams were made very clear, making for little confusion.
Enjoyed this class and the material.  Brenner can be a bit disorganized, but overall it was very good.
This class was an interesting exercise in self-teaching.
It does what it promises, teaches you to solve differential equations and to think about approximations to differential equations that cannot be solves. It's the bread and butter of applied math and engineering, not much to say, you get pretty much what you expect. The workload is manageable and the material pretty interesting if you care for this type of thing.
This class is a good introduction to ordinary and partial differential equations. This year seems to have covered more difficult material than in recent years, but the midterms (while there are many of them) are fairly straightforward.
Go to review sessions, and the midterms aren't that hard. But the psets are annoying and the TFs don't really know the material that well, so be prepared for that. Useful and interesting to know, but needs more organization.
Do the work and you will succeed.  Take advantage of the OH's and help.
Don't take this class if Professor Brenner is teaching it. He is really scattered and you will end up feeling very frustrated with the lack of organization and the adhoc manner of teaching.
Practice.  Just practice doing all the types of questions that can appear.  It's a very repetitive subject.
This is a great class to learn how to solve differential equations, which is an essential tool in today's world. Professor Brenner is a really cool guy, and the exams were fair!
DISAPPOINTING. I come from a hefty background of Fourier analysis and have had much experience with differential equations from my other classes. I never thought I would say this, but: in all my years at Harvard, I have never been more shocked by such sloppy grading, teaching, wording of questions, and course materials. Honestly, in the beginning of the course I was expecting it to be awesome; Brenner had such great, enthusiastic lectures, and it really seemed like I was going to learn something new. These hopes were dashed after about 3 or 4 weeks into the course. Professor Brenner, as nice and well-meaning as he is, became quite sloppy, almost to the point of incomprehensibility. Yet, the funny thing was that much of the material we were learning remained IDENTICAL to what we had learned at the end of Math 21b (a pre-req)! Worse yet, grading of homeworks and exams was awful (this depends wildly and arbitrarily upon your grader). Right answers were sometimes marked incorrect, points were sometimes deducted for no reason, and the grader would claim missing work on a problem NEXT TO the completed problem in question. Worse yet, there were ERRORS in the notes and solutions manuals! This problem became so rampant that there was essentially a competition towards the end of the course to find and correct mistakes in the solutions manuals (WHAT?). I felt extremely disappointed by all of this - in some ways disrespected - and I gradually became disgusted with the course. Don't get me wrong: I HIGHLY recommend a course in differential equations at some point, as they are essential to problems in almost every field nowadays. But, THIS course was a disaster and a torturous repeat of Math 21b, with only a few sloppily-taught new things. If you want to learn the "new" stuff of the course (Sturm-Liouville, Bessel functions, etc.), you seriously might be better off reading about it on your own. At the very least, take this course if there are no other options, or if the current professor and course structure have radically changed!
lecture notes are pretty useful. psets are often annoying as there are tricks to questions and you need to go to office hrs to get feedback. however, often the TFs don't know how to do a part of a question because it gets so messy. exams are definitely fair and you learn some cool things. No one denies that DiffEq are very useful to know.
Workload is pretty manageable, but I would say exams are not very predictable
This class was extremely difficult for me because I didn't have a strong background in 21a/b
This really isn't that bad of a class at all. I feel that I have a solid applicable knowledge of differential equations now, although the theoretical motivations were often not explored as much. I was OK with this since I'm not a pure math person, but if you like proofs I would highly recommend you take Math 110 instead. Professor Brenner is a good lecturer, and he is very flexible as to accommodating students' schedule conflicts. Overall, I enjoyed this class and learned a lot; if you do anything in physical science or engineering you really should take this class.
I mean, if you wanna be an engineer, you gotta know diff eqs.
It is a good class and very helpful for physics and other fields. I am definitely glad I took it. Some sections were unorganized( between midterm 1 and 2 and the last few lectures) but in general it was well taught and interesting. Brenner is very entertaining.
A hugely important class for any field involving quantitative analysis, ranging from the sciences (physics, chemistry, biology), to the social sciences (economics, sociology), and others. Brenner did a great job at motivating why we do this math.There are some areas it could use improvement. If you've taken Math 21b, then you've seen the entire first third of the course. Towards the end of the course, the material became a little less rigorous, which was not helped by the slightly disorganized lecture notes and decreased reliance on the textbook.Also, if you've taken physics up to 15c/143a, then you've already been exposed to a huge portion of the material. However, seeing the material from the math course perspective is incredibly helpful to understanding the motivations and reasons why the math works.
Differential equations are not a very ordered subject and partially as a result this class felt slightly disorganized. I felt like I learned some random ways to solve some differential equations and a few methods that will be widely applicable.
If you are at all interested in learning about ODEs and PDEs this course does a great job at exploring their properties. There are some very intriguing lectures that covert topics such as chaos, the Lorenz attractor, and even square drums. Above all it certainly gives you a comprehensive toolbox for solving ODEs and PDEs.
If you have not had any experience with differential equations (ie: have not taken 21b or equivalent), this class is doable but realize that you will be at a severe disadvantage for the first third of the class. That being said, it's definitely math worth knowing so you should take the class eventually.  Prof Brenner isn't the most organized, but he cares a lot about his students and so he is very accessible.
Great class that needs way better TFs and is taught very fast. Psets don't reflect the exams since the latter are way easier.
It was a little disorganized, though the TFs were great. Hopefully the mismanaged parts can be sorted out with more experience.
The course needs a little better organization, but the course material is fascinating.  The textbook itself is a great investment.
Great, thorough course on ODEs and PDEs. More useful than you think.
This class is very bland and is often riddled with tedious assignments.
learn a lot, but its hard
Take this class with Brenner. The lectures are a bit disorganized, but you can learn most of the material by attending section after lectures and by doing the psets, which is pretty standard anyway. The midterms were essentially a test to make sure you reviewed the material; Brenner doesn't try to trick you at all. The final was similar, but a bit more difficult. Overall, the course is designed to give you a set of tools to solve differential equations, but I feel like there was a lack of indepth understand as to why we learned everything. Fairly easy course overall.
The material can be difficult to understand; start work early and review on your own. Don't be afraid to ask for help if needed.
AM 105 is the logical follow up class to Math 21b. The last month of Math 21b helps ENORMOUSLY in understanding the material, especially because Prof. Brenner does not emphasize the linear algebra concepts that bely differential equations. I definitely benefited from having taken Math 21b immediately before AM 105. Nonetheless, any linear algebra background is helpful for AM 105. Get used to methodical problem solving, learning methods and gaining intuition at guessing solutions to differential equations. Learn many ways of approximating and solving differential equations of certain forms. Also get ready to learn many new things on PSets--wish there were more practice problems. Nonetheless, Prof. Brenner covers useful concepts, and although lecturers are not perfectly organized, he does have a sense of cynical humor towards the subject and you will learn a lot. Work with your peers!!
This class requires staying on top of the material. Everything makes sense in the end though. Not a bad class though became a little disorganized at the end of the 2nd third.
If you want to learn diff eqs, teach yourself out of a book, dont bother taking this class. The material is boring and repetitive and you can easily pick it up on your own. Especially if you're a physics concentrator, you'll have seen almost everything already in the 15-143 sequence. The course was also badly organized and poorly taught, but if Brenner doesn't teach it next year that doesn't mean anything.
This class started out great, but it was downhill from the first midterm. The class felt jumbled and rushed, and I often had no idea what was going on. Homework was difficult -- reading the lecture notes was by far more helpful than going to lecture. The CAs were hit or miss -- some of them were by far the best CAs I've ever had, and I felt like some had no idea what they were doing. Overall, I'd wait to take this class under a different professor.
This class is similar to applied 21b, except obviously at a more advanced level.  The psets took a lot of time in office hours to complete, but the exams are pretty straightforward.
This is an excellent introduction to diff eqs that goes way beyond that. Solving ordinary differential equations was actually a pretty minor component of this course--it was much more about how to represent functions in solvable ways and trying to develop some intuition about how solutions to differential equations behave.
You will have a lot of fun both during class and working with the class material.
If this class is taught by Professor Brenner, prepare for interesting lectures with a lot of insight into where the field of solving differential equations is today. He emphasizes the fact that solving diffeq's analytically isn't always possible (and that most of the time it isn't), and MATLAB was used somewhere on every problem set. He is also generally very good at answering questions.That being said, I found the course itself to be less and less clear as the semester went on. The beginning was a review of Math 21b with some new ideas thrown in as well, but once the second and third units came along there were some ideas that I wish had been explained in more detail. There were times at which I was left with a lingering question of "why", and a lot of the time when I asked my classmates they'd say "I don't know, that's what he did in class", which is not a satisfactory answer. So while the material was interesting, it was sometimes a little unclear.Also, be prepared to go to office hours. Many of the homework problems were too difficult (or I simply didn't know what to do) for me to do on my own, so I ended up going to office hours pretty much every week (something I rarely did in Math 21a/b). Many others were there as well. It was fun and there was food, but just leave some time for it.Overall I'd recommend the class for anyone wanting to learn about differential equations though-- you'll learn practical skills for solving them that go beyond finding exact solutions and you'll feel more comfortable in your ability to reach conclusions about the behavior of their solutions.
It's math.  It's not terribly interesting, but diffy qs are important and it is reasonably well taught, although pset can take longer than you anticipate
Good class. Could be more organized. Problem Sets take a long time, get a good study group. Midterms are fair, but because everyone else taking the class is super eager and type A, just doing okay won't fly. You have to push yourself super hard! All in all, very satisfactory.
This is a great class for applied math sophomores looking to get a sense of courses in the department.
Psets take forever so go to office hours. But the tests aren't super difficult if you study the prep materials thoroughly.
Brenner means well and is very nice, but this course is a mess. Very painful way of learning differential equations. If you need to solve certain kinds of differential equations for other classes, you can look up the method you need on an ad hoc basis. That is actually the only general technique you need to know.
DiffEq is an incredibly useful and fascinating topic; you should certainly gain as much exposure to as possible. That being said, I learned almost nothing (new) in this class, having gone in with only math 21b. I appreciate Brenner's energy and his progressive views on teaching. However, the latter (more difficult and arguably more interesting) part of the course was hopelessly disorganized. He often taught through specific examples and expected us to repeat the pattern on the exam and psets. This was easy but seemed useless beyond the completion of one assignment. Other parts of the course just seemed sloppily put together--for example, the list of corrections to the solutions on the third midterm review were almost as long as the solutions themselves.
material is necessary but not interesting.
The Professor is really interesting to listen to, but he sometimes does not go over all the material you need for the homework. Also, the TF's are not the most knowledgeable or helpful. Some of them were, so just make sure you get a really good TF if you take this course. If you don't have to take this course, I probably would not spend the time and just learn the material on your own.
As a class, Applied Math 105 teaches a lot of interesting material that has relevance to disciplines as varied as chemistry and engineering. However, this class should be approached with some caution. AM105 occupies an interesting space in the spectrum of Harvard classes. It is an advanced undergraduate class and thus covers material with a certain level of sophistication. However, it is also a requirement for engineering and other concentrations and accordingly attracts all students in that discipline, regardless of their level of comfort with the material. This combination leads to an interesting and sometimes problematic dynamic which was made most evident during the last third of the course. During that last part, a lot of the class fell apart and people became disenchanted with the material. Part of that disillusionment came from lectures being less well-prepared but another part came from, I think, students being unprepared for the mathematical sophistication this class requires. Thus, any student who is passionate about the material will do fine, but students taking this class solely as a requirement should be wary of the last part of the class (because everything will seem fine at the beginning!) and come prepared to step up their game accordingly.
A good class that's not too difficult (and I had no experience with differential equations prior to taking this course). It is a little bit unorganized, but ultimately, I still found myself learning quite a bit.
Professor Brenner is a good lecturer and cares a lot about making the course as user-friendly as possible, so there were a lot of practice materials and help available to students, which made it much easier to learn everything.  And differential equations are definitely useful just about everywhere in life, so the material is also just handy to know.
Extremely disorganized. Professor Brenner is a great professor and is hilarious, but the course was disorganized and difficult to follow.
The problem sets can be a bit tedious, but this class teaches some really useful information for science concentrators.
Since the exams are ill-designed, one can do decently well just by memorizing questions in the review practices without much understanding. It is sad that the tests never differentiates the good from the bad students and the results are very badly skewed towards full marks. If you make a silly mistake, be prepared to be on the mean. This is a class I feel I didn't learn much. There wasn't much understanding involved, just a bunch of rote learning about differential equations.
This class was seriously lacking in organization and the psets often had nothing to do with what we focused on in class. However, parts of this course are incredibly useful for other fields (such as physics). Also, the professor is really friendly and not intimidating. I think if Brenner continues to teach the course, it will improve because he is willing to listen to feedback.
I think this class got really unfairly criticized this semester. Yes, the material was poorly organized at some parts and some TF's kept inconveniently switching their office hours at the last minute, but overall I definitely still got a lot out of it. Professor Brenner is just about the most lovable professor you'll ever have, and it's incredible how much he cares about the students and the class (even holding late-night Skype office hours!). Considering how some of the topics we covered are naturally more difficult to explain, he did a good job, despite so many complaints. The TF's are also fantastic - they're really accessible for the most part, and are actually helpful. Charlotte was especially great, held Skype office hours as well, and was happy to answer any questions. Midterms and final were much easier than the problem sets!
This class is a solid class to take as an applied math course requirement, but be prepared for a bit of a lack of cohesion and organization in the class itself. At the end of the day, the course staff is incredibly supportive, so there are more than enough resources to do well. Exams are very fair too.
Excellent course. Definitely an APPLIED course, which I really liked. More emphasis was put on how to interpret and understand rather than how to derive the exact answer
AM105 is a great class, and Professor Brenner is a thorough and excited teacher. The material is really useful for many applied sciences, and the teaching staff was super helpful. Take it!
Don't let the first third of the course fool you  it's almost a repeat of 1b and 21b and it can lull you into a false sense of security because the course gets much harder. That said, it's not impossible to get by, but be wary of falling behind! Sturm-Liouville and Bessel keep coming back much more than you think they will!
Great course overall with intuition combined with mathematical models. Problem sets were extremely long and difficult so start early! Easy midterms with an unexpectedly hard final.
This course was much more interesting than I expected. I attribute much of this to Professor Brenner's deep grasp of the applications of the subject.
Really great experience overall. Brenner was a superb lecturer who made the material interesting and accessible. There is a huge support network and the sorts of problems that you do have deep applications in physics, economics, and other fields so it's really useful stuff!
A lot of the homework assignments could be tedious and you end up doing the same problem multiple times. Oftentimes it can be rewarding and fun but you could end up feeling like you did nothing in the end.
The material is super useful, especially if you are a physics major. you have to learn it (before or con-currently with quantum mechanics), either by taking this class or studying on your own. Now, as for the class itself, it is SO BAD. Lectures are overly casual and seem like unrehearsed. Major and minor mistakes are all over the place. TFs are very unqualified. You may easily find yourself have a better understanding of the material than themselves. problem sets are useful and enlightening though!
A very useful class for engineers as you will need to use differential equations for a lot of your other classes.
Prof. Brenner is excellent. Seek out help from the TFs when needed. Work through the problem sets, they are not easy or too difficult, but try to work at it before asking for help right away, then you'll do better on the exams (which were fair, and accurately tested what was taught). Brenner does a great job applying the topics to real life and what you might actually need this stuff for.
It's a great class if you need to fill an applied math requirement because differential equations are so useful and come up frequently in a variety of fields of study. Definitely start psets early and make use of office hours.  But keep in mind that if you go to office hours early in the week, the tfs may not have the answers to your questions yet because they are still working out the problems themselves.  The textbook is optional, but get it.  It really helps clarify the material.
Dont take it with Brenner, but the course material is very useful
Professor Brenner is the worst professor I have had at Harvard by some distance. His complete lack of focus, coherence and clarity made this course a nightmare. Never take any of his classes - including cooking. He has singlehandedly convinced me to switch out of the Applied Math concentration
It's not hard. You can self-learn the material.
somewhat poorly organized
Easy class. Horrible organization. If you're good at reproducing stuff that you crammed the night before over the hour-long midterms, expect an easy A.
better than apmth 106. challenging until you understand the point of the material then it becomes relatively less difficult
This class is a solid course in differential equations. You learn a lot, and the material is applicable to a whole bunch of courses, like physics and math courses, so even if you are not interested in applied math or don't think that you are, still consider taking this course.
This stuff is SO important and useful for all sorts of subjects. I used things I learned in AM105 directly in other classes this semester. The class can be tedious, especially towards the end, but it's not hard.
I'd recommend this class. It is a lot of work, but it's kind of like taking BC Calculus where you just need to do a lot of problems to really learn the solution concepts (so it does feel a bit tedious). Eli is a good professor, entertaining, and tries to make the subject (though often dry) fun. The teaching staff is also great, and it's a very organized course (more so than a lot of other applied math classes). On that basis alone, it's a great way to knock out a requirement for Applied Math. The content though is a lot more applicable to those studying in the natural sciences, so be warned with all the applications deal with diffusion and climatology. Still good to get a basis in this type of modeling even if you are Applied Math-Econ. No Applied Math student should really graduate without taking a Diff-Eq class!
This was a great class for learning the basics of how to solve differential equations... and in the process, you learn to predict the outcome of relationships (ie love).
This class's content is crucial for any engineer or applied mathematician, yet make sure that you get into a good section and make lots of questions. Applied Math 105 suffers a bit from the "big Harvard class" syndrome: many issues may come up with the material yet they are overlooked by the teaching staff and professor simply because they do not learn about them.
If Eli is teaching the course, then take it. He's awesome, and he does a good job presenting the course material, answering questions, and maintaining a sense of levity during lecture. Differential equations come up in all different scientific and scientific applications, so it's a good course to take.
some of the stuff is pretty time consuming but not necessarily difficult just tedious
Loved it! It requires hard work and time, but Eli is fabulous and the teaching staff this year was great. I took it as an elective (I'm not in SEAS) and it was still fun and overall not painful.
This class is very tedious but manageable.  It is definitely more applicable to people studying physics or engineering than economics etc. Eli is soooo funny! Overall a pretty good class.  Don't trust all of the solutions.
This course teaches extremely useful material and does it very thoroughly. I would recommend any math-related concentrators to take this course.
The teaching staff is nice, but I don't think ODE's and PDE's should be in the same class. Its very challenging, too much to learn in a semester, and you can't learn all of it well.
This course is purely mechanical and offers no skills that extend beyond purely solving differential equations, which a computer can do.  The lectures are mildly enjoyable, but I should have spent my time taking a course in the math department.
Problem sets were time-consuming and sometimes difficult, but using the textbook and working with a friend(s) help greatly.  There are copies of the book in McKay science library, so you don't need to buy it.  The exams were very reasonable; their similarity with past exams allowed them to be easily prepared for.  The class is also very well organized and focused.  Taking notes and, again, the textbook are very helpful.
Do problem sets with friends! The problem sets are the most difficult part of the course, and towards the end of the semester, they will take more time and become more difficult. Go to office hours, work with others, and you will enjoy this course a lot more. Make sure you fully understand how to do the problems before the exams, because the exams are only manageable if you understand everything fully. Overall, this was a fantastic course and really made me enjoy math again!
This is a great course on differential equations that is challenging but fair.  Put in the time and you will learn a lot and do fine.
It's fine, not very interesting and the problem sets are super repetitive but it is a good way to learn your stuff.
Good, solid class.  Don't expect to be wowed by the material, but it is an informative, fair class.  Will make you much better at solving equations.  The material is a little bit "cookbook-y" for many people's taste.  Not overwhelmingly difficult.
This class is very easy to fall behind in. I would recommend keeping up with the weekly material. After midterm 2, be prepared to spend more time than usual on practicing and learning ODEs. In the end, this class showed many connections to physics and I have learned a lot from it!
It's important to keep up with the material. The homework and material gets much harder than previously when you get to PDE's.
This course requires a lot of time.
Useful class for physics and engineering. Gets you comfortable with differential equations. Eli is fun.
This class is a pretty painless way to knock out an AM requirement. The class isn't difficult conceptually, just tedious. The last part of it is more physics geared - diffusion, wave, and Laplace equations, and the class as a whole is really not very relevant to economics at all. Eli is great though, and overall I did enjoy the class.
It's worth taking. You learn a lot from this course. Although I hear next year Eli's not teaching this course anymore, which will be a bummer, because Eli was the best part of the class. He's funny, smart, answers questions well, and just a really nice guy. Loved his humor; it made the class fun!
Eli is a great professor, and the teaching staff is quite helpful.
This is a relatively difficult class, but it teaches you differential equations in a very coherent way.  I only wish I had taken this class before quantum mechanics or other hundred-level physics classes.  It is not necessary for them at all, but it would have made them a lot easier.
Totally doable. Good for a Math in the Sciences Secondary. Some of the psets were a little tedious, but overall they were okay if you went to section or looked at the section notes. Eli said it best: At the end of the day, it's all about love.
This class can be tedious. As someone with a strong mathematics background (math 23s and additional math department courses), this course felt like a lot of mindless work with few actual things learned. I did feel like it taught what you are supposed to know how to do after an applied mathematics course, at the least, and tests were fair.
Only take if it is required. problem sets are painful.
Extremely useful class, Eli is a great professor. Well structured and well taught, especially for the math department's standards. Be prepared to put the hours in as the psets are pretty long. DO NOT FALL BEHIND or else you will be in trouble
PDEs are hard! So try not to burn out by the end of the semester when the class goes over them. Also, Professor Tziperman is a great professor and sections are very helpful. So make sure to take advantage of all the class's available resources
Take the course. It is important even if you're not an Applied Mathematics major, it will come in handy if you're an engineer or a scientist. The course material is very easy to keep up with and once you have a full grasp of the lecture the midterms and homeworks are no big deal.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. It is very well organized and very well taught. The teaching staff give you every opportunity to learn the material, the tests and problem sets are fair and well written. This is a course that works hard to teach you, rather than working hard to make the course hard.The work to reward ratio is extremely favorable. Although it is a tough course and you will have to work hard, you will learn a lot, gain a lot of excellent intuition for applied math problems, and be a better student for it.This is a course that rewards diligence and hard work. Do the problem sets early, go to lecture regularly, and you will do well.
"If you don't hate me by the end of the course, then I haven't done my job"-Eli.The material can be a bit dry and the problem sets are tedious, but this course is extremely organized, the teaching staff is great, the exam are really straightforward, and it really makes you genuinely learn the material. For engineers thinking about taking this course, I highly recommend it, as this course prepares you extremely well for future engineering courses since the material from this course appear over and over again.
This class is very well organized and delivered. I would recommend this class  over any other higher level math requirements.
Lectures were entertaining and well-taughtl. It was encouraging to see that midterms and finals tested us on material that we should know rather than asking us to apply what we know to one or more degrees beyond what we were comfortable with. Professor Tziperman said that as long as we put the time into the class, we'd be fine. I thought that was true. The homework is really long! Not Physics 16 long but I'd usually spend half my weekend on it and go to office hours for a couple of hours. I'd recommend this class. It's fun even though I have no desire to learn anymore about differential equations...
Review your Math 21a & b materials! It is a fun course, and Eli is a charming, great teacher. Problem sets do take up quite some time, so start early. The class has 3 midterms.
An excellent course; Professor Tziperman was very funny and engaging, and John was a great head TF whose reviews were very useful.  Tests were very fair, and homeworks were usually of appropriate difficulty, although sometimes there would be some problems that were more difficult and tedious than usual.  Also it would be helpful if lecture videos were available on the course website.
Awesome course, and structured as all courses should be (yet rarely are): so that anyone who has been following lectures and keeping up with homework can do well, but so that there is still a way to differentiate those who understand the material better. Do not take the course if you're interested in proofs and theories. What you'll get here is an arsenal of tools with which to solve differential equations (yes, there exist solvers, but do we not need to know how to add just because there exist calculators?), which you'll acquire with practice, and also an understanding of the properties of the solutions. It'll seem tedious, but if you do it right, you'll get it.Also, the demos are fun.
This course can seem very cookbook differential equations at times and there is definitely a lot of plug-and-chug work, but overall, it gives you a firm foundation in differential equations.  Be prepared to devote a pretty consistent amount of time to problem sets.  The class starts out easy for the first couple of weeks, but the material quickly gets messier by the time the second and third midterms hit.
I highly recommend this course if Eli Tziperman is teaching it.  He takes what can be a pretty dry subject and adds some fun applications and humor that makes the lectures more enjoyable.  However, be prepared to put in the time as the problem sets get quite lengthy in the second half of the semester.
Doing science? You'll want to take this class. After taking AM 105 - as in doing fairly well, keeping up with assignments, and studying the material thoroughly - you'll have the mathematical background for pretty much anything you'll encounter in any undergraduate science class at Harvard. Physics, in particular, made so much more sense after this class. Also, Eli is really fun/funny. Make a point of going to sections; I personally never went, but the review section I went to was enormously helpful, and I learned later that problem sets were apparently a lot easier had I gone to section. :[
Great class! Take it!
It was manageable, definitely harder and more time consuming than Math 21a/b, but if you keep up it moves at an okay pace and you'll be prepared for the exams. If you don't keep up, the few days before the exam can be stressful, but you just need to learn how to do certain types of problems. The problem sets tend to be harder than the exams, make sure you start in advance or at least block off a lot of time to do them and find people to work with. Sometimes the problems are REALLY LONG and there are a lot of them.
Solid class on ODEs and PDEs. Beware of a great amount of focus on physics.
Fun class, good teacher and helpful TF's, but in the end I feel I will still resort to Mathematica to solve complex differential equations for me.
The course is very well-organised, Eli tries to keep us entertained throughout the term, and the TFs are always willing to answer questions.
Pretty straightforward class, pretty easy -- the problem sets are REALLY tedious esp. towards the end, but the midterms are all straightforward and there is no reason not to do well on all of them.
Don't slack in the beginning; it gets hard fast and catching up is not easy.
The material is interesting and useful, but it is presented in an unorganized way.  Lectures are too fast, and the textbook/online notes are not well structured.
Very well structured. Prof. Eli is amazing. TFs are dedicated. Great course overall.
Make sure to keep up with the course throughout the semester, and you will be fine.
The first unit is relatively easy, and the second gets harder but is still manageable. The third unit of the course really picks up with the work so you'll need to be mindful of it
The material of this class is very important for physics concentrators; I would recommend taking it before, or at least concurrently with, 15c and 143a.  The last third of the course (on partial differential equations) is much harder than the first two thirds, so just be prepared for that.
If you need or want to learn differential equations in a relatively relaxed environment, this is your class.
Make sure to stay on top of the material, since most of it builds on top of each other. Do well on the first two midterms as the third one will be quite difficult. Make sure to take advantage of office hours and to start the psets early.
The course's material is pretty manageable for the first 2/3rds of the class, and the homework itself doesn't actually take up that much time (at least in comparison to some other math or science or programming classes). The first two midterms are pretty straightforward, and there are practice exams provided which are very helpful in terms of preparation. However, the last third of the class feels much more disorganized and the material is a lot less straightforward. It is in this part of the class where psets become more confusing and take longer, and the third exam is a difficult one. All in all, however, not a very difficult way to get through an Applied Math requirement.
AM105 is very time consuming and rigorous but the material is critical for studies in physical and social sciences or engineering and I strongly recommend taking this class.  Eli is a fantastic lecturer and John does a great job filling in the gaps.  Take this class!
It is not very difficult, but there is a lot of work and the problem sets contain lots of redundant problems.
This course is well-organized and fairly well-taught, but the workload is quite high and there's not much sense of reward when solving problems. I wasn't ever convinced that I was learning a useful skill, and never found the material intrinsically interesting. As a second semester senior focusing on choosing a grad school and finishing a senior thesis, I found it very hard to keep up with this course or even to be interested in it.
Great course but you have to work hard on psets; don't start them last minute! Tuesday nights were always late nights, especially when I barely started the psets the night before. Study for the midterms; there's three but they were all pretty fair (way easier than the psets).
Keep up with the work, and do the extra credit!
Take it! And make sure to use the office hours and sections because the TFs are awesome and want to help you.
This class is pretty easy if you stay up on the material. It relies on a handful of basic concepts that are used to solve every problem. There are no tricks on the finals or midterms and so it is a very fair class. Eli makes the class even better with his endearing teaching style. The homework is the hardest part of the course so don't worry if the homework is hard for you. Great course overall though, I highly recommend it.
Very good class. Problem sets will take you some time, but the HW questions are often much more difficult than those you will find on the exams (which is a good thing!). Material is tested very fairly. There are 3 Midterms to worry about, but it makes studying for the final very easy since you are constantly reviewing material for the midterms.
It is a well taught and straightforward course. Eli is a great and funny instructor and is definitely the best part of the class. Besides that, I think the class exposes you to the most common techniques for solving differential equations. Engineering students should find this very useful as some courses have this almost as an unofficial pre-req (eg ES120). Finally, some of the solutions for homeworks and exams have mistakes in them which I found a little annoying sometimes. Tough all in all it's a good course and definitely not too difficult.
This is a good course; you should take it early in your college career if possible, especially if you're in a quantitative science.
This is an extremely tough class. Know for sure that you want to get into this before you do.
Increadibly well structured and taught. But still a diferential equations class
take it if you like dry, repetitive math
This was a very good, very straightforward class.  I think all prospective engineers should take it, but here were also people from economics, physics, astronomy ...  Sections are very helpful; assignments are fair, challenging and sometimes fun; and Prof. Tziperman is great.  Try to take this before you take or while you're taking ES123.
Although exams and midterms are not too difficult, problem sets can be exceedingly difficult at times.
Brenner is an amazingly passionate lecture and the reason you should be taking this course.  The class was rather disorganized this year but with the correction of a few bugs the class should be wonderful by the time you're taking it.  Differential Equations is a fascinating subject and I highly recommend it to any applied math/eng/physics people out there interested in dynamical systems. Professor Brenner is wonderful and will do everything he can to help you in the class, including Skype Office Hours if you need them. Hopefully whoever's co-teaching with Brenner next year steps up their game, because Sabetta's performance this year was weak. Clearly nervous all the time and so her lectures were filled with stuttering - completely incomprehensible. At the midterm review she couldn't answer any reasonable questions being asked about her practice problems. If you're gonna be teaching a large group of students, you best be prepared to do it well. But all in all, great course, and well-recommended.
I don't really know - it teaches you how to solve differential equations. If you aren't great at math you won't like this class and if you are great at math you won't take it.
Prepare for a lot of needlessly frustrating work. However, the essence of the class is definitely good, so if you can look past the imperfections you can definitely still learn important things.
This class is amazing, though the material can be confusing the teaching staff is wonderful! They will help you understand the material and show you just how pervasive Differential Equations are in real life.
The course is just not well structured.  TFs and professors are never really on the same page.  The problem sets are excessively hard, and the exams are just carbon copies of previous years' exams.  The class is an exercise in memorization and regurgitation, but it is often painful week to week.
The material is very difficult. Some people would just understand lectures, but I had to put a lot of time in outside of class going to section and meeting with TFs just to catch up on lecture material.
Exams were very reasonable because they're consistent between years, so the practice exams are great prep. Final project is great and consolidates your learning!
Psets are pretty annoying and tedious, but tests are very easy. You also learn some interesting material
Prof. Brenner is a great guy! Pretty dry class though, and it is kind of boring. Would pursue other options first, but this was the only class that worked with my schedule. Overall not that bad though, assuming you were decent at AM21a/b.
An awesome class and a great introduction to differential equations. Could be organized better, but the material is super interesting
The material is interesting and useful (you'll see differential equations in physics, economics, etc.), and the course staff are well-meaning, but the course was so poorly organized that it isn't worth the frustration of struggling through problem sets with errors and working on a final project with no idea of what is expected.
I would say take it if its required.
The material of the class is very helpful and informative, and absolutely worthwhile. The class itself has a number of flaws in the teaching and midterms.
Not a bad class, but it's pretty disorganized. If you're willing to deal with that, exams and psets are quite easy.
Interesting material but disorganized class overall. Psets were often overly difficult with tedious algebra and often mistakes in the questions themselves. TF's also weren't always familiar with the psets and because of that were not always helpful. The midterms though are very straightforward and the final project is a nice way to finish the class.
Brenner is a great professor and really cares about his students. The tests were very fair which meant that averages were very high. Problem sets got too algebraically involved at times. Brenner is not teaching the course any more so I imagine it will change bit.
Class is hard, feels like teachers just run you in circles on HW for no reason. On almost every homework there was a problem the TF's didn't even know how to solve. And that's Not super fun...
Students need to have a strong desire to try and learn the math and go through the MATLAB and sometimes difficult problem sets, but for students who can find a use for techniques, the practical applications are interesting.
Make sure to start the problem sets early and get help right way if you're confused.
This is a straightforward class but is very unorganised. Every problem set had a mistake in it which was frustrating. Still not that hard to do well in, exams are very much what you learn
It is a good class for learning differential equations, but the third part is not well taught, and the first two parts are better explained in Paul's online notes. So I do have some reservations for this class overall.
Take this course! Differential equations come up in almost every field of science, so the material covered is very useful and interesting...and not too hard. Prof. Brenner is a great lecturer. pstes prepare you well for exams
Really poorly organized class. Materials that they provide on course website, especially lecture and section notes, weren't very useful. Definitely don't feel like I have an extremely intuitive understanding of differential equations having taken this course. Only redeeming factor is that the exams were easy.
It's overall a good course and important subject matter, but the instructor can make or break the class.
It's hard and you won't learn a whole lot because it's so hard.
It's a requirement for a lot of people, so you may not have much choice. Homeworks were painfully irritating at times (typos, unclear directions, etc.) but they graded them pretty easily. The exams were very fair and didn't have any tricks to try to stump you, if you learned the material you were fine. Exams, homeworks, and lectures seemed detached: you didn't necessarily need one to do fine on the others. Brenner said he isn't teaching it anymore, so I'm not sure what this means for the future of the class.
Only take this class if you have limited exposure to differential equations. You learn pretty well how to do, but only after grinding your teeth for a couple hours.
This class, while informative and engaging, is extremely disorganized.
Good material to learn. Class was fair.
I would strongly recommend taking this course, especially if you are looking for a higher level math course with which to fulfill a concentration requirement. The material was interesting and well-taught, and the class itself never felt monotonous or boring. Although the psets could be very challenging at times, the exams were on the easier side and the final project was a great way to tie in some of the concepts from class in a different context.
The teaching staff is going change next year, but Sabetta is not that good. I took it because this was Michael's last year teaching this course. Sabetta's lecture is not organized and she's too busy scribbling stuff on the blackboard that most students get lost half-way. Other than like 3 teaching staff, others don't have a clue about the pset and they refer to the solutions to explain the pset. The exams were fair. The grading was very fair. As long as you had something down, you got full credit, so most people got good grades in this class.
The class can be disorganized.
Accessible applied math class that really applies to many different problems. If you are interested in modeling then this is a great class to take! The psets can get long/difficult with messy algebra, but the exams are very accessible. Also, the final project gives you an opportunity to create something interesting and enjoyable.
this is a great class. professor brenner is an eccentric and great lecturer. the problem sets can be a little difficult but the exams were nothing but fair if you put in the little bit of work required to fully understand the material.
The class could be worse.  The teaching wasn't great; not sure why Brenner only taught half the time, leaving us with Sabetta who just wasn't as comfortable teaching the class.  It was frustrating with the amount of errors in problem sets and solution guides, especially when studying for exams.  And some TF's were great but others were awful and really not helpful.  Despite this, I do feel like I learned a lot overall and that the math is applicable to a lot of engineering classes.
The material is very important and also really intriguing if you think about it. However, it was quite poorly administrated. The p-sets are really difficult to understand and are riddled with typos. Even when the professor was asked over and over about a typo, it still took a full week (after the original due date) for the typo to be acknowledged. Even the TFs seem to be confused by the p-sets at times.
Make sure you do all practice exams and reviews- they really help with preparation.
This class does a good job about teaching the essential aspects of differential equations but the problem sets can be a little frustrating at times and some of the lectures are hard to follow. Overall my favorite math class I've taken at Harvard though.
It's a good class, and an important one. Take it with your friends--it will make your life a lot easier. May not be the easiest class, since the problem sets are onerous, but the exams are a breeze and the teaching staff is generally good.
I enjoyed and got a lot out of this class, and recommend it as very useful for students in a variety of fields. The problem sets were quite painful to complete, although not enormously hard. I would recommend taking this class to folks who are interested in the material and willing to deal with unpleasant, time-draining problem sets for a class that is fairly low-key and engaging.
The material is very interesting, but it is easy to fall behind if you miss lectures. Be prepared to ask a lot of questions during lecture as Sabetta's classes are difficult to follow, but she will explain things properly if given some arm twisting.
subject matter is not difficult, but you need to stay up to day with it. WATCH lectures on line from past years if Brenner isn't teaching!!!
This class is kind of all over the place.
Great class for AM concentrators. Pretty much a must take.
Overall, I think this class was a good overview of differential equations, and since differential equations can be found in so many fields of math, science, engineering, if you concentrate in one of those areas, you might want to consider taking this class.  That said, the class was often far more frustrating than it should have been due to errors in the problem sets or lots of unnecessarily tedious algebra, and the teaching staff was often unhelpful in regards to relieving these difficulties.
Excellent class with a lot of great resources and wonderful teaching staff.
This class had interesting material, but was frustrating at times.
The class is brutal. The teaching staff isn't organized and sections vary wildly, depending on the TF. Even in lecture, most students gave up coming to lecture because they weren't useful.
Be prepared for disorganization
I really appreciated how fair the midterms were- there weren't any surprise questions out to trick us, they tested us on the content we had seen
The class feels chaotic, but Brenner is a good instructor.
AM105 is a great introduction to differential equations. The class is very well structured and the materials covered are very interesting. You will be able to gain a lot of great insight into the subject.
This is an excellent applied math class. It teaches you the fundamentals necessary but focuses primarily on bigger picture thinking and cool applications of the material. Problem sets could be quite time consuming, but the exams were fair and the final project was awesome and was an extremely rewarding end of the course. Definitely take this class!
probably the best way to learn differential equations!  Great class overall for a subject that can be taught super poorly.
This class is very reasonable. Do the practice problems and the psets won't be too bad. Matlab knowledge is useful, so if you're not comfortable with coding, the psets might take a bit longer.
Great class! Learned a lot of important material from this class. You will see ordinary and partial differential equations, fourier series everywhere in higher level courses, and so this course is great in building a sound foundation.
I personally really enjoyed AM105; I feel like coming out of the class, I learned a lot and that the ideas that I had learned would be useful in the real world. Brenner is a really funny and sassy professor, which can sometimes lend itself to disorganized lectures, but the notes online are extremely helpful. The class isn't difficult, but definitely make sure to keep up with the material, as it is easy to fall behind (especially in the 2nd and 3rd parts of the class). If Evelina is still a TF, go to her sections!! She is awesome and so helpful. Overall, I would recommend this class and it is not as scary as it might seem.
unless you're doing physics or other hard sciences, i don't think the materials will be very useful
This class is boring, badly organized, and incredibly frustrating.  You probably need to take it though.  Also, Brenner is a great guy, this class is just badly organized.
This course is highly disorganized and lectures often feel like they're rushed and scrambled together 15 minutes before class. The material isn't too difficult but can be made much easier with proper instruction. Overall, the course was okay and standard for the applied math department in general.
This is a great course! Regardless of whether you feel uncomfortable with math or if you have a very string background in differential equations, this class is very interesting and shows some fantastic ways to apply differential equations to real-world situations
Take it!
Not a useful class at all. Just kind of copy what they did in class and do that on the tests and psets.
Michael is an amazing professor who really cares about the students but do not get behind on the material.  The first third of the class will lull you into a false sense of security and then the third midterm will bite you.
This course is super useful and is well taught. It gets a bit tougher towards the end but all the way through they emphasise learning applicable techniques rather than getting stuck in the algebra. Also teaches you a lot about MATLAB.
Lectures were really not that helpful.  A lot of just cramming and trying to understand the material from random sources.
Its extremely useful material to learn and the class is well-run
The actual material and math in this class is not too challenging, but the lectures sometimes lack structure and can be confusing, so you might need to do a little extra reading/studying on your own to fully understand the concepts. However, overall the course is really not that bad- the exams and the final project are all very doable- and will give you a basic introduction to how to solve some of the most important or common types of differential equations.
If you want to learn differential equations, this is a very good first course. It's not the most interesting material, but it is very useful.
Interesting material, although to be honest your time may be better spent in a different course. This course does a good job presenting a wide picture of differential equations, but didn't go particularly in depth into any topic. If you're in Physics (especially if you just took 15c), I would actually recommend not taking this and instead spending a day reading up on Sturm-Liouville theory, Legendre, and Bessel Functions, and then moving on.
You learn a lot of cool and applicable material in this class. Although it can get a little disorganized at times, it was still a pretty cool and interesting class.
This class is well-taught and covers very important material. Take it if you have any potential need for differential equations.
There are a lot of bad things about this class, predominantly the rampant disorganization. But if you can get through all of that, the lessons you take away are really quite valuable, in terms of how certain equations model practical, real-world phenomena. Looking back, it was a very worthwhile class.
The course gave a great overview of ordinary and partial differential equations, and the final project gave students great insight into the application of this mathematics to the real world. Matlab comes in the way of learning in AM 105. The problem sets ask questions which require the use of Matlab in ways that can hamper learning and unnecessarily slow the learning process. Additionally, questions are often not worded clearly on problem sets; questions often have many undefined parts which leave students wondering about what exactly is being asked. Finally, the textbook recommended is not that helpful and the class deviates a lot from the material in it.
Beware, it's a bit disorganized, but overall you learn cool stuff an Brenner is an enthusiastic lecturer.
AM105 is a very solid class to fulfill requirements for applied math or engineering. Extremely interesting topic, great lectures, moderately difficult problem sets, fair/easy midterms, and a fun final project. You really can't go wrong, and from what I've heard, it's the best out of the applied math 100 sequence. Also, Michael Brenner is a great professor to have.
Very, very applied; the course focused on methods and intuition rather than theory. The teaching was good and the tests/homeworks weren't hard.
This course will teach you the basic methods of solving differential equations as its stated, but it does NOT do a good job teaching MATLAB.  You will basically have to figure out the program on your own.  Michael is a very energetic teacher and generates old enthusiasm, and Karen is thorough in her explanations, but the material seems unfocused and arbitrary.  Unless you are a huge fan of working through MATLAB and want a good mechanical understanding of DiffEq's, take another math course.  Problem sets are also very repetitive and usually not very interesting.
Make sure you have strong Matlab skills and a lot of time to put into the psetes.
It is very disorganized and too big. If you are an AM concentrator, prioritize other course offerings. The material however is invaluable.
This is a relatively painless applied math course. It's mostly about memorizing techniques -- there are very few applications of the material until the final project. But it's definitely important to understand differential equations if you're at all interested in modeling.
This class is 90% memorization and requires almost no critical thinking and problem solving ability. I evaluate courses based on either interest level in material, expansion of thinking, general challenge level (which I find fun), or a combination of the three. This course failed to meet any of these criteria. I'm not sure if there is a way to teach differential equations in another manner; however, I don't think this material is necessary or useful to spend an entire course covering. If I were to do it again, I wouldn't waste a course on this and instead be content with the coverage in the math/applied math 21b sequence. I don't think this should exist as a stand-alone course
The class offers a solid background in differential equations and explores their applications within multiple different fields. The staff was great at being available and providing resources to help us with whatever we might need.
If your in engineering and have to take AM 104, 105, 106, or 107 --  this one is seen as the best option.
this course, while its exams are quite easy and there are plenty of resources available for getting help with the HW, is still quite disorganized. That being said, if Evelina is still a TF, she is a wonderful resource.
Lectures were far from concrete and organized.  Psets were sometime unclear in what exactly they required. Some pset questions were infinitely more difficult than they ought to be and rather than serving as an educational tool it only caused hinderance.  Exams were terrible.  First of all the questions were far too easy such that if one question was messed up due to a careless error you would have a terrible grade compared to the curve. Sometimes, when difficulty was added to a problem, it involved a "trick" we hadn't seen before on the exam.  The grading of the course should have emphasized the exams way way way too much.  The homeworks took a good amount of time and actually required a strong understanding of the material.  It it not right that 60% of the grade of the course should be based off of 12 questions.   Two out of three of my exams were graded incorrectly, so check your exams.
Professors Brenner and Alim are great- get to know them. Even though it's a big lecture they really care about the students and will help you with anything you are confused on. Start the problem sets early because Matlab can be frustrating and its most efficient to just go get help. Do not just sit and struggle through the matlab on your own for hours, because that's not the point of the course. If you felt like you really mastered the end of 21b some parts of 105 will be boring, but you get a much higher-level approach, and the final project is really cool.  Also Evelina is amazing- if she is a TF she will be a great help.
This class teaches some useful skills in terms of solving differential equations, but it isn't the most exciting class to take.
You only get as much out as you put in.
The assignments get to be very time consuming and confusing at the end
It's not a great course but it is a necessary component of math/applied math literacy. You won't learn much but the course is a requirement for concentrators.
There is a disconnect between what is emphasized in lecture, what is given on the Psets, and then what is tested on exams. Sometimes it feels as though putting in time in any one of those three areas will not help with understanding in the other two.
Like everyone else says, it's easy early on, and you can follow everything without much difficulty.  Also like everyone else says, it gets harder, but you can still manage, albeit without understanding everything intuitively, just enough to do well in the course.  Brenner is a fantastic teacher, and I learned some very useful stuff, but another course is probably required to go even deeper into diffeqs.  Don't buy the textbooks, lecture notes are good enough; don't go to class when you don't need to, there are lecture videos of every class (there are a few days of delay though, so be careful).  You'll have to be smart when it comes to MATLAB, since the course doesn't focus on teaching MATLAB but the program will become pretty necessary later on when solving some diffeqs.
While the material is very useful and applicable to many areas of study, this course was tough to get through at times. The assignments can be very tedious and assessments are not the best at determining students' comprehension of the material. The final project is a great chance to apply course learnings; however, there was very little guidance which made it a challenging experience. That being said, Margo is a very enthusiastic and passionate lecturer. She is an incredible source of encouragement and support. The highlight of this course was getting to know her.
The material covered is very similar to the differential equations in 21b. Lectures didn't correlate much to psets, and half of lecture would often be reviewing the previous lecture. My TF was wholly unhelpful and never worked out problems in section. Problem sets were graded six weeks after being turned in, to say nothing about being returned, if at all. No final exam was very pleasant and a godsend, but I'm not sure how much differential equations I learned from the final project. Details for the final midterm were only released around four days prior, and corrections were being made to the practice exam's answer key at 10PM the night before. I learned the entirety of the material from the three (admittedly fantastic) textbooks we had to use and the Internet out of necessity due to the opacity of lectures and section. This is Margo's first semester with the class, so hopefully the administrative kinks will be worked out, but if you're risk averse, I would strongly recommend passing this one up.
This class has the potential to be really good, but to be honest was the absolute most frustrating class I think I have ever taken at Harvard so far. Margo is a very sweet person and extremely kind, but ultimately, her teaching style was really disorganized. We had lectures 3 times a week at at least once a week the lecture broke down into a discussion or a student-led demonstration on the board because mistakes were constantly being made. This was the professor's first year teaching this course, so i have high hopes that it will be greatly improved next year. the way it stands though, the text books are the only saving grace, and even those will only get you so far. Worse still, 75% of the people in the class have seen the material before, so if you're not very familiar with differential equations, I would think carefully before taking this class. The final project was also really fun, but the difficulty level varied a lot depending on which option you chose, which seems a little unfair. All of that said, Margo was pretty helpful one-on-one during OHs for the homeworks, but beyond that I thought she was a little unresponsive.
Super interesting material that is very applicable to everyday phenomena. Professor Levine is a good, if slightly disorganized, teacher. TFs are great. Somewhat challenging but not one of the hardest classes I've taken here.
Having a good understanding of everything up through 21b is definitely important to success in this class. Don't be afraid to seek out help!
Margo is a great teacher; extremely cohesive, understanding, and clear. She has really improved in her teaching and the class is reasonable - psets take ~6-7 hrs/wk, exams are do-able, and the final project involves ~6-7 hrs of work. Large class, well taught, good foundation.
The class overall was good but Margo was very frustrating when it came to correcting mistakes--she basically did not admit they were mistakes and costed a lot of people a lot of time on a beautiful sunny Friday afternoon.
Lacks rigor, which can interfere with understanding.
Don't take this with Margo. She spent most of her time on the easy examples she understood, and frequently got confused by the more complicated ones. The exams were graded with an arbitrary rubric with several points allocated for simply rewriting the question; Margo herself admitted that the first midterm did a bad job distinguishing between people who got low Bs and people who got high As. Overall, the material in this course could be mastered in a much shorter time than we were forced to spend. Diff eqs are an interesting topic and extremely practical, but look elsewhere.
Good material but not presented in the most understandable way
I thought is was an ok course. The lectures were not very useful and the teacher did not seem prepared at certain times, so you come out of class even more confused. Tests were not that bad, but studying for them can be difficult as the course was all over the place.
This course has many flaws. First, there is not one unified text. Instead there are three--two of which are barely used--and some topics that are in none of the texts. The problem sets were rife with errors--and those questions that were perfectly defined often had solutions readily available online (even at the back of the textbook!). Clearly not enough effort was spent creating these materials and planning the course in general.
Take this class if Adrienne is still a TF and DEFINITELY go to her section!
The material of this course is certainly useful, and you will encounter differential equations and PDEs throughout the sciences. However the course needs to be significantly overhauled organizationally before I could call it a "good class." Margo means very well and she cares a lot about the students, but lectures could be all over the place, and larger issues were never really addressed.
I recommend this class without reservation. Its good if you want to learn about differential equations on a broad scale. If you have taken Math 23 you should find this quite straight forward and you may want to consider taking a pure math class instead.
Material is very important if you're interested in any sort of applied mathematics/modeling, but class could be better structured.
First run through is always a bit tough, but Margo's a great lecturer and advisor who really cares about learning. If Adrienne TFs again, do whatever you need to to get into her section.
Great final project! It was my favorite part. I learned a lot and developed a solid foundation in diff eq.
This class is straightforward, well-organized, and manageable. The material is useful, as ODEs and PDEs show up for modeling all kinds of sciences and economics, but to be honest, some people may find it a little dry. As long as you put in the effort, go to section and OH, you should be okay on midterms for this class. Homework is manageable as it is usually a variation of a problem discussed in class.The teaching staff is responsive and helpful. Margo is organized, but busy. Adrienne was super helpful as a TF. Do go to section. It consolidates what was talked about in lecture.
Margo is a great person, but lectures are sometimes hard to follow. But definitely a doable class if you can learn on your own!
This course is a great introduction to differential equations. The problem sets and the exams are very fair, and Margo and the TF's do a great job making themselves available outside of the classroom to help the students in whatever way. However, lectures can sometimes be a little scatterbrained, so be prepared to read the Boyce and DiPrima textbook to help clarify concepts from time to time.
I enjoyed AM105 and Margo's teaching. Margo is a great lecture that keeps lecture interesting and clear. I think the course was challenging but not too over the top. Would definitely recommend for AM concentrators.
This course is pretty cool. It really gets interesting when you start talking about partial differential equations, especially in relation to musical sounds and instruments. I would recommend this course to anyone interested in the sciences, particularly physics, since it gives you another tool with which you can better understand and explain physical systems.
AM 105 is a mixed bag - I'll narrow it down to two major positives and the two major flaws.  For one, this class is extremely useful if you're an engineer/scientist.  Instead of the "and this differential equation just gets solved by yada yada yada" you actually learn concrete methods for solving specific types of diffeqs and you feel better informed.  Also, Margo is an absolute joy as a professor - she has so much energy and one of the quirkiest senses of humor of any professor at Harvard.  The flaws in this course are centered around the fact that Differential Equations as a "course" is very hard to maintain a coherent path of learning through.  At times, you'll feel like you're just taking pot shots at the bigger concept of differential equations and every single method you learn CAN'T solve everything ("we assume the diff eq is of the form ...").  I'm coming away from this class learning a lot of random things about differential equations, but I don't feel like I've completely "tamed" differential equations yet.  The homeworks are also longer than 21b - you'll want to do them on white printer paper and you'll often go up to 6 or 7 pages front and back for the 5-6 problems due every Friday.  There are proofs, but most of them don't require insane math knowledge - you just need good basic observational skills.  In short?  I'd definitely take this class again.  Good all-around math elective for all you engineers and scientists and Wall St people.
This class is best suited for people such as engineers, physicists, computer scientists etc. who need this type of class as a foundation for future, more in-depth study in the field. Much of the course seemed to cater to the kind of people who would be interested in and readily understand this kind of material on their own, and wanted to dig deeper into the problems it addresses. I found this class to be extremely time-consuming, perhaps because I didn't have an innate understanding or motivation to master the subject matter and thus spent way too long trying to figure out the problem sets. Unfortunately the grading scheme seemed to ignore all of this, and I often received very high grades for what I imagined to be decent but not outstanding work. This is fine if you're just after the A, but for me it felt that my sincere effort was being ignored in favor of easy grading. Beware grade inflation!
A great class if you're interested in the topic
Unless you want to learn on your own, don't take this class.In one semester, the lectures covered the bare minimum for the material, and even that was a straight-up copy from the book; Margo essentially recited parts of the book, without explaining anything. She was often unable to answer the questions that'd come up. Furthermore, there was no guidance on how to solve the pset problems, nor was the final project explained at all; in fact, we were all ghosted by Margo and the TFs- that was just a big mess. The last month was chaotic, as no one had any idea about what was going on. The course was all over the place, and the material was so poorly introduced. Another annoying part of the course was that Margo clearly chooses favorites. In class, she would often ask them to explain concepts that she couldn't. As you can imagine, that didn't go so well. Even in office hours, instead of helping the students, she would often make small talk with certain regulars. TL;DR: AM 105 was disappointing and frustrating.There are other AM classes you can take- unless this class is drastically changed, don't bother.
The class will improve (hopefully) so take it if Margo is teaching. It should become more organized next semester.
Useful (especially for physics/engineering) but tedious. If you took AM 21b, your life will be much easier - the first month is basically review. Concepts escalate quickly though and with a few weeks everything is completely new and strange. Partials are awful (there was literally a question the pset that not even the TFs could answer!!) so work extra hard in the first few weeks to push up your grade. By the end of it, you will be ninja at algebra and all kinds of calc.
Nice and straightforward class. Homework and exams are fair.
Must take this course to understand the mathematics behind physical phenomena.
AM 105 gives a decent overview of diff eq's.  You spend more time on theory than would be expected for an Applied Math course, but it's not too bad.  Problem Sets are doable, and exams are fair. I have nothing bad to say about the course, but nothing fantastic either.
This is a lot of plug-and-chug. While not conceptually difficult, the class was not well organized and that made knowing what to know very difficult.
Margo is super helpful and this is a useful course but the structure and pace of the course could definitely be improved.
A great class to take as a freshman or sophomore for Applied Math concentrators.  If you are an upper level classman and have taken a bit more advanced classes, try to shop AM201/202 which might be a interesting/better fit.
This is basically your standard differential equations math course. Margo is very enthusiastic about the subject matter, but some of her lectures miss the mark on clarity. As this was her first time teaching the course, there were a number of organizational problems. TF's returned homeworks pretty late, there were few midterm review problems (and the answer keys had errors), and many questions went unanswered for the final project. You'll definitely learn how to solve differential equations, although the reasons and motivations behind the methods you learn may not always be clear.
Straightforward class, not very difficult
Very good class, useful and relevant subject material, and Margo is awesome.
If you are a physics or engineering student, I would highly recommend you taking this course prior to taking those higher-level courses. This would help with physics 15c, physics 143a,b, and many engineering courses. The content of the course is rather straightforward. With Margo, the homework and exams were very fair. The only thing I would keep an eye out for is the curve in this course. The average is much higher than you would expect in engineering, physics, or chemistry, which means you have to do close to perfect on the exams to do very well in the course. If you have taken the math 21 series, this is a great continuation.
Margo cares a lot about her students. If you ever have a problem, just send her an email or meet with her at office hours. She loves math and loves teaching, and wants you to love math just as much.
Pretty much what you'd expect. Reasonable course, Margo is great, material is somewhat interesting but not mind blowing. Take it if you'd like it, but won't be your favorite/least favorite class of the semester.
This course covers interesting material, but a lot of the tools we learned for solving differential equations can be picked up simply by taking other engineering/physics courses.
Its a really useful course regardless of what you're concentrating in. Its pretty easy compared to most math classes. Take it to be introduced to a variety of topics in differential equations. Depending on your concentration, then specialize further with a particular area either through coursework or independently.
Take it with Margo if possible.
Fairly painless AM class that covers very important material.
This material in this class is very applicable to a variety of different fields. For this reason, it is a good idea to take this course. Much of the material overlaps with concepts that appear in physics courses including Physics 15c. If you have taken this or are taking it concurrently, you might find some redundancy. Otherwise, it is a fine course, although I am not sure that I exit the course having learned a lot. The teaching staff is good, although they can be somewhat disorganized.
This course needs a lot of work
Margo is nice, but secretly a hardo. the class is good, but I did not find myself learning the material as well as expected. This class is applied in name only and I did not understand the importance of a lot of the work we were doing. Margo would spend the entire lecture going over a specific theory behind an equation, rather than focusing on that equation's use.
This is very useful and practical course that deals with the nitty-gritty of solving differential equations. As a physical sciences concentrator, I found that a lot of the material covered was relevant to my primary area of interest. This is a good next math course for students coming from Math21a/21b who want to solidify their understanding of differential equations without diving into more theoretical math and proofs. Although the course was not very demanding, its organization was not the best this year - relevant homework assignments were returned long after midterms, and the quality of sections varied greatly. However, I would still recommend shopping this course because of its accessibility and the applicability of the material it covers. It was nice to have a final project instead of a final exam. It made my finals period less stressful.
This course is challenging, but in a rewarding way. If you put in the hours, at the end, you really feel like you've learned a lot.
Lectures are hard to follow and sometimes contain mistakes
Work hard and go to office hours and attend lectures, and you will find this course extremely rewarding!! Margo is a great teacher, and spreads her enthusiasm for the subject with others. Definitely participate in class, and engage Margo and the TFs in conversation if you have any questions.
Great course if you learn to work with others since the problem sets are challenging and can be confusing, and working with others/going to office hours helps overcome this confusion. Overall, a very interesting course if you work with other people. Differential equations are a language used in physics, biology (ie virology), etc, so this skill set is useful
The material in this course is excellent and should be required for most disciplines involving mathematics. I took 21a, 21b and AM104 before taking this class, and had no problems with the material. However, especially for those students coming straight out of 21b and into this class, I will warn you not to take this course too lightly. Depending on your previous understanding of the topics presented this course can demand a lot from you. Finally, having taken AM104 the semester before, I just want to add one thing for those of you considering that class: you should take 105 and 104 in that order, not the other way round. ODEs and PDEs should definitely be a 104 prerequisite. (at least the way 104 is currently taught).
Margo is an excellent professor and taught the material effectively. This is a great course to introduce the different kinds of differential equations you might encounter in a science or engineering environment snd equips you to solve a pretty wide array of problems. I left feeling like I really understood the material and can readily apply it. Highly recommend, even if it's not a concentration requirement.
The material is very interesting and Margo is overall a very good professor.  The quality of the course kind of deteriorated over the course of the semester.  I think ODE and PDE should be split into two different courses.  The PDE part in the last month was very rushed.  The organization of the course could be improved.  The assignments were pretty tedious and hard.  The midterms were fair and not too bad if you study all of the material presented in class and on the homeworks.  Overall, you should probably take this course if you're applied math.
We rarely applied what we were learning, which is what I would have liked. Also, I found the course incredibly disorganized and so I could never fully utilize resources even though I was struggling in the course. Emails would go unresponded, solutions to problem sets were not posted before exams, there was limited guidance on how to properly prepare for the exam because solutions to the practice midterm problems would not be posted until the day before the exam, and even the final project had many kinks that were not worked out beforehand. I would have to spend hours on just one question in a problem set that was clearly out of the scope of our learning, and even TFs and Margo did not understand how to answer it immediately. Margo is incredibly sweet and helpful in person, but often teaches haphazardly and is hard to reach outside of class.
Can be challenging at times but if you can follow the lectures you're good.
The course covers a lot of material on ODEs and PDEs. The material is very useful in science and engineering applications, and it's interesting. The 3 textbooks are extremely helpful. Make sure you read them to firm up your understanding of the solving methods, and for examples of how to apply the solving methods. Lectures can be disorganized and psets take a long time but are not especially difficult. However you'll learn many methods for solving differential equations which are useful in other classes. The final project is difficult unless you have some background knowledge of what you want to do.
Overall, a manageable course taught by a fair and empathetic professor. Third part of course is definitely the hardest and most conceptually challenging.
Overall, I thought this was a solid course. The requirements and expectations are stated clearly and understanding the material is largely a matter of spending sufficient time working through problems. The required textbooks support the lecture material well and there are plenty of online resources (in particular, Paul's Math Notes) that show basic theory and work through problems. Unfortunately, the class ended on a bit of a low note for me because the teaching staff seemed to vanish when my group sought advice on our final project.
You cannot look yourself in the mirror and say "I have a math degree" if you haven't taken diff eq.  Seriously.  Margo is a great teacher and the subject is crucial.  Git er done.
The lectures in this class were disorganized and I didn't think much was achieved during them. Problem sets did a good job of preparing us for exams, but they were too abstract for this really to be called an applied math class. The material covered in this class is very interesting.
Pretty easy class overall but I didn't really get the sense that I was learning a whole lot until the final project. Definitely not the course for you if you're interested in theory (try Math 110 instead), but if you're someone who might interact with diffyq (which is most people in STEM) then this is probably a good course to have under your belt.
Differential equations are an important topic, and this class gives a good introduction to solving ordinary differential equations and a short intro to partial differential equations. The topics are sometimes interesting and sometimes not; the material sometimes just feels like rote memorization. Margo was generally a good lecture and is very helpful, though lectures were sometimes repetitive / unstructured. Overall this was a decent class, though there are improvements to be made.
This class was very difficult. having already had an introduction to Diffy Q would be useful. That being said the later part of the course (PDE's) are quite necessary and will be no doubt useful.
