If they like math they could very much enjoy this course but they have to be open to thinking differently
Beth is the best!  Take this class - absolutely worth it.  She is so invested in her students and teaching - it's really a great surprised to have a teacher like that here!  I'm so glad I took this class!!!
I dont think this class is being offered again which is too bad because Beth is an amazing teacher and the group work in class is super engaging and rewarding.
Beth is an extraordinary person. She is extremely intelligent. The course is slightly unstructured, but the class is small and taught in a seminar style, so there is no exact schedule that needs to be followed. Beth teaches and then gives an assignment. Everyone will then work together to complete this task. There is a lot of emphasis on collaboration and working together. However, the material is kind of complex.
Beth is great!!!!! Take a class with Beth!!!
Great class to take; covers an area of mathematics that has not been explored in detail.
It is a low fun, collaborative, low risk, low time-commitment class. If you keep up with the classwork, there is no homework and you will do well. Beth is funny and a joy to be in class with.
This is a very non-traditional math class. It is very focused on in-class collaboration and team work. Because of this, if everyone gets confused, it can sometimes get stressful in class. The material presented is very unique and you are unlikely to find it presented as such in any other class you take. It is almost entirely motivated by symmetry and pictures, which is how geometry should be taught.
This class is great! If you want to learn something that very few people actually understand, take this! Beth is a great teacher, lectures are incredibly hands-on (in fact, calling them lectures is inappropriate) - Beth presents a problem, and you work in teams to solve it during class, and Beth guides you through the process. If you like learning information that you never knew existed/was important, take this class, but be prepared to work in groups and at times get a little frustrated with your code. That said, Beth's a Mathematica wiz and she's always their to help you out (and without judging). So many laughs in this class, and so much learned.
The course material was cool, but the class was frustratingly disorganized.
Good class to round out a heavy workload. I definitely had more fun in this class than in any of my other courses. It can be disorganized at times, so you must take the initiative to keep your own work organized or it will come back to haunt you later in the course when you need content from increasingly many files.
This is a great, stress-free opportunity to learn about the unique area of mathematics of computational geometry. This course also gives you a good understanding of Mathematica, and requires little to no out-of-class work.
