Ask the TF if the problem sets have changed since last year - they were way too long and made most people miserable. I wouldn't recommend the course unless the work load is reduced in the future.
enjoyable class, great staff, kind of heavy on psets
This class teaches extremely useful skills. You will learn to solve practical problems in many fields. It's a tough class, but worth it. Good for people interested in the science of making strategic decisions in complex real-world situations (e.g. we spend a lot of time looking at business decisions).
It's a great class, but be prepared for an intense workload.
Drop it while you still can and you'll save yourself a lot of heartache.
This class is pretty cool. Its not difficult but it really requires a lot of time to understand the nuances and complete the assignments. That being said, you learn a lot and linear programming is useful.
Take it!
This is a class for those that want to work hard and to learn a lot.
One of the best-taught classes in terms of enthusiasm and material.  Coursework and topics sometimes a little dry, but worth it in the end.  Never have I seen a more committed teaching staff.  Special props to Prof. Parkes and Haoqi.
Don't get scared off by the first couple weeks. It gets better.
It was a lot of fun, and teaches a lot about how to approach modeling problems.
Its amazing!! Lots of hardwork but very rewarding and worthwhile
Assignments are long but worthwhile.
Start assignments early!
Great class, but much more of a time commitment than I was expecting.
It's hard, but worth it.
take it only if you are capable of putting a lot of time into the class
A wonderful class that is really useful.  Time consuming but worth the effort (especially because of the professor and teaching staff).
Great class, lots of not-so-hard work
You come away from the class with a lot of powerful knowledge and tools at your disposal. But be warned that lectures were pretty dull and most learned most of the material at sections / office hours / on own.
This course3 is probably the best in the applied math department.  That being said, it is also a pretty good computer science class (which it counts for).  The professor is really good and the materials are thorough as well.  Get started on EO2 EARLY!!
A very interesting course. Good way to fulfill an Applied Math requirement. Decent amount of work though.
Best math course I've taken, not even close
Probably the best applied math I have taken at Harvard, if you are an AM major you should 100% take this course. Hard work but not impossible, fun extreme optimization group challenges, interesting real world applications. The hardest part is becoming comfortable with AMPL, but once you are, the problem sets get considerably easier.
This class is really interesting, but can be disorganized at times. It's also fairly time-consuming, so be sure to allot appropriate time to do the problem sets.
Learning the tools and concepts in this course is very rewarding. Pay attention to detail on the problem sets and be prepared to dedicate a lot of time and energy to the extreme optimization projects. The course's problem sets are time consuming, especially if you aren't comfortable with AMPL - learn how to use AMPL well as quickly as possible. Overall, an extremely rewarding class full of powerful tools.
This course was not as much work as people made it seem. It was taught basically entirely by Professor Parkes, who is an excellent lecturer. The class is graded fairly, and the section/lecture notes are more than enough to get you through the problem sets. You should be familiar with latex, but the coding and actual math in this class are not terrible to deal with.
I LOVED this class. If you have reservations, you should still take it. Optimization is actually pretty darn awesome and Parkes is a superstar.
This is a phenomenal Harvard course. It is difficult and time-consuming, but well worth the effort. It is impeccably organized, and there are tons of resources available if you get stuck. The course material in engaging.
This course is awesome! The applications are super interesting. There is a programming component to many of the assignments, but the language used, AMPL, is tailored to be used for the use cases of the course (namely, to solve linear programs).  Take this course!
This course is probably one of the better courses in the Applied Math department. I would heavily recommend it for all applied math concentrators. I think that it also helped with learning about basics of math programming. Make sure to start on the project early!
This is an amazing class, albeit VERY hard. Although I probably didn't end up with the highest grade, I learned so so so so so much this semester. Parkes is an amazing teacher, his lectures are great (i would recommend skimming lecture notes before lecture so that you're able to follow lecture better). Section handouts = key to doing well in this class! TAKE AM121. you wont be disappointed. best class i've taken at harvard so far.
AM 121 is a well-organized, clearly taught class with interesting material. It is not particularly difficult and all the homework and projects are quite doable. The projects are very interesting and show real life applications of the optimization theory (ours involved treating cancer and solving a telecommunications problem). David Parkes is a nice guy and a good teacher.
This is by far the best class I have taken at Harvard. It is well worth all the work as the material is extremely rewarding, interesting, and applicable to real-word situations.
Class is very useful material and Professor Parkes genuinely cares about all of his students. One thing I didn't like about the class is that it almost encourages you to just understand how to use specific tools and techniques, like a high school math class, rather than learn "why" they work.
Really awesome material and new for almost everyone taking it.  Definitely not an easy course - but very fair.
AM121 is a challenging but manageable applied math course with interesting material and fair exams and problem sets.  The class demands a strong attention to detail and style, particularly in the beginning, but gets easier with time, particularly if you go to sections regularly.  The extreme optimization projects will both ruin your weekend.  Ultimately though the course is an interesting and applicable overview of optimization.
Use the section notes! They are VERY helpful. Avoid section itself; it is not.
AM 121 is a good class. The material isn't the most interesting ever, but it's presented in a clear and easy to understand way and you learn a lot. It's pretty cool to see how you can model problems and to see just how many interesting problems you can model with just Linear Programming. All of the problem sets and projects and assessments work together really well to make it so that you get a lot out of the material. All in all, I thought it was a well-organized, solid class - not the most amazing stellar class ever, but definitely nothing much to complain about either.
buy the book
This class is excellent. Not only are the professors for this course excellent, but the material will keep you continually engaged. The concepts are difficult, but there is a lot of support within the course. The projects are very interesting and you will become very good friends with the people that you go through this class with.
a
This course is very time-consuming and difficult, but highly applicable to a quantitative career. Some basic programming experience and knowledge of Matlab scripts is useful, but expertise in a particular language is not required. Take advantage of office hours early and often and start on the problem sets, especially Extreme Optimization, right away.
good class! learn a decent amount and not too difficult.
This is an incredible course if you're at all interested in modeling problems such as Airline Scheduling (general allocation of resources). It's well-taught and accessible, but can be difficult at times.
Take it if Yiling comes back. Her reviews were great. Until then, I don't recommend.
The subject is incredibly interesting. I was wow'ed by the breadth of applications for linear optimization at the beginning. But the course was not the same without Yiling. This semester, problem sets, especially the team extreme optimization problem sets, were huge time sinks. Lectures were largely unhelpful for completing problem sets, and TFs in section usually rushed through material in an effort to get though the huge section packets. It all felt disorganized because no one there had taught the class before.
AM121 is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Even though this semester's course was taught by Professor Parkes, he was amazing. The section material and the problem sets are extremely interesting, and the extreme optimization projects were really fun. I took this class out of interest, not for concentration requirements, and it was the most enjoyable class I had this semester. I learned a TON, and am looking for more classes to take on linear programming now.
The class is very interesting and not that difficult if you put in the time.
The class was pretty meh. I took it because the Q scores were so good but I really wasn't that interested in the material to begin with. I feel like I didn't get that much out of it because I already knew linear programming from cs124 and Markov Chains from stat 110. Other than these two topics most of the course was just memorizing two algorithms: Simplex and Branch-by-bound. Memorizing all the edge cases of complicated algorithms is quite boring and doesn't feel useful because you can just look them up in the real world. I wouldn't take it if you already know linear algebra, linear programming, and Markov Chains.
AM 121 is a solid course if you want to learn about optimization. The problem sets take a long time and sometimes puzzling but they are not difficult since you can almost always assess whether your answer is right or wrong. David Parkes did a great job teaching the course; the guest lectures were not as great as regular lectures. Lecture notes are very thorough and section notes must be read.
This was a pretty well organized AM class. Having CS50 (or prior coding experience) and Stat 110 (or familiarity with basic RVs and expectation) is very helpful, but not necessary. The course demands some time outside of the class (expect 7-10 hours per pset, and 10-15 hours per extreme optimization, of which there are 2). But not having a final exam (just two midterms) is very nice (and the second midterm isn't even cumulative!). The course isn't overwhelming in terms of concepts or workload, and is somewhat specialized, but it teaches a way of thinking and is a good exercise in problem solving!
This is one of the few classes that you immediately feel is applicable in real world problems, and you learn how to model many real world problems. The course itself is not difficult but the assignments can be long at times. Professor Parkes is a really great lecturer and the teaching staff was very helpful.
This is just a great class in every sense. It's organized and has a reasonable work load, introduces you to a great field (optimization), and the teaching staff is great. No reason not to take it, especially for Applied Math concentrators. If you've taken linear algebra (maybe even if not) and are looking for an interesting elective, take this.
Interesting and useful topic though lectures not interesting. Sections and section notes are great!
Professor Parkes is amazing!
One of the most applicable applies math classes I've taken. Some of the homework problems can be tedious though, and I wish there had been more explanation/intuition provided for the linear algebra equations they often showed us.

Overall a useful class though if you want to learn how to model linear programs and what to do when those programs get big (100s or 1000s of variables).
This class is super well-structured. Parkes is a fantastic lecturer. It does take a lot of time though. You'll learn a lot too.
good but really hard
One of the most useful classes I have taken at Harvard.
Everyone says this, but read the slides before lecture. They are really clear if you take the time to go through and understand every slide. Also, be very, very deliberate in choosing your group for eo 1/2. If group members bail, you might be looking at 40+ hours of work for a project they get credit for. Don't be a tool.
Definitely the best course in the AM department. Yiling is great and passionate about the subject and the material is interesting. Also a relatively chill course as well.
This isn't a difficult course, but it is certainly time consuming. Writing up the assignments takes a while, and AMPL isn't very user-friendly. I strongly recommend starting the modeling projects as early as possible.
best AM class i've taken, so interesting + well organized
Great class to become comfortable with another software package (AMPL). Learnt how to structure data and construct models to find solutions to small real-world issues.
Solid class for AM requirement! Learned a lot about optimization without needing to go to class. The notes (lecture and section) are pretty good, and are enough to do the psets and extreme optimizations, as well as do decently on the midterms. AMPL (the programming language used in this class) was not fun, though.
This class is a very interesting subject matter, but lectures are often extremely boring and very difficult to pay attention to. That being said, if you do not pay attention to lecture, the class will become very confusing.
Don't take this class if you don't need it as an requirement. It's a lot of work that is not worth it (i.e. not that intellectually challenging/rewarding).
Don't take this class. You learn maybe like two things all semester but there is a lot of suffering via a forced crash course in AMPL. Learn actual optimization from the math department or safely skip this and take advanced optimization. If you just want to do this for a requirement its fine. It's not terribly difficult: exams look like the practice and once you get a hang of it the problem sets are all very similar. There are two group projects but they don't require any new skills and are a great chance to effectively divide a pset among 4 people
Very useful stuff.  Don't fall behind, though, because once you do it'll be hard to catch up.  Read the text book and actually do all the psets.  Cool way of thinking.
This class is a great one.  Difficult and time-consuming for sure, but not to the point where it takes over your life or you need to rethink taking other hard classes at the same time.  Find a group to work on psets with early on - that's helpful.  The course is well-taught for the most part and the material is super fun and interesting.  It's like solving real-world puzzles.  Very glad i took it!  I just hope they curve well... lol
This class is super interesting and applicable. However AMPL is a considerable part of it that is never really taught. Also the two midterm thing may seem good, but it can be frustrating if you make dumb mistakes on one of the tests and that can pretty much cost you your semester grade.
Overall, this course was definitely one of the most useful and insightful math courses that I have taken. It gives you many tools to solve a diverse array of problems, especially the AMPL component. Be prepared to spend 20ish hours on each problem set and extreme optimization assignment.
Great course! Lots of fun! If you are really a math person check out math 116 as well.
Go into this class knowing that two weeks of the semester (EO weeks) it will take a LOT of your time.  Other than that, prep as early as possible for exams.
If the class has a good professor, take it! The material is pretty interesting, but it certainly didn't live up it's reputation as one of the best applied math classes. Overall I was still highly impressed with it.
The material from the class can probably be applied to real life scenarios in only a very select field. However, it is interesting to learn about the concepts in the class.
The material covered in AM 121 is generally interesting, and the course will most importantly teach you how to formulate a wide range of optimization problems in tractable ways. Yiling generally does a good job with the material. The problem sets are fairly time-consuming and often include a lot of annoying busy-work, though it's all doable. The teaching staff sometimes seemed confused about the problem sets (or sometimes about the material itself). Otherwise, the class was generally fine.
This course is definitely the best applied math requirement I've taken. The problem sets can be long, but they definitely cover all the information you need to know. The teaching staff was amazing, really willing to go above and beyond if you reached out to them.
Take it, definitely one of the better AM classes I've had to far. Teaching staff is really invested and the projects are interesting.
I had heard great things about this class, but was very disappointed.  Lectures were good, but that was about it.  Assignments are long and tedious and are harshly graded.  The optimization projects require an incredible amount of time and are not rewarding.  I felt like the teaching staff did not care about their students.  Yiling teaches well but is not accessible outside of class.  The TFs know very little and if you ask them questions, will simply read off of the answer key.  Would not recommend.
Best AM class at Harvard.
This is a great APPLIED math class. You will find many interesting applications of the content that you learn, and the logic and theory parts of the class are also cool. Would highly recommend this class!
The best math class I've taken -- organized, applicable to real-world problems, fun, and engaging.
Would not recommend as an introductory course. Lectures are highly theoretical without many numerical worked examples, making the course useful as an extension for those already familiar with the math but more difficult for those exposed to concepts for the first time. Section notes do a better job walking through problems, but even then I found explanations were clearer in other class notes I referenced online (MIT, Caltech, etc). Having to learn AMPL for the psets was annoying as I don't expect to ever use the language again.
This class has very interesting material and I would highly recommend taking it. Even though the psets are slightly time consuming, lecture and section notes are pretty clear and it's worth taking.
Great material and concepts, but organization was poor. Office hours were frequently cancelled last minute and it was hard to meet the staff outside of class. The assignments/exams were also clumped together making it hard to really learn the material.
AM121 was one of the best AM classes I've taken at Harvard. The course was very well-organized. Definitely go to class, section and attempt the problem sets on your own before working with others. You will do well in this class if you put in effort. The 2 long Extreme Optimization projects were time-consuming, but it was great to see how what we learned in class applied to real life topics. Yiling has taught the course for many years, and was extremely patient and nice!
Loved this class! So well organized and taught in an effective manner. Material was always very interesting and applicable to equally interesting pset problems. Having no final is also great. EOs were the only downside. They seemed to take a lot more time then necessary, and specifically EO2 wasn't especially interesting.
This class is quite useful and interesting. It is not incredibly well-run but it is sufficiently well executed to learn a lot. The problem sets and assignments were quite well done too.
This is overall a really great course. What I loved about this class is that it's incredibly fair at every assignment. If you study for the midterms, you will do well. If you spend time doing your problem sets, you'll do well. Problem sets can be surprisingly time consuming, so look out for that. I expected to spend probably 5 or so hours on this class, but ended up spending about 10 per week, plus about 40 hours in preparation for midterms. Extreme optimization projects are also like mega problem sets. Expect 20-40 hours on these as well. Basically, great, great, great, class that will require a fair amount of work. Don't let the work scare you away though - you will learn a ton, and optimization is a really interesting application of math. Definitely take this class sometime during your time at Harvard if your AM, Math, Ec, Stat or just interested in this.
AM121 is a great course overall, though it has certain issues that prevent it from being extraordinary. I loved everything about the course except for the way it was taught. The psets are well written, the midterms fair, and the extreme optimization projects enjoyable. The course is very organized and the lecture and section notes are incredibly helpful, though the lectures themselves are not. Yiling is very knowledgeable, but she does not teach the most captivating lectures. You definitely feel like youve learned a lot after taking the course, and Ive gained a great knowledge about linear programming and optimization. The course can sometimes be challenging and requires a lot of work on psets and the projects, but overall it is not the most difficult material.
This class is very hard, and can be time-consuming in certain instances.  However, it's a very rewarding class for two main reasons.  First, it allows students to think in a far more analytical manner than they would have before they took the class.  Second, it's a class on optimization with real-world applications, so once the class is over, it's much easier to see how these techniques apply to the real world.
If you go to section and keep up in lecture, it will be a challenging but worthwhile class. You won't have to struggle because the course is poorly structured or taught or anything like that.
This class teaches some really interesting material. Unfortunately, some of the work tends to be tedious (such as solving linear programs by hand, when they are easily solvable on a computer). Overall, it was a fun experience. The group projects were pretty intense. The lectures were not very helpful - I found section taught me everything I needed to know.
the assignments vary greatly in length, start the extreme optimization projects early, section notes are extremely helpful for doing the problem sets
Terrible course. Terrible teaching staff. Inconsistent material and coverage. Assignments that did not correlate to what was learned in class. Huge disconnects that never were addressed by students that were having trouble. I wonder when the applied math department will figure out how to hire people that are actually interested in teaching students and having them do well.
An overall very good intro to optimization. If you like math and programming, this is really the course for you.
Hang in there until the end, and the class does make a lot of sense and has a lot of practical applications by then.
The subjects covered in this class are interesting, but lectures are SO BORING.  I did not like the teaching style of Yiling (even though she is so nice)!!  I really thought lectures were a complete waste of time - I learned everything from section.  Also - the exams are WAY too long for the amount of time you're given.  You have a final exam during reading period which wasn't great timing either.  I enjoyed the class when I was working on psets with my pset group, but besides that it was definitely not my favorite applied math class I've taken at Harvard.
This is a good class to take, but it is quite difficult and time-consuming. Be ready to work very hard. Attending section is key!
Loved it. Can be a lot of work but the course staff does a good job at making it worthwhile.
The second half is fun. Stay on top of the material! That way it's enjoyable. Go to office hours, section and lecture. Pay attention and you'll be fine.
It is a math class, but it's really cool how very similar methods are used to solve everything from airplane scheduling to manufacturing optimization. Very intesting topic to have been exposed to
Good class with great structure (two midterms, no final, weekly homeworks, and two group presentations).  I think that homeworks were difficult to do incredibly well on but the quizzes were not cumulative which was very nice.  I felt I retained a lot of knowledge about general Operations Research techniques and linear algebra.
The coursework might seem a little dry or narrow, but once past the initial how-to-solve-LPs (which is a necessary base) I liked the class much more, and found it very rewarding overall.
So this is by far one of the courses in the Applied Math department you NEED to take. The class introduces a few useful topics (basically integer and linear programming) which are really applicable to operations research and there's no other place really to learn this stuff--which is quite useful in fact! It's a fair amount of work, and I found the class difficult, but don't be deterred by that. I'm really glad I took it, after initially wavering about it.
This is a fun class. The psets take a long time but are actually rewarding. They are not overly dense with algebra or calculus and are more about problem solving. I would spend a lot of time on them since that way you will keep up with material and be prepared for the quiz. Also, they are the majority of your grade. Make sure to go to section. I think it is technically optional but if I had to choose between either going to section or going to lecture I would choose section. The TFs this year were all very helpful at office hours as well.In terms of material, I would say this course teaches two things that seem similar but are actually distinct. One is how to define a problem, find what you want to maximize, set constraints, etc. The other thing is how the computer solves a problem. One focuses more on the algorithms and one on problem solving. Ultimately, I feel like the problem solving component is more fun and more rewarding.
The first half in particular is time-consuming (esp with figuring out the simple but annoying AMPL language), but the ability to think about problems using the methods developed in class is pretty useful in the real world.
You learn some really useful and interesting things in this course. the assignments are pretty fun and helpful. The grading and testing is terrible. Graders focus on notation and grading to rubric rather than focusing on if the student understands the concepts.
There is no "final", but there is a HUGE pset due 3 days before the second quiz which is almost like a final and really difficult.  The professor is nice, the section leaders were helpful, the class is organized. But this class isn't very student friendly in the sense that the psets are long and difficult, and you have to spend hours in office hours trying to do the work. They say that you can take upto ten late days for psets, but you cant take more than 2 late days for any pset. There are also MANY limitations in the late days you could use for a pset. For many psets, you cant use late days at all, so in the end you can only take probably 2 or 3 late days for a pset.  It is an awesome class, but it has a lot of pitfalls.
cool, practical applications of linear algebra to a lot of real-world problems. this class is worth taking, and not painful.
The problem sets are long, but this is a great class. This is what an applied math class should be like. Incredibly interesting, very real-world and applicable assignments and examples. Great support structure. The TFs and professor are amazing. Professor Chen really cares about the students, and the TFs legitimately want you to learn. Excellent class.
This is not going to be the easiest class you take at Harvard, and definitely not an easy A. However, this is a class that is designed to make the topic of optimization exciting to you, and there is great amount of resources for the materials taught in class in section so that you are never on your own in this class. I personally had not planned to take the class originally, but fell in love with the material over shopping period, and I am so glad I decided to take it. The downside honestly is the massive amount of work that it requires, but there's no question in my mind that it was worth it.
its a great class, you can do well if you put in the hard work. i didnt find lecture particularly easy to follow but section was just amazing. problem sets are fun.
My favorite class this semester. If you are willing to put in the work, it is definitely manageable and enjoyable. The teaching staff is fantastic and there is a lot of help available. If you're an applied math concentrator, definitely take this class.
You have to put in the time on the problem sets and go to section (that's where you learn most of the material) but it is an extremely interesting class.
a good class. pretty easy. light on the math. long psets. lectures can sometimes drag on. undergrad tf's vary in quality.
A fair amount of work, but go to section and work with people on the problem sets!
This class is one of the must-takes in the Applied Math department. The material covered is extremely relevant and practical to any field, and the course is very well organized and planned out. All the problem sets are fun, and all the TFs are great, as is the professor. Almost the "CS 50" of applied math. This class won't fulfill any requirements for me (I'm a statistics concentrator), but I chose to take it anyway because it's not worth missing out.
this class is really interesting and very applicable to many things, but it is definitely not easy. One of the better Applied Math classes I've taken, though.
I loved this class! No other class has challenged me so much and I have never ever spent more effort on anything, but it all pays off. it was worth it. best class ever
Take this class!! This is the best class I've taken at Harvard so far. Yiling is fantastic and the TFs are really great. Absolutely loved lectures and section, and I've been blown away by how cool linear programming is and how applicable it is to everyday life. It has really changed my perspective on the world. The problem sets take a little bit of time but aren't too bad and are actually more fun than tiresome. And there's free Finale!
Take it - it's such a fun course.
be prepared for the quiz.  don't let name fool you, treat it as a midterm...
It's a great math class, and teaches you to model! Very coherent and well done.
Best class I took this semester. So well structured, it's really hard to fall behind (even if you don't go to lecture etc.). It's also very intuitive, it all fits together very well. And it's useful, always a plus.
I really recommend this course to anyone in the quantitative disciplines. Lecture is not that exciting but the material is interesting and applicable to many real-world problems.
I worked hard, but I think it was worth it.  Definitely frustrating at time, but I learned a lot in the end.  The only class I've taken at Harvard where I feel like it will help me think about the world and might actually be applicable in the rest of my life.
Get the textbook, work with friends, and ask for clarifications on the homework.
AM 121 is extremely useful and practical.  The theory can be a bit dry, but the applications are exciting.  Problem sets are long but fair.  Prepare to spend lots of time on extreme optimization assignments.  There is a fair amount of coding, but it is easy to pick up with minimal programming experience, though it can take some time.
A very interesting course that gives you some applicable knowledge. Sometimes a little on the work-intensive side, but definitely worth taking overall.
This course is well taught by both the professor and the TFs. It has a great support system.
The material is awesome.  This is what applied math is supposed to be.  Beware of falling asleep in lecture.  If they put it at 60 Oxford St again, dont bother coming to class
This is definitely a course that can be studied for, but it is also definitely a course that must be studied for. The boundaries of the course are well-defined, but the boundaries encompass a large amount of knowledge to master. A lot of work!
Fun class, but a lot of work
It's an interesting, useful class to take and is pretty reasonable in terms of work if you make sure to at least attend section.
This is an extremely well-designed course (perhaps the best in the applied math department). The material is challenging but very interesting and incredibly useful, and many of the problems are a lot of fun.
very useful material, very applicable, course materials were good and the website was well maintained, professor approachable, TFs were nice
It is a great class that teaches you a lot!
This class can be tedious at times but will teach you skills that are actually applied in the real world.
A great applied math class. The math is not difficult but the tools you learn are really useful and extremely applicable to everyday real world problems.
The problem sets are long but the class is useful and interesting.
Definitely take it!  It's by far been the best Applied Math class I've taken at Harvard thus far.
good class, bad lectures, significant time commitment.  a good spring term class in AM.
Interesting and useful material!
It's a time sink
Beware lectures.  An hour and a half of it may seem to long to bear but they are important.  Also, budget more time than you think you need for problem sets...they can be randomly beastly.
be prepared to spend long hours on problem sets
It's an interesting and well-organized course and optimization is useful to learn, but be wary of the workload!
It's fairly interesting, but has a very limited scope. Take it if it's potentially of use to you, but beware that you could probably get most of the useful bits with a week of reading some textbook (which this course doesn't have)
Ver useful class, homework materials are the best teaching tools, lecture can get boring.
This class changed the way I think about the world and gave me a very handy tool to add to my tool belt.  Great experience.
Although the applications are really interesting, the theory can sometimes get a little boring... The class is also taught pretty poorly, although this is made up for by great resources provided on the website. So, overall, I'd definitely recommend the class, especially if you are an AM, Econ, etc. concentrator.
A great class -- be prepared to spend some time on it each week. The lecture notes are very thorough & lectures can be a bit dry (which means most students stopped coming to lecture near the end), but sections are really important. Go to section. Go to office hours.  Treat the quizes seriously but know they aren't that difficult. If you spend the time on this course that it needs, you will really enjoy it!
great class for learning practical tools in math. psets are really long, but that's probably the only way to learn the materials.
This is the best, most useful class at Harvard hands down.
This is a very, very appropriate course for real life.  AM/Ec students take this!  Be prepared though, psets do take a decent amount of time, somewhere around 10+ hours a week.
The class has been extremely rewarding, but also very time consuming and harder than most AM classes. Much time is required to do well on the problem sets, but they are worth it if you do put in the time. Definitely take this class with Yiling, but do so in a semester in which you will have time to fully devote to it.
This is one of the few applied math classes that presents real world examples. Lectures and sections are pretty thorough, but extreme optimization assignments will take a long time. Be sure to work with reliable group members!
Ugh, this course.  While the teaching staff are very dedicated, and you can see it, the teaching is a bit all over the place, the grading is capricious, and it always feels like the course is getting ahead of people.  Given the amount of time required to do well in this course (and it's a lot!) be prepared to be disappointed at how fairly you are graded.And, you will work.  Very hard.  Keep up with it.
You'll spend more time than you'd like grinding out simplex algorithm problems, but you'll eventually get to some interesting/useful topics. I wouldn't recommend if you're highly theoretical or very CS-focused, since the emphasis is on learning 1-3 algorithms rather than things in general.
Frustrating class.  A lot of busy-work.
This class gives you great perspective on how to look at seemingly intractably complex problems and apply strategies to find good (and often, the best!) solutions possible.
Not a bad course at all. The work is not too hard but can be tedious. Make sure to attend section, or at least read the notes.
The problem sets and sections really help with understanding the material taught during class. Yiling is a great teacher! This class does take time and the assignments/EO are both time consuming, but I learned a lot and was interested in the material.
You don't necessarily need to go to section as long as the section notes are posted. However, section forces you to go through problems similar to the homeworks with a TF by your side. Lectures are sometimes a bore. The extreme optimization problems are not as difficult as the initially sound. And when you make a presentation for the extreme optimizations, make them interesting. They can get really boring.
We spent a lot of time learning the details of the algorithms (Branch and Bound, Simplex) and were exposed to a TON of samples. If you want to get a good sense for what can (and can't) be optimized, this might be a good course for you. If you want to learn the details of a couple of really cool algorithms, this also might be the course for you.
AM 121 is a great class! The professor and teaching fellows put a lot of effort into the course, and as a result it is very well organized, with lots of resources available for help if you need it. Furthermore, optimization is a really cool area of study that I feel is often unexplored by undergraduates, so you will be learning new, interesting and useful material.
You learn a lot. Although the projects were difficult, I definitely felt accomplished after doing them. Yiling seems to really want us to learn; she will stop and answer a lot of questions in class and holds good office hours. The structure of the course is also great (2 midterms, 2 group projects, psets, some of which are partner psets, no final.) Good mix of mechanical work and thinking creatively!
This is one of the most useful classes that I've ever taken, and Yiling is a fantastic professor. She's very clear and is keen to make sure everyone understands a concept before moving on. Take advantage of all the times that she pauses to ask ANY questions that you may have. Start the problem sets early, especially the problems that involve AMPL coding, so you can go to office hours with any questions. Quizzes are trickier than they seem. Things in this course are scheduled back to back (there's an assignment, project, or quiz EVERY week), so always plan ahead and don't fall behind! I LOVED AM 121, I learned so much and the problems are actually a lot of fun!
I would not take this class unless you must. I would try to find a class that covers similar material but is not this class. The problem sets take forever. The group projects will take over your life the week they are due. There is never any break from this class that allows you to concentrate on another class for even one week during the semester. And the exams are really hard too.
The course is a good, solid, useful course in the applied math department. It covers linear programming, integer programming, and stochastic programming, and lectures are taught clearly (Yiling Chen is a really good professor). At times, the lectures get a little dense symbolically, so sections really help to keep things grounded. There is no final exam, and the two tests are fair. Homeworks are non-trivial but also not terribly difficult, and there are lots of office hours when one can seek help. A really important course for those studying Economics, and useful for anyone who might want to use math in their career.
The psets will be extremely long, and the projects can take forever and be a big pain. But the materials are extremely interesting and useful, and unlike Ec1011a, this class will teach you how to model before they ask you to do, so at least you know what you're doing. Take it.
It's a really interesting course!
Lectures are really difficult to sit through, sections are the only place I learned anything. Previous experience with AMPL coding would be useful.
AM121 is extremely well structured and offers an excellent intro to operations research. Be aware, however, that this class is very time consuming and the assignments are often tedious. I learned so much from the course, but not without struggling. Definitely recommend, but be ready to work.
This is the best course i've taken at Harvard. This course is very difficult, and you should be ready to put in the time. But if you can do so this will be your most amazing experience at Harvard.
A very solid applied math class. There's a good balance between psets, projects, and exams so it's never too taxing. There is somewhat of a steep learning curve, especially with AMPL (the mathematical modeling language that we use frequently) but you will learn a lot of interesting and useful skills by the end of this course.
Definitely take this class! The lectures are often boring, but attending section is key. The class is very well structured and organized, and runs really smoothly which is not something you often find in the applied math department. Yiling is so sweet, and the teaching staff (Jack and Michelle in particular) are really helpful as well. The problem sets are time consuming in the beginning, but you get the hang of them after the first two so they go much faster. Make sure to be in a good group fro the two extreme optimization projects, that is definitely important.
You will have a lot of fun with very interesting modeling exercises, where you really see how useful and powerful optimization is in a lot of settings around the world.
The class takes has long psets and generally takes a lot of time. The applications are very exciting though. It's worth the investment.
The skills you acquire are extremely relevant to real life problems, but class itself is subpar.
Great class and topics, lectures are hard to understand/limited use
People tell you this is a moderate AM class, but this is NOT the case.  The problems are super work intensive, with little to no reward.  Learning how to use AMPL was really cool and useful, but the general concepts and this class in general is more trouble than it's worth.
If you're interested in the more mathematical aspects of the course, you might be disappointed. The theory is kept pretty simple and all the algorithms are spelled out in detail so that you end up forgetting why they work in the first place. I really enjoyed the guest lecture - definitely attend it!
This class is full of tedious work that is not very fulfilling. I wish I had taken a different class to fulfill my requirements. Lecture was worthless.
This course is very structured and the TF's are very helpful (because of this structure). Be aware of the length of problem sets and get going early in the week.
Awesome class and really applicable.
AM121 is a relatively rigorous class, but overall it is a fun adventure into Optimization. The group projects, while time-intensive, are great opportunities to apply the class material to real-life scenarios. The TFs are really helpful, and although Ozlem will probably not be teaching it next fall because she's a visiting professor, she was very thorough. It's a great way to satisfy ApMath requirements!
If you're an AM major, you almost have to take this course, but I would consider doing Math 116 instead. The material is important but dry, and lectures are entirely unhelpful.
The class is extremely tedious but the material is interesting. One of the few classes where you learn some practical/applicable skills. The "quizes" are deceiving- they are pretty much difficult exams so don't believe them when they tell you its just a simple "quiz." I enjoyed the projects and some of the problem sets but its very time consuming.
I'd recommend this course with another professor. Ozlem is a bore and is difficult to understand. She gets confused in class and confuses us. Teaching is definitely not her forte.
Hard work but very worthwhile
The course was definitely a challenge, but I learned SO much. The material is really interesting, and the course staff will do everything they can to help you understand. Problem sets and projects are time consuming (don't underestimate this) but interesting and fun.
The class has all the makings of being interesting: applicable material, interesting assignments, excellent section notes. Despite all of this support, however, the class became a chore to attend each week and a nightmare to cram the material the week before each quiz. This is the first year Ozlem has been teaching the course. If she continues next year, hopefully, the class will run smoother, but I doubt it will one day reach the overly positive Q guide reviews for Yiling Chen that I read when I considered this class last semester. If you're reading this, you're probably Applied Math, which means this class is invaluable in its treatment of linear optimization. It covers a broad range of topics, which will help with other classes down the road.
This class is a fun experience, can be fairly social, and will teach you how to solve a very interesting class of problems.
Optimization is cool. I definitely learned a lot. Workload is light. Lectures were dry and boring. Go to section. Section notes are very comprehensive. Course staff is very nice.
Not too difficult of material.  Section notes are very helpful. Problem sets can be a bit trivial and long.
A pretty good overview of linear programming and integer programming.Be forewarned, however, that there are group projects that can be unpleasant experiences for groupmate reasons.
this is a very involved class. good for applied math reqs, but don't take it lightly. and don't take it senior spring like i did. no final is huge.
Be careful, its easy to fall behind!
Beware of lectures, they are quite boring and not very useful.  Didn't seem like the professor prepared for lectures. Seemed like she was figuring out what the lesson was as she went through the powerpoint.Go to sections. That's where you learn the essentials.  Would have been better if we spent more time creating problems to solve/solving more complex problems like the extreme optimizations.
Ozlem isn't as good of a lecturer, but the psets are interesting.
Very useful and practical class. A "must-take" course. Lectures are incredibly dry and boring.
Make sure to go to section. Ask questions when you don't understand.
Fortunately Ozlam won't be there to teach anymore, so I'm sure the class will be better.
one of the best applied math classes at Harvard
The lectures this year weren't very effective sometimes, but the materials in this course are really interesting! The Extreme Optimization projects were a lot of fun, and you learn a great deal about linear and integer programming (and a little on stochastic optimization).
Be prepared to learn AMPl, which is a bit annoying and is much easier if you have a programming background.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. The material is very practical and the problem sets are actually enjoyable to work on.
Definitely go to sections -- they are the best part of the class.
Probably the best course in the applied math department. Course is super organized and the material is both interesting and useful. I learned not only about linear, integer, and stochastic optimization but also about teamwork through the extreme optimization projects and how to Latex. This course is a must take for all applied math concentrators.
This is a great class! The teacher really cares about the course. The material is very interesting and practical. The work takes a while sometimes, so start it early, but it is definitely doable.
Be prepared to work a ton in this class. You'll learn some stuff but also be really frustrated with the set up of the class and the amount of work you have to put into it. Be warned that half of your grade is determined by 2 quizzes even though you'll work 5+ hours each week on assignments. Very intense class, interesting topic, not a great teaching staff. Don't take it unless you want to work really hard.
this class is awesome for applied math requirement. the material is cool and practical, yiling is a great professor and clearly cares a lot of about the class. would highly recommend
This is a very useful course and I took a lot of things from it that I can see myself using in the future. If you are interested in going into business or operational research you should take it.
I'm glad I took this class. The problem sets and projects are long but rewarding.
This class may seem easy at first, but it's deceptively difficult. It will teach you to think about problems differently, and it will surprise you with how many problems you can solve with linear and integer programming.
This is a really really well done course.  Everything is clean and tidy and well oiled.  At the same time, the staff was really great my year (and I assume will be in the future) and Professor Chen obviously cares very much about the course and has put it together really well.  The only thing I can think of that I wish this class did differently is I wish that lectures went faster.
It's a lot of fun and the course staff puts a lot into it. The material is pretty engaging and very useful
This class is difficult, but very very useful and applicable to real models. It was extremely interesting and the resources and support provided in the class were phenomenal. I would highly recommend this class.
It's a somewhat specialized branch of programming/mathematics, and even though it's interesting and fun, it might not be that relevant to work you do in the future.
Well-organized, well-taught course. Be prepared to spend a decent amount of time on the problem sets though
Such a great class!! Interesting material and well taught.
You learn some basic knowledge that is very useful in life.
This course will take up a chunk of time, but it is SO well organized with lecture notes, section notes (easily the most helpful part of the course), sections, and tons of office hours, so it is easy to succeed. The grading is also distributed throughout the year - 50% psets/projects and 50% on two non-cumulative quizzes. Just be sure to pay attention to the first few weeks (even though it seems easy at first) because those building blocks are v important
I really enjoyed this course. It's one of the core applied math courses that all concentrators should take. You get a very practical intro to linear programming, which is extremely important. After the course, I became a lot more confident about optimization problems. You also learn a suite of skills with AMPL. The teaching staff is superb and course materials are wonderful supplements. The HW does take some time during the week but I thought all of the hw was beneficial and helped me learn the material.
