This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. You learn so much from the professors, and getting the chance to implement the concepts in problem sets really solidifies everything. Altogether, the course is well-organized and teaches a lot of widely applicable methods. Totally worth all the work.
In my opinion, this is a must take for every biologist. It will be tough if you have no quantitative background (you can take the MCB version in that case) but it's enormously useful. If you are a physicist or mathematician taking this, it will be interesting to see how one deals with the noisy nature of biological problems.
Ben is a great TF! The psets are hard but the tests are very fair!
Very interesting class. Lots of tricky biological problems approached. This class provides a great overview of many powerful techniques, but you would need a little more prep if you were actually going to use them in the lab. The problems sets can be a lot of fun - start them early.
This is one of the most rewarding courses I have taken here at Harvard.  Be warned though, this is primarily a graduate class and a lot of maturity with statistics is expected throughout.  I came in with only Math 21ab and CS50 experience and struggled a bit in the beginning because a lot of statistics is presented in the early stages (Stat 110 would have helped).  Both professors and all of the teaching fellows were very approachable and showed a willingness to help!  This course shows you how to solve inverse problems using a variety of Bayesian frameworks, Markov modeling, HMMC, SVD, and techniques related to information theory.  The course name is also a bit misleading because the techniques covered in class are applicable to almost any scientific computation, so I recommend anyone interested in the sciences to take this course!  Remember to begin psets early because they take a lot of time, and be ask the staff a lot of questions.
Material was interesting and problem sets explored material effectively but were also pretty time consuming, so make sure you start them early. Prior experience with Matlab or programming in general would be helpful and make things a bit more manageable.
It's a fun class that's not too time consuming. You learn a lot of cool material not only applicable to biology but other areas as well. The core focus of the course is a bit nebulous, but it's fun.
A great survey course in statistical and mathematical approaches to interesting biological questions. The investigations aren't impressively thorough, but they help you build a great foundation to apply these tools to useful problems.
This class has a lot of potential, but a lot of things, like workload, are still being ironed out.  Make sure to know your TF, as he or she will be essential in problem sets
The material is interesting and worthwhile to learn.  The main textbook is good and Sharad's lectures are good too.  Sections were definitely helpful, because some of the psets had some tricky math on them.  Overall I really enjoyed the class, but I found some of the in-the-weeds math a little tiresome.  It definitely helped that I had some math and cs in the past.
The topics we learn are very interesting material and they were immediately relevant to other classes I was taking at the time. The first half of the course takes a lot more time than the second half -- be sure to start early on assignments. TFs were very helpful in answering questions that otherwise would be very hard to solve.
Great class but a lot of work. Expect to put in a ton of time on the psets, although they are incredibly rewarding. Would recommend this class to those with good background in math
