The teaching staff is really good
Honestly you have two choices: If you don't mind learning multi-variable calculus in the best way possible take this class--if you do mind then you're probably better off taking the regular multivariable class. You won't not learn calculus through this class but it's not the best way. The way I took this class is I just did the problem sets and read the textbook--I didn't go to lecture or section as both were optional (and honestly and neither are very effective at teaching you). I also went to the extra credit labs. With all that being said I'll probably end up with a B+ or better. I didn't learn the material the best way possible, but overall it was a super chill class and I did well despite the low time commitment.
Margo is amazing, make an effort to go to her office hours!
A better option than pure 21a if you're choosing between them. One pset a week where you get a lot of help during office hours and section.
It's a fun class and I would recommend this over normal Math 21a. It is relatively difficult and takes time for the psets, but if you find a good study group I think the class is taught very well for people who like math.
Margo is awesome! Take this class because Margo! I don't care if you can't add! Take it! Gah!
I learned multivariable calculus, and the workload was manageable.
If you're considering this or Math 1b as a freshman... take this.
I'd recommend this course over Math 21a.
Tough class but overall rewarding.
The grading and curve is much more difficult than 21a in my opinon and thru conversations with friends in 21a, but it is much easier to handle one pset a week than 3. Am21a is lecture based so you really will NOT have an incentive to work or focus during that hour like you will in Math21a with a TF in a small class setting-- you will need to be more independent. If I could do it over again, I would probably go to Math21a for the grade alone, and make sure I got a good TF.
Do not take this class. The lectures are unintresting, the professor goes off on random tangents about topics unrelated to the course, office hours are poorly set up, the section tfs dont know what they are doing. Do not recommend, at all.
I personally found it difficult to learn during lecture because if you missed one thing you spent much of the class catching up since there isn't really much of an opportunity to ask questions, but other than that, it was overall well taught.
it's hard but worth it
A lot of other kids in this class have taken multi in high school. Best designed for students who learn well lecture-style. You'll probably skip a few lectures, but if you can keep up, this is the class for you.
Read the textbook for success.
This is a good course. It is not too difficult and I learned a lot.
It's a lot harder to do well and understand the concepts if you don't attend lecture.
It's really hard and can be pretty discouraging at times, but it's a requirement for many concentrations and I would still take it over Math 21a
I took this class because I didn't want to take regular Math 21a. I think it was the right decision for me. I hated doing three PSETs a week, and one is much more manageable for me Get to know your TF and go to his or her sections; it is incredible helpful. Lectures can be difficult to follow, so if you don't like them, you can skip, but just be sure you read the corresponding part of the textbook. The book does a great job of teaching the material, and if you supplement that with section and office hours, you'll do just fine.
Good class, but you need to work.
Very difficult
If you are thinking about taking multivariable calculus, I would recommend this class.
Take the class, really engaging and interesting material but make sure you pay attention to lectures and don't let the material pile up.
This class was brilliant. I learned so much and I have never enjoyed a math class this much before in my life. Margo is nothing short of wonderful, sections are extremely helpful and to the point, and the extra credit lab is a lot of fun for those of you who like a little bit of coding. Not to mention that the curve is very generous. This is so much better than regular 21a.
I learned significantly more by reading from the book and doing practice problems than by going to lecture/section.
Although the class is designed to be lecture-based, for the most part I do not think I benefitted from the lectures. It was easy to get lost in the proofs that Margo would do in class, and unless I looked over the textbook section before class, I was not able to learn from the lecture. Instead, I took advantage of the numerous sections and office hours offered throughout the week. On average, I would go to two different sections and one office hour session, which helped me learn the skills to complete my problem sets. The quality of the teaching staff is top-notch, and they all aided my understanding of multivariable calculus. The flexibility that this class provided in regards to the sections/office hours was really the best aspect of the class. Instead of being required to go to one specific section or lecture, we could go to as many or as few of the sessions.
First half is very straightforward, it picks up a lot towards the end, but overall its very doable and as long as you do a good job on the psets you'll know enough for the exams.
It's pretty difficult, so only take it if you need to, or if you're really good at math and enjoy math
If you are interested in life sciences, 19a would probably be a better choice
If you're between this and Math 1b and you've taken calc BC in high school, I would go ahead and take this and skip Math 1b. I got 4s and 5s on the AP exam, but the diagnostics test put me between Math1b and 21a and my advisor told me to go back to Math 1b review calc. I wish I went straight into 21a. The material isn't too difficult.
Margo Levine is the best!
it's way better than regular math21a
Take this over math 21A!! They cover identical material and 1 pset a week opposed to 3 can be a real savior.
Great lectures on what can be tough subject matter.  Some kids seem to already have taken the course.
The tests dealt with far less conceptual things than regular math 21, which was beneficial to someone like me who would rather solve problems than due T/F questions. Also, utilizing office hours of both the TFs and Margo makes the homework doable. A lot of extra credit opportunities as well!
Applied Math 21a is the way to go. Margo and her teaching staff make the course a pleasure. Taking this class, you have the ability to go to as many or as few sections as you would like with whichever TF(s) you prefer. This is a distinct advantage over regular 21a. Also, Margo has lots of office hours and makes herself available to help. If you're looking to take math, take this course.
It's difficult but worth it. 3-dimensional concepts are incredibly fascinating and this class does a wonderful job of facilitating that understanding.
If you've just taken Calculus AB/BC in high school and are coming into Harvard looking for the "next" math class or a math premed requirement, APMTH 21a is definitely the class I recommend. Not only is APMTH 21a a much easier courseload than MATH 21a (1 PSET a week was definitely the way to go for me), APMTH 21a to me seemed like a continuation of the math I've done in high school (friends who took MATH 19a said this was not the case). Additionally, as a former premed who is now interested in Math/CS, I was glad I was able to take APMTH 21a and build a solid foundation to future classes in the field.
If you have to take it, clear out your schedule and prepare for the second half of the course. Do as well as you can on the first half. Look for online sources if you do not understand a concept.
This course is fairly independent compared to what I see of other Harvard math classes. It is up to you to figure out how you learn math and go and do it. For me that meant not going to lectures while reading the text book and going to section instead.
Margot is an amazing lecturer.  The class is challenging but not too difficult if you make good use of the TF's office hours and stay on top of assignments.  For those considering taking regular Math21 as opposed to Applied Math 21, TAKE APPLIED.  No question - better professors/TF's, less/easier PSETs and exams, plenty of extra credit opportunities, and you still learn the exact same material in the end.  Just do it.
This course definitely expands on your base calculus skills and the teaching staff is generally very helpful.
Margo is an AMAZING lecturer. Try to do the PSETs as early as possible, and force yourself to quiz yourself with some of the section quizzes posted each week to refresh the material.
If you are deciding between Math 21a and Applied Math 21a, take this course! The content covered is not too different, but Margo alone definitely makes Applied the right choice. Go to lecture (Margo makes the material engaging and super accessible), and make use of section even though it's optional (you're not limited to your assigned TF). If the extra credit lab component is still offered, do it! Though the Mathematica learning curve is kind of steep, you should get to know Beth--she's a gem.
If you're trying to decide between REgular Math 21a and Applied Math 21a GO WITH APPLIED. Margo is an amazing lecturer and person and there are more than enough resources available to help you learn. My favorite class freshman fall 10/10 would recommend.
I recommend this class over its other equivalents because the one pset a week really makes a big difference in terms of the workload, but this is definitely not an easy class. Coming out of Math 1b you need to be ready for a big step up in terms of learning how to actually do the problems outside of class. Margo is really great and supportive, but this course definitely demands seeking outside help.
Make sure to go to section.
Very good class for understanding what multivariable calculus is actually used for, and you only learn the useful stuff.
It's not a super easy course but Margo is an amazing prof who really cares about all of her students and there are a lot of resources available to help to do well.
I recommend that if you are interested in this class that you shop both this class and Math 21a. Both are great, but Math 21a makes sure that you stay on top of the information while this class includes more self study and collaboration with your classmates. I also think that you should consider that more kids that have already taken multivariable calculus will choose to take Applied Math 21a than Math 21a  so more kids will already know the material. (I wish I had known this, but having taken the class I would probably choose applied still.)
I think this course is actually a lot more painless than I was expecting. Even if you can't find yourself paying attention in all of the lectures, at least go and sit through them, they're only an hour and you'll probably catch some things subconsciously. I think having a good partner (or more) to work through the class makes the class actively enjoyable at a bunch of points and at its worst it is just a bit more work to get through. As long as you don't wait til the last night to do 20 problem p-sets the work really isn't too bad.
It's a really good class that teaches multivariable calculus thoroughly.
I think that this was a difficult course, but definitely doable. All of the help and resources you need to succeed are widely accessible, you just need to take advantage of them. Go to lecture and do the problem sets. I had a difficult time with parts of this course because I didn't go to lecture all the time, and I didn't do the optional problems on the problem sets or go to section. You can get by doing it like that, but ideally invest more time and effort into the course to do really well.
Margo is a great professor - her lectures cover a lot of material but she is effective at making sure her students understand what is going on.  Go to office hours for full credit on the psets.  Make sure to study hard for the exam as they can be brutal if you don't put the time and effort in.  Margo rewards hard work, so if you are a diligent student your grade will reflect.
Excellent class!
Dont procrastinate on psets
For a lecture course of this size, the individual attention available to each student is unparalleled. Margo was perhaps the most accessible professor I had this semester, which is remarkable given that there were hundreds of students in the class. You leave the course prepared and excited to tackle more classes in mathematics.
good class; lots of opportunities for extra credit; reasonable exams and psets; not a lot of mandatory things -- so easy to fit into a busy schedule if you're willing to put in time elsewhere
This class is much, much better than Math 21a. Because the p-sets are due once a week, you have more flexibility with working on the p-set and can go to all the different office hours during the week. Margo is the best professor and actually cares about and is interested in her students.
You really need to like lecture for this to work. I think section style math works best, and 3 smaller psets a week work better to really teach you things instead of cramming them.
Stay on top of your work, especially towards the end of the semester.
This course probably isn't hard for most people, but for me, it was extremely difficult. If you're not confident in your math skills on a Harvard level coming into this, enter with hesitation. Know that you're going to have to work really hard. That said, Margo and the teaching staff is very helpful.
This course is excellently taught and the professor is very reasonable in grading. Furthermore the lectures and the p-sets prepare you very well for the exams.
If you're an Ec concentrator and taking this as a requirement for Honors take Math 18.
Margo is an amazing lecturer and her positive attitude is what drove me to study! The TF's are ready to help so email them whenever you have questions! Do the practice problems from the book and as many extra ones as you can! I liked the one pset a week structure. Labs were stressful but if you relaxed and tried your best they were alright.
In comparison with what I've heard about regular 21a, APMTH 21a seems like a better course.
It's a fairly straightforward class. If you stay on top of the lectures, work on psets in advance, and have access to the textbook (that might not even be necessary), you should be fine.
AP21A is a wonderful class. Make sure to learn the material and good luck!
If you're planning to take multivariable calculus, seriously consider taking this course instead of regular 21a (especially if you're interested in engineering).  Margo was a great lecturer and made the class very interesting, helping us to see real world uses of the mathematical techniques we learned.
Try to stay on top of the concepts throughout the course, which will help with each problem set and make studying for the exams much easier.
This class is hard. If you're lazy, take regular 21a, because its really easy to fall behind and not go to lecture and not learn the material and then get screwed for exams.
read the textbook before class and lecture will be very easy to understand and you will need to study less later because you will already have understood everything as it is taught.
very good class
Margo makes this class. She is enthusiastic, relatable, understanding, candid, and engaged. Her lectures are interesting, easy to understand (she always goes over the last lecture's big ideas first), and funny at times (when she goes on humorous tangents that are very welcome during a dissection of Stokes' Theorem).
This class is overall pretty good. There are many opportunities for extra credit, Margo is awesome, and there's only one pset a week.
I needed to learn math. I learned math. End of story, time for bed.Actually though, take this instead of regular. Was about 4 hours per pset, and they are due at 5pm so you can pretty easily do them day of. Don't go to lecture (of which there are many), just read the textbook and you're golden.
If you can learn in a lecture format, definitely take this class, if not, take MATH21a
Super fun. Great Teacher.
By taking this class over regular math 21a, you know for sure that you will be getting a good, knowledgeable, and caring professor. This may not be the case in regular 21a because you are randomly sorted into a section (where all of the material is taught). The tradeoff with taking AM21a is that since it is a much larger class, it is easier to fall behind and have it not be noticed. Personal attention may be more limited, but the course is well taught (with identical material to regular 21a) and interesting.
Margo simplified the concepts very well.  Sections available if you're confused.  Ultimately, I would recommend over Math 21a: the applications are more straightforward, the lectures are more assured in their quality vs. sections.
Margo is amazing, if you need to do any introduction math here, take this course.
Make sure you try 21a and am21a before you decide.
Although a lecture class may seem intimidating, Margo does a great job explaining material and pausing to give time to ask questions.
Definitely take over regular 21a NO QUESTION.
Definitely go to section even though it's optional.
Don't just do the homework, do additional practice problems so you can get ahead
The professor is changing next year, so keep that in mind. She really cared about making sure everyone learned and the TF's were awesome. There is only one larger pset a week and optional section/lecture, as opposed to regular 21a.
Margo is an excellent instructor and also a very caring person. I highly recommend talking to her and going to her office hours!
This class has a good professor with informative lectures, but you will still need to do a good bit of teaching on your own to do well.
This is a really great math course. Margo is a great instructor, is really funny, and really cares about students. The PSets are not bad, and you have a whole week to do them, so if you start early, you're fine. The exams are challenging, but very fair. The extra credit lab is a great way to learn mathematica, which is a very useful tool, and your grade will get bumped up by a third of a letter grade if you attend 7 2.5 hour labs (which is really not that much).
Do the book problems before lecture and try to keep up with the material as best you can. If it gets away from you it can be hard to catch up.
Don't leave the psets until Friday. Just don't do it. Other than that, the course is great and you should really take advantage of the course staff, as most are there and willing to help if you make the effort to reach out.
You don't have to love math to have fun with this course. Some interest in math & its applications is important, but the course is fun because of the teaching staff. If you put in the effort, the workload is definitely manageable.
Much preferred this to Math 21a.
The course is structured very nicely-- the one pset a week allows your to budget your own time, and there are lots of office hours you can attend if you need help.
It's a lot of work, but there are definitely lots of resources available to help you succeed.
It is a great way to cover the fundamentals of Calculus III while avoiding all of the theory covered in Math 21a. Sometimes though the work demanded can be inconsistent, ranging from mundane plug and chug to insane Math 55esque computations.
It is possible to do well in this class, but be prepared to work every night in order to understand the day's material. Only take it if you are very interested in math.
Do your homework
You learn a lot from this course, but some of the concepts are difficult to grasp. I would not say this is a course for someone with only a casual interest in math.
If you'd rather work with problems rather than theoretical mathematics, then Applied Math 21a is for you.
Vahid is the man.
Lectures are fast and sometimes hard to follow.  The homeworks can be overwhelming at times, but the midterms are very fair.  Professor Tarokh wants all of his students to perform well, is approachable, and willing to help.  Throughout the semester the course is difficult, but if you put in the work, your final grade will be very good.
this was a very good course and professor tarokh is a lot of fun.  natasha is also very helpful
Dont underestimate the first exam.
Take it over Math 21a!
This class was excellent. It is a very manageable course load, and I found the material to be interesting. The exams are fair, and there are plenty of opportunities to earn extra points. If you are deciding between Math 21a and Applied Math 21a, I would recommend this class. There is one problem set each week, versus three in math 21a. While the total number of problems are comparable, I find that the one problem set per week allowed me to do it over the weekend and have the rest of the week to focus on lectures. The sections in this class are optional, but I highly recommend attending them. If you put in the effort, you will enjoy this class!
Typical mathematics course. Can be done without going to class.
I took this class after four years without taking a math class and found it very manageable. I'm still trying to figure out why it's called "applied" math, since it just seems like an easier version of Math 21a without any actual application to any real-world situations beyond the level of a normal math class. Problems sets and tests weren't too bad, though once in a while they would use problems that the TFs/professors didn't know how to solve or that weren't really covered in class. I got lucky with my section and learned much more from my TF than I ever did from either of the professors. Evelyn was great, but Margo was clearly new to the course and often made mistakes during class. Chances are, if you're reading this, you have to take either this or Math 21a, and I would recommend this class for its more manageable workload.
If you have background in single variable calculus and the ability to extrapolate your understanding, the concepts will come easily. The problem sets are tedious but the TFs are helpful.
The workload was manageable and you learn a lot in a short time! All of the help you could need is available if you take it, and I loved the class!
This is a very well taught class with a manageable workload! If you are not a 'math" type person but are looking to gain some exposure in multivariable calculus this is is the course for you! The teaching staff is super approachable and always willing to help!
I had a really hard time picking classes, but finally decided on this one, because this class seemed like a much better alternative to regular 21a, because it was applied instead of theoretical, only had one pset a week, and I really like Evelyn and Margo. One thing I didn't like-75% of your grade is test-based--so no matter how much you know or how much time and effort you put into the psets, if you aren't good at difficult timed math tests, you're going to be out of luck. The one pset a week I think is a blessing and a curse--they are very reasonable psets, but I feel like they leave you unprepared for the tests. Make sure you go to section and office hours, read the book (first time for everything), and do practice problems from the text--most of my learning didn't actually come from lecture.
Take this class over regular math 21a- only having one pset a week saves you so much time! Instead of having to go to the MQC three times a week you can just go to one office hours.
It is better than 21a because you learn the same material but at a mrs relaxed pace.
I am not sure about this
If you're deciding between AM21 and Math 21a, take this course: it's the same material but you have to do only 1 pset a week instead of 3. The fact that it's taught in lectures instead of sections like Math21a doesn't seem to be very relevant, since the material is not that hard that you would need extra support with it. This course has sections and office hours too if you need them and there's a lot of material on multivariable calculus online. Other than that, a pretty straightforward class, teaches you things you need to know.
This class is difficult, but if you are willing to work hard and seek out the offered help, you will do well and/or improve your math skills.
Be ready to teach yourself most of the material, but the staff are really knowledgable and helpful. Easy class if you put effort.
Lectures and section were pretty good, but the book was one of the most useful resources for this class.  It tied everything together and was very helpful for psets.  Probably the best math course I've taken so far, and from what I have heard definitely preferable to regular 21a
This class was very manageable and I felt like it was the perfect continuation after BC Calculus. The problem sets were very moderate but still prepared you well for the examinations, which were on the whole fair. I often found the lectures pretty underwhelming- they were not always very clear and helpful, and sometimes I felt better off teaching myself the material with the textbook. I do think that Margo and Evelyn care a lot about their students and do a great job in terms of providing resources for students who want more opportunities to better grasp the material. I think that those who struggled with the course were able to seek the help they needed pretty easily.
Many of the lectures went too quickly to follow, and I felt like they skimmed over important topics. But the teaching staff is generally accessible, which does help. If you have to do it, it is better option than regular 21a in my opinion but only because the workload is lighter, I think they're both not well-taught.
Just make sure you cover the readings before taking the actual class.
Make sure to select a good TF. And for exams, definitely do the practice exams, because it is likely to pass the exam when just doing the practice exams, whereas it is unlikely to pass when just looking at you notes in notebooks. The best combo would be for the exams to forget the notebook, and just do the practice exams and look at the textbook.
I think a lot of people probably make fairly uninformed recommendations of applied versus straight 21a because no one has taken both, but I will say that one of the main things I was worried about with applied was the lack of access to teaching staff help but that was fully refuted. I also think the ability to do one longer pset a week is so much better and helpful.
That the course is taught very well and that you have a better understanding of multivariable calculus after the course.  The staff is very approachable and really want you to do well.
be prepared to put in work
This class can be self-taught. You learn less than in Math 21a and it is an easier course.
It is difficult but very good and fun if you put in the time and effort
The course isn't terribly difficult and its workload is very doable, but the exams are fairly challenging.
Some difficult topics, but a very doable transition from BC/1B calculus.
Study a lot and go to office hours
This was a very good class! Margo and Evelyn taught the class well, and the section component was great. Dan was wonderful (unfortunately he's graduating!). The exams were very fair, and the professors and TFs really cared that we knew the material and would provide a ton of office hours. I would definitely prefer this over regular Math 21a if you are deciding between the two (1 pset per week is much better than 3).
The class is not amazing but it does teach you well.
A pleasure to get to know the professors.  Having psets due once a week is convenient because it allows for more flexible scheduling.  Sometimes the professors get tripped up during lecture, but don't let that confuse you.  The exams are at a similar difficulty level to the psets.
Professors are amazing - get to know them!  One large pset per week - difficult but doable and helpful for learning the concepts.  Midterms are difficult but i think they are pretty lenient with final grades as long as you show improvement.
So I took this instead of regular Math 21a. This is probably not taught as well as regular, but I didn't have to devote as much time to math. My main reason for choose Applied was because I wanted to spend as little time as possible on math. So basically I stayed up late working on math once a week instead of three times a week. Don't go to lecture, go to section and office hours instead.
The class requires some work and effort, but otherwise its okay. Maybe a bit dry at times. Do not take this over applied math because you expect it to help your grade- it won't. the grade distribution in my class was quite high, even on difficult exams.
You should take this class if you are a) sincerely interested or b) need it for a requirement. It's very tricky, so if you like the subject, you will like the class, but otherwise, maybe stick with Math 1a/b if all you want to do is just brush up on your "math skills."
This is a class that is taught by a couple professors who cares a great deal about their students and show a lot of enthusiasm about the subject.  The grading is generally very fair with respect to both psets and exams.  This seems to be a better option if you are deciding between 21a and Applied 21a.
All the help available makes getting a good grade dependent solely on student effort and enthusiasm.
the level of teaching is significantly at an easier level than the problems sets, which are easier than the mideterms
I was grateful I took this class instead of 21a. Be sure to take the time to get to know Evelyn and Margo - they're great!
Good course
You pretty much have to take this class. The professors are kind. The homework is easy. The exams might be difficult or straightforward. It depends on the exam.
Get to know the professors and the teaching staff!  They are very helpful and will do their best to help you really understand the material.  The psets were only once a week and really not too difficult to get done on a weekly basis.  However, if you do not prepare, the tests can really surprise you with their difficulty.  The material demands some pretty deep conceptual understanding but meeting with the teaching staff will help immensely.
Applied 21A has a very manageable workload, covers the essential concepts of multivariable calculus without going into as much mathematical depths of Math 21a. Evelyn and Margo are extremely approachable and do a great job of conveying the intuition behind the big ideas of multivariable calculus. I would highly recommend this course for those more interested in applications rather than theory.
The professors are very personable, the TFs are super helpful, and the math is taught with the focus in the right place, i.e. not the proofs. I didn't have much math background going in, skipped Math 1b, and felt reasonably comfortable with the material by the end of it. It's just a matter of hours you decide to put in.
Evelyn is an absolutely fantastic teacher who engages with her students and gets you excited to learn the material. Margot definitely knows what she's talking about, but she doesn't engage with her students as well, and makes mistakes during lecture. At times, it felt like I knew what she wanted to say, but she wasn't saying it the right way for us to learn best. It is definitely easier than Math 21, and it is also more interesting because it makes you think about things in a global application.
Great class to teach you this material and very manageable
It has been a very rewarding class. One of the biggest and best things it taught me was to problem solve on my own.
DEFINITELY the better of the 2 Math 21a offerings. If you have to take either Math 21a or Applied Math 21a and you aren't going to be a Math concentrator, you should absolutely take this course. The teaching was consistently high quality, and the teaching staff understands that the students are interested in how the math can be used, but not necessarily in why it can be used that why. Very practical approach, and the homework and exams are manageable. Also, 1 problem set per week is way better than 3 per week, though it has the same number of questions.
This course was not very well-taught. I didn't find lecture that helpful and only sometimes would I get insights at section. Psets were nice because there is only one a week, but overall, I did not learn that much from this course. I heard Math21a is better-taught
Despite of the hate AM21a gets as being disorganized, I think this was a great class. It had exactly the qualities I was looking for (lecture instead of section, 1pset instead of 3) and I was positively surprised even by things I was originally skeptical about, such as not getting to know the course staff. Some tips: - find a good section leader- read the book. a lot of stuff comes straight from there- get to know the professors- do the psets alone, then check with others. go to OH. - when revising for exams, dont waste time going through old psets. just do the practice tests. the psets are not at all similar in format.
AP21a is definitely the way to go over 21a. Only has 1 pset a week and the lectures are helpful.
Attend lectures.
The course is interesting and and provides a great overview of multivariate calculus. It is frustrating though, that many students have seen the material before, so it is difficult to distinguish yourself on exams.
Take this class! It's really well taught, and you have an opportunity to really get to know Margo and Evelyn if you seek them out. The class generally covers the same material as the regular 21a course, although this class puts more of an emphasis on putting the material in context. I loved my section leader, and most other students seemed to enjoy theirs as well.
I would tell suture students that the professors in this course are wonderful! It was definitely a pleasure and an honor to get to know Evelyn and Margo better throughout the year. However, this course is challenging.
I took this class to fulfill the math requirement for economics honors.  I had not taken calculus since high school, so I was rusty at first.  That being said, the textbook does a good job of explaining concepts which are then reinforced in lecture.  The problem sets are challenging and require a significant amount of time, but they help prepare you for the exams.  The teaching fellows are also very helpful and accessible.  For being a large pre-req class, it was relatively well-run and interesting.
Good class, learned the material.  Prepare well for the first midterm because most people are shocked after they take it.  Keep up with the material in the class, and read the book- it's your best friend.
It's obviously a requirement for many concentrations, but I like how the class is structured with one manageable problem set a week. The class is also very organized and structured around coherent units. But I thought the lectures were pretty dry and often a direct reproduction of the textbook material, so I didn't really enjoy going to class itself.
This class if great for a conceptual understanding of the material. It truly allows you to appreciate math by understanding exactly what you are doing and gaining an intuitive understanding. Evelyn Hu is a great teacher and she really taught me to appreciate and enjoy math (I didn't before). The teaching staff is also very approachable and have many office hours.One problem with the course is that lectures often run behind, which means that you have to review the material on your own in order to do the pset and they cover the material after the pset is due. The other problem is that I did not really understand what our other teacher (Levine) said during class because she lacks the calm and confidence to properly instruct. While she really knows her math, she sometimes has problems communicating it as well.
If you were to ask Newton to create a Multivariable Calculus course, he would create AMTH 21a. Take this class.
Great class and very interesting. Don't be afraid to ask questions!
Challenging material but done in a more comfortable way.
Take regular 21a
It is a decent amount of work and difficult to understand but rewarding if you put the time in.
Going to class did was not very helpful but the book is excellent. If you are someone who learns well independently then I suggest just reading through the book carefully and watching videos like Khan Academy for some of the more complicated subjects. Section component was helpful. All around a fair class though.
One PSET  a week, even if it is lengthier, is manageable. The professors are great. Evelyn and Margo are both so caring and they want you to do well. I would recommend this course to anyone even though I struggled in it myself, as a "not good at math" person. If you're picking between Math 21a and Applied Math 21a, this class is the class you should take.
You may have to do a lot of learning by yourself but it's really not a big deal and for me the one pset a week is always a huge plus over the regular math21a.
I would recommend this class to students who are interested in applying mathematics in the sciences, not to students who are genuinely interested in mathematics. For that, I would recommend a more proof-based course.
Section is optional, but it is definitely more helpful than lecture for the doing problems part of this course which is, btw, 100% of this course. Lectures tend to go over the theory but aren't very helpful for doing the psets/exams.
I would only take it as the next step in a math progression (i.e. you need this course for a concentration or gen ed requirement). It's not a class I'd take "just for fun", but it was fine.
good math course
This class is definitely easier than pure Math 21a, and the fact that you can choose which section you go to each week is helpful because once you find out who the best section leader is you can just go to theirs. The exams are harder than the practice ones they give out.
Helpful in further studies.
Make sure of office hours and sections. They are very helpful!
For a required course, not bad!
Go to section. If you have a good tf, it makes a huge difference since each week they review the material for that week's problem set.
This class is better than Math 21a if you are good at math and don't need too much review of a concept before moving past it.
If you're debating between this and regular 21a, I highly recommend this class. The once-a-week psets are not too bad, and if you're struggling there are a zillion TF office hours you can go to for help. They drop the lowest pset score too, which is awesome. The teaching staff emphasizes a conceptual understanding of the material, which is helpful for getting exam questions. Margo and Evelyn are both amazing teachers, as are the TFs. I couldn't make it to Evelyn's weekly office hours, but Margo's were incredibly helpful. I don't consider myself to be strong in math, but I really enjoyed this class!!
Don't take it unless you need to. The class provides so many resources to help with p-sets (go to office hours, it's so much better than struggling by yourself). I know I would not have survived if I didn't go to at least 2-3 different sets of office hours a week. The tests are difficult and they really test your depth of understanding. It's definitely not an easy class but the teaching staff really makes an effort and truly cares about the students.
I found this course incredibly interesting and fun. I certainly struggled in this class... this was definitely the math class in which I "hit the wall," but it nonetheless was my favorite class this term. It is definitely difficult to start thinking in 3D rather than 2D now that we have more variables to deal with and I found some of the concepts abstract and hard to grasp, but I would certainly recommend thing course to students who are willing to work hard and find math very interesting.
You really don't need to go to lecture or section. Reading the book will honestly teach you just as much and you will save yourself 4 hours a week...
The proof-free presentation of multivariable calculus is very practical and useful in other subjects, particularly physics.
If you need to fulfill an upper level math requirement, take this course. The lectures and sections really help you understand the material. Also, there's only one pset a week, and the exams were very fair.
The course is very fair.  The exams are straight forward and test your knowledge of the subject material.  They don't try and trick you.  The course is taught so that your grade should accurately reflect how well you understand the material.
You learn and it's not that hard
A better version of Math 21a. Definitely worth taking.
I would definitely recommend this class. It is not overly challenging, but I definitely feel like I have learned the material covered in class very solidly. Psets are manageable and only cover things you need to know on tests, so there are no superfluous questions to waste your time. Definitely a very efficient class that drives home material without waste.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. Too many students who have already had multivar. calc experience completely ruin the grade distribution on exams for someone who is getting a first introduction to the material.
Make sure to not fall behind on the material or the p-sets.
You learn a lot without an unreasonable amount of work.
definitely take over regular 21a. not time demanding. lectures aren't that helpful - definitely worthwhile to read the textbook and go through the examples they work out. sanjay is by far the best tf for this class - AMAZING
Very very hard
This class will likely require some (if not significant) out-of-class studying, especially if lectures fall behind the homework. In particular, this year we did not manage to cover Stokes' Theorem and the Divergence theorem. However, the material is reasonably intuitive and the emphasis is on understanding concepts and properly executing them, not minutiae of poorly-behaved extreme cases. If you feel confident in your own studying skills, this is an excellent alternative to Math 21a for students with busy schedules (weekly problem sets as opposed to MWF problem sets).
This class is ideal for anyone interested in learning intermediate to advanced operations with multivariable calculus without having to struggle through a time-consuming regular math course.
Take this if you want a really easy calc class.
Evelyn is amazing.  Make friends with her.
Make sure to have a strong understanding of calculus ad be willing to put in time outside of class in order to understand the topics. This class is fairly fast-paced and the concepts require some time to fully comprehend.
I feel that this course isn't well supported by the department. The instructor tends to bounce around, and there aren't that many resources like practice material and such that might be available in the math department.This class leaves you hanging. Although there are advantages to this course compared to regular Math 21a, such as the one problem set a week, there are many difficulties with this course that causes me to have reservations before recommending this course. This course is extremely reliant on self-studying and learning, and requires investment outside of lectures to learn material. Unless you are confident that you already know the material, or have the guts/confidence/time to learn it yourself, I would not recommend this course. Practice material is hard to come by, since material from previous years was rejected by the current course head and and she used completely different material. Also, a lot of students in this class have already taken this class before, and even more students don't come to lecture or section and only come for tests (but this class isn't recorded). Teaching staff is hit or miss, but mine was great.I hope the department puts more resources into this course.
Fine general multivariate calculus class. Do not be fooled by the applied tag, there is little here that can count as applied and the pace is very slow. Adequate, not interesting.
This class is a lot less stressful than Math 21a, largely because there is one pset due a week, as opposed to 2 or 3. It's also helpful to have a professor lecturing multiple times a week, as well as an (optional) section led by a TF, as opposed to sections only.The psets take anywhere from 1-4 hours, and they are doable with the help of the book.  In my opinion, the book itself is enough of a resource to do well in the class, and the professor's lectures/sections are great resources for additional reinforcement or guidance.
The course is not very interesting, which is not the fault of the professor- multivariable calculus is not a great subject
Just read the book and its an easy A.
start the Psets before Thursday night!Also, when studying, memorize the techniques in which you solve problems- there are a lot of them.Go to TF office hours! Very helpful!
A very reasonable course that teaches you all the concepts without overloading you with homeworks or having you do really complex derivatives or integrals that you could do with Mathematica. Lecture could be improved though - often the professor was not too clear with the concepts, and I had to rely on the TFs to communicate the core ideas for each section. Tests were extremely reasonable - no surprises!
Well taught class with the least workload of the introductory multi-variable calculus offerings. Take the class, not the professor, as the professor changes every year.
This is a solid class, and would recommend taking it over regular Math 21a. If you like teaching yourself the material, you definitely have the opportunity to do so - as the lectures are VERY similar to the book (most of the examples are the same). Spend more time studying for the final, as it was a lot harder than the midterms!
this class is enjoyable for people who love math. the professor is so excited about the material that she makes you excited with her.
Does not require much knowledge of integration by parts and definitely not anything about series - don't be afraid to jump in!
The class is a pretty standard multivariable class, and uses the exact same book as Math 21a does. The only difference is that this class covers only the useful things, so it does tend to be easier (which is why I recommend taking it.) The organization was a bit lacking this year, but overall, the class is a good prereq for other higher-level applied math classes in the future.
I would suggest it over math 21a but would caution students to watch out for the difficulty.
It was a good class in terms of what we learned, but the lectures were pretty poorly taught and I did not learn much unless I went to section.
Choose your TF wisely. Hillary and Sebastian are awesome. Lectures are not helpful at all; many people skip them. I go, but I don't really get anything out of it. I learn how to do pset problems in section, or by following the examples in the book. The material isn't too bad, but I typically only really learn everything the few days before a midterm. If you need help, you have to actively seek it out. There are plenty of office hours.
If you're trying to decide between taking this class and regular 21a, I would definitely take this class. It's less work (3 pests/week in Math 21a vs just 1 in applied), the exams and problem sets are definitely easier, and you still cover the same material. But, I wouldn't get the idea that the class is easy - it's just better than math 21a if you have to take this level of math.
If you're good at math but don't really enjoy it, this is a good class to take to fulfill a requirement because there's only one problem set a week and it's fairly easy (vs. Math 21a which has three a week). Lecture are helpful, but you can probably do just as well with just reading the book. The professor applies it to physics a lot, which can seem irrelevant if you're taking this for the CS requirement. But then again, calculus is mostly irrelevant to CS as it is, so I'm not sure why it's a requirement for the concentration. Overall, a painless class.
It's a good class, definitely better than math 21a from what I've heard. Sometimes lectures might not be clear and get to the point so go to the book to reinforce the concepts.
This is a course everyone can handle, but you need to do some independent studying.
Take this course only if you have to. It can be a little taxing sometimes.
There is only one p-set a week and the text book is incredibly useful.
This is an awesome class. Definitely the best was to know out Multivariable. Perfect for a Statistics concentrator.
This is a fantastic alternative to regular math 21a. It covers all the same materials, but everything is applied to concrete examples. Especially good for those interested in physical and engineering sciences.
This class was FAR better than the regular Math 21 a counterpart. I was initially hesitating to choose whether to do Regular Math 21a or Applied, but for one several of my friends' TFs in the Regular course were pretty bad, and since section is the only format that that course is taught in, then you would be pretty much screwed if you ended up with a bad teacher. Also, this class requires 1 problem set per week, while the other class needed 3 problem sets of 5 problems per week, and although we technically should have had 15 problems / set, it really was under 10 most of the time.  Several of my friends who were in Regular 21a will be taking Applied Math 21b this upcoming semester...take it from them.
Pretty easy, mildly interesting
Learn to love the textbook, because lecture is less than helpful. Too much emphasis on concepts and not enough examples of problems that would be on the psets. Make sure you get a good TF, as  your section can make up for the deficits of the lecture if it's good.
It is a good class, but you have to put the time to learn the material.
I learned a lot in this class.  I didn't have to spend an immense of time worrying about this class.  It was challenging, but not too overbearing so that I came to dislike the subject.
Take advantage of the optional sections...they are incredibly helpful.
The class is pretty straight forward, the lectures are a bit boring, and some of the integration is just nasty.
Merits of this class over regular 21a include weekly problem sets instead of tri-weekly and having a real professor in addition to your TF. I was well prepared with BC calculus.
One pset per week, Sebastian is a very helpful TF, and the lectures follow the book.
Make sure you keep up with your work. Do not get behind.
It can be challenging if you don't pay attention in lecture.  One pset a week is awesome.
Go to section not lecture
First off, this course is definitely not the same as Math 21a. The pace is slower, and the homework and tests are much easier. That being said, the teaching staff was excellent and TF office hours made doing psets a breeze. One pset a week was really not a bad course load at all. You do have to do work reading the book and understanding concepts on your own, but most of the work does not require a deep conceptual understanding. The disappointing part of this course was that the pace was slower than Math 21a and so we didn't get to a lot of important parts of the course like triple integrals, surface integrals, Stokes' Thm, Divergance Thm. So if you want to learn all of those things, take Math 21a.
This course is not easy and is not always taught very effectively, so be prepared to teach yourself a lot of the material. Apart from that, the material can be very interesting and intellectually engaging.
This course is a better alternative to Math 21a if you are not too interested in the deeply mathematical concepts, but need to learn the fundamental concepts.
Take it! :) Do extra problems in the textbook. Redo psets. Great tfs! Go to Terry's OH.
Take it over Math 21a. It's much easier, or so I've heard.
AM21a is a solid introduction to multivariable calculus (and probably easier than taking Math 21a). However, because there are so many conceptual topics to cover, don't be expecting extensive application of said concepts. (Though it is an applied math course, AM21a only touches on potential applications occasionally, as it still has to teach you a fair amount amount of material in a single semester). Professor Hu is clearly passionate about math and its applications, and though her lecture aren't  necessarily thrilling, she does her best to keep things straightforward and engaging. She's very accessible to students, loves to talk with them, and seems genuinely invested in their progress and success. Your experience in section (and in turn, with problem set grading) will largely depend on your TF, but most are helpful and responsive.
This class is hard because it is hard material, but the class is structured really well.  Definitely take this over regular 21a.
The course was great! Take this over regular 21a!Having homework due once a week is way better than 3 psets a week.Definitely learned multivariable calculus at a reasonable pace, sometimes a bit slow though. With many resources available it's hard not to learn the material effectively. Students have the book, lecture 3 times a week, OPTIONAL section, and office hours.
This is significantly easier than math 21a.  That being said, you might not learn quite as much...but I don't think it's significant.  Lectures are useless though.
no risk of getting a TF who doesn't speak english, like in math 21
If you don't already know some 3d calculus, this class could be difficult. This class is less about applied mathematics and more about mathematics in general.
This class is way better than regular 21a, no matter what the people in that class tell you. Evelyn clearly wants you to learn the material, and the one pset a week really wasn't that bad. The only issue I had was that we were never really asked to be responsible for the more conceptual side of the course until the final, which made the final a lot more difficult than the other tests/psets had been. Sanjay and Sebastian were great TFs!
If you're struggling to decide between 21a and Applied 21a like I was, don't let anyone tell you they are the same. They teach with the same book, but 21a covers much more material and Applied 21a basically just summarizes the book. I am sure Applied 21a is easier, (I thought it was very easy), so if you are just looking to take Multivariable without going any further in a technical field, perhaps Applied 21a is appropriate for you. If you like math at all, or want to concentrate in math or physics or anything like that, you should take 21a. I wish I had. I wouldn't be scared about getting a bad TF for 21a because the people I talked to all said they were fine. We didn't learn anything outside of the book in 21a, and indeed the lectures were almost unnecessary.
So much better than regular Math 21a! Do this instead!
TAKE THIS, NOT REGULAR MATH 21A. Having both a lecture and a section is a blessing, because if you have a bad TF you can still learn in lecture. In regular 21a, which is taught only in section, if you have a bad TF then you're screwed. The workload for this course is pretty darn reasonable for a math course, and Evelyn Hu is a great professor. Not necessarily the best in the actual lecture hall, but she really cares about the students and is basically the nicest person ever (she got us "AM21a" m&m's for Halloween and two ginormous cakes at the end). She's also really accessible via her office hours.
It is truly a great class to take, because you learn a lot about multivariable mathematics but it is applied to real life things so it is easy to see and understand.
Stay on track, don't fall behind, and nothing should go wrong in this class.
This class is awesome. Definitely way better than regular math 21a. Professor Hu is amazing and you will actually understand math
If you're reading this, you likely have no choice but to take one of the 21-series classes. If so, here's the rundown (as best as I can tell): the 19 series is decently comparable to this, standard 21a/b can really suck because it's taught in sections by dubiously-qualified grad students (professors can also be hit or miss, but Evelyn was pretty good) and has p-sets due three times a week (so it'll be just like high school all over again), the 23 series is time-consuming and not very enlightening, the 25 series is really, really time-consuming but much better, and the 55 series is probably not for you if you're even considering this lowly course. Basically, if you don't want a required class to take over your life, you have to choose one of 19/AM21/21, and AM21 is imo your best option. It's pretty painless, conceptually simple, and fulfills a requirement. It won't be the best class of your college career, but presumably you aren't taking this for fun anyway (and if you are - you should really reconsider), so it's not a terrible option.
It is important to do a lot of practice problems in order to stay up to date in this course.
A very good alternative to Math 21a for anyone not really interested in proofs or theoretical math.
Very good alternative to regular 21a.  Only one Pset a week plus you learn almost all the same material!
You'll learn less then the kids in 21A but you will be happy with one time a week P-SET.
really hard
Start problem sets early in the week in order to be able to learn the material better and check with your peers.  Also, go to the best TF's office hours and review sessions, even in addition to your own section - you will not regret this, especially come exam time.  The class is manageable if you stay on top of the workload and do not miss too many sessions.  Also, having one problem set a week versus 3 in regular Math 21a is crucial to sanity.  Definitely recommend this over Math 21a.
Easier alternative to regular 21a. If you are not planning to concentrate in math, I'd suggest taking this course over 21a.
As a general warning to those who have taken BC Calculus in high school (freshmen in particular): you will get people who have taken College-level calculus in high school as well as upperclass taking math a level down in this class. You are not necessarily behind the rest of the class, despite how it may feel at times.
The question most of you all have is: do I take AMath21a or normal Math21a? I would say, it all depends. AMath21a has one large class, is taught by a pretty good professor who honestly cares a LOT (she brought candy and cake for all of us), and is relatively chill in terms of grading and tests. Normal Math21a is split up into sections where there is a chance of getting a mediocre, awesome, or terrible TF. It also is much harsher on the grading and has much tougher tests. That said, I believe the grading is equivalent. While AMath21a may have easier tests and less frequent HW, Math21a has a massive curve. Ultimately, I'd say take AMath21a unless you are serious about mathematics. If you want to concentrate in it or something similar, you can get a perhaps more rigorous understanding through normal Math21a. If you are fulfilling a prerequisite and never want to take math again, do take AMath21a. If Sebastian Chiu is a TF, choose him. He is the very best and cares an awful lot about how you do.
This course does not go much into proving of the mathematical formulas, which, if that is what you are looking for, is a benefit to taking applied.
make sure you spend enough time on this class to retain the material. Merely going through the psets is seldom sufficient
Take this class as an alternative to Math 21a if you prefer 1 problem set per week, an optional section, and more straightforward tests/problems. This class is geared towards people interested in economics/the sciences, not really for mathematically-oriented kids.
Of course I haven't also taken regular Math 21a, but I think that applied is far and away the better class. We only have homeworks once a week. They are longer, but if you prefer managing your own time instead of being forced to hand in homework every class, it's a much better system. Evelyn is a good lecturer (she uses the word "profound" a lot which we all find funny), and lecture is generally based directly on our textbook, Stewart, which is not a bad thing at all. I liked how if you had to missed a lecture or were unsure of the material, the Stewart textbook was literally the only thing that you needed to become proficient with the material. Homeworks are essentially a compilation of the harder problems from Stewart, so they are challenging (don't leave them for the night before), but very doable. Section is also an invaluable resource, although it is optional, which helps if you have a very busy week. Sebastian is awesome and you can knock out most of your homework with him on a Tuesday night and become secure with the material. Tests are also EXTREMELY fair. I feel that the main difference between applied and regular 21a is the 3D graphs. In regular 21a, they will often give you a 3D graph to look at and match with the equations (and later on they do the same with vector fields). This is tedious and isn't really that useful, but can be difficult on tests. Luckily, we have none of that stuff and although our tests definitely increased in difficulty as the semester went on, if you are solid on your problem sets and the Stewart problems, you should have no problem. Of course, I haven't gotten my grade yet, but after hearing nightmares from regular 21a, I can't imagine that I will be disappointed with applied 21a. TAKE THIS CLASS!
Very easy class, one pset a week is very helpful. Section TF's are great!
A lot better than Regular Math21a. One pset a week and Professor Hu is really nice and understanding. The TFs were pretty awesome my year. You can't slack off at the end, though, because the final covers mostly the stuff not on the first two midterms, so you have to relearn the old concepts and really understand the most recent material.
If you have never taken Multi-Variable calculus I would strongly urge you not to take this course. Math 21a would be better suited towards your purposes. This class is meant as an easy A for those individuals who have already taken Multi-variable calculus and are looking for an easy out in the fall.
This is an easy class compared to regular Math 21a with a much lighter workload (1 pset per week instead of 3 and no random Mathematica projects) and the same material covered.
If you are deciding between 21a or Applied 21a, take applied!! It is taught by the professor in lecture, and only has one pset a week (21a has 3)
This class is manageable, but you need to stay on top of homework, and the section component can be extremely helpful.
It is better than Math 21a because there is only one problem set per week, but the material is not covered in the most sensibly ordered fashion. Be prepared to learn concepts on your own by reading the book.
This class is a great way to get to know multivariable calculus. It's not too time-consuming, but you learn a lot.
This class is very well taught and manageable!
Worthwhile to take, even if it can be challenging
This class is definitely easier than Math 21a and I felt like you can learn a lot if you are the type of person who can fill in the gaps left by the lecturer by reading himself from the book.
Take advantage of the professor's office hours. Even if you don't have questions, she genuinely wants to hear your concerns and comments...even if you just go to express your insecurities about never reading the book and/or not enjoying the lecture.
Definitely easier than regular math21a but something to keep in mind is that a lot of the students know this and many have already had multivar in high school. People also generally do very well on the tests so don't expect much of a curve
Better than normal math 21a!
If you want to do engineering, take this class instead of regular math 21, much more straightforward and applicable. Not too difficult if you stay caught up with lectures and psets.
Compared to Math 21a, I think this course is better. The 1 problem set a week from Applied Math vs. the 3 problem sets a week from Math 21a is a HUGE HUGE HUGE difference. Even though they are still the same amount of problems every week, you have a lot more flexibility to finish the problem set throughout the week and compared to the difficulty of the homework questions, the Applied Math homework questions are also easier too. In addition, this course is not bad at all, the key to doing well in this class is to go to office hours. Most of the TFs (like Hyoseok and Sebastian especially) are very very very helpful during office hours, and I get most of my homework done then. It's a decent class and I learned quite a bit, plus Professor Hu is really nice :)
This class, though nice because it only has one problem set a week, fails in the fact that lecture isn't any more useful than reading the book. Evelyn is really nice, but her teaching is basically reciting the words and examples from the textbook. I felt I had to do most of the learning by myself and it was very problem specific, so when I went to go prepare for the exams, I had no idea how to even approach the problems or what thought process to assume.
Slow paced so if you're nerdy, go with Math 21a. Only one pset a week.
This course IS MUCH EASIER that regular 21a. It has better TF's, less psets and much better sections.
You basically end up teaching yourself ou of the textbook, but it's still a worthwhile class...not that much work and definitely better than normal math 21a.
Evelyn Hu is a great professor, and if you can get Sebastian Chiu as your TF, you are lucky (although I do not know if he will TF again next year.) Sebastian is extremely engaging and competent as a TF. He is very professional and teaches very well. He is the best TF by far in AM21a.
Professor Hu's enthusiasm for the material is refreshing, but it leads to a lot of time spent on conceptual things and not very much on the actual method of solving problems ... which would have come in handy for the psets and exams.
Do NOT take this course if you want to learn anything about math at all. This was such a huge disappointment. This is so badly structured, and they skip over a lot of material you would want to know if you want to learn math at ALL It's plug and chug, I learnt nothing in this class; in fact i feel like i came out stupider. The people in regular math 21a get so much a stronger math background than we do; it's kinda embarrassing to see how MUCH they learned in comparison to us. We didn't learn math, we just learned a bunch of formulae which we are bound to forget soon.
Be prepared to learn from the book and not get frustrated when lectures go off topic.
Take this course if you like a challenge and don't mind difficult exams.
Applied Math 21a is difficult because the material is so technical. If you actually like math, you might be better off taking 21a or 23. Also, the lectures are a difficult way to learn, so you will have to learn everything on your own from the book anyway.
You would probably be better off if you skip the class and study the textbook independently.
Both helpful and interesting
This class is a really good way to learn multivariable calculus without it being completely abstract and dull.
It's a much better class than regular math 21, a lot less work for sure. And both professors are good
This course basically ruined my freshman fall semester. The professors offered no support system for the class other than telling us how difficult the midterms and the finals were going to be. The professors are completely out of touch with what the students need to succeed.  I feel like I was always hanging on for dear life, and thats the way that the professors wanted it.  Don't take this course unless you absolutely have to.
Do not take this course expecting it to be easier than regular 21a. Besides only having 1 problem set a week (instead of 3), there are far fewer resources available in this class, and it was taught poorly. Professor Suo was hilarious, and had a lot of interesting advice to give us. However, Professor Manapat essentially ran the course. One year after graduating MIT with a Ph.D in math, it seemed that Manapat's sole goal was to prove that Harvard kids are stupid compared to MIT kids. Be sure to check who is teaching this class before you decide to take it.
Flexibility of this course makes it a good  choice vis-a-vis Math 21a; that you can attend whatever section suits you, and that problem sets are due only once a week are both major pluses. That said, proactive section attendance is a must; the lectures will not prepare you for the homework or exams, so you've got to make yourself aware of the topics that will be covered on the homework and be prepared to ask about them in section and office hours.
I would recommend it if you're concentrating in Engineering.
I would tell them that it is a fast pace course and this feels particularly quick at the beginning when you are first adjusting to working in three dimensions, but this overwhelming feels subsides as you adjust to the new level of math.
Great enthusiastic professor! Problem Sets do not take that long to complete and quizzes are very fair. Loved the class, and from what I've heard about Math 21a, AM 21 is the way to go.
The teachers are so-so, the TFs grade differently, and GO TO SECTION.
Avoid at all costs while Suo and Manapat are teaching it. The two of them make up a deadly duo of bumbling incompetence and near-autistic communication skills respectively. The only reason to take this class is that there are fewer problem sets per week than regular 21a. However, expect to teach yourself the material if you make the mistake of enrolling.
If deciding between 21a and applied, TAKE APPLIED. 1 p-set per week is much more manageable than 3. The downside is that there is less individual attention if you are struggling.
If you're looking for a multivariable class, prefer a lecture to section and a professor to TFs, and you don't mind a rather subjective grading policy (reminiscent to that of CS50), then this is a great class. Consider Math 21b if you disagree with any of the above statements.
This is an alternative to Math21a that is more lecture based and geared towards applications and engineering.  I didn't really get too much of the application stuff though...
Take this over Math 21a. They cover the same material, the homework is more flexible, and the professor has a humorous way of teaching the material that is didactic at the same time.
The material is essentially the same as Math 21a.
You learn a lot of math without having to work as hard as you would in Mathematics 21a.
It's a difficult class especially because lectures are not very helpful.
I see no reason why one would choose to take Math 21a instead of Applied Math 21a. Lectures make the material much easier to understand, weekly problem sets allow you to plan your time and the fact that sections are optional gives you actually more free time per the same amount of knowledge accumulated.
The course is very well taught. The TF's are extremely helpful. If you take this class MAKE SURE TO GO TO SECTION!
You have to learn everything yourself from the textbook.
This class is a good alternative to Math 21a that gives you greater ability to anticipate the caliber of instruction.  Also, the lecture format gives greater standardization than the section-taught 21a, which helps in preparing for exams.
Professor Suo and Professor Manapat are amazing teachers.
The class material was interesting, however the lectures were not always effective in aiding students' understanding of the material.
Be on top of your work! This is an extremely frustrating class, because concepts pile of extremely quickly. If you don't understand something, do not rest until you do, because it will cascade until you are lost in the course, and unfortunately the teaching is not forgiving of confusion as a whole.
Zhigang and Michael balance eachother out. Michael is a really good teacher because he just teaches the stuff with no fluff. Zhigang goes on a lot of tangents but he keeps your attention. Zhigang is super fobby which makes lecture really entertaining.
If the course is taught by the same professor, which I doubt it will be, don't assume that adequate information will be given in class or through homeworks; seek additional outside study materials through other courses online and through the TFs.
I would suggest this class over regular math 21a.
Great class. Use office hours to ask questions, and you don't always need to go to lecture. Zhigang can be quite off-topic, albeit entertaining, and a little bit crazy in class.
You need the willingness to learn the material yourself.
Very interesting class that is taught very well.  The TFs were very helpful and help you to learn the material.
Good class overall
Class is easy (from what I hear much easier than regular math 21a), and the workload is light (much lighter than regular math 21a).  Class doesn't delve much into the "applied" component, but the applied math and engineering concentrations recommend it anyway, so take it if you're interested in those fields.  Class commitment is also low due to optional sections.
Definitely take 21a instead of this class if the teachers have not changed
The course is enjoyable and beneficial if you're willing to work outside of class and on your own to try to understand the material.
It's not a lot of work, from what I've heard it's a whole lot better than Math 21, and it's a worthwhile class. Overall, a good experience.
Take this class over Math 21a. You won't regret it.
with one pset a week and very helpful teaching staff, this class is very doable, just be sure to put in the effort :)
Professor Suo is hilarious.  Manapat is probably a better teacher, just less entertaining.  There is only one problem set per week, so it seems like less work than Math 21a.   Sections are optional and very helpful.
I recommend taking this course.  I think the structure of the course is better than Math 21a, which is taught in section and has a pset due every time you meet.  This class is taught in lectures by a professor, and (longer) psets are only due once a week.  Sections are optional (but I recommend going).Professor Manapat is the best math teacher I have ever had.  He explains things thoroughly and clearly.  You will understand the concepts on a very deep level.  Professor Suo was very entertaining in lecture.  While you will not understand the material as well, he will make you laugh and help teach you how to approach problem solving in this age of computer technology.
I think that you should take this course because it is very manageable, taught in lecture format by professors instead of TFs. If you put the work in by attending office hours and section, and asking questions, you can really have a great experience.
study yr notes
Where to begin... the course was so unorganized. Professor suo talked more about the science aspect of it all than the math aspect, became distracted way too often during class, and didn't use enough examples to illustrate the concepts. I got more from watching MIT lectures online. Also, the exams were disorganized. The format of questions wasn't conveyed clearly for the first midterm, and the answers to the practice midterm weren't given. The time given for the midterms was too short (45 minutes). Grading rubric for homework wasn't standardized, so depending on which TF graded yours, you lost varying amounts of points for not simplifying completely. Michael's teaching style suited me better, but he talks and teaches really fast. However, he also uses a lot of examples and conveys concepts well, if you can follow his speed. The textbook is good, and if you want to contribute a lot of time self-teaching (especially if you've never been exposed to multivariable calc), I would recommend this class. Anna Marie is a great TF to go to also.
The difference between applied math 21a and math 21 is very subtle. Really, the difference lies in how the courses are taught. There are more applications to physics in applied math; also it is taught in lectures (although there are optional sections).
Take this class instead of Math 21a.
Go to section. It's optional, but it is definitely helpful. Take the practice tests and don't take the tests lightly because Michael does not joke around with his tests.
This class will get you to understand basic multivariable calculus concepts, but won't do much to pique your interest in applied math. Take this class if Professor Suo teaches it; he is really nice and an entertaining, informative lecturer.
Professor Suo is just the funniest man I have met in the last three years hands down. It's a pretty standard vector calculus class, though.
The class will teach you fairly well what you need to know, but is sometimes confusing and you should probably use th ebook to supplement the lectures because otherwise you will probably get confused. You will also need to do a lot of work outside of class in order for the material to sink in because it won't be by the material that is needed.
Take Math 21a.
This course required a lot of extra time from me because lectures were sometimes too fast and confusing.  Midterms were also much harder than homeworks.
You must be prepared to work hard, be challenged, seek out help from the professor when you need it, and catch up later if the class falls behind
I learned the material more thoroughly from the book, and only then did the notes start to make sense. The lectures were not very good - I never felt convinced to go to them except to turn in homework.
The change in speed at which the class was taught was like a tan(x) curve from 0 to 90 degrees; we started off at a nice pace but then the pace increased until in the end, it became very difficult to keep up. The course difficulty also followed the tan(x) curve from 0 to 90 degrees and due to this my understanding of the course varied like the cos(x) curve from 0 to 90 degrees.  Sometimes, my feelings for the course were like the polar graph of r = 1 + cos(theta) and other timess I felt as if someone drew the lines  (theta=pi/4) and (theta=3pi/4) over the polar graph.
Study hard.
So much better than the section format like in 1a 1b and I am assuming 21a
Great class
Do more practice problems than the psets require.
It's way better than all the stuff I've heard about math 21a! Take it!
Work hard
This class was great--homework once a week made it more unlikely that you would have to drop one.  The professors were enthusiastic and the material was interesting.  The last week of the course is conceptually very difficult, however.
The professors are fabulous and you have ample opportunity to interact with them.  The staff make this great material even better.
you will have to teach this class mostly to yourself.  if you are good at math, you will do well and find it very easy.  if you are not, you will not have very much fun.  unfortunately, this class is not easy to avoid.  However, do take this class over regular 21a.
Unless you're really good at Math and enjoy doing proofs and such, don't take Math 21a. I switched from Math 21a to APMath 21a and I loved it. My best decision this semester.
It's a great class! A really great alternative to Math 21a, which is a much larger and less personal class.
Problem sets are lengthy, so they are hard to complete in one night. I've taken Math 21a for 3 weeks and dropped it before, and I found that the weekly problem set schedule worked better for me, and I felt like the lecture setting with a professor was easier for me to understand.
The professors and the teaching staffs are very good.
Don't be fooled when Math 21a people tell you that the lecture format of this course means less personal attention. The number of people taking this course is much smaller; it's about the size of one or two Math 21a sections. There is only one pset a week, which I preferred. Also, you actually get the teaching from professors, unlike some Math 21a sections (the reason I chose this class was because I was placed into a pretty bad Math 21a section). It's also easier.On the other hand, it's sometimes hard to argue that this is really "applied" math. When comparing Math 21a tests with tests from this class, it becomes evident that Math 21a actually does more applications. If you don't get a good section in Math 21a, I would encourage you to consider 1) taking this course or 2) taking Math 21a, going to your assigned section to turn in the homework, then ditching it to attend Oliver Knill's.
it is a very well run course with great professors
Better than what I've heard of Math 21 (vs. Applied) - if Prof. Brenner is teaching it, TAKE IT!
Its a great course for applying the concepts of calculus to physics and engineering.
This class gives you an understanding of the concepts, but could be taught more efficiently.  While it is nice to have three different professors, it makes the course feel a bit disjointed.
Take over math 21a.
Take this over 21a. You have a lot of self-teaching from the textbook. If you struggle with math it isn't easy, but if you've done pretty good at math before, then it won't be hard at all.
If you have to take a math class in the 21 series, this should be it as long as Michael Brenner is still the course head!  He is a fabulous professor, truly cares about the students learning, and actually makes math fun/funny.  He's extremely approachable, which is really important in a math class if you end up not doing well in the beginning and need help for improvement.  Overall, I ended up doing very well and really enjoyed the class!
An excellent chance to be in a smaller class with high-level professors.
It is well taught. There is a lot of help available. Good focus on making sure everyone clearly understands concepts being taught. Enthusiatic teaching staff.
Requires outside work to understand concepts unless you can follow lectures that are very proof-based. Lecture and midterm material do not line up; lectures based on proofs but proofs are not included on midterms.
For me personally, I wished I had taken Math 21a instead. Though there are less frequent psets in Applied Math, the material is basically the same. However, I think math is best learned through doing problems. Because regular math practice is not required for the course, you may find that you slack off initially, and become unable to move forward the rest of the course without having to play catchup to the material.
Definitely go to lecture and make use of the TF's sections. The weeks I missed a lecture or two ended up being much more difficult with regards to the homework and preparing for the test. Margo is a fantastic lecturer and really explains ideas well.
It is quite an interesting class that covers a range of topics. It is fun and engaging. It will help you learn math within the context of problems that are applicable.
Word on the street is that this course is easier than Math 21a. It's certainly nice only having one pset a week, but sometimes learning in a large lecture format can be challenging and the usefulness of section varies widely depending on the TF.
It's hard.
Really rewarding class. Well structured, well taught (if you can pay attention and learn well in lectures), and the textbook is well written and easy to follow. The last part of the class, chapter 13 and on, can get challenging and is explained less well. I chose to take this class over Math 21a and do not regret my decision. The applications and one p-set per week were certainly beneficial.
AM21a is a fantastic was to dive into multivariable calculus. Margo is especially a fantastic teacher, who explains well, is available outside class for help and advising, is really, really nice. If Margo is teaching again, take this class.
Take math 21a.
Review single variable calculus before taking the course
Easier than regular Math 21a. The course is easy at first, but really picks up towards the end. The last unit is hard, and the final is not easy. That being said, I'd take it over regular 21a. Just stay on top of your stuff. And GO TO SECTION. Section is so, so helpful.
This is a fairly painless way to knock out your math requirement. I didn't find the material particularly interesting, but the course staff are committed to making the class as engaging as possible, meaning that there are plenty of great resources.
If you have to take it or are very interested in math then take it. If you don't have to then don't
If you want to take multivariable, this is a great way to do it.
Fantastic math class. Some of the material is difficult. The tests will thoroughly challenge your mastery of the material. Nonetheless, I wholeheartedly recommend this class, especially for those considering normal 21a. If you are worried about getting the help you need in this class, or if you are worried about not having MQC, don't worry - the entire staff, including the professor, make themselves available very often - you will definitely be able to get the help you need. Margo is a fantastic professor. She is a truly unique Harvard professor. She genuinely cares about the performance of her students, and she is willing to sit down with you and discuss your performance. A great class!
Margo may not be the best teacher, but she is really nice and she tries to be accessible.
Assuming that you're deciding between this course and regular 21a, forget what other people tell you about each course. Think about what kind of environment YOU will perform better in. One p-set per week is nice, but in hindsight, I probably would have done better in the class if I was doing math more than once a week. Same with lectures. It's nice that you're not going to be called on in this class, but everyone understands math differently, so if you're an interactive learner, regular 21a is probably best for you. All this being said, Margo is a very nice professor, and this class certainly has perks of its own as well, so just know what style is best for you!
The professor is great but it's difficult material and not so rewarding until the very end. Midterms are hard!
This course is actually not hard at all if you do the psets diligently.  The final exam is heavily weighted to the last third of the course, so study backwards for it (I didn't which hurt me).
That it is a hard and challenging Course, but it is so rewarding, and I feel like I actually learned something tangible and it helped me organize my mind.
This was a very difficult course. It is important to make sure you understand the material covered in every lecture, rather than trying to cram for an exam. You must study consistently throughout the year and understand every problem you are doing on your problem sets to avoid stress when exam time comes.
This class is good if you like to have a knowledgable instructor who does a good job of providing examples and explaining things. The TF system is also a very good way to ground your concepts. However, be aware that the class is very large and it is difficult to ask questions during the class itself.
Take this course over regular Math 21a in all cases OTHER THAN if you want to be a pure math or physics concentrator. I took APMth 21a while my roommates took regular Math 21a and I saw them suffer through pointless nonsense. This course is taught better by better people in a better way. It focuses on the important things and leaves you with a genuine interest in exploring its potential applications.

*Be warned that a large portion of the class has already taken multi in high school and will thus be way ahead of you if you haven't. YOU WILL HAVE TO WORK HARDER THAN YOUR PEERS if you did not take multi in high school. Be ready for this and don't be discouraged. You can do amazingly in this course -- you'll just have to work for it.
Kind of a self taught course as you have to put a lot more individual effort compared to regular 21a, but nevertheless I'm glad I took this class.
It takes work to get through it, but doable
This class had some interesting material. I found that the lectures were helpful to integrate the many ideas in the class but there were a number of students who chose to use the textbook rather than attending class. The workload is manageable but you have to be willing to either stay on top of things throughout the week or be up late the night before each pset is due.
Margo is a fantastic lecturer who is able to keep a room full of sleepy undergraduates entertained and excited about math. Enough said.
Great and useful class.
This class has less of a workload than math 21a (1 pset vs 3/week), and its exams are not as long nor as tricky as math 21a's. However, the curve in this class is also not as generous, and a large portion of the kids in the class are overzealous Freshmen who have taken multi before. For someone who hasn't taken multi, this can be really discouraging and frustrating, because it creates an unequal playing field.
The good thing about this class is that Margo is extremely understanding and helpful, if you make the effort to talk to her. Make sure you go to her office hours, your TF's office hours (that's how I did my p-sets), section, and lecture, and make sure you set aside time to go through the textbook problems to really understand the material. As the syllabus says, you can do well in this class if you do enough practice problems. If you have the time/discipline, do that. If you don't, and you don't have a solid math background, I would seriously reconsider taking this course, and maybe take it after you've had time to review.
Overall, this class was quite more painless than it was made out to be. Of course, some of the material is fundamentally boring, but Margo actually does a pretty good job at keeping everyone engaged. I can't stress enough how much better the 1 pset a week vs 3 a week in Regular 21a is. I could usually crank out the entire Applied 21a pset in one night and not having to worry about another coming (even if they were shorter) was amazing. Also, I STRONGLY recommend that you take this class freshman year in you are placed into it. I waited a bit and regret it because I was a little rusty and out of practice. Tons of tips, tricks, and ways of thinking that I learned in high school math but had since forgotten would have been super helpful. Overall, I wouldnt recommend this class if you dont have to take it for your concentration but, if you do, it is far better than the Regular 21a alternative.
I really enjoyed this class. While it was difficult, it was also extremely rewarding and the teaching staff was extremely accessible.
I would highly recommend taking APM21a over Math 21a. Margo is a fantastic professor, clear, punctual, and incredibly helpful. Also, completing one longer pset per week instead of 3 shorter ones is definitely a big plus.
Great class! Go to section!
If you have to take a math, definitely take this one instead of Math 21a, I've heard a lot of people prefer Applied 21a. The structure is a little easier to handle, but you learn just as much. It's not easy, but the professor was amazing and the coursework was totally manageable.
This was probably one of my favorite classes but I think it's in large part due to the way Margo taught it. She is extremely enthusiastic about the topic and uses a lot of visualizations to illustrate what we're learning. The visualizations make it much easier to follow what she's teaching. She also derives in class all the formulas you use so you really understand how it works.
It's a multivariable course that allows you more flexibility in your schedule.
It's hard, but interesting
I think this class manages to serve well both students who have already taken multivariable calculus in high school and want a refresher and those whose highest level math is BC Calculus (there were a lot of both and people in between in this class). I was in the latter category--and a little nervous because I'd taken time off between high school and college and had forgotten a lot of math--but I found that Dr. Levine was a clear enough lecturer that I could follow along for the most part, and assessments/psets are pretty fair. Definitely take advantage of office hours! Not sure if Dr. Levine is teaching this next year, but she and the TFs were all really helpful and patient and approachable.
This class covered all of the topics that would be taught in a typical multivariable course and did so in a really approachable manner.  Professor Levine was great at showing where some of the concepts come from (she did a great derivation of the polar Jacobian and did a great job of developing the curvature equations, for example).  She was also very mindful of student needs; in the last unit, for example, she did a great job of summarizing all of the line integrals, surface integrals, and theorems related to curl and divergence in a way that helped me distinguish and relate them.  I especially liked the examples of how the concepts we learned could be applied to the real world.  It was nice to take a math course that showed how topics were related to tangible problems.
This course is very helpful for many different concentrations and it really explains multivariable well, even to people who do not enjoy math very much.
This course is fantastic. Please take it. You honestly won't regret it. It is math being taught in an enjoyable way--through a practical lens and with a great structure (Margo's lectures are outstanding, she helps make complex material accessible, and sections and TFs are generally great). Having one pset per week alleviates the stress as well, and also--for me at least--helps you understand material better as once you sit down to answer the 15 questions all in one time, you really understand all that is covered and know how to relate different problems and theorems/concepts. I really liked this course! Much more than I thought I would.
FOR THOSE DECIDING BETWEEN MATH 21a AND APPLIED MATH 21a: take Applied. The caveat to that is: how good are you at teaching yourself things? If you enjoy having a flexible schedule, take applied. Lecture is not helpful but you can learn all you need from the textbook, meaning lecture isn't always necessary to attend. MORE IMPORTANTLY, you get 1 pset a week vs 3 per week in regular math 21a, meaning you can set aside 3 hours one day a week and that's the only math you'll have to do for the week, which some people really like. But don't take this if you need a good professor or struggle to teach yourself from a textbook, though the TFs can be helpful.
If you want to go into engineering, you have to take the course.
Take this course.
Very complex towards the end and very cumulative, so make sure you understand material from the beginning and middle since it will be essential for the end.
This class is a very interactive class and teaches you about the many applications of multivariable calculus in the real world and implements huge equations into the real world.
Not very work intensive compared to regular 21a, well taught, and TF's are great. The optional sections are crucial to applying the material presented in lecture for problem sets. If you need to take the calc-III level, class, AM21a is the way to go for sure.
This is a great class. The material is extremely interesting, and the professor and teaching fellows are always willing to help whenever possible. I truly enjoyed this class and recommend it to anyone looking to take a multivariable math class. Make sure you continue to review the material throughout the semester to best prepare for the exams, and reviewing single variable calculus prior to taking the class would be beneficial.
This class is well taught, but the final exam seemed excessively geared toward material learned only at the tail end of the course. If you take this class, be sure to take advantage of office hours.
This class isn't great but i think i would be better than regular math21a because it is much less theoretical.
Take it over the regular math 21a. Margo is dynamic and engaging, which makes the lectures much more interesting and worthwhile. I had an enjoyable time and many laughs.
Margo is an amazing teacher!
While lecture remains at the core of this class, section is invaluable to aid in the digestion of topics covered in lecture. If you decide to take this class, go to section.
Lecture for this class is not the most helpful because the professor only has an hour per day. Utilize section and office hours as much as possible.
This course is incredible! Take it.
This class is very tough.  Be ready for hard tests and to feel very lost on said tests.  Lectures are helpful but a lot of the learning is left to the textbook.
It's a good class and is well structured. The fact that there is only one problem set a week allows you to better manage your time. The lectures are clear and the concepts are explained well.
It's a good class that is a good alternative to 21a if you don't like having homework every other day.
The structure of the course is good for people who don't want to have psets continually due in 21a.
Definitely take this instead of Math 21a!

I'm an economics concentrator and was worried that I'd forgotten a lot of calculus since I took it in high school a few years ago, but it seemed to come right back, and the material is pretty straightforward and well-taught. There's no need for a class with homework due 3 days a week. Take AM21a!
I think Applied is the better of the two 21s, but still not easy. Margo isn't the best lecturer and going to class might not be your most effective use of time. Exams are NOT representative of what is taught in lecture/section, or what is on the psets.
Take this class if you're considering math or any other related field. It's a really great course that fulfills a prerequisite for nearly any math relative field you would want to pursue. Also take this over pure Math 21a, I know for a fact it's easier, covers the same material, and is more practical. Don't think, though, that you can walk in, walk out and get an A. You have to put in a lot of work to do well and understand the concepts. Also Chapter 13 is MUCH harder than the rest of the course so make sure you keep up to date with that as best you can, especially because it's the last chapter we did and everyone is sort of distracted by Thanksgiving/getting ready for exams.
There is no calculus used the first few weeks of class.  It's a review of geometry.  I would not take this class if you are not interested in math though.
Easy if you put in the time required, which shouldn't be too hard especially if you have a solid background in math.
If you take this course, expect to learn all the material through the textbook. The lecturer isn't engaging. TFs aren't motivated (and they're college students). There is no application to any fields beyond mathematics so don't be fooled by the "applied" label.
Don't do the bare minimum and expect to get a lot out of this course. Put a bit in every few days.
Don't take it unless you have to. A substantial portion (if not most) of the kids in this class took multivariable in high school, so you will be competing with over-eager, over-qualified freshmen. Lecture does not prepare you for p-sets--you've got to go to section and actually open the book to complete them. Margo is really nice and willing to meet outside of the classroom, but it's really hard to make this stuff interesting. Either you see it or you don't.
Take this instead of Math 21a! Margo is amazing and cares so much about her students. Psets are of reasonable difficulty and exams, in general, are fair.
The course was good overall. Margo is a great lecturer, and she really cares about her students. She is always accessible, and enjoys making sure that students succeed in her class. For those deciding between this course and Math 21a, I was took both. Math 21a is better for those who need constant assignments to do well (there is only 1 problem set due a week for AM 21a, while there are 3 shorter ones a week for Math 21a), but your experience in Math 21a is highly dependent on the TF. I personally chose AM 21a because I enjoyed Margo's style of teaching more than my TF's way of teaching in Math 21a. My roommate continued to take Math 21a, and I noticed that despite the difference in the way they're taught, the material in Math 21a and AM 21a is almost identical. Be sure to do practice outside of the one problem set a week, and be sure to take advantage of office hours to earn full points on the problem sets. Exams are overall very fair, although from personal experience and from what I've heard from others, there tends to be one exam that is much more difficult than the others. Overall, however, this is a very fair and good course!
A good class to take for students who are able to reach understanding of course content independently.
If you're debating between Math 21a and Applied Math 21a, easily pick this class. Yes, it's hard work you have to put in, and it can get intimidating at times, but the support network and teaching staff is so willing to help that it works out. It gives you, the student, flexibility in how you approach your learning - 1 pset a week versus 3 per week, and a guaranteed good professor teaching instead of potentially a subpar TF. And the TF's are very good in the class, and you have the option to go to section or not.
Take this class if you are disciplined enough to self-study a lot of the material and can space-out work on the homework throughout the week.
The problem sets are fine, but the midterms and finals were very challenging. Because of the way we rushed through the last chapter, I did not feel well prepared for the final.
Brush up on your calc before you take this class! Or at least have notes from your previous calc class on hand. Get your work done early, go to section, and go to office hours! If you can't make your TF's section or office hours, the other TFs and Margo are available and happy to help.
Only take this class if you learn and absorb material extremely quickly. The lecture format of the class, as opposed to regular Math 21a, made it harder to stop and ask questions or ask Margo to go over something. Also, the weekly problem-sets, rather than a problem-set per class, actually made it easier to fall behind on this class. Someone who learns differently (faster and more intuitively) would have liked this class more, but personally I found myself having to teach myself everything from the textbook.
It is a very good course that lets you learn multivariable calculus and actually apply some of your knowledge.
Overall, it is a great course, and even if you are not interested in concentrating in math or a similar field, the material taught will be very interesting.
If you have to take it, it's a solid class. Otherwise, wouldn't really recommend as an elective.
It's an interesting, useful course that I would recommend for others.
Buy the textbook as soon as you enroll. Make sure to read it weekly.
Despite being labeled as "applied" math, I saw very little real-life applications of this material. However, I still think the teaching staff makes this class worth taking.
If you work hard and seek help you can do well in the class.  I think a lot of people liked this better than regular 21a.
Do the homework in advance!
Take this course. It is so much better than regular 21a. You can attend whichever section is more convenient for you, psets are due once a week instead of three times a week (which trust me you'll want), office hours are so frequent and available, and Margo is amazing (as are all the TFs). This course made me consider applied math as a future study and encouraged me to look into taking applied math 21b. It's definitely a bit of a challenge near the beginning (at least for me) because I was trying to figure out how this class worked and trying to understand basic multivariable calculus concepts. However, it is so worthwhile and so satisfying to do this course and realize you learned so much!
This class will challenge you thoroughly, expose you to many real-world applications of calculus, and push you to be a better mathematician.
First, to address the Math 21a vs. Applied Math 21a debate: explore both options are choose which fits best for you. Both classes cover the same material at the same pace, but AM 21a has one problem set of 15 questions per week while standard 21a has three problem sets of 5 questions each per week. I chose AM 21a over standard 21a because of the structure of the homework because it fit best with my schedule. People may say AM 21a is the easier option, but I would not agree with this. Both courses are difficult. It's multivariable calculus, after all. Knowing that, be prepared to work hard and to study material outside of class in order to succeed on exams. Exams were fair for the most part, but the second midterm was a disappointment because complicated algebra for a few of the problems wound up causing a great deal of stress during the exam and led to many students underperforming. Problem sets were fair assessments, however the answers were easily locatable using the Internet, so it didn't seem like a real opportunity to learn. Professor Margo Levine is one of the nicest people I have met at Harvard and is truly enthusiastic about math. However, she is not a competent lecturer. She spent the first 20-25 minutes of every 53-minute class reviewing key concepts and material that had previously been covered in class, and reviewed, and reviewed again. This really cut into time learning new material, which was disappointing because much of the class had to be learned independently from the textbook. However, office hours made up for what lectures failed to deliver. The TFs were all undergraduates with plenty of multivariable calculus experience, so sections (which were optional) and office hours were very helpful to learning the material and solving problem set questions. Ultimately, I chose AM 21a because I had to take a math course for my concentration. I'm very pleased to be done with that requirement, though I am not necessarily pleased with my choice. It remains to be seen what the course will be curved to at the end of the semester, though there definitely will be a curve because the mean student fell at a B-/C+ going into the final exam, and that likely dropped. Good luck making your decision!
The exams are brutal, so make sure to study and take practice tests.
Take this class!! Margo is a fantastic lecturer and a generally wonderful person, she does a great job of teaching you the material and is just a good person to get to know. The material can be tricky at times but it is always interesting and fun to work through so even when you get stuck on a problem, the experience is more challenging than frustrating. Office hours are fantastic : the majority of the TFs are nice people and will work with you until you understand the material, not just the solution to a specific question. Also, the community of students in this course is great and office hours were a nice time the work through psets and get to know people - I met some of my best friends in this class.  Another bonus: the workload is pretty chilled so this is a pretty low stress class - you can enjoy the experience of learning all the cool material without being distracted by stress about assignments.

In short: take this class - you won't regret it!! Definitely better than regular 21a!
Great course! Margo and the teaching staff are exceptionally helpful!
READ THE TEXTBOOK.
Overall good class. Difficult class but needed for concentration requirement. I would recommend taking this class over regular Math21a. Margo is a great professor and really wants to see you succeed.
Stay on top of the psets and try to work them through on your own before checking your answers online/with friends, instead of just copying them. The questions on the midterms and final are harder  than the pset ones, so it's hard to do well on the tests if you don't have a really solid grasp of the core concepts. That said, Margo is wonderful and the TFs are all really good, there's a good curve, and because so many concentrations require it, you'll definitely be in class with friends. Overall, it's as enjoyable and interesting as an intro to multivariable calculus class is going to get.
Go to sections, Office Hours!! It really makes a difference.
This class seems a lot better run and much easier than 21A if you are just looking to get a concentration requirement out of the way. Since the class has a rep of being easier people who aren't good at math take it so the curve is better.
The material covered in this course is parallel to the material covered in regular Math 21a. I would recommend taking regular 21a if you are on the fence. The type of material taught in multivariable calculus is not so interesting to prompt much work outside of class and learning in a lecture format was not very productive for me. I think that most people would benefit from learning this material in small sections.
It is good for learning multivariable calculus, and having one problem set a week makes the class not too stressful.
The material is like in any other multi-variable calc course. This was the first semester Margo headed the course, and unfortunately the scores will fall. The midterms and final were beyond difficult--and they did not measure knowledge of the material. Margo kept saying that you can do better on the next exam, and then she made the next exam worse. I spent more hours studying for this class than any other in my life, aced the practice exams and homework, and then could not do problems on the exams. This class made me feel defeated. From what I have heard from friends in regular 21a, I would take that instead if I could do it over.
It is very difficult and you have to do a lot of studying on your own
This is a great math course for those interested in the sciences and engineering. In classes like Math 21a, you may go slightly more in depth on certain specific topics, and you may learn about more of the theory behind the general concepts. However, in Applied Math 21a you really focus on the important things and you leave with a solid understanding of Calculus III.
This is a course freshman commonly take. As a warning to freshmen, college level math is drastically different from high school level math. In college, you have to take it upon yourself to not only finish the problem sets with complete understanding, but also seek out other practice problems of your own. Some would even argue that the practice problems are crucial to solidify your understanding of the material before you tackle the problem sets. Midterms should not be taken lightly in this course either. Really ensure that you are comfortable with the material because it is often presented on exams in ways you are unfamiliar with. GO TO SECTION. Go to multiple sections! This is where you get most of the practice you need for problem sets.
It is much more convenient than regular 21a.
This class, in my opinion, is a better alternative to math21a and 19a if you are doing this simply for a concentration requirement and do not plan to move on to math21b. If you are planning to take 21b, I recommend taking 21a, not applied 21a. We do not go in depth about many of the math theories behind our work, which is great if you are stopping math at multivariable, but not great if you need to keep building upon 21a in 21b.
Pros: 1 pset a week, section helps
Cons: lecture isn't the most enlightening, just introduces you to the topic for the most part; usually have to learn the material by yourself
The material is useful however
Lectures allow you to put as much effort as you may want, which can be a pro or con. If you're someone that can work well independently, then this is a better choice than regular 21a.
Margo was unbelievable. I can't speak to how the class would've been without her, but on a personal level she's approachable, understanding, and wicked smart. The most important note to remember? Find a TF that works for you. Fast. Your assigned TF might not get the job done, and that's ok! Ask around, because James, Atticus, Emily and David were fantastic this semester, and there will always be options available.
Don't take this class if you like feedback or asking questions. It's very impersonal and large; and can be very frustrating/disheartening if you are have any problems understanding the material. Take regular 21a - learning in small sections is always better!
