Work-intensive but doable.
It's a fantastic course. Challenging, but definitely doable in that someone who enjoys math and is decently good at it could walk onto this class, and really understand most of the material. I especially liked the sections on the finite fields.
Although one of the "proof-ier" applied math classes, not too difficult or proof-intensive when compared to any math department class. The material is interesting, and some of the applications are pretty neat, especially cryptography.
Extremely well-taught course with interesting material. Well organized and very clear about grading (after each midterm summary of all grades for the last as well as averages submitted). Lots of support from staff there as well if you need it. One of the better math courses!
It's definitely not an easy class for people like me who've never seen abstract algebra before. The ideas are conceptually difficult, especially in the second half of the class, after we start talking about rings. However, after you see it for the first time, internalize it, do the problem sets, and then go back to look at the material again, it's not bad at all. While problem sets can get difficult, the quiz/exam questions are not bad at all -- they just test whether you have a basic grasp of what's going on. The other good thing about this class is that much of your grade is weighted toward problem sets and less toward exams, which I really like and takes away much of the huge pressure that comes with finals period. Also, Salil is a GREAT explainer, his lectures are always really interesting. The computer science applications are very interesting, but they might be a bit confusing for non-CS people. That's okay though, because he doesn't focus on the CS ideas for exams.
I really liked this class.  The problem sets were a little frustrating in that questions tended to be very easy or extremely difficult.  The lectures were great though, and the professor really wants the students to do well.  The exams were also painless.
This class does not require a lot of work and is a good first exposure to proof based math. For more advanced students, it is a great alternative for math 122 if you don't have to take it.
The material can be very difficult if this type of thing does not come to you naturally.  I found that it was hard to prepare for the exams and the professor was often late at getting psets approved so we had less work.  The TF was great, but you can't count on him always being the TF.  Go to section!  I went every time and it very much helped.
Course is largely disorganized, although both Vahid and the TF Jamin are nice people and accessible. I felt detached from the class due to lack of organization of the lectures. Moderately easy course if you keep up.
Ask the professor/TF way in advance what the exams are going to be like. I did all of my homework with the textbook in front of me (there are many theorems, and memorizing them sounds very hard). Also, the midterm was open book. But then two days before the final, the professor told us it wasn't open book, so I think I got a 30 on it. We'll see how the grades shake out.
Vahid is very humorous, good-natured, smart guy. Lectures quickly. Exams are more difficult than he makes them out to be. Make sure to learn from the textbook.
This class is interesting if you like abstract math, but not very applicable to real life, especially if you're a Computer Science or Applied Math major. The problems sets were not terrible, but the exams were challenging, which was kind of annoying considering the midterm and final totaled 80% of the grade. I'd avoid this class unless you like proofs.
This was a decent class. Professor Tarokh moved quickly, and it was occasionally a little hard to understand him, but overall I felt like I learned a lot. Be sure you understand the concepts well (i.e. know what's going on when you do the problem sets), or you may fall behind.
Take it only if Vahid is teaching it. He's a great and very understanding professor. Jamin is amazing as well. Very helpful and always available! He would answer emails very late at night and understand our special needs.
If you're a Computer Science concentrator thinking of taking this to satisfy the Theory requirement and avoid CS124, then you will probably be saving yourself some time and stress, but really not as much as you might think. Also, this is not a notably good or valuable course, while CS124 really by comparison is. You have to do either of these (or AM107 - I don't know much about that class other than there is no final exam, so I cannot say much there), so you cannot get out of them both, and the choice of which one you take will depend on how you prioritize and balance these characteristics. Neither course is great or fun for a whole slew of reasons, but CS124 will likely stress you out and ultimately benefit you more in the long run.
Go to section and office hours!
You'll learn useful stuff
The material is very different from what I've seen before (I haven't taken much pure math). It is interesting, but sometimes tough to understand why the information is useful. I took this class to keep my programming skills fresh as a non-CS concentrator, which actually worked out pretty well. I liked the programming assignments. That being said, lecture isn't very helpful and the course can feel kind of disorganized.
A great opportunity to dabble in abstract math while staying vaguely in the applied world. It'll be difficult, but Vahid makes sure everyone does well.
Definitely take if you're interested in learning the basics of group theory - no background necessary, but might be hard to stay engaged if you're not interested in the material.
This class is relatively easy but the material is kind of worthless. Good option to earn an A and fulfill concentration requirement if you are a good student. However, most people in this class are not good students and are taking it since its easier than CS124 or other applied math/engineering classes they may have taken instead.
It's definitely not an easy class. But it's pretty cool and the teaching staff is solid.
It seemed like the course struggled to balance between the undergrad and graduate portions.
Vahid is an excellent teacher. The course made me want to pursue cryptography and security.
This is a great way to get out of the CS124 requirement if you're a CS concentrator. Vahid is the man; his top priority was that everyone learns and understands the material, and he has no problem with giving everyone an A. This probably would have felt like a much harder course if the grading/curving weren't so lenient, but it was perfect the way it was, and the material is actually pretty interesting.
A reasonable course with good assignments and fair exams. Lectures are often too fast, so it is easy to fall behind. However, because the textbook is good, it is sufficient to learn from the book. Definitely buy the textbook!
The class is worth taking, and it doesn't really have a particular set of prerequisites. The material is challenging and the course moves quite quickly, but grading isn't too harsh. The lectures aren't always helpful, so expect to spend a lot of time at office hours and wrestling with the subject on your own.
This might be the least painful way to knock off an otherwise strange applied math concentration requirement. All the lecture notes are posted online, so you could easily get an A without ever once going to class. There is both a theory and programming component, so you'll actually learn some useful things. The material just isn't that hard. The only drawback is that the material isn't painfully interesting, but it's not as boring as, say, topology or linear algebra.
There is a lot of material and is challenging. The professor is great but the material is a bit dry and frustrating at times.
Good class with interesting material.
great lecturer and material, while the section is really bad,it is not crucial to attend it
You should realize that this really is not an applied math class; the book is about abstract algebra and the psets deal almost exclusively with proofs of abstract problems.
If you like math-y computer science-y things, this is really great.
definitely choose this as an alternative of cs124; otherwise it's a difficult elective.
For CS, take CS 124 for the theory requirement. It is much more applicable.
Should be interested in applications of algebra (specifically, applications to computer science)
This course is full of interesting and fun math and is well taught. It does have a lot of proofs and can be challenging at times, but at least for me was more manageable than other pure math courses that I have taken.
Hard. There is a disconnect between the teachers and students and it thus requires a lot of independent work to stay afloat.
Make sure you have the time to put in towards the beginning to prepare for doing simple proofs if you come from math 21, but it will ease up in the middle. Well taught interesting theory, and the applications are interesting, but they are sparse.
If you are interested in abstract algebra, but don't want to spend a whole year on the subject, then this is definitely a class that you should take.
This class is not as easy as it seems in the first few weeks. The difficulty substantially increases into the semester.
Do not fall behind on lectures or problem sets.  Get them started early and try to find someone else to work with on problem sets.  The class is challenging if you don't have any background in proofs or abstract algebra (like me), but it is definitely manageable if you put in the effort.  The professor is the best math professor I have had, and he is very good in lectures and helping you understand the materials.  There is an abundance of office hours - use them.
"Applied Algebra" is really just an abstract algebra class. Part of what allured me to this course was the promise of a great number of applications in the shopping week lectures. These didn't materialize. We covered maybe two applications.
It's hard.
Taught together with 206.
It is a well-balanced class that teaches the basics of applied abstract algebra.
This broad, fast-paced introduction to abstract algebra achieves an effective balance between theoretical results and concrete examples.
Good course that's not too difficult for most of the semester; very interesting material; requires quite a bit of time at the end to fully grasp the material.
Do practice problems in book
AM 106 is a great course.  It's not too rigorous; there isn't much work.  It is relatively interesting material.  And the teaching staff is wonderful, really wonderful.
This is definitely one of those classes where if you need help on anything, you should ask as soon as possible. You'll get the support you need if there's anything you don't understand, as long as you ask for it instead of getting more and more behind because you don't want to ask for help. The professor and TFs are super nice.
Take it if you have enough CS background and love abstract algebra.
Very useful class--covers pretty important algebra topics at a less demanding level than the Math department equivalents. It's less application focused than advertised, but still has programming built into psets. Do come in with programming experience--you should know how to build rote programs with MATLAB or python. The class, overall, is pretty easy, and solving psets only requires reading the textbook (yes, you can skip lecture); but don't assume you can just blow it off until the end, you should still commit to 3 or 4 hours a week to properly understand all the material and finish hw if you've never learned algebra before. Recommended if you want to learn real math, but also want to save time for other classes.
Vahid is very knowledgable and approachable and keeps things light. He is very willing to give everyone a good grade if he sees that you put the work and effort into the class. But the material probably could have been structured a little better or less time spent in class on particular theorems because we spent several weeks on thee relatively easier topic of groups at the beginning, but then in the last two weeks rushed through many chapters including finite fields, which seems to kind of be the point of the course. i wish we had done more programming, especially creating cryptography systems using the theory we learned in the class, but hopefully Vahid requires CS 50 and CS 51 next year this will make the 'applications' part of the course bigger and more fun. Good math course with that is not as rigorous and has a bit lower workload. The TFs in this class were actually quite knowledgable PhD students or post docs that were very approachable and fantastic.
This is probably the least painful way to fulfill the CS theory requirement. It's also interesting material, the course is just tedious at times.
Although no prereqs are required to understand the math, it is not an easy course.  It particularly gets pretty dense towards the last month of the semester, so be wary.  It also is not very applicable outside of cryptography and data encryption, so I can't say that I would recommend this course unless it will be treated as nothing more than an intellectual exercise.
This is a really interesting class, and Professor Tarokh is really great.
Great class overall. Stay on pace with the material and it can be kind of interesting. I wish all Applied Math courses were this well-taught. Vahid is great!
The class is a very low stress Applied Math course that has a strong focus on applications to CS. The material is abstract but not hard to the understand. All you really need to do is go to lecture (which a lot of people don't do anyways) and you should be fine. The course staff is very helpful in working with the students to change course material to promote understanding instead of just finishing all of the content.
Definitely worth taking this class, because the material is so interesting. Material is pretty tricky too but grading is very generous (hopefully this will continue next year). Class isn't all that well taught, as professor will run through proofs very quickly leaving out key details. But, though it requires some extra effort on your part to fully learn the material, it's very rewarding if you do.
Professor Vahid is an incredibly generous man. As a student who began to take this course well into the semester, he and his TF (Jie Ding) were very good at helping me catch up. They were constantly available to meet in person and over email.
This course doesn't seem to require any specific mathematical background. That being said, it's a very difficult course. The best preparation is probably the course itself. To do well in this course, seriously plan to spend 2-3 hours wrestling with the material after each lecture.
The assignments aren't too hard, but there is a LOT of material covered in this class. It moves very fast.
