Easy seminar
I recommend this course to any prospective applied mathematics concentrators as a general introduction to the field and its applications. The workload is low and the class is relaxed, so it allows you to appreciate what you learn. The guest lectures are awesome.
A painless way of fulfilling the physics requirement for the Applied Math concentration. However, you won't gain too much actual understanding of mathematical concepts or applications. You will just be briefly exposed to them.
take only if interested in learning about the different fields of applied mathematics
This is a great class for someone who is interested in applied math and would like to see how it might be used in different fields. It probably wouldn't be that useful for someone who already has a well-developed interest and is confident with where they'd like to take mathematics.
If you know you like to use applied mathematics and want to see what kinds of fields applied mathematics focuses on, this is the perfect course to explore.
Fun class which exposes you to a lot of different fields.
Low workload for the most part but there are two big presentations that require a lot of time and preparation. The content of the course can also get really hard to comprehend.
this class is great!  it is easy, very interesting, and I feel like I actually learned something.
This is an easy way to knock out a concentration requirement for Applied Math and definitely a good one to take if your other classes are looking difficult and time-consuming.
Very interesting, very useful, makes you excited about applied math and your senior thesis
a painless way to get exposure to a variety of fields - the best parts of a good class without the exams, what more could you want?
It is a great introductory class to Applied Mathematics so I strongly recommend it to anyone interested in concentrating in AM.
If you want to explore applied math as a concentration, then this is definitely the class to do it.
Light work load coupled with interesting topics make it a good course.
I would tell future students that this class is really easy, has an extremely low work load, and is fun and interesting.
I think you have to keep in mind that this is an introduction to applied mathematics. You can see all that is available in the field without getting bogged down in any particular subject. This is a great way to get your hands wet without feeling like you are drowning.
There's pretty much zero work.  I took it as a 5th class and elective just for the heck of it, and that worked out fine.
It's a fun class where you look at some cool topics, but if you're really out to learn some material, look elsewhere. It's more for exposure to different topics.
This class was easy but quite boring.  Only take it to fulfill a requirement.
overall enjoyable
This class was fantastic as it encouraged creative thinking.
Great class!
Kind of a disorganized class, and not a lot of help is given.
You can chill but make sure you do not take it with 4 other subjects or 3 other subjects that are intense.
This course does well what it sets out to do: Introduce students to academic Applied Mathematics.  The professors are enthusiastic, and though it is not entirely an un-bumpy ride, it's a worth-while class.  I am glad I took it and would take it again.
Fantastic class, a must-take (if it's still offered).
This course is what you make of it. If something interests you, try talking to the professors about it and fostering it.
Lectures are pointless and were better spent emailing than listening.
While this class is not extremely challenging, for me some of the homeworks took quite a lot of time because of my inexperience with matlab. The final project also took quite a long time.
It's a good class if your exploring applied math as a concentration, but if your a freshman looking to get an exposure to applied math, make sure you also take some course in an area of application to see how you find that field.
The course will probably be changing a lot (once again,) hopefully improving this time.  It is a great course, but the ways in which it has gotten worse have outweighed the ways in which it has improved over the last few years.
Don't take it solely because it's easy. There are better classes that you can take if you are only looking for an easy class.
take it if you are interested in applied math, people can take it as an easy course, but that makes the class less interesting
It might be really easy but it might take up an unexpectedly large amount of time. The papers are really cool though.
Good course and professors are great but be aware that the Matlab component can add a lot of time
This class is seriously disorganized and while it is interesting, you will probably not learn any math.
While this class has traditionally had a reputation of little to no work, this year (spring 2011) the course included problem sets which were often difficult to complete without outside help and certainly tedious. Additionally, there were assigned reading questions about papers that were often times far too abstract to comprehend on your own.
The course is likely to change a lot before it is offered again. So take these cue reports with a grain of salt.
You determine how much you want to learn in this class. It really depends all on your own efforts to reach out.
If one is looking for an easy course that can be very interesting, this is the course for you.
Take this course with an open mind!
Interesting topics but probably not worth taking, just read the papers on your own if you are interested.
I hear this class is changing, so take this with a grain of salt, but this class when I took it was a breeze.
Its a good experience if you go into it expecting a survey class and approach the assignment with the attitude of learning; otherwise everything will seem pointless and frustratingly mind-numbing
Good class for freshmen to take if they think they're interested in studying applied math.
Great as a fifth class..fun and interesting..minimum amount of work
Not too difficult and interesting.
TAKE THIS!! It is very straight forward and easy to do well if you do the work. Plus, it is super fun.
It is a fun course that is not too time consuming or work intensive which allows for enjoyment of the subject matter and the professors are great!
The course lacks some rigor, which makes it both confusing and easy. This is likely to change.
You will get out of it what you put in to it. Half the time the Tfs have no idea what is going on but they at least are knowledgeable enough to help out.
If you're interested in applied math, definitely take this class. Michael and Margo do an excellent job at getting you excited about math.
Taking this course was one of my best decisions I've made at Harvard.
this class was easy because there were no tests, and you could get as much help on the problem sets as you needed. that being said, matlab was difficult and cumbersome, and i'd be wary about taking the class next year, because pretty much all the students got a's, so they'll probably have to change the format or assignments. if you do take it, go to office hours for the psets.
Easy survey class, but needs to go through a few more iterations until it is optimized.
This is a easy, low workload class. However, if you haven't have any coding or CS experience, you may struggle a bit with the psets. On the whole, a pretty interesting elective that you don't have to worry much about.
Even if you think you only have a half interest in math, take this course. You'll be surprised just how much it has to offer.
Great class which shows you the applicability of mathematics to many different fields - good for concentrators and non-concentrators alike
If you're looking for an in-depth, intensive course in applied math, this isn't it. But it does provide a good introduction to MATLAB and some interesting areas of application.
Actually take it seriously, unlike most of the class. The teachers put in so much effort to make it a fun and interesting class and people treat it like a joke. It makes me really angry.
harmless way to fulfill math requirement
This is a good class to take if you want a class with no work. The downside is you will learn very little. You do learn some Matlab, which is useful for some people, and you get an overview of what applied math is -- but most people don't attend lectures and almost no one attends student presentations.
so chill
This is becoming a real class. It is not as easy as it was in the past years and apparently it is going to become even more challenging next year.
take it if you're interested in how math applies to many different fields. Light workload, interesting material.
If you're considering doing Applied Math, definitely take this class as soon as possible.
It may be easy to give minimal effort in this class and still get by, but if you want to actually get something from this class, pay attention to what the professors say. Go to class. Put some thought into your presentation. Otherwise you're just wasting your time.
Final project is tough, but it is a great class
The material is not very intuitive.
CS background is very useful and almost imperative for this class.
Even if you don't think you're good at math, you can handle this; take it.
AM50 is a good class, if fairly disjointed. The units don't connect to each other very well, but there is opportunity to delve deeply into the ones you like and (frankly) avoid the ones you don't. The course is easy and interesting, a good combination. It would benefit from being a smaller size.Margo is still learning how to lecture (she sometimes comes off as condescending), but Michael's lectures are great.
LEARN MATLAB!
Great class, not very much work, and Professor Brenner is basically the most wonderful person in the world.
The more you put into the class, the more you get out of it.
Not challenging and entertaining
The easiest class I have ever taken.
Great wonderful class taught by an enthusiastic team of professors!
Take it!
Great course to see real world math!
Not a big time commitment, and you take away from it as much as you put in.
Great class.
Highly interesting material and reasonable workload.  Ideal for freshmen hoping to explore applied math and seniors with an interest in the field who are looking for a rewarding and fun class.  Not advisable to people with little interest in the field (not that such a person cannot handle it - he or she certainly could - but it will not be nearly as fulfilling).
This class is highly recommended if you are at all interested in math. If theoretical math scares you, applied math is definitely something to investigate, and this course does an excellent job of guiding you through that investigation.
if you have *any* interest in applied math, take it. You will learn matlab and any of the sections you are interested in the extent you want to. You will actually learn for the sake of learning. Teaching staff is the friendliest at Harvard.
Because the class suffers from a structural moral hazard problem, there isn't much to be gained or learned from taking it--while a good idea on paper, in practice it turns into a glorious "waste of time," a suitable hour-and-half twice a week to check email and skim the NYT.
The topics that are brought up in this class were very interesting and helped me determine my area of application
Future versions of the course might be a bit harder, this year was easy.
This is a great class to learn about applied math.  It has a non-standard format that makes it interesting.  The instructors have incredible enthusiasm and are inspiring to learn from.
Brenner is the chillest guy on Earth. Take a class with him.
It provides a background of topics in the field of applied math and provides a rough understanding of these topics through multiple readings of papers.  However, this course does not deal with the mathematics involved in these topics very closely.
This is a great class for concentrators and non-concentrators
WHY WOULDN'T YOU WANT TO TAKE THIS COURSE? EVEN IF YOU HATE MATH, THIS CLASS WILL MAKE YOU LOVE IT.
Great learning atmosphere where students can take what they want from the class, sometimes involving very interesting and deep topics
Don't take it for a good grade; take it because you are genuinely interested in math applications.
This class is a great way to learn some of the different applications of mathematics in everyday life
great class as an elective (you DO NOT need to know any math, seriously), also awesome that it counts for applied math concentration. great for senior spring or freshman fall if you're trying to figure out if you like applied math. great introduction.
Go to lectures, they are very interesting.
This is a great, fairly low stress class. Take it if you're at all interested in math and want to learn some cool things, read great papers, and hear amazing speakers.
Take if you want an easy and fun course, but not if you want to learn something real.
Take it. You will not regret it. Even as a fifth. Should be no problem.
great fun.
really try to learn matlab
You receive good exposure to many different fields of applied mathematics.
This is a great class that is unlike any other math class I have taken at Harvard.  It encourages students to explore and is not as much set on learning a curriculum as much as finding what interests you.  This class is worth taking.
You learn a lot while having fun, and it's very low key at the same time so you get a lot out of it without being really stressed.
easy 5th class option
Pretty free form class that you won't get a lot of in depth information from but it's a great intro class if you're at all interested in applied math or just math in the real world
The recommendation would depend on the person in question. If you aren't in applied math, the class will likely be less useful, but can still be interesting. If you know what you want to focus in within applied math and you can't fit it into your schedule, missing it is understandable. But if you don't know what to focus on or if you have the time to take it, taking AM50 is an easy call.
This class is an interesting survey class, but lecture's won't be great. For your final project, make sure you pick something you're interested! The problem sets can take anywhere from 5 minutes to 7 hours in length, so start early to make sure you have enough time to finish.
the easiest course at harvard. absolutely no work required. dont make my mistake and only take four classes in the semester, you will feel like you wasted a semester of college.
Very easy. Very interesting. Take this class.
Marie was very disorganized. Ask Mauricio for help if you need it. Ask other CA's for help if your CA is not good enough or cannot answer your questions.
Take it!
This class is very easy but one can get more out of the class by putting in more effort - doing the readings, understanding the code behind the homework, attending office hours, and going to lecture. Great introduction course for anyone interested in exploring what fields applied math can be applied to and also a good 5th class.
Take another modeling class. You will not feel like you learned anything by the end here.
easy class that is interesting.  Definitely able to take as a fifth class
I would recommend this course if you're considering concentrating in applied math.
This class is a super fun, easy course to fulfill an Applied Math requirement. Even if you do not have a background in math at all, this course would be an easy time. The psets are explained during section very well (sometimes you could even finish them during section), and a lot of the lectures are pretty interesting. Also, Marie and Mauricio are great and grade the presentations very fairly.
The goal of the course is to expose you to some interesting topics in applied math, to provide some skill in reading papers for general gist without understanding the math, and minimal matlab.Except for the final project, the course was a waste.  I have gone to lectures in every class in all my courses here, but I just couldn't do it for  this one.  I stopped going in the middle weeks of class, and it made zero difference in terms of doing psets or... anything.  You also do the psets in section, so there's always that (lolwut).I feel like if this were a real course and they tried to actually teach people math, it might be more successful.The only saving grace was that Mauricio/David are good (I didn't really interact with Charlotte or Marie) and Rajiv is the man.
If you are interested in Applied Math, but aren't totally sure about concentrating in it or about what field of application you want to pursue (though I'm torn between more areas because I liked multiple topics we explored), this course allows you to see the "magic" and really interesting things that math can be applied too.  Though the problem sets are easy, more can be taken out of the class if you expand on the concepts and really push yourself to understand the underlying concepts surrounding each topic.
Really chill class, it was fun and the talks were interesting, hw's really weren't bad at all, they gave away JP Licks cards like twice to everyone at the end of the semester, you can mostly just focus on other work during lectures if you need/want to, what more could you ask for? TAKE IT, if you want a  class you guaranteed won't have to worry about!
This course has no depth, but a fair amount of breadth. You don't really learn anything, but if you take it as a fifth class, you won't see an increase in your workload.
It is a great course, not too demanding, and has a great potential to spark an interest in mathematics.
This is not a very demanding course, but is interesting. If you are thinking about going into applied math or definitely going into applied math take this course. However, watch out for the homework's, for the grading was very nit-picky.
It is a really great class to take if you're interested in math and want to see how it can be applied in different ways to the real world. It is definitely one of the best classes I've taken.
Although interesting and easy, this course is very disorganized. I don't think it is worth taking. Take another applied math course and you will learn more.
Be an avid listener and participant and this will be a great experience
I would recommend taking this if you are looking for a class that is not too much work, but fulfills a requirement for Applied Math. It is helpful if you are not sure what exactly you want to study in Applied Math.
don't worry about difficulty or prior experience!
AM50 might be the best class I've taken at Harvard! They had wonderful guest lecturers that introduced us to a very wide variety of emerging projects in Applied Math. The staff is all very helpful and always makes themselves available for lots of Office Hours and meetings. The course is not too demanding, it only requires a couple reading every week and a lab/problem set most of the time done with your section. This year we had to also do a group presentation on an Applied Math paper and final project. We had to submit status reports which was actually helpful because it kept me on top of things and then present our project at the AM50 fair at the end of the semester. Great class I veryyy highly recommend to all AM concentrators!
It's an interesting class, and a good class to take as a fifth class, but you won't learn all that much material. You'll come to understand different ways math can be applied to various fields, but you won't actually learn many applied math techniques.
Great class that is chill,; take it for exposure - project is fun
Course professors not the best lecturers. Grading is not transparent.  Assignment instructions are not clear at all. Especially not for the final paper and presentation so grading is subjective to a large degree.
Easy class. Learn wide variety of topics. Great introduction to Applied Mathematics!
Not too much work; pretty enjoyable
Easy and stress-free introduction to applied mathematics
DON'T TAKE THIS CLASS. Yes, its incredibly easy but so painful to sit through lecture and is an absolute waste of time.
This is a very easy course - you can take it as your fifth course.
People will bash this course as being easy, etc. etc. - forget that. If you actually approach this course seriously, there is a lot to gain and you can understand how math models are incorporated in to our daily lives. If you don't care, you can go through this course not learning anything.
The class is painless, the homeworks are simple, the guest speakers are often pretty cool. Mauricio and Marie usually assume a lower level of knowledge than the class has, which can be really annoying (we spent 10 min on e^-x and its derivative), but overall it's ok. Take it only if you really need an A - otherwise, you're better off taking any other course where you actually learn things.
This is an enjoyable class. I was a second-semester junior in math when I took it and I found it quite easy. That worked well with my schedule and I never found the assignments to be busywork.
In the format that it was offered this year, there were no exams-- just problem sets and a final paper, which is nice.
This class makes a relatively painless yet thoroughly educational survey of applied math.  A great fifth class with a definitely manageable workload.
Unfortunately this class is very poorly organized and does not live up to its potential.
If you want a really easy class, take it.  If you want a class where you'll be insanely frustrated by unreasonable expectations of professors and you'll feel like you're wasting a ton of time, also take it. The course description sounds much cooler than it is.  The guest lecturers are awesome, but the day-to-day is not so good.
The course is still in a development stage. Its structure is constantly evolving and improving, but it is a very relaxing course that allows you to explore your interests.
Hopefully this course will be restructured next year to be more fast-paced, quicker, and more helpful to students. Though somewhat easy, it requires a lot of patience on the part of the student.
I think this is a very good class to take to get exposed to the different fields of applied mathematics. I actually learned quite a bit from this course (in terms of exposure) and really enjoyed working on my final project :) Plus it's a great way to fulfill a concentration requirement for applied math. Yayyy for no finals and midterms!
Not a very polished course. The material seemed disjointed and almost random. But it is a new course so expect it to change.
Be prepared to see math applied to fields that  you may have never expected or even thought of. I would also suggest being actively engaged with the guest lecturer because you will gain a lot from this class by putting a lot of interest into it.
AM50 was great as a survey of topics in Applied Mathematics. Next year, once they have worked out the kinks of the course a little more, it would be very, very good. My advice is do not take it as a gut, it definitely was not so this year. In fact, some of the problem sets were quite difficult and required a lot of time. You also should plan the work for your project early, because it falls during a busy time of the semester.
To be honest, you do learn a lot of applications of math to other subjects - and it's super interesting. If you're an applied math concentration with no clue what your field of application is, this may actually be a valuable (and lowkey) class for you. Just be aware that doing assignments are annoying because you don't feel like you're getting anything out of them, and the project may be stressful if you have a lot going on towards the end of the semester.
It's a really nice introductory tutorial to take.
This is a very easy class that is also very interesting. Even though you don't have to do the readings, do them anyway because you'll get so much more out of the course.
If you are interested in taking this class in order to get an idea of areas in which you can apply mathematics, as I was, then it can be quite interesting at times to hear from all sorts of people in the guest lecture format. However, this class will not leave you with a breadth of tangible skills to use moving forward, but it may help you decide if applied math (in theory) is for you. Not too difficult either.
This class is beyond easy, especially if you have used matlab or have done anything related to applied math. HOWEVER, if Maria and Mauricio teach it again, expect it to be beyond boring and for class to be painfully awkward. So there's very little work and you'll get a good grade, and its a great way to fulfill an applied math requirement, but get ready for some of the worst teaching ever. Marie doesn't even try to hide the fact she doesn't want to be there...it's awkward...
Yes, this class is easy and requires barely any work. However, it is also one of the most frustrating classes I think I have ever taken at Harvard. With the way the class is structured, you actually do not learn anything. The topics "taught" in the class have nothing to do with each other and many of them seem completely random. The only somewhat rewarding part of the class is the final project. It doesn't help that the professors seem to be as annoyed teaching the class as the students are taking it. Most of the time, the professors made it very clear they didn't want to be there, and then proceeded to cold call on students who didn't want to be there either.
take it
This was one of my favorite classes this semester! Marie is awesome and her enthusiasm really shows through in lecture. Guest lectures are interesting as well, and the workload is relatively light. You definitely need to be able to hold your own with Matlab, but overall the class is an interesting survey in applied math. Mauricio is good as well, but lectures can sometimes be uncomfortable because he will call out students randomly to answer questions, presumably to see if they have been paying attention or doing the readings. Overall though, an excellent class!
I took this as a fifth class. It required very little effort and it's really easy to spend lecture on facebook, email, reddit, etc. Mauricio likes to cold call though, so pay some attention. The course might change again, but if it's like this year, take it if you need to and don't feel like doing a lot of work.
This class is very useful and one of the gems.Teaches you Python very well, and the teaching staff (Rycroft and Yue) were very helpful. Avi really didn't do that much, and his presentation was really boring. Rycroft was very helpful, and he made himself available often. Grading was very fair, and the topics were interesting and good class to introduce topics and sections in Applied Math.
Take CS50 first.
The course was great. No exams which is super. Have to put in time on the psets but the grading is very generous. Chris is great!! You really need to have taken CS50 in order to take this course. If I had gone in with no computer science background I would have been extremely lost. This course was a logical next step after CS50.
Go to office hours a lot. Coding is difficult but it is a useful skill to have and worth going through the class to learn.
lots of python coding but done with interesting topics. Chris was much better at lecturing than Avi.
The class is definitely achievable but don't expect it to be a walk in the park. The problem sets would often take multiple hours. However, not having a final exam or midterm took the pressure off. A fair way to fulfill concentration credits.
The course is designed in such a way that it does not teach you much, even with the assignments. I think a lot of them were mostly busy work and the material was never explicitly covered in class. Overall, it's an okay way to fulfill the requirement needed to graduate from Applied Math.
This class is a great survey intro class to the applied math department.  You cover a lot of different topics and you can do some cool things with the psets and python programming which you learn (past programming experience is definitely very helpful).  Lecture is pointless, but you don't need it for the psets anyway.
This class covers a lot of really interesting topics. While it can be confusing at times, it's a great way to learn about a range of different ways that mathematical models are used in "real life," and a great way to learn about python as well.
Learn some programming and modeling on a preliminary level before taking this course.
I wish I took this class in my Senior year of high school - it has a casual atmosphere, the topics are really interesting, and the math is not intimidating.
Psets and labs can be confusing, you probably won't start them till the day before they're due.  Weird timing (Monday and Tuesday deadlines) make OH fairly useless.  Project is pretty heavily weighted so make sure to do well on that.  It's a significant commitment for reading period.
This class is much different with the new professor. Problem sets often take longer than 7 hours (due every other week), and you have to figure out a lot of the python coding yourself. That said, this forces you to learn, and I came out of the class knowing a lot more than I expected. Lectures are sometimes interesting but not necessary for problem sets.
This class requires a lot of computer science. Rethink taking this course if you have not yet taken CS50. Also rethink taking the course if you have not taken 21a yet. This class requires a lot of office hours and meetings with the TF's outside of class and lab in order to get the psets done. Even then, you might not even understand everything on the pest. At times, the TF's didn't even know how to approach some problems on the homework. It was nice that psets were due every 2 weeks. Lecture is often boring and/or very confusing.
The only reason I would recommend this course is because it is (more or less) a must-take for the Applied Math concentration. Otherwise, I would tell people to avoid it. I left with very little understanding of the material and a passionate hatred for Python.
A great class without too much work! Homework are not extremely difficult (I never needed to go to OH) and they are actually quite fun if you like to program stuff. I recommend those who do not know how to code to STILL TAKE this class because it is a painless way (compared to CS 50) to be introduced to coding. Overall, I liked the class a lot, and enjoyed it, although lectures can get pretty boring sometimes.
its really interesting but be prepared for a lot of headaches from the psets, but easygoing lectures
Unless this class changes, even if you are Applied Math concentrator- DO NOT TAKE IT. It is horrible, difficult and a waste of your time.
Know how to code in Python.
The class seemed like a great introduction to applied math. However, you touch on all of the topics so briefly that it is difficult to develop any serious knowledge about any particular topic. Also, most of the work was very coding intensive which meant that the mathematics weren't as obvious. The structure of the course changes from year to year, so I can't imagine what it will be like in the future.
Awesome class - exposes you to many recurring topics in AM!
Class was a little disorganized. The Python labs can be a little difficult if you don't have programming experience even though it is not a pre-req for this class. But I'm sure if Avi and Chris are teaching it next year, it will be a better experience.
This course will make you super excited about Applied Math! It's taught really well and the assignments are really fun! Take it!
Lot of work and kind of incohesive. Some interesting topics.
More difficult than in past years but still an easy introduction to Applied Math.
This class is still new, and thus, they're still figuring out a lot of stuff about it.  I think the class has great potential, but it still needs to fix its lecturing component (by getting lecturers who are more sure of themselves or are just better speakers in general).  In addition, I think the course needs to teach Python a little more than just throwing the students into the fire.
It's not as easy as it seems because of the Python. Not much to recommend about it.
The course gives a survey of topics that is not fulfilling in its mathematical depth. While lectures can definitely be interesting, the focus of problem sets and the class in general is far more on coding than on learning the mathematical concepts.
Harder than it is made out to be
If you have any interest in math or applied math, especially if you're not sure where to focus your study, TAKE AM50!! You'll go over a bunch of really interesting topics that will give you an idea of what you might want to pursue further. WARNING: this class used to be considered a super low workload class, but now it includes psets. The psets do take a considerable amount of time, and you will use Python for most of it. But the work is absolutely worth it because the problems are interesting and honestly fun. The teaching staff is great, and they work hard to keep the class engaging. Go to office hours!! They're always willing to help. Manish's office hours the night before psets are due are the best. Take it!!!
This course is not as low of a time commitment as it once was.  Be prepared to do a lot of coding in Python, but the grading is pretty generous if you complete the work.
This iteration of the course was taught with new professors so I'll cut them a little slack, but they seriously need to iron out many problems with the course. The topics presented are very interesting but they are presented in lecture in a very boring way. The homework is brutal, and not in a stimulating way; it is in essence a coding class, as you will be doing much more coding than anything. I don't think that this should be the case, as it does not count for the computation requirement in the applied math concentration, but rather the modeling one. Multiple questions would start with "write a program that...". What? I thought this was a math class? Receiving back assignments all semester has been a problem; I have only received back two grades, and it's the end of the semester. This class has a lot of potential to present interesting topics but falls short in doing so.
HAVE PROGRAMMING EXPERIENCE or this class will be very very difficult
Start psets early. TF's can only help 2-3 students at a time regarding the programming so you might find yourself getting very little done during lab/OHs.
The course could be difficult if you do not have a background in computer science. However, it is an effective introduction to the field of applied mathematics.
The problem sets will require an unexpected chunk of time and can sometimes be confusing, but the class is generally low burden.
They said that you could take this class without knowing how to code, but all of the psets were in python and they did not teach it in class.
AM50 gives you an idea of powerful ways in which math is applied, for instance, information theory, game theory, digital imaging, and so on. Homework sets are one of the highlights - they are genuinely interesting and illustrate applications and extensions in creative ways. However, the math in this course is not rigorous at all, so come in not expecting to learn "serious math" but to see ways in which theoretical ideas can have powerful applications.
If you have coding background this course would be fine as an introduction to mathematical modeling.
This class was very good but not the most organized.  The psets were pretty long and confusing.  The material is pretty incredibly interesting but not the best taught.  It's the professors' first year so it should be better next year I hope.
A good stress free introductory course to applied mathematics.
It's alright, but could be better organized.  The teaching staff isn't particularly personable and the assignments are much more coding based than math based.  The content is interesting - just go in cautious.
In the grand scheme of things, it's easy - but a huge pain. Not really gem status.
You need to know coding to understand the class. Though it's interesting, the problem sets are near impossible without this knowledge.
AM50 is, more than anything, a good way to learn python. That's honestly what I got out of this class the most. But also, you do gain exposure to some pretty cool applications of math in the world, like game theory, fractals, imaging, random walks, and more.
This class was much different from previous years and q score comments. Labs and hw are heavily dependent on Tf help and were much longer than expected. Everyone teaching the class was well meaning and very nice, but the course often was lacking in some grading structure and pset consistency
Very interesting. Cool survey of several topics. I liked that we coded in python. The feedback on assignments came pretty late.
There was a lot more Python involved in psets than I realized when I first chose the course. The topics were interesting, though.
This class is not too difficult (especially if you've had some computer science experience). Problem sets are often long and tedious, but are definitely doable. There are some cool take-aways from the course on the whole, and it provides a good introduction to some neat fields (chaos/fractals, imaging, etc). Lectures are quite boring and don't connect to the problem sets. There is not much guidance on the final project, unless you really reach out to teaching staff about it (in which case they are actually quite helpful). Manish is awesome, in particular.
I took it with no computer science background which made it very difficult. I think I would have gotten more out of the class if I had some knowledge of coding.
YOU NEED TO KNOW CODING!
This class has a ton of potential, and with adjustments, could be a great class. But there needs to be some adjustments. The homework was way too Python-heavy, and the emphasis of knowing Python on the homeworks made them frustrating because it wasn't taught well in class; lectures were almost useless because the homeworks ended up being mostly about knowing Python. The material is fascinating, there are only six homework assignments, and there are no exams, but the lab is pointless and the lectures could be very dry. With improvements, the class will be good.
Great course, Margo does a great job explaining concepts. You get a good overview of a variety of math applications and you learn how to code a little in MATLAB. Only problem sets, labs and a final project, no exams.
I liked this class. Not like many AM courses, no exams, really gives you an opportunity to be creative and think on your feet, especially for the final project. Expect a lot of presentations and interesting topics.
Great course. Learned a lot. No final/midterm and consistent but manageable stream of work.
This is honestly one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard! It is taught fantastically and I'd recommend it to anyone and everyone!
This class provides a great overview of possible applications of mathematics. The format of the class if great because every 2 weeks, there is a new topic. The problems sets and labs are very reasonable and Margo is great!
This is the easiest Applied Math class, however with Margo as the new instructor, it is going to get harder.
Really interesting class. Manageable workload.
Interesting and not too challenging. Great intro to Applied Math
Go to office hours and get to know Margo!
Introduction to MATLAB programming may be helpful, and it can be interesting to explore topics of applications of mathematics. Also, assignments are manageable. However, the class was not all that engaging, and support from teaching staff was there but not really always helpful.
This is a really great course for learning about applied math! Margo is great. Be prepared to discuss in class and get involved. Homeworks and labs can be challenging if you haven't coded before. Also, the final project is a lot of fun.
Definitely a cool class in which you get to learn a lot about interesting topics. Off the bat, the papers that explain the topics seem too complex to ever process, but the teaching staff does a great job breaking things down and showing how to build up to results. Go to OH for help with code, as the staff is very willing to help. Don't really need a base of coding skills as they teach you all the Matlab necessary.
Truly no need to go to lecture and you barely need to read the slides. It's great that there are no exams, and both the midterm presentation and final project gives you lots of room to do stuff you're interested in. This is a great broad course if you're interested in seeing what Applied Math has to offer, and really quite easy. You still get a fair amount out of it, and I definitely feel more comfortable programming than I did after CS50.
It is a great way to get started on coding which is an essential skill in the world of mathematics.
Great class. Bryan is a great TF. Very helpful and eager.
This class was super chill and a good way to get into Python.  Chris really wants to help though sometimes isn't the best at explaining but he and TFs really want you to succeed.
This is an amazing course and it is very well taught. You learn python and math concepts.
Chris is awesome. He is one of the most genuine and caring professors I have met at Harvard. Some coding background will definitely be helpful, but if you are motivated enough to learn, this class will balance out your otherwise hard semester. And the TFs were also very very helpful.
This class is a great way to learn about different fields that math can be applied to. It makes you think critically and you come away with useful modeling skills
Very interesting topics covered throughout the semester. I would definitely recommend this class to people who want to get a taste of the broad field of Applied Math.
Take this course! Chris is really interesting and probably one of the smartest people you will ever encounter in your academic career. The homework and labs can be difficult when attempted by yourself but if you go to office hours they are really manageable.
AM50 was a very interesting overview of the possibilities of Applied Mathematics. Some coding experience is very helpful. It is possible without the coding experience but you will spend a lot of time in office hours trying to figure the code out.
It is an interesting class. You will get exposed to many different areas of applied mathematics. Beware of the programming component of the class. It can feel like a lot. On the flip side, the professor and the tfs are extremely helpful and understanding.
Learn statistics before taking this course and also taking some programming courses. It will be a pretty good class if you do, and a hard class if you don't
It's a solid course, so take it if you're an applied math concentrator.
There are two types of assignments- labs one week, homework the next. They're fairly easy to do well on, but can take up a fair amount of time.
This class was probably my favorite that I have taken at Harvard. I had no computer programming background, but Chris made it easy to understand the material and complete the homeworks. The set-up of the class is incredible, switching from topic to topic every 2 weeks to be able to get and idea of how widespread modeling is. The homework is not terribly difficult but you definitely learn a significant amount from it. Great class, would absolutely recommend it to anyone.
If you work hard in this class, you will make a lot out of this class. Go to office hours of Chris, Kunan or Bryan. They are all super willing to help you.
Chris is an awesome professor.  He is a little quirky but definitely teaches the materials well.   The labs and homework take no time at all and lectures are chill.  10/10 must take especially for AM concentrators
