It's not immediately clear how this class is "applicable," but you figure it out eventually.
The problem sets can seem somewhat difficult, and since students are given over two weeks to complete each one, the timeline inevitably leads to procrastination.  But if you can get started on the problem sets early, and take advantage of Professor Anderson's great helpfulness during office hours, then the problem sets will seem much more easy and much more interesting.
Take advantage of Professor Anderson's office hours.
I would only recommend this course only if someone loves linear algebra and has taken at least Math 23b.
This course will teach you some important large-scale concepts in applied liner algebra and with using MATLAB and data; however, I felt this class could have covered a good deal more material. Also, The final project is very interesting (even if you think you've chosen a boring topic, as our group did), so start working on it well before the deadline. You'll enjoy it more.
This is a fantastic course... Mauricio is a great lecturer and the course material is a perfect combination of theory and practice (and great background for an applied math thesis). Definitely take this class.
tedious homework, but easy overall
The class can be a little unclear sometimes, but Mauricio is the best!
Mauricio is a cool guy but he really does troll in a lot of his lectures so watch out for that. I don't think this course is very applied but if you enjoy generally learning about linear algebra this may be the course for you. Additionally, its nice to do a final project and not have to take a final exam.
The course was easy, but don't expect much beyond the level of Math 21b. The pace is very slow, and very little happens in each lecture. Tolerable as a requirement, if only because it's easy, but definitely not as an elective -- one could learn everything beyond 21b in about an hour by reading a textbook.
It's a great way to fulfill gened or concentration requirements. The class material is not too difficult and if you put in some time, you'll be fine in the class. Also Mauricio and the TFs have many OHs and sections for those who need extra help.
The entire class is a joke. The average on the midterm was around (and possibly above) 100%.
Prof Santillana is awesome! He really cares about his students (and memorizes all 80 or so of their names).  Some knowledge of Matlab will make your life easier, but it is not required.  Even if you weren't terrible comfortable with 21b, Prof Santillana teaches in a way that you will get it.  If you took 23a or above and did well, you may find this course repetitive.
If you're looking for an easy applied math class, this is the one. But the class is poorly-organized, with disappointingly little time devoted to actual "applications" of linear algebra. Most of it is largely a recap of math/applied math 21b principles.
Mauricio is a good lecturer. Material is understandable.
The class isn't incredibly difficult, and you might not get a lot out of it.
Relatively easy and light workload. Final project takes up a decent amount of time, but can be fun and rewarding if you put good effort into it.
This is a pretty painless applied math course. Mauricio is actually the nicest and while sometimes lectures can be a bit slow or boring he will literally do anything to help you out, understands any sort of difficult personal/health situation, and really does care more than most teachers. To be honest, I missed at least 60% of lecture and as long as you have notes you're totally fine. Only one pset is really bad and the others are probably shorter than most AM psets. Take it, hopefully it won't be in 60 oxford street next year!
Good class for general interest in applying linear algebra to interesting problems.
great course, semi-tough psets, definitely come to lecture because that's where all the material comes from. mauricio is a great lecturer
If you are mostly interested in the algorithms of linear algebra, rather than the theory, this is a useful course to take.
This course was amazing. You learn a lot about the subject, but at the time the course is low-stress. If you enjoy doing math problem sets that aren't insanely hard and don't make you want to cry, you'll really enjoy the course. Be prepared to use Matlab, but if you have difficulty with it, Mauricio and the TFs are a lot of help.  Mauricio is one of the most caring teachers I've ever had at Harvard. He's very invested in his students, and Harvard is definitely lucky to have him around.
Great course!  Take it - Mauricio is a fantastic teacher.
Very reasonable.  Almost too reasonable... not much in terms of theory & proofs on the homework (which I was happy about), and whatever there was was manageable.  Prof. Santillana is hilarious, accessible, helpful, and understanding, and the other teaching staff were great too.
This is a great linear algebra class. Mauricio is an amazing professor, and makes things very clear and is very, very receptive to questions during class. The final project is a cool way of applying what you've learned to some topic that interests you.
AM120 was a great experience. Do not let anyone fool you though, this course is a lot of work. The problem sets take at least 10 hours, and the final project is definitely a very time-consuming undertaking. That said, I believe the work was worth it - Mauricio is fantastic, and lectures, while very far at 60 Div, are fun; the TFs are all extremely helpful. You will come away with a lot if you devote to this class. Linear algebra is extremely interesting, and while seemingly abstract, it has an extremely wide variety of applications. Take it!
Good class to take your junior year. The final project is a good way to start exploring topics for your thesis.
At least when I took it, it was easy and a bit time-consuming. Mauricio is great and made lecture quite enjoyable. He was very helpful with the problem sets and final project.
great class for reviewing or learning linear algebra.  however the class does not cover everything on the syllabus (ie: diff eq) or leaves it as a homework problem.  also, comfort with programming/matlab beforehand helps.the final project (AM 120 Fair) is great.  definitely better than taking a final exam.  it balances out the tedium that is linear algebra.  working on an interesting project that could lead to further research opportunities is invaluable.
Not super demanding, nice professor and TF's, and interesting material.
Great class, sometimes pacing could be better, but project is rewarding and class is not super stressful
This is a great class! the Prof is great with walking you through the concepts in a thorough yet entertaining fashion and the final product at the end of the course also teaches you a lot!
This is a good course. The material isn't too hard, but it's presented pretty well. Mauricio is an entertaining lecturer. This class was also more computer-science focused than I expected.
I didn't think it was possible to take a class in which you learn absolutely NOTHING you wouldn't already know from a previous class. this class is a dumbed down version of math21b, which is supposed to be a prerequisite (???). waste of your time. avoid avoid avoid
Just be careful about the CUE Guide making this course seem easier than it really is.  It's not as easy as it sounds.  Some of the first psets are honestly brutal.  Then there are incredibly easy ones midway through the semester.  It's seems hard for them to find a balance between that in this course.  The project ended being a pain, but I got a ton out of it.  That being said, Mauricio is an awesome professor!  He cares about the students a lot.  He'll learn all of your names and then sometimes cold call you in class.  It can be scary, but he's probably the least scary guy that could be doing it.  Finally, the midterm was pretty much a joke, so don't expect anything of a challenge from that.  Overall though, this class does push you at times and offers more than what you might think at first.  Take this class because it's moderately easy, not because you think it's going to be a breeze.
Wonderful class-- I learned so many real-life math skills in a fairly stress-free environment. Mauricio is an amazing teacher and you should make an effort to get to know him. This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard and I'm not even a math/applied math concentrator.
Make sure to seek help in understanding coding if matlab is a problem.
Prof. Santillana is awesome, and this class is perfect for people who are looking for a little bit of theory and a lot of practical explanations on actually -doing- the math on real problems.
Make sure you know how to code or have a friend who knows how to code
Take it if you have already done 21b and you wanna do lots of exploration of the concepts in Matlab and through a final project.
Some overlap with AM 21b. Dedicated teaching staff.
This is a fair class. If you have significant experience with linear algebra, this class will not be too difficult.
If you're coming from a class like Math 23, this will be a breeze. Midterm is a snap, final project is what you make of it. Not sure how much I got out of the class in terms of math, but it was still worth it for how well I've learned to use matlab!
Not a very difficult course, but useful for science, engineering and economics. MATLAB is pretty well taught, and definitely useful for any academic discipline.
The entire course sort of felt like a build up to singular value decomposition, so if you already knew what that was, it was a bit slow. But Mauricio is awesome and fun to listen to
AM 120 is a great course because it equips you with the tools of linear algebra. It doesn't cover a ton of material but it goes in depth and takes a computational approach to problem solving, which is very pertinent due to the prevalence of computing software.
you'll get most out of the course by paying attention to the applications of the linear algebra techniques (the techniques themselves are pretty easy to grasp)
Mauricio is a superb professor.  Lectures are very effective and the final project is a real treat.  Nice change of pace from papers and cramming for exams.
Professor Santillana is great -- He teaches well, and enjoys being a teacher.  Linear algebra is also extremely powerful, and definitely worth learning well.
This course ensures mastery of the basic concepts of linear algebra, as well as some familiarity with specific applications. Mauricio runs the course well and gives a lot of individual attention, which creates a great experience as long as the course size is small.
Mauricio is possibly the best lecturer I have had at Harvard. He knew every student in the class and addressed the lecture towards the students as if he were having a conversation with each and every individual student, all the while being informative and hilarious.
Its a good class and Professor Santillana is great, particularly one-on-one when it comes to the final project. Some of the lectures are a bit scattered and/or repetitive, but the material is interesting and manageable if you attend class regularly. Problem sets can be tough, but on the whole are fair. The final project was my favorite part because I got to explore a topic I was interested in and got a good deal of guidance from the professor. I would say this is a relatively (notice relatively) laid back math class as far as math classes go.
This is a math class that does a great job of connecting abstract mathematical concepts with real-world applications. If more interested in how math can be useful in society as opposed to robust proofs and calculations, this is a great class.
This class was really great this year!  The professor this year was amazing and made the class really fun!  I really re-learned a lot of linear algebra, and learned some cool new applications.
Really great course depending on who teaches it; in this case, Mauricio's attention really made the class a blast in the end.
Its a great class, professor and TF really care about students' learning. Enjoyed it a lot, highly recommend it. First couple problem sets were tough but it got a lot better.
Interesting class, great teacher, decent amount of work, you do learn quite a bit, important to show up to lecture
A fine class. Mauricio did a great job with it.
It's easy, but you won't learn a whole ton.
It is a good course with overlap with AM21b but still lots of new material and a good introduction to MATLAB programming. Professor Santillana was great and i definitely recommend the course if he teaches it in the future!
Excellent course!  Very practical, not 100% sure where I'll use it later though...
Not very demanding
well organized class, not difficult as far as applied math classes go, some proofs and some applications, a lot of algorithms. useful for statistics and CS applications in particular
You won't really learn much, and it's not a grade gut either. Don't be fooled by the easiness of the first few problem sets. Take another applied math or CS class instead covering material that isn't a rehash of 21b. Maybe after you've taken all of the other classes in the department, you should consider this course. Otherwise, don't bother if you want to learn new stuff.
Start problem sets early.  Use office hours.
It is definitely worth taking, esp right after Math 21b.
Professor Kung is not an entertaining lecturer and try as he might to make you enthused about what you're learning, he's not very successful at doing so, so be prepared for extremely boring classes.  But if you can make it through those, this is ultimately a fairly easy way to fulfill an AM requirement.  Plus, Professor Kung is very kind and caring and the more you get to know him as the semester progresses, the more you appreciate his quirkiness.
The instructors are dedicated to the students learning AND loving linear algebra. They want you to have a positive experience in the course and listen to student input, which is much appreciated. The material can be interesting if you go into the course with an open mind, and the problem sets are not trivial but not also not bad or too long.
Professor is hard to understand. Material overlaps heavily with AM21b and AM121. Don't take this course if you have taken both or equivalents.
Prof. Kung is a very nice and smart guy. I think he would be better in lecture if we brushed up on the material a bit more. He is sometimes unorganized in the presentation of the material. The text was mostly ignored.
This is probably THE worst class I have taken at Harvard. This math class was incredibly unorganized, unprofessional, and I did not learn one bit. There was no section component, the homework did not prepare me for the exams, there were no practice problems for the exam, and lectures were extremely boring and difficult to understand. I hear the fall version of this class is better, so take that instead.
One of the few applied math classes that is offered in a small seminar setting rather than a boring lecture. Professor Kung is super engaging and funny. He points out every little potential application to the relevant materials we are learning. He also draws a lot of insights from CS because he is a guru in the field. Michael is a super friendly TF who answers your questions promptly. Take this class. It is one of the few AM experiences you will have at Harvard.
This is mostly a repeat of basic linear algebra, so, if you have already taken a course in linear algebra, I would not advise taking this one. If not, the workload for this course is very light, and the class is pretty relaxed. However, the material is not taught in a very coherent way, and you are never really taught how to apply the concepts that are introduced. This results in the exams being very theoretical and impossible to study for, so, even though the workload is light, you will not necessarily do well in the class.
Good course and the instructors clearly care about the subject matter. However, don't expect anything profoundly different than the textbook.
Very hard class.
The reason why this course is called applicable linear algebra will be clear at the end of the class.
I don't know, at the end of the semester, exactly what I learned.  I know I learned a lot, but I don't think I'll ever use it.  The class was difficult but not impossible, but the annoying part was that things had to be done exactly in the professor's manner, so even if something is mathematically correct, it may not be marked as correct if you don't do it in a certain way.  I would not recommend this class unless you are actually interested in learning about Turing, Cholesky, QR, etc. factorizations.  (Go look them up first and then decide...that's all we do in this course.)
Although the course was not terribly difficult, I didn't learn anything really. The practice doing proofs may have been helpful for future courses, but when I look back on how much I actually LEARNED in other courses, this one may have been a waste of time. It satisfied a requirement that might have been more painful with other courses, which isn't a small consideration. It was fairly boring, I have large piles of notes I'll never read again, and I have no clue what sort of grade to expect. It's pretty typical of the applied math department, sadly.
Don't take this class unless you have to! It's not a fun class. The workload is not that bad, but it's not very satisfying.
Don't take it. It's boring, tedious, and miserable. It will teach you the theory behind inverting gigantic matrices, or you could just go to matlab and use the inv command. The professor's lectures are very clear, but this class doesn't teach you how to think, and the material will most likely be useless for whatever you choose to do. Also, the class gets much harder a few weeks into the semester, so don't be fooled.
Please be prepared to work hard.  Real hard.
This might be the best AM class I've ever taken. Eli is amazing and the work is very manageable. Must take for sure.
This class is super interesting! The problem sets are a bit tough, but going to HW help sessions/office hours helps enormously. Exams are graded leniently and it's easy to get a good grade on them. Eli's a great lecturer and is always available for questions.
great class
The material is pretty dry, though probably useful for research and data-analytics. not very difficult but can be tedious. honestly if you have a solid understanding of linear algebra (21b/23a), you could learn the whole course on your own. the textbook is not difficult to follow and course notes are fairly comprehensive on their own
A good course for learning a lot of interesting topics and applications. You should know (or learn) Matlab, as it is a pretty integral piece of psets and demonstrations to understand concepts.
Eli is very nice, and the big data concepts are interesting. Sometimes, the answer keys posted were not entirely correct, and although there was MATLAB code, there was limited access to notes to help understand problems.
Eli's a great teacher and the course material is very clear / straightforward, but oftentimes it feels like there's an excessive amount of work in the class. Still, you learn a lot, and it's a class I would recommend. Eli's also very open to feedback part-way through the semester.
This class was fantastic, and graded very fairly. The HW and Exams mimic exactly the material covered in class, which is hard to find at Harvard!
It's probably the most painless way to satisfy an Applied Math requirement, within the AM department. That being said, it's not the most interesting or engaging course. But the workload is manageable, the tests and psets are pretty straightforward. The 3 quizzes + final are a little much but again, you probably need this for concentration credit, and it definitely beats out most other courses in the AM dept.
This class, while it is difficult and covers a lot of material, is a good math class to take if you are more interested in the applications of linear algebra and less so linear algebra theory. Class notes are excellent; don't get behind in material or it will be difficult to catch up.
This is a great class for learning useful tools from linear algebra that can help with data analysis. The concepts are generally straight forward and the teaching is great. Definitely a great class!
Net positive on AM120.  The course can be frustrating and annoying at times, but the bottom line is it's a very manageable workload, gets rid of a concentration requirement, and is a fairly certain A (or A-) if you put the work in.  Class not curved but exams and grading is very easy - make sure to get absolutely as close to 100 as possible on all the psets.
This class has many wonderful fruits, but also just had a certain overall meh to it that I don't recommend it with enthusiasm.  The first hesitation is Matlab being the language/program we work with.  I've developed a deep appreciation for Matlab, but don't think it will be used in the circles I engage with in the future...something like Python would probably be much more widely applicable.  Lectures and p sets could have often been more engaging than they were as we dealt with some interesting algorithms and methods.  Professor Tziperman is really nice.  Overall, I feel like I'm taking a lot of good out of this class but didn't enjoy it as much as I could have...therefore, I've recommended that people also consider other similar classes over it (even if I haven't taken them).  Again - great class, but I just oddly wasn't really feeling it much of the time.
Definitely not a super challenging class, but definitely provides a lot of good practice with really interesting statistical techniques that are being used at the cutting edge of most fields these days.
The course was extremely interesting with a lot of topical materials, but the problem sets are sometimes not graded as standardly as would have been liked. Overall a very interesting course and, if interested in big data, a course definitely worth taking.
n/a
This is a great class! It covers a lot of different topics in linear algebra and data analysis, and Prof. Tziperman does a great job of explaining things in lecture. There is a moderate amount of homework, but it is very doable if you go through the materials he provides on the sources page and syllabus. There are 3 quizzes, but they are spaced out, have extra credit, and allow a cheat sheet. They are of reasonable difficulty and are also a great way to start reviewing for the final. Overall, I would highly recommend this class to anyone interested in applied math.
This is a very interesting class where you will learn tons of useful tools in linear algebra and programming to analyze data efficiently. It is a moderate amount of work- reasonable problem sets each week (12 in total), and 3 midterms throughout the semester. While none are particularly hard, it is important to make sure you understand the material and don't fall behind. Definitely recommend this to anyone trying to better understand data analysis!
This is a wonderful class that you should take! It deals with big data and how to interpret it. You learn about classification, clustering, Netflix, Google's Page Rank, weather patterns and a bunch of other really cool material.
Definitely take this class if you could see yourself going into any sort of work that will deal with big data analysis.
I really enjoyed the material from the course and I think there were great improvements on it since Eli's first year of teaching it. Eli is also the most considerate professor and makes this course so bearable even though it can be challenging.
The class was great in that the course material (especially towards the end) was very interesting and the exams and assignments were very predictable. You can do well as long as you put in the hours, there's no doubt about that. My only dissatisfaction with the course was that there seemed to be a lot of disorganization and miscommunication among the TFs as well as between TFs and Eli. The solutions to HW weren't always correct because they were written by TFs, TFs constantly moved around their office hours rather than having one steady time slot, and so on. These were definitely some frustrating aspects about the course.
Really interesting class where you learn some pretty cool applications of linear algebra. For context, I took this as a senior AM concentrator, that did poorly in Math 21b three years prior. I still found it to be a pretty straightforward class. Tons of help available for the problem sets, which can be tedious (require a lot of dumb, monkey work, like writing out long numbers) but were never too bad. The tests are very fair and use problems from the psets, and each test has 115 points but is only graded out of 100, allowing most students to get solid As. You can definitely succeed in this class even if you did poorly in previous linear algebra classes, as long as you do the psets and learn the procedures. You always get to use a cheat sheet on tests which is very helpful. Eli is a really nice guy and engaging lecturer. Definitely an easier class in the AM department, yet really interesting!
The most structured and organized AM class I have ever taken! TAKE IT!!!
This course is one of the rare gems: interesting and relevant material, lucid teaching style, fair assignments and tests, and excellent organization. I'd recommend taking this course right after your foundational courses, and before you pursue more specialized tracks in data mining/programming, etc. Also try not to skip lectures - it'll save you loads of grief later on.
Great class! I took Math 21b right before this and it was a fantastic way to apply what I had just learned. This class is taught by an oceanographer from the Earth & Planetary Sciences Department (Eli) and he is great! Very manageable amount of work, especially if you go all the lectures. Tests were less stressful because they were 115 points and the grade was out of 100. There is also an opportunity for extra credit on every HW assignment. Also improved my Matlab skills. Took this as an elective, highly recommend!
AM120 covers a variety of very interesting topics and you will add a diverse array of useful techniques to your mathematical arsenal. Previous exposure to linear algebra or at the very least matrix math is essential to doing well in this course. Students who have previously taken differential equations (AM105), statistics, and data science courses will find the material covered in this class much more natural than those who have not. It also helps to have used Matlab at some point in the past, however, all of these topics simply make the class a bit easier; it is very accessible without any of those courses.There are three quizzes, which are really just meant to get you to refresh on topics. You can bring in a sheet of notes for each (and two for the final); they are not hard as long as you take good notes in class and look through the practice problems.
This is a gem in the applied math department. Eli is an engaging and knowledgable professor, and the work you put in will determine how well you do.
This class was incredibly tedious. Most of the assignments and tests felt like busywork but the assignments were still time consuming. The was no incentive to learn the theory and I felt like I did not learn very much. This was my first applied math course, so it's possible that this is standard. Despite the course's shortcomings, I will say that Eli seemed to be very caring and was quite organized.
You will learn very interesting topics with very little stress regarding your grade - he gives you many chances to get a good grade on exams and problem sets.
This class is cool because you can see so many ways the concepts from math 21b can be applied. Sometimes the psets feel like busy work, but overall it is a good class and very doable.
This class is difficult but definitely manageable. Eli and the teaching staff are incredibly organized and helpful! There is a lot of Matlab which you need to teach yourself, but if you've had CS experience it shouldn't be a problem.
This class covers a bunch of topics that are super cool and many of which you've probably never seen before. It's really a great class and Eli's amazing; I highly recommend taking it! Also, when it comes to tests, you can't have a chiller math class, it's really easy to do well.
This is a unicorn: a great Applied Math class. The material is super cool (especially the data analysis later in the class) and Eli does his best to make sure you learn it in a non-stressful way by making quizzes 115 points out of a 100. Problem sets are manageable and regular, and support is there if you need it. Highly recommend.
This class is incredible- you learn so much material without feeling like its overwhelming. Of all the STEM classes I've taken, this class is the most balanced and well-taught by far.
This course teaches you a lot of very useful linear algebra applications, esp those in machine learning. The workload is moderate and manageable and the tests are very reasonable. I learned a ton from this course and feel comfortable running different machine learning algorithms.
Excellent course; a must-take in the applied math department. Eli is the best!! He is a great professor-- truly excited about the material and his research. Quite an honor to be able to learn from him. (Also, the class is graded fairly generously, if the above was not enough to convince you to take this class.)
Professor Tziperman is the most engaging math instructor I have ever had, and the material is exciting because of the practical applications. Extensive notes and resources are available on the course website which helps to review material outside of class.
This class was interesting and quite manageable, and I would not hesitate to recommend it to anyone looking for a course that shows you how to use math, as opposed to a more proof-based approach. For me, this aspect was definitely a plus, since I am not someone who is terribly passionate about theoretical math. Be prepared to become very good at Matlab.
Amazing class! 10/10 would recommend!
I really enjoyed this class.  You expand upon a lot of the material in Math 21b/AM 21b in meaningful ways, and you are introduced to basic applications.  The course relies heavily upon MatLab, which in my opinion is a bit cumbersome (I find MatLab a bit clunky) -- I think Python would have been more useful.  Eli is a great instructor, however, and is very enthusiastic about the class and wants to help his students.  The course is not easy, but is very fair.  The problem sets take time, but they will help you learn the material.  I would highly recommend.
Take this course as quickly as you can! AM120 would have been amazing prep for CS181 - I wish I wasn't intimidated by this course in Sophomore year. It's really easy if you are on top of your shit but you also learn SO MUCH. Seriously, take this course in Freshman/Sophomore year and you'll thank me, the anonymous reviewer.
Well taught. A lot of tedious work though. You learn Matlab very well.
I enjoyed this class - I took it as a CS concentrator and found the math both doable and quite useful.  I don't feel like I got much out of the Matlab coding parts, but otherwise I feel I learned a lot.
This was the most reasonable and best taught class I have taken in the Applied Math dept. It is rivaled only by Stat 110, and Joey Boy Blitzstein is actually a living legend. Eli is a fantastic professor, has a cute laugh and makes learning easy. There is a syllabus with literally all the links you could ever ask for, the exams are out of 100 but have 115 available points so it's pretty easy to get a good score. The psets were manageable, always followed from lecture, and never demanded more time than expected.  The exams were predictable and as long as you studied you were set. There are 3 midterms but that is great review and makes you well prepared for the final. Learned a lot of different algorithms to deal with matrices, but in small scales that you can do by hand so you see what is actually happening and the intuition behind it.
This is a great way to learn about many contemporary techniques for classifying and clustering data, just don't expect the lectures to be very rigorous.
This class is very well taught and very manageable if you stay on top of the material. I took this class without having taken CS50 and without having used Matlab previously and, while I had to work a bit harder to learn Matlab at the beginning, felt it was very reasonable. This class teaches you a lot that you can then apply and use later. I would definitely recommend!
Good course if you are looking for a moderately involved AM course. Topics are interesting and very relevant to data analysis and computation. The concepts will no doubt help if you are pursuing any kind of science/math research career. Course material is not too difficult and the pace is just right as long as you keep up with the assignments and attend lectures.
Eli's a great professor! Go to his office hours! Exams are super chill and Problem Sets are too, but you still learn a lot. A gem.
If you put in the consistent 5-7 hours for each problem set each week, you'll do fine in this class. There is a lot hand-holding in terms of the materials given to help you with the problem sets and exams. Do not be intimidated by the 3 midterms + 1 final. The exams are very similar to the practice problems - no surprises. Very fair grading.
The material taught in this course is very interesting and useful. The course is very well-structured and organized so you will get plenty of practice problems for quizzes. Note there are 3 quizzes and a final but that means that you are super ready for the final. I would say though that I found it extremely frustrating to only be allowed a non graphic calculator during exams. During exams you will have to do (for instance) matrix multiplications just with a non graphic calculator. That is tedious and frustrating/useless.
Fantastic course. The psets are very doable since there's so much sample code online on Eli's website, there are a lot of exams (3 midterms + a final) but they are almost identical to the practice exams posted online, so they're really not that bad. The material is fascinating and very applicable to real life. 10/10 would recommend
Great class for learning to conceptualize how patterns are found in large sets of data. If you will be working with large sets of data for research this class is a must. Psets didn't take too long and the group homework hours were really useful.
take it
interesting material
A very chill class covering interesting material! Homeworks and tests are straightforward, not at all designed to trick you - if you simply follow the material you'll do fine on the assessments plus there is ample extra credit. Eli is a great lecturer and clearly puts a ton of time and effort in planning/preparing for lectures. You won't be ready to work in AI after this class but you'll have a good understanding of the underlying math behind a lot of key machine learning techniques.
This class covers a large breadth of material that will keep students interested throughout the year, from simple methods of solving large Linear systems to backpropagation in neural networks. Despite touching on challenging subject matter, the course is extremely manageable and only requires about 4 hours per week outside of class. Lecture can be convoluted once in a while, but the course outline on the website is incredibly well structured and detailed, so it clears things up.
The class has no flexibility (late days, assignment drops) and it has many assignments (problem sets due every week, 4 exams total) which made it an unpleasant experience. Yet, the professor is really clear at setting expectations on what you need to know/do to perform well in the course. That being said, lecture is really important for your success in the class and since the lectures don't get posted online, if you miss a 10am lecture (which realistically happens), you'll feel behind. So I'd say be prepared to be organized to do well in the class, but it isn't conceptually unbelievably challenging even though the topics in themselves have so much more depth than what is covered in the class.
Fair class. Nice professor, pretty good teaching staff. The psets are time-consuming but doable and the exams are fair but numerous (3 midterms and a final). If you're interested in big data or need an applied math class for a requirement this is a good option.
great class, Prof Tziperman is a good lecturer and really cares about his students, cool material on machine learning at the end. Homework help is great, and exams can be prepared for (there are review docs & practice exams).
Great psets that are very applicable to the class.
can be dry at times, and exams are tedious (lots of manual calculations), but you learn lots of really applicable aspects of linear algebra (and the MATLAB tools to implement them). Conceptually pretty easy
I took this class as a freshman because the material seemed interesting (and it was) and I had taken Linear Algebra in the fall (23a). The class turned out to be one of my favorites of the semester, and even though there were barely any freshman in it, I had a great time psetting with seniors and meeting new upperclassmen. The class is well-organized, the psets are engaging, and everything on the 3 midterms is representative of what is covered in the class. At times, concepts are difficult to understand because there is no textbook to reference, but this can be addressed at homework help sessions by the TF's. Take this class if you want a broad mathematical understanding of how Linear Algebra is applied in our world's  most used algorithms (Google's PageRank, Netflix, MapReduce, Neural Networks), and if you don't hate matrices.
This is a great course with really interesting and useful course information
One of the easiest AM classes. Eli is a great professor and really cares.  Highly recommend.  Some of the material is pretty cool.
Manageable but odd structure to course
Lectures are 90 minutes, but the material could be covered in 60-- if this class is offered again check lecture length. Lecture isn't even necessary for doing well in the class because the slides are uploaded and it literally takes 30 minutes to read through them. the textbook is helpful but avi does not follow it in chronological order. also he gave NO preparation for the 2 exams and basically gave NO information for the final project. I found myself struggling with the final project and then everyone did poorly on both exams. avi is not approachable or helpful-- i would not take this class again, if it's a required class wait until there is a new professor teaching it although i do not think avi will teach it again next year.
This is a nice class to continue studying linear algebra after Math 21b. It is rather slow-paced and was mainly beneficial to me because I felt shaky on some 21b topics. It is in general kind of a disorganized course.
It really wasn't taught well and I felt like I just spit out what I learned in 21b and didn't take much new info from this class.
This is a relatively easy way to meet AM requirements. It's painfully boring at times during lecture and there aren't a lot of resources to help with preparation for the exams or to get help on the project.
Avi (the instructor) makes this course something you should stay away from. He makes the material boring, gives a significant amount of busy work thinking that it will help you learn more. There is no expectation or direction for what the exams will be on other than every single topic in lecture and in the textbook. No one goes to lecture because he's so bland, and overall the class just hurts in every way that bad classes do here.
It's a very straightforward and fair math course with the added benefit of having a final project rather than an exam. Doesn't take up a lot of time, and you get out exactly what you put into it.
If you took 21b (applied or not) and were interested in linear algebra, this is a great class to follow up with and not as complex conceptually as some other classes (like, AM105 was useful, but would definitely lose a lot of non-math people, where as if you could handle 21b and enjoyed it, you could definitely take this). If it's for a concentration requirement, it's definitely worth taking as it's interesting and not too overwhelming.  In Applied Math, it's especially useful, filling one of the breadth requirements.
This course is a very straightforward applied math class, about equivalent to Math 21b. Excelling in this course requires reading the textbook right before exams. Lectures and section are largely irrelevant to what is covered on exams. There is also a good deal of overlap in content with Math 21b.
Do not take this class! It was one of the worst AM classes I took at Harvard. It's incredibly boring, you don't feel like you learn anything, and it's unorganized to the point where it's unclear what the topics on the midterm will be. You don't really feel like you learn anything even if you put effort in- very frustrating class.
The course overall is just a review of 21b with an extension of a few topics. That being said, is a pretty necessary one to continue further in linear algebra. The problem sets are very manageable, but the midterms are much more difficult than you expect. Avi is pretty dry as a lecturer, and Rohini is definitely a better TF than Michaela.
I have such strong negative feelings about this course solely because of Avi. The TFs are great, especially Michaela, and the material is interesting. Avi just makes the whole experience miserable.
The work is very manageable and the final project is a great opportunity to show what your interests are. Avi and the TFs are very nice and willing to help you in any way that they can.
What happened in this class? I'm not sure I can answer that question after a semester of taking it. Avi is such an endearing person but not the most compelling teacher for this material. Problem sets often didn't match with what we learned in lecture, and lectures were sometimes rambly and questionable as Avi took a few minutes IN CLASS to figure out his own example problems. On the bright side, midterms were very straightforward and reasonable (for the most part) and the TF's were very cheerful and always willing to help. The final project was also a lot of fun, quite open-ended. Overall, this class was a decent review of Math 21b with some extra topics thrown in afterward - just expect to be confused a lot of the time.
Easy way to fulfill an APMTH requirement!
I think the course has the potential to do a lot more, but it fell short this year.  Psets were pretty straight-forward, first midterm was pretty straightforward.  However, a long time passed between first and second midterm, and it wasn't clear what the heck was on it anyhow.  The average of the first was 85, with stdev of 5, while the second had an average of ~62 with stdev of 12.This was Avi's first year teaching the course, and I think that caused a lot of any of the frustration with the course.  There were no practice exams for either midterm, and no decent examples for the final projects, so no one really knew what was expected.  Avi's lecturing is okay; his lectures are well-organized (very, very clear lecture slides that are latexed), but sometimes it can become uninteresting when he goes on tangents; he does have an endearing personality though.
This course is a great follow-up to Math 21b. The project at the end can be extremely interesting, but start early because it will build up quickly.
Really awesome material. As Eli continues to teach it each year it will continue to get better too. Has the potential to become a really great class in a couple of years. It's basically machine learning but taught in a way that makes it very easy to understand the basics, and it's very applicable.
This is a really good class that will only get better after the first iteration.  Eli and the staff are very receptive to student concerns and suggestions.  The problem sets can be tiring and are especially difficult when they are due the same day as the midterms.  That being said, they're manageable with Office Hours and if you work in teams.  AM 120 is definitely a good introduction in the field of big data.
If you are interested in linear algebra and want to learn about some cool applications, take this course!  It's not the repeat of 21b that it used to be, instead, it teaches you some fascinating things in a low-pressure atmosphere since there is extra credit on the homework and exams.
This is a pretty doable class and the problem sets are manageable.  That said, don't expect much feedback outside of scores on homework and quizzes and don't count on much interaction with the teaching staff.  Eli is always accessible, but the teaching staff seemed disorganized in terms of when their office hours were being held.
Very manageable class if you put in the time. Most learning happened for me via studying for quizzes rather than problem sets. Making excellent notecards for quizzes is key.
I learned A LOT in this class and put a very reasonable number of hours into it each week (~5). For this reason, I highly recommend this class. Eli is absolutely incredible, problem sets are fair and you learn from them, and this class will not destroy your weekly schedule. Go to homework help on Monday afternoons and you'll be golden
If you are interested in this kind of stuff, but don't know too much MATLAB already, then you are probably better off buying the textbooks and learning and applying the material on your own, rather than having to suffer through the problem sets.
Very interesting methods-based class, though it moves a bit quickly.
This is a really great class for many different Applied Math focus fields. The applications are very interesting across many fields, and Eli is a great prof. It's clear he cares about students learning the material, and the psets and exams are graded very fairly.
I felt like this was the applied math class i'd been waiting for my entire time at Harvard.  Eli is a great teacher, very patient and methodical.  I loved the applications to things other than finance (for once!) and enjoyed writing code.  Easy class with good content - absolute gem.
This class was my favorite math class at Harvard. The concepts are very interesting and the takeaways of what you can do with data when it's in front of you are phenomenal. I cannot recommend this class enough, especially when taught by Professor Eli Tzipermann.
I learned so much from this class. Eli is an effective lecturer who frequently stops to gauge understanding of the material, and will literally go back and try to re-teach a topic if he sees students really confused by a topic. He truly cares about his students' success in the class, which is both inspiring and encouraging as a student. You will learn some tough concepts regarding the management of large collections of data and how to mine them, but Eli keeps it relevant by always using real world examples to explain concepts, such as the relationship between diaper purchases and beer purchases at a store and the mathematical data to accompany this phenomenon, as well as his own climate research data using the very techniques he teaches us in class. The concepts are fascinating, very relevant and they are well-taught. The class is a bit tough, but there are many resources for success in this course, so if you pay attention in lecture and seek help from Eli when you need it, you will do very well!
This was really manageable. As long as you had a good pset group, you would be fine. The material was really interesting and when the midterms came along i felt like I actually absorbed the material. If you are AM definitely take this class. I actually feel like i could use the stuff that i learned.
A series of useful techniques for practical purposes, interesting topics and vivid demonstrations drawn from real-world applications. Material is fairly straightforward to follow, and assignments and exams are very fair. Prof. Tziperman is extremely nice and patient, and will help you through any problems you might have.
Definitely take this class if you are a CS concentrator! There are fantastic concepts and the exams and psets are really easy and teach you a lot.
Eli is an awesome professor - he's super chill and wants to work with you to make sure you understand everything. Eli is very clear and structured in his lectures, which makes the material much more interesting. If you stay on top of the material, the class will be no problem.
Professor Tziperman cares deeply about learning the material and is very enthusiastic about the course, especially during office hours. The material is very relevant to the real world, especially to research. All of the concepts I learned in AM120 I have also encountered while reading papers for an economics course, and it's been tremendously helpful to have that background whilst reading the papers.
Hands down best Applied Math class at Harvard. It's refreshing to have a professor that actually cares about preparing you for the material you see on exams and spends the time to provide supplementary materials that help you learn.
Very chill class to be honest and you actually learn a lot about big data and their application. You understand the homework and you'll do perfectly fine in exams. Eli is a really nice guy but his voice made it a little difficult to concentrate in lectures...
Awesome class. Learn so much cool material, but the workload is very manageable. Professor Tziperman cares so clearly about the class and does a great job of making the material understandable by using a ton of demos. The psets are based directly from what is done in class. There are a lot of midterms, but it ends up forcing you to stay up on the material and makes studying for the final a breeze. TAKE THIS CLASS!
this course, as far as APMTH courses go is really really a gem, which isn't a word I throw around! the exams in class are extremely faithful to the homework and the pre-exam review questions, which is how all classes should be, but most aren't. Also, Eli is just a really nice person, he is a great professor and tries to make the material clear and super interesting. If the course stays the same, it is a great and pretty painless way to fill your concentration requirement, or just learn more about organizing big data in general. Hopefully nothing changes. just make sure you've taken Math 21b--even then, most of the overlap is at the beginning of the course, and we moved past it pretty quickly.
Assignments aren't bad but can be tedious, exams are strait-forward and fair, and the subject matter is really interesting. Good intro to some techniques used when handling Big-Data.
It's a great class and Eli is a really great teacher. You learn a lot about really interesting relevant topics. I will say though that this class is very, very different from last year where they just basically repeated AM21b (though its not that difficult).
Very straight forward. Got to lecture and the problem sets and exams will be a walk in the park. You can do this course on autopilot if you're reasonably comfortable with 21b stuff and basic MATLAB.
This course was a great course on linear algebra, going deeper in several topics than Math 21b, but also providing great applications in the real world (the big data portion of the class is particularly interesting. None of the material is particularly difficult conceptually, but the class does require a lot of time to do well. If you put in the time, this class is very manageable.
This course provides really great insight into how to classify, cluster, and analyze data sets.
A very interesting class that has hard material, but easy tests. Fantastic way to get started with applications of linear algebra.
Best course I've seen in the applied math department yet. You cover a lot of practical material in a relatively painless way. Problem sets were not long or hard and always had a doable Matlab component, and usually some extra credit points as well. Professor Tziperman is so clear and so kind and so, so funny. I actually enjoyed lecture quite a lot. Just note that there are three midterm "quizzes" (exams), which are a bit of a nuisance, but ultimately I'm glad we had them because it made studying for the final a lot easier.
For the first iteration of the class in its present form, I thought it was fantastic. Eli, as well as the rest of the teaching staff, was incredibly accessible and truly wanted to see everyone in the course excel. The course didn't dive too deeply into any of the topics on the syllabus, but it did offer a great survey of the linear algebra behind many relevant data science methods. I only see this course getting better in subsequent years. It's a great supplement to CS 109/STAT 121.
