Very difficult.  Will have to work hard.  Great professor who wants you to succeed.  If you put in the work, you will do well.
A great alternative to Math 21b and the professor is a great guy.
I enjoyed this class much better than I think I would have the non-applied version.  I had taken math 21a first semester, and felt that the larger class size and teaching style did not facillitate learning as well.
You should take this course instead of the regular math 21b
better than Math 21b
I would recommend this class only as a requirement or to those willing to work very hard, putting in the time and effort necessary to learn the material.
I found the material taught in the class was very useful and applicable to situations encountered in other courses. It was well taught and the problem sets were not overly difficult.
Be prepared to spend lots of time on this course.
This class is really easy if you take the right steps to ensure that you are learning the material from week to week. Otherwise, you might find yourself cramming stuff you should've learned months ago around exam time.
It is easier than Math 21b, so if you need to take some sort of math class through 21b then I would recommend this course.  Also, if you love math like no other then you might enjoy this class.  Otherwise I wouldn't take it.
The professors and TFs are very understanding and willing to help, and the lectures are interesting. When choosing between this course and pure math 21b, I would suggest considering the fact that in applied 21b you get to listen to lectures from the head professor, the one who creates the exams and the lecture notes, instead of having every class taught by a TF (and each TF teaches slightly different methods). Also, there are fewer proofs and more applications (of course).
If you need to get the 21 series out of the way, make sure Vahid is the professor.
The material is interesting, and cool at times.
This class definitely requires that you seek out help and put a lot of time into learning the material outside of class and section.
Tough but you learn a lot
material is great, but if it was more organized (back to saying "This is convolution" and what convolution is before doing the technical bits) then I would strongly recommend it.
Take Math 21b instead if Vahid Tarokh is running the course. He doesn't know how to do it.
It is better than regular 21b
the professor is fun. it is a small class compared to 21b. however, you will be left feeling in the dark more often than necessary.
This course is ideal for getting through a math requirement and building important problem-solving skills. For those more interested in the theory behind the math, this course does not go as in depth as the regular math track, but focuses more on numerical examples.
Go to sections. Make sure that you understand each lecture; don't wait until you're a week behind to learn the material.
Learn your integration techniques.
Teaching is variable and uneccesarily difficult at times, but fun professor.
I think this is better than normal Math21b but is very different - math 21b teaches concepts in a very direct, dry fashion.  This course is more engaging
Take good notes everyday in class
The class is pretty easy, and you learn a lot of stuff. You may miss some of the concepts behind a few things (fourier series) but overall it gives you a very good understanding of the topics and is not that hard.
I would say that students who really, really want to take it should -- but others would do better to try a different course.
It is an interesting hodgepodge of engineering applications of linear algebra, but at times feels too random.
I wouldn't take this class unless you have to. You basically learn a series of algorithms, memorize when to use them, and plug and chug. Additionally, the material isn't particularly well tought. I would say that I'm less passionate about the subject now than I am when I began the class.
If this class has more than 40 people in it, don't take it. The professor has no idea how to run a large lecture course. The homework is also excessively long and is nothing like the exams.
Take this class. In comparison to my friends who are taking 21b I believe Apmath 21b is a looot better.
I stopped attending lecture about 1/4 of the way through the semester and I don't feel as though it hurt my grade in any way.  Everything learned in lecture is covered on the course website lecture notes.  There were LOTS of office hours as well.  The material itself is pretty interesting, but homework can be tedious.  Overall pretty painless, although some homework assignments can take very long times to complete.
If you are interested in engineering or in the *applications* of math, this course will be very frustrating for youthe course focuses exclusively on teaching pure skills (compute eigenvectures, solve these types of differential equations, etc.), and spends no time on applications. While you're not required to know the proofs, you'll sit through a lot of explanation of them.If you do decide/need to take it, I found section much more helpful than lecture. The lecture notes are published ahead of time, so read those, then just go to section. Don't buy the book; mostly useless and not required for any assignments. Make sure you know how to integrate. Seriously. Especially on exams they'll like to throw some nasty integrals at you. The professor's repeated admonitions that "you really need to do more practice problems than just the homework" are correct, if absurd. Despite the fact that the problem sets are fairly laborious, you'll be sorry if that's all the practice you do. This is not a conceptually difficult class, but it's very easy to underestimate how much work it will be. The course's teaching staff was excellent and very availablethe course's main strength. Make use of them.Finally, compared to Math 21b, my impression is that this class is much more laborious, but not necessarily any better taught. Sections are certainly more flexible for this class (you can go to whichever one(s) you want). In general, my impression is that Math 21b seemed to spend a lot more time on linear algebra, while learning only very simple and specific cases of the other material (Fourier series, optimization, differential equations).
Dont go to lecture, it will just confuse you. You will have to learn everything on your own and in section. If Dallas is a TF go to his sections.
This class was great.   You will learn a large amount of material and the professor and teaching staff are great.
The class focuses on concrete topics over the abstract. If you put in the work, then you will learn a lot math applicable to engineering topics.
This midterms are easy, but the final was really hard.
This class is ridiculously hard if you are not exceedingly comfortable with math already.
If I got an A: Great survey of linear algebra, fourier series, and differential equations. Gives you the math you really need to know while cutting down on the mathematical stuff.If I did not get an A: Not worth your time. Take 21b or the 23a/b series (which has even more generous curves) and learn math in a more coherent manner without spending 10+ hours on Psets alone.
The course material is very interesting and relatively easy to understand. The grading is very fair and generous. The work load is pretty light with only one problem set each week.
It's much better taught than regular 21b.  There is a lot of support and you will enjoy how reasonable the tests are.
I don't think that this year was an accurate representation of the course.  Due to initial interest, the professor thought that it would be more effective to use powerpoint presentations to teach math instead of chalkboard teaching.  The lighting in the Geo Lecture Hall is also terrible, making everything hard to see.  The professor tends to move rather quickly.
This is a good class to learn math that's most likely useful if you do some kind of science.
If you're deciding between this and normal 21b, you'll probably be fine taking either. Normal 21b does not go as far as Applied (they barely reach fourier and differential equations) but they go more in-depth in the linear algebra aspects of the course. Go to section.
The instructors and staff are great and really want you to learn, but the course itself is just memorizing formula after formula and using them without knowing them what they mean.
keep up with the psets. do them ahead of time. the text is your best friend. the math clinic is a friend. go over problems and methods of tackling them. make flow charts. write out a step by step process of how to recognize them, what should immediately pop into your mind when faced with this certain type of question. remember the various techniques and the new terms and what they operations they mean. the headings of each section of the text is how you should organize your types of problems and methods.
There are a great variety of resources at your disposal if you ever are in need of help.
Much better than format of regular Math 21a, so I'm assuming it's much better than 21b.
problem sets are a bit tedious, but material is definitely useful and well taught in sections
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!
Be prepared for extremely long problem sets. Go to section, it is much easier to understand the concepts there than in lecture.
great alternative to regular math21b. more help and better course overall
If you're looking at these comments, you most likely have to take this class as a part of your requirements. This class is better than 21b as far as I can tell. It's the same material (which can be a bit dry) and the lectures may be a bit boring, but the homework is due once a week, sections pretty much provide you with the examples you need to do the homework and understand the material, and the grades in the class should reflect how much you know the material and how much work you put in the class since Vahid can give out as many A's in the class as he wants, which really works for your benefit.
It is not too difficult of a course but the emphasis is on the simple memorization of formulas that you will soon forget after the course instead of understand the concepts that underlie the material.
Take applied math! The people really do want you to do well, and you will learn so much. The class is difficult, but it is all worth it.
If you go to lectures and to section and do your problem sets, you'll be all set for the exams.But if you skip lectures and section... you'll have a hard time solving the problem sets, let alone studying for exams. So if you're one to skip lectures, think twice before taking apmth21b. (Also, the textbook is scary and the lecture notes are not very helpful.)
This course is a must for those who will work with any form of mathematics in the future.
I thought it was really hard and sometimes not well taught, but it's required for many SEAS concentrations, so it's one that many people just have to take.
Make sure you get Dallas as a TF. Also, use office hours as much as possible so that the heads of the course get to know you and can recognize that you are trying in the class. This helps a lot, especially when they are calculating final grades.
the weekly p sets are very long, but vahid's personality is fantastic
A wonderful substitution for math 21b. Much less abstract and a lot more intuitive. It is designed to guarantee maximum learning and passing with a great grade. A must-take!!
Make sure you prefer the lecture format before enrolling.
Take this class over regular Math21b!  The material is much more straightforward and the grading is much more lenient.
Get ready to work.
keep up with the work. it's not hard but takes time to learn
This class is pretty demanding, but there are definitely resources there for you to be able to learn the material and succeed. You will have to put in a lot of time to practice the material to be successful, but it is certainly possible. Although this is not an easy class, it is very well-taught, and I know I learned so much! Relative to regular math 21a which I took in the fall, this class was much easier to handle both conceptually and because of the resources available. All the work is worth it!
Don't go to lecture if it doesn't help. But do go to section!!! and start problem sets at least a few days before they're due. They're longer than you think!
Read the lecture notes! They are very clear, and can sometimes replace going to lecture. The examples give very precise ways to solve the problems, so be sure to take note.
Don't go into this course assuming it's the "easier" version of Math 21b.  The material is just as difficult.
it is awesome, definately bank on the math clinic
to well in this course 1) go section from very beginning2) just doing hmk takes a long time, but make sure you review problems/techniques afterwards you can build speed and intuition for exams3) hmk looks short only 7 problems but can take 5-10 hrs..start p sets early..do 1 a day4) exams are straightforward...but you need to know things thoroughly...never were any trick problems5) rd lecture notes before going to class..will really get a lot of class6) have realistic expectations about this class...this is "applied math" class but didn't really solve any applied problems..just crank out numerical problems and understand different techniques....didn't spend a lot of time on proofs...so less theoretical...but it some ways this a little frustrating with regards to linear algebra7) in summary stay on top of this class and it won't be a problem8) last year 50-60% of people got as or a minuses
Be prepared to work hard, although the work is definitely worth it in the end because you leave with a solid foundation in linear algebra.
For those who need to fulfill the math requirement but aren't that interested in math for its own sake should take this class.
This course was very fair and straightforward. The homework could get very monotonous at times and feel like busy work, but there are no surprises on the exams. The professor is very, very nice and the teaching staff are all there to help you. However, the lectures are kind of theoretical and not the most helpful (lots of derivations, along with letters and symbols are used); section and homework (learning by repetition) are essential.
Vahid is really understanding in terms of what conflicts you have with class and exams. He is funny and teaches the course well. If you want to learn the most from this class though, GO TO SECTION. The section leaders are all knowledgeable and will help you understand the information better than if you just go to lecture.
If you don't want math to be too theoretical and yet not too easy, this is an awesome course to take.  You won't have to be bogged down by difficult theories but at the same time, you'll be able to learn new materials.
Practice is key - success depends on the number of exercises done.
It is important to keep in pace with the assignments because each section is based on the information from the previous section.
A decent class that is well taught enough. The textbook is a waste of money though.
The class has a "cook book approach." They teach you a step by step method to solve a problem, and you apply the method to other problems. I think that this class is very straight forward. The problem sets are long and hard, but it is a fair class.
The class is definitely easy, but it doesn't actually teach you anything about math. Take it if it's required, but look for math 23 or 21 if you actually want to learn.
Sections and problem sets are great for learning the material, did not attend any lectures once I realized this and still did well in the class.
this class was bizarre, at times ridiculously easy, very obvious plug and chug, other times completely unclear.  workload probably better than 21b, but most of the problems can be solved using wolfram alpha so it was unclear why the material was important, also it was hard to contextualize the problems in a wider context, i could identify kinds of equations and what to do with them but no idea what the bigger picture of the info was
AM21b is a great alternative to Math 21b.  It is sufficiently difficult, but focuses on mathematical methods rather than mathematical concepts and proofs.  It is very useful for science applications and is very well taught.  Definitely take this class.
You get what you sign up for: a somewhat shallow look at linear algebra, Fourier series, and differential equations. Psets were very tedious and you arn't allowed to use a calculator! Lecture was also relatively confusing, but section made things clear. Lecture notes are sometimes incomplete and cryptic which can be frustrating. Nothing in the class is too difficult.
Be prepared to teach yourself, but that's basically the story of every math class here at harvard. The lecturers suck, don't even bother to be honest. Go to your optional sections, and if you need it, don't be afraid to get a tutor. That said, once you get you head around it, the math really isn't that hard...
The material is very practical and applicable.  The process of learning it is very tedious and requires a lot of discipline, but overall the course is not terribly challenging.
Great alternative to regular 21b, teaching staff is very accessible and accommodating.
Applied Math 21b is more or less what you're expecting. It's annoying. It's traditional. It teaches you standard math skills that are important to know, but not especially fun to do. But I hope it will be helpful down the road. I suspect this was better to take than Math 21b.
Take Pure Math 21b. The TFs were cool, the lecture was baaad.
I would DEFINITELY take this course over regular math 21b. Problem sets are long and tedious, but at least they are simple.  The textbook is absolutely not necessary but I bought it anyway and it proved to be a great resource (and I'll definitely keep it for the future). The lecture notes are fabulous, step by step guides for every type of problem and situation...I printed them out and had them bound!
You'll learn a lot, which is saying something.
better structure than 21a regular (which I had taken previously), but the lectures are very hard to follow. LOTS of work outside of class is necessary to understand the material and complete the problem sets
Be ready to learn a lot of material and do a lot of practice problems. You MUST develop strong computational calculus skills (i.e. integration techniques, trig identities, understanding of vector spaces) as the course is heavily computational. Vahid is an extremely considerate professor who sincerely wants to everyone to do well, and he provides a lot of resources to do well if you put in the time.
It's a great class because of all the TFs working to get you through.  The material is difficult; a lot is covered very quickly.
If you hated the True/False questions on Math 21a tests and you're looking for a straightforward math class, then AM21B is right for you. It's a lot of material, but once you know the procedure and can do the problems on the homeworks, then tests shouldn't be much harder. You can get a good grade in this class as long as you put in a reasonable amount of work (go to lecture, section, and spend about 5 hours on the pset a week). Definitely not going to be your toughest class, but a solid one nonetheless. Math clinic is super helpful, as well as all the teaching fellows.
Make sure to go to section
THIS COURSE IS SO STRAIGHTFORWARD.  If you don't do well it's YOUR fault, they provide every resource, they test only problem set material.  Tarokh is AWESOME at teaching.  The material is challenging, and there is a lot to learn, but if you put in the time you'll do well and grow much.  Very much a plug-and-chug course, though, and so derive more meaning and link concepts together you may have to work outside and do stuff on your own.
The work is tedious and occasionally frustrating, but very fulfilling and interesting. It's not particularly difficult if you get used to it. The first time around is always hard.
In my opinion, this class did not apply the mathematical tools we learned as much as I had thought it would have. It is easy to do well in this class if you really try. The exams and problem sets are straightforward, and they don't try to trick you. If you know the material, you will do very well.
Compared to the Math 21a/21b sequence AM21a/21b are definitely a better bet. Unless you plan on concentrating in Math, take the AM 21 sequence.
It's SO much better than 21a. It's not really any more "applied" than any other math class, except that the professor occasionally mentions that theorem X could be useful for practical use Y. However, in other engineering classes I'm taking, the math we learn in this class is definitely applied. Go to all the sections, don't bother with lectures, and live in the math clinic with Koji.
The course materials are excellent and the material is useful, but the presentation and the lecture format are not always captivating and occasionally obfuscate the material. If you're a fan of chalk and blackboard, make sure you go to the sections, which are very helpful for exam preparation.
This class is definitely heavier on the computation and lighter on the theoretical concepts.
This is a great math class. You learn a lot, cover a lot of material, and have a lot of freedom.  You have the choice to go to lectures and section or not, so it all depends on what you want to get out of the class and how you learn best.
You will not learn that much about linear algebra in this course so if you want to learn that, take regular Math 21b. Instead this course touches on a lot of subjects, (matrices, fourier series, optimization, differential equations) but you don't get a very solid understanding of them - only how to solve the problems presented on problem sets and midterms.
The professor and TFs were amazing!
Definitely go to both sections offered with this course. That is where you'll get to see most of the things you learn in action, instead of just looking at variables on the board.
If you think you hate math because of Math 21a, don't give up on it just yet. Take AM 21b, it will fix your relational problems with math.
Great class.  Less emphasis on theory, more importance placed on being able to solve real-world problems.
Wayyyyy better than regular 21b.  I loved how in lecture the professor provided chemistry or physics problems that we could now solve with the newly learned material.  This class just made soo much more sense to me compared to 21a.  Vahid is awesome!  And the math help clinic was amazing!  It was well staffed and had some really great TFs inside.
This course was very straight forward. I would definitely recommend it over regular Math 21b. The tests aren't too challenging either, but make sure that you do more than just the problem sets to prepare.
it's a great class. you learn basically the same things as regular math 21b. but homework assignments are much more reasonable and managable
Don't take this class. The professor doesn't care about you at all and his lectures are not helpful for the psets. Everything you learn you will learn outside of class or in section.
This is a much better option than regular math 21b in my opinion!  Professor Tarokh is really helpful and actually wants students to do well in the course, so the atmosphere is good even though the material can at times be challenging (though by no means unmanageable).
Take this class -- I mean, it's necessary if you want to do any higher level math, but be cautious with the materials. It's trickier than you might expect. The teaching is average (which generally falls around the 2 of a 1 (low) to 5 (high) score), so be prepared for much out-of-class education.
Put in the work, try to pay attention in lecture, and go to problem solving sessions. The info is very useful, and you will learn a lot.
Take this class instead of Math 21b! You will not regret it.
This is definitely a class to take if you want to appreciate math while still being able to remember stuff taught in class after that final.
Take this class if you're going to be an engineer, if it's requires, or if you're REALLY into math. Otherwise, you're not missing out by skipping this class.
A lot of work but the teaching staff is very supportive and it is worth taking it!
I thought this class was very well taught overall. Everything was very clear and fair. There were no surprises, and the entire teaching staff truly wanted us to do well.
Very, very easy to fall behind in lecture.  But if you do, don't worry.  Make sure to go to problem sessions to learn how to do the hw.  If you review the online lecture notes and do lots of practice problems you can do very well.  Work hard and it will pay off.
take this over regular 21b
It's much better than regular math 21b, both in terms of workload and quantity learned.
Unlike many courses, this course actually tests on what you know, not on curve balls thrown at you to see if you can catch every nuance of the material.
It's hard. It's a lot of work. There's too much material that needs to be taught, and there is no textbook.
Much better than Math 21b.
This is a great course.  It is taught in a very straightforward manner.  The professor gives you the mathematical tools to deal with problems in engineering and the sciences.  He lays it out clearly and as long as you can do the problems as you were taught you do fine in the course.
Know your integration!
This class format is so much better than the general Math 21b and allows for more application.
I would definitely take it over regular 21b! Vahid is hilarious, and the class set-up is much better. It is all taught in lecture with the professor, and there is only one problem set per week.
Great teaching
This class is great if you practice problems, attend the optional problem sessions and read lecture notes like Professor Vahid suggests.
if you want to go into the sciences, take this class. If you are more a pure mathmatican, opt out for 21.
Great class. Take it if Vahid is teaching!
Take Math 21b instead.
If you are looking to complete the Math 21 sequence, Applied Math 21b is definitely the way to go. The problem sets and tests are MUCH more straightforward than regular Math 21b, and it is a smaller course with the ability for more interaction with the professor. Vahid is a really good guy and wants everyone to do well and be successful - definitely a desirable characteristic for a professor.
If you have to choose between Math 21b and Applied Math 21b, take this class!!!!!Its easier to understand the material. It might just be the math class that you get an A in without sweating and actually enjoy.
Take this over 21b. Even though the material is 50% different and you go at a **much** faster pace, you will end up with a better grade in the end if you show the professor you are trying hard. You will learn more useful math in this course for engineering / pre-med.
Very important class...foundation for more advance classes.
This class was awesome!  The material that we learned is very useful and applicable, but we also got an interesting taste of some of the underlying theory.  I definitely seemed to enjoy my experience more than many of compatriots in regular Math 21b.
it's better than applied 21a, but much of the material requires a lot of algebra and arithmetic that's easy to screw up
I would discourage students from taking this class unless they have to. It is unsatisfying, uninteresting, and throughout the semester there was a distinct feeling that the teachers were deliberately messing with the students. That being said after much struggle, I feel that I have a pretty good grasp of differential equations and linear algebra.
You need to work hard, if you like more one on one teaching take regular 21
The subject is wonderful but the teachers aren't very good. Maybe you should take 21b.
It's Math 21b, so it's not going to be easy.  I took applied over regular mostly because regular didn't work with my schedule, but also because I don't like proofs and I though applied would have fewer of them.  It's possible to get a good grade in this class without going to lecture.  Sections help a lot--I highly recommend Irene Chen's or Evelina's sections.  Just do a lot of practice problems and make sure you understand the homework and you'll be fine.
It's a great class that's pretty easy if you go to lectures, since Avi and Margo go through lots of examples that you'll basically find on your psets. I don't think it's much easier than math21b, though there is more linear algebra covered in this class and more diff equations in math21b.
If you're considering whether to take APMTH 21b or Math 21b, bear in mind that APTHM 21b has 1 long pset a week (as opposed to 3 shorter ones) which is more manageable. The topics are also slightly different as APMTH 21b covers more Diff Eq and less Linear Algebra. It is easy to fall behind on the material which can cause problems on the midterms.
It's an okay course but I feel a lot of people come into it with advanced knowledge of the material which proves to be unfair for those who don't have such a knowledge
If you want to continue further in the field of math/ applied math, this course definitely serves as a solid foundation off of which you can grow. This will give you your first taste of (somewhat) formalized mathematics.
This class was very poorly taught in lectures. Often times material was rushed, so there was no time for it to sink in. If you are going to take this class, then try to get Evelina for your TF. She is phenomenal, and I learned much more in her section once a week than the three lectures each week.
The fact that this course is taught in a lecture format as opposed to a section format like regular 21b was a minus for this course. The professors and TFs really do mean the best but towards the end of the semester there were many people who did not understand the material but lectures were so focused on getting through additional material and not falling behind that it was difficult to understand anything.
The material builds upon itself, so if you stay caught up and consistently practice the techniques, you can do very well in this course.
pretty disorganized, lectures were a waste of time, just read the textbook before exams and psets
Decent course, but a lot of problems this year. A lot of lectures were convoluted or fell apart, the instructor showed up 50 minutes late (with the tests) to the first exam.
You will have to probably teach yourself most of the course.
make sure you understand the material when you do your homework and be sure to internalize the concepts in the homework, instead of just churning out an answer
Seek Evelina's help! She's a gem.
This is a much better class than AM21a and I would definitely recommend this class over regular Math 21b if only because of the teaching staff. Margo and Avi are both good professors and they both have a good sense of humor which goes a long way to making the lectures more tolerable. It does exactly what it is supposed to do. Problem sets and exams are both fair and you end the semester with a solid understanding of pretty much all of the concepts. It's not really that hard to do well in this class if you make any sort of effort whatsoever.
Make sure when you take this class to pay attention to the theorems for the linear algebra component of the course. Avi and Margo love them and they are actually important. You will be tested on them on your midterms and finals. The class is well taught, but as any class at this school, you have to put in the work. Again, the details are what make the difference between a good score on a test and an ok or average one.
The problem sets are long and challenging, lectures are good but occasionally hard to follow.
If you're debating between this and 21b... I took 21a and AM21b, and believe me, AM21b is easier than 21a (and presumably 21b) by a mile.  That being said, RESIST the urge to skip lecture (even if it seems unimportant, they teach things in subtly different ways than the text, so you can't just teach yourself everything), and take advantage of office hours, especially from the course instructors. Margo in particular was hugely helpful; an hour with her was worth three hours' struggling alone.
Take Math 21b (not applied). This course was a mess. The professors were often not prepared for class, which made lecture hard to follow and made it hard to put together concepts conceptually. I felt disrespected during the exams as the second exam seemed like a vendetta against the students as the first exam was too easy (which was a result of the professors not being to print the exam in time). It is saddening when a professor punishes you for their mistakes.
this was an incredibly poorly taught course.  it's not difficult, but there's really no reason to ever go to lecture- the lecturers even confuse themselves frequently.
If you are thinking between math 23, math 21, and apmth 21 and you are not 100% confident in your calculus skills, I do suggest taking apmth 21. The material is more straightforward and it meets all the same prerequisites for subsequent higher level courses as the other ones. First semester I put myself through trial by fire with math 23 simply because I got the 5 on the BC calc exam and it wasn't worth it. Here, they ask a doable, expected amount of effort from you and you can easily do well in the course without expending hours upon hours of excess energy. The TF's are a godsend. Lecture attendance was low, and even as someone who attended lecture regularly, it paled in helpfulness in comparison to section and office hours. If you can, go to every section. At the least, office hours. office hours. office hours. If Irene is TF'ing again, definitely see her. She saved my life in this class and is always helpful and non-judgmental about you not understanding the material/not having reviewed all of it. That being said, she won't walk you through it either so it does push your own understanding. Likewise, don't take the exams lightly. They can and will bite you in the butt if you let them but they are not especially unreasonable if you keep up good study habits. Really don't be afraid to ask questions of the TF's, and while that goes across the board in classes, this course especially. A lot of people took a sort of backseat approach to this (didn't go to lecture, didn't go to section, didn't go to OH because nothing was mandatory) and I think my experience has been infinitely better because I did, and really it didn't take hours upon hours of outside class time if you built up the relationship with the TF(s).
TAKE REGULAR 21B. PLEASE.
There is no reason for the low Q guide for this course. You'll love it if you love sciences and math.
Great class.  If you focus on synthesizing the material during lecture, you'll learn a lot and find the work quite doable.
This class is exactly what it is advertised to be. It won't change your view on life or mathematics. However, it will give you a good foundation in linear algebra. I found myself working pretty close to the deadline for psets as the semester went on; it was definitely more helpful to get psets started on Sunday and have time to use the teaching and support resources. If you leave things to the last minute like I did, you can still do well on the course but be prepared to do a lot of work before the midterms and finals. Also, be warned that the midterms have more theory on them than you would expect.
Make sure you pay extra attention to material after the 2nd midterm
This class was very poorly taught. The lectures were inneffective and the preceptors were pretty terrible. The only good thing about this course was Evelina's section and review sessions, but if you don't get her for your TF/cant go to her sections, this course will be very difficult.
If you want to get the credit out of the way, this class is apt. If you actually want to learn the material and concepts, this class is not for you. Despite it's department, it is hardly applied.
This class is poorly organized and not well-taught. Although it was convenient to only have one problem set a week and beneficial to have the resources of a large lecture class as well as a weekly section, I would probably recommend taking regular 21b. Hopefully next year the course will be better organized.
Solid course. Keep in mind, however, that the quality of your classmates also has some bearing on your experience.
This is a great course if you're interested in learning linear algebra/differential equations. Don't be put off by folks who don't enjoy itit's a requirement for many students in the course, after all. Just put your time into the course and ask questions and you will be just fine. The homework questions resemble the textbook so you can accurately gauge your understanding as you get through material. The professors are very helpful, nice, and supportive as you learn the material. Be willing to ask questions to make sure you fix up any holes before exams and you'll be in good shape!
Although I have many problems with this course, I enjoyed it overall. It would be much easier to succeed in the course if we were able to see worked out solutions to high difficulty problems. However, I thoroughly enjoyed the material that was taught. The teaching staff is very hit or miss. Some people are great and super helpful, others are annoying and rude.
This is a good class, but it's entirely up to you to keep up with it.  So, if you're afraid that you won't spend that much time in this class, you won't learn that much.
Applied Math 21b has a more flexible schedule for psets (1 per week) and combination of lectures/sections provides flexibility as well.  However, Margo and Avi are not as experienced at teaching.  If you're coming from Applied 21a, be aware that lectures won't be as helpful here.  Make sure you attend section instead.
I took regular math 21a, and while I'm sure both the regular and applied math tracks are fine, applied 21b was a much better fit for me. One of the most important differences is that in regular math 21, you're being taught by TFs who could be awesome or could be just okay, and in applied math, you're guaranteed to be taught by great professors. I also preferred the once a week pset instead of the three a week psets, as well as the applications presented in class of the math concepts. If that sounds like what you want, then applied 21b is definitely the right choice.
It's a solid math class done right.  The professors are great and the assignments are great.  I hope they just fix up the grading system.
Do not take this class. Unless you like passive aggressive teachers that will treat you like you are six years old, stay as far away from Avi and Margo as possible.
I think the applied math 21a/21b path is good for those science concentrators who are interested in math as a tool to better understand there own science. The lack of mathematical formality can be frustrating but on the other hand, you will be able to see quickly material applicable in your other science classes. Those taking the math 23/25/55 should be confident that they are able to pick up "utilitarian" math on the fly, because from what I have heard from friends taking these classes is that few of the things they learn are transferable to their science classes.
If you must take math 21b, take applied.  There were problems with the course but it was only one problem set per week as opposed to three.  If you can avoid 21b though, do.
Put in the time and you'll be rewarded.
Keep up with the material. This course relies a lot of what you do outside the classroom, especially that there is only 1 pset a week (as compared to math 21-b that has 3). If you don't keep up, you will quickly loose it.
It is a necessary evil.
I enjoyed the material taught in this class, because I found it very applicable to real-world problems. That being said, I strongly advise you to evaluate your learning style - the lecture component of this course is not for everyone!
It's not a bad class. It's broken into two parts: linear algebra and differential equations. The linear algebra part had a lot of theorems but other than that it was just a lot of algebra/arithmetic which I personally didn't particularly enjoy but if you're good at/enjoy that kind of math, you'll like this class. The second half with differential equations is very similar to your high school calculus class until the higher order differential equations come in. The differential equations part is like a combination of the linear algebra concepts with calculus concepts.
take math 21b if you want a more solid understanding of linear algebra. Take AM21b if you like differential equations. Overall, this class is not as well organized or taught as well as math 21b, I've found.
I took Applied Math 21a and thoroughly enjoyed it, which influenced my decision to continue with Applied Math 21b. I was somewhat disappointed. I didn't find the lectures useful or engaging and I thought the use of the iPad slides instead of blackboards was a downgrade. I relied heavily on my textbooks to study for exams and complete problem sets - which, for the record, are not graded in their entirety but only on a few problems. Overall the course was manageable, but it was not a particularly pleasant experience.
The first half of the course is fairly straightforward (with great book to accompany the lectures), but don't get caught off guard when calculus starts to come back in the second half (differential equations) as the book isn't quite as comprehensive or in sync with the lectures as much. Overall, excellent course and SO GLAD I TOOK IT INSTEAD OF REGULAR 21B! (The regular application problems on the p-sets kept me more motivated than anything and were actually interesting and fun.)
As was the case with the 21a series, I chose Applied Math 21b (as opposed to regular 21b)because I like the lecture + section format better than just section, 3 times a week. Plus, there's one pset per week in this class, in contrast with 3 psets per week in regular 21b - so managing time and balancing work in other classes is more doable. Overall I'd say "doable" is very applicable to this class - go to lecture, go to section (to be honest, if you get a good TF like Brandon Sim section will save your butt every time. Often I couldn't get to lecture for one reason or the other, and attending section gave me very effective, succinct understanding of the material, and try not to freak out about exams. Is the testing hard? Yes, of course it's a bit challenging, but that could probably be said for every math class here. With that said, the exams here are hard but reasonably fair - not to mention, the class will probably be curved at the end. Aside from that stuff, the professors really care about the class and put effort into making resources available for the students. Honestly, I thought applied 21a was easier/better organized, but this is still a solid class if you put the work into it. I'd recommend it.
Unlike other classes, this class requires minimal effort. You don't have to go to lectures or sections because the annotated slides are all online. Textbooks were pretty useless. Midterms and exams were easy. The mean was like a 90. It is graded on absolute scale, so everyone gets A or A-. Great 5th class.
Get ready to ride the strugglebus.
Lectures are helpful but by the end of the semester it is hard to pay attention. P-sets were long (14-19 questions) but fair, and section was very helpful. I think it is easier to learn math in a smaller setting rather than in a large lecture.
its about applied math 21b vs math 21b...and while applied math 21b was poorly taught, math 21 b might still be harder although taught better
The workload is very manageable and the psets can be done in one night. If deciding between this and regular, take this.
If you are in an engineering or physics concentration, this class is perfect for what you need to get out of it. I found much overlap between this and my engineering and physics classes I took concurrently.
Please only take this class if you need to. It's just not that good.
Reading the books can be more helpful than going to class.
I would recommend going to lecture. it's not mandatory, but it will make your life so much easier. Go to section because they review the material thats going to be on the homework. The linear algebra book is helpful. There are lots of office hours. take advantage of them.
Good way to get 21b out of the way, probably better material overall than 21b (more diff eq) but taught pretty poorly. Overall though, the 1 Pset per week and lectures that are not mandatory at all make this a relatively good class.
The Applied 21 track is generally inferior, in my opinion.  It is all the same material presented in 23 and 25 but without the proof-based rigor, and the same as 21 but without the benefits of small section presentation.  I think that the presentation of differential equations is good, but in fairness, solving diffeqs a procedural footnote on analysis.
Try to keep up with lectures and go to section and office hours often for help on psets.
I loved this class. Margo and Avi are knowledgeable about the subject and enthusiastic and full of life in their teaching which makes them awesome. Luke is also a really valuable source of information. They all understand the subject very well and connect every new topic to something we previously learned which I found to be very useful--this way I didn't have to memorize much at all, but instead understood everything. Out of all the math requirements I have taken at Harvard, this one has to be my favorite.
The content was interesting but homework and lectures were often terrible.
The linear algebra portion of this course was easy enough and most of my classmates and I understood it well. The textbook is also very helpful for understanding the linear algebra material and working through the psets. Many of my classmates and I found the differentials section more challenging and struggled much more with understanding the material and completing the psets. I would really recommend reading the section(s) of the book before they are covered in class so that you don't feel completely lost in lecture and attend office hours if you aren't understanding the material in the week leading up to the pset due date.
Great class. Make sure to take advantage of office hours.
I would definitely look into the differences between AM21b and M21b.  I think the different lecture style in M21b may be more appealing to some students.
This is a good class. You will struggle occasionally but the teaching staff are fantastic and super helpful.
Lecture is quite pointless, download the lecture notes, and then go to as many sections and office hours as you can.
Pretty good overview of linear algebra, but not proof based, so mileage may vary. That being said, the first half of the course was really pretty easy, while the second half felt rushed. I do feel like the professor and teaching staff were very helpful and accessible, which made things a lot better when time came to do psets and study for the exams. Also, Margo tends to rush at the end of lectures, making it difficult to understand what happened until reading the lecture notes afterwards. However, the material is not too hard to understand, and lecture notes/textbooks are available online so you can study and learn it on your own.
Sometimes difficult to grasp the material in lecture setting. Important to attend section and actively ask questions at office hours in order to get a handle on the material.
Put in the time to succeed.
I prefer the applied track over the normal 21 track for a few reasons. First, it is taught as one group. Though some will say that this makes the class less personal, it does ensure that you are taught the same material as everyone else by a true professor. In the regular track, there is so much variation between TFs, it is likely that you could get a bad TF, which would ruin your experiences in the class
Be prepared to learn most of the material on your own
This is a very reasonable course. However, it is very easy to quickly get behind due to the course's pace.
It's a better option than regular Math 21b
Applied Math 21b was not a particularly difficult class in terms of grasping concepts; however, the work was far from trivial. Problem sets (and to a lesser extent exams) involved some very messy math; working all the problems by hand can easily take far longer than you'd expect (~4 hours or more). Learn to use Mathematica to check your answers or do routine calculations to save time (though of course make sure you can do the work yourself if needed since exams are without calculators and computers).Dr. Levine is extraordinarily helpful, and so are the teaching staff. Lectures at times were a bit confusing (perhaps because this was her first year teaching), but I expect them to improve next year. In all, it's not a bad option for a second-semester math course.
This class is low stress. Staff is great and pretty helpful! Would recommend.
If you're looking for a class in applied mathematics and no proofs, this one's for you! I took regular math 21a, and I have to say that am21b feels like a much better class in terms of learning the material and fewer curve(balls) on the exams.
This class was not well organized or well run. While it was also not well taught the lecturer definitely cares a lot and it was her first year so I would expect it to improve.
Do not fall behind on the work, or it will be really hard to catch up. Do the homework and understand it well, try to not leave it until the night before. This really is the only way to do well in the class. Make sure you get a good section tf that teaches you how to solve the problems, because they don't necessarily teach you how in class. Make sure you get a good textbook for diffyqs.
I think that it's important to go to lecture and section. I stopped attending either and basically ended up teach all of the content to myself. You should attend class and do your homework. If you feel like you're not understanding the homework the course staff, especially Prof. Levine, are very approachable.
Wish there had been practice tests. Professor Levine is a great person, but not the most effective teacher.
Not as applied as its name would suggest, but the course is still a good one. Getting a good TF is quite important, as you will probably need the second exposure to really understand and grasp the material. Watch out for the final, which is not as easy as the earlier exams.
Solid course that teaches linear algebra and differential equations, and works hard to bring in examples so that you can use what you have learned.
Solve A LOT of problems for practice.
Challenging but rewarding if you put in the effort.
While the material is often interesting, this is a very poorly organized and poorly run course. First semester was not that bad, because the textbook we used was great, so I actually learned the material and felt prepared to answer the homework questions. I enjoyed the actual math of first semester (thought I did not go to lecture because it was not a good use of my time, and was more efficient to teach myself). Second semester, the text we used was horrible. No one had any idea how to do the homework, even those who went to lecture. This was not because the homework questions were well-designed and challenging math problems, but because no one taught us how to do the problems. My section TF was great, but a conversation about a homework question would often end in, "Basically what you need to do here is exactly this. I have no idea how they expected you to know that, so I'll just show you."
I can't speak for regular Math 21b, but this class is extremely well taught, and Margo is really great. I enjoyed learning this material, mostly.
Take this class over regular 21.
If you stay on top of the lectures, go to section, and do all the homework, the class will be manageable.  However anything less and you'll be fighting an uphill battle.
If you are interested in Applied Mathematics, take it.
Taje the course and out some time into understanding the problem sets. The tests come directly from this material.
This is definitely the better option if choosing between regular and applied.  I took regular 21a, and applied 21b is much more straightforward (this may be partially because of the difference between multivariable and linear algebra, but I think it has a lot to do with what material is taught.)  It can be annoying sometimes to have undergrad TFs who haven't taken the course in a while or who never took the course in the first place, but to the most part, the TFs are very useful during office hours.  Form a study group, or go to Friday office hours for psets!
I am happy with my choice to take this class over the regular Math 21b. I liked the lecture component and the one problem set a week made the class less stressful.
This is a great class! Linear algebra isn't hard and differential equations are trickier but not that bad either. Margo is a nice, easy to understand lecturer and really tries to make sure you understand the material. The only drawback is that we go through differential equations much faster than linear algebra which makes it harder to grasp, and the book for differential equations (Lebl) is not good at all.
Course was awful
The last couple weeks are the hardest part by far.
Be prepared to work hard in this class if you want to do well on the exams.
The material is difficult, but the class is taught really well and they really do want you to be successful.
It is a moderately difficult class but it's totally reasonable. Basically everything about the class is average (exams, problem sets, etc) but lectures are basically useless and don't teach you much.
Lectures were honestly not that helpful in this class. Material was crammed into the last 10 minutes and Margo often made mistakes that would derail an example and waste time. Otherwise, the class was a fairly standard linear algebra/diff eq class, but exams started to get more difficult starting with the second midterm. Also, grading was sometimes inconsistent and even if you do decently above average on the tests, it feels like it is difficult to get an A for the course. On the other hand, there probably isn't a better way to take such a class at Harvard. Math 21b is apparently worse, so this class is probably the best it can get.
You are probably deciding between APMTH21b and normal MTH21b. Why you should choose MTH21b:It is far more conceptual and abstract. It gives you a more rigorous understanding of the proofs and the concepts. It is also hard (or so I've heard). It is a smaller class size because of the TF sections. If you get a good TF, you will have a good time. Take this course if you are seriously considering rigorous pure math as a part of your education or concentration.Why you should take AMTH21b (this course):It is far less abstract. It goes over theorems and conceptual things to a smaller extent (but does require a complete knowledge and intuition of these concepts if you want an A). It is a large class but with Margo Levine who is incredible at teaching (make sure that she is teaching though! Apparently she is pregnant...). Actually, let's say that again. I would ONLY take AMTH21b if Margo Levine was teaching again. If it's someone else, make sure that he/she is comprable in q scores. Otherwise, I would be very wary. The teaching staff is friendly and forgiving. There are some elements of applied math (but really, not much because they have to cram two subjects into one semester).
Take this class, just keep up with the work, be consistent as pertains to practice prior to the midterms and the final, and u'll have a great time.
Take this class for a great exposure,useful class definitely but could be better structured
Make sure you take math 1b first
This is not a fun class, but it doesn't have to be awful either. Definitely take it instead of regular Math 21 if you want to do engineering or like the lecture + section format (which I found very helpful). Pick a good TF (try out different ones, they don't care if you come and you're not in their section) because it makes a big difference. Bring your psets to office hours.
Margo is a great lecturer. She brings really interesting application materials to the class that make the class really fun. I was inspired to pursue applied math after seeing first-handedly how a set of equations can be used to model a phenomenon whether it be figuring out if two countries are going to have a war or not or if Romeo and Juliet would fall in love. The well organized lecture notes also make it extremely easy to review the material after the class. A DEFINITE TAKE!!!
need to know how to self-teach some of the material
Go to lecture because that's what will be tested on the exam! Or at least review the lecture materials!
don't fall behind, you can get caught up pretty easily if you do
It's exactly what you think it is. It teaches you what you need to know, and fills your requirement. It's not particularly interesting.
This is a good way to fill the math 21b requirement if you need it for your major.
I recommend this course but with the following reservations: the actual problems and work are only moderately hard and most of the time fairly easy, but the class is taught and organized poorly. You can get away with this poor teaching for the linear algebra part of the class, but you will only get a shallow understanding of the theorems. The biggest problems came when the class started to cover differential equations- the actual why's and how's of differential equations were badly taught, so even a shallow understanding was hard to come by, because material wasn't obviously sequential ( you couln't see the cause and effect of each new thing we learned!)If you don't mind going to office hours, and can get over the organizational screw ups of this class, then take it- you'll probably do well!
Standard math class. Go to lecture.
Do more than just the problem sets. Practice.
Stay on top of your homework
The class was not organized very well and all of the problems on the psets were just frustrating to deal with. Most of the students didn't even both to show up to class and the lectures themselves were clearly the textbook copied verbatim onto the board.
This class is excellent. The material is really enjoyable.
Margo is a wonderful teacher and this is one of the few really well taught and organized classes at Harvard. That being said, I also loved it so much because I really enjoy math - not to say it is overly difficult, just that you should have some interest in math if you're going to take it. Go to office hours and shop around for section leaders that you like the best (Hillary's section is the best, and Robert's office hours are incredibly helpful). Make sure you understand each problem set question and don't just copy down an answer, it'll make studying for exams a lot less painful.
Only take this course if it is required.
its a good class. interesting but you must think
hard and not clearly taught
The class is fine at first but becomes slightly more confusing as it goes. Be prepared to teach yourself.
**Review from a student unlikely to recommend**Whether or not large math classes like this are any good is heavily dependent on the lecturer and their course organization. I had a lot of frustrations with this course because it seemed really sloppy at times and there was a definite disconnect between students and staff. To make it easier to read, here it is in list form:- Multiple errors in problem sets, every week. Expect at least 5-10 emails per week from the head TF explaining yet another error in the problem set that makes it impossible to solve, or explaining that the solutions guide was wrong.- Lectures that start late and end late. Starting late isn't necessarily bad, but ending late is, especially when you are stuck in Northwest and have classes stacked immediately after.- Problem set questions out of nowhere. Don't expect problem set material to be covered in lecture, or the textbook, or in section. Be lucky if the section TF even knows how to answer some of the problem set questions without referencing the answer key. Expect a lot of time spent in office hours with still little to gain.- Lackluster lectures. Everyone has their own style, but if you prefer learning concepts as opposed to just watching example problems completed on the board, lecture isn't for you. What is more frustrating is that we will be told some of this stuff has no application to any other math class or real life and will never be tested on the final exam, and then we will be forced to do it on the problem sets without any textbook or lecture material on it.- Strong physics bias. Applied math at this level is usually basic enough that application problems don't need to delve too strongly into a specific applied field, but this course definitely went overboard on physics application, a bit unfairly in my opinion. Physics was not a prereq for this course but would definitely have helped. The only application problems seen for other fields was so watered down as to be useless.- Terrible textbook. This is probably the most important. The differential equations textbook did not teach anything, and added to the lectures I did not gain anything from, a lot of us were lost in the second half of the course, including TFs at times. The lecturer later sent out an email saying that she had strongly encouraged us to get the optional textbook (because we are rich enough to buy all the optional textbooks). This was frustrating because everyone then had to scramble at the end of the course to get a new textbook and catch up on content. The second half of the course was definitely the weakest.I know this is long, and it will probably get lost amongst the 200-300 other reviews for this class, but I hope for those who have searched it out, they find it helpful. Granted, things may change year to year and improvements be made - I like the lecturer as a person and can see her trying to improve for the better. I would just recommend knowing some of the concerns ahead of time and equipping yourself. While AM21a is definitely better than Math 21a, I cannot necessarily state that for this course versus Math 21b. Really consider your options and background before enrolling in this course.
I definitely recommend Applied Math 21b over normal, although the difference between applied and normal 21b didn't seem quite as drastic as between the 21a classes. Margo is really nice, but lecture is sort of pointless--because the notes are essentially straight from the book, it's not necessary to go to class every day. Linear algebra portion is fairly straightforward, the differential equations are a little tougher but I think part of that was that it was rushed toward the end of the year. Do the psets and actually try to understand them! They're helpful.
Overall, fairly painless and from what I've heard, better than regular 21b. Midterms were tough. Lecture was pretty unhelpful - buy/rent the textbooks instead.
Definitely take this class if you need the 21 track math requirement. The class was not that much work (you could finish a pset in one night if you need) and the midterms are not that challenging. To do well, you need to be able to understand what is going on in the material as opposed to just memorizing how to do certain problems. Also, it is not necessary to go to lecture because the slides she posts are pretty much verbatim what she uses in lecture. Also, find a good section leader because if you don't go to lecture you need to learn the material from someone. Overall, this was one of my least difficult classes this semester, and I would highly recommend taking the applied track if you wan't an easier time.
Make sure you have enough time to put into the class.
Be proactive, go to section, and do homework early, and you will be fine. Try to look for an alternative differential equations textbook to supplement the Lebl notes.
Helped me learn how to self-study and actually learn a large amount of material.
GO TO OFFICE HOURS. all the learning is done in office hours because lecture cover to much to fast.
A good intro course to linear algebra and differential equations. Not too different from 21b, just the lecture format instead of sections.
Depending on who teaches this course, it may or may not be unnecessarily difficult. Make sure you check that out before enrolling in the course. Otherwise, it is, however, supposedly a better alternative to Math 21b.
It made me feel smarter for having taken it, which is nice.
Great class if you can teach yourself math.
The lectures for this class are not very helpful, and many of the exams are not very effective...they test a student's ability to perform lots of mundane calculations in a limited period of time rather than concentrating on the topics covered in 21b.
The class is really fast paced, so you have to stay on top of things or you fall behind really quickly in course material.  The problem sets can be hard.  The exams are hard but fair, she wouldn't put something on the exam that no one has ever heard of.
The class is very interesting, and the material is borderline essential for a number of concentrations on campus.  If you can simply buckle down and enjoy the math, the class should pose no issue for you.
take it
if you think you are good at math and would like some applications to go with it, do ap math 21b
Great class and very flexible but the latter part of the class can start to get really confusing so make sure you're always on top of everything. You don't want to fall behind in this class. Take advantage of section and office hours because they turn out to be very helpful.
Mostly interesting subject matter, and it's stuff people should learn at least once in their lives. Lectures are pretty helpful although the class is also doable without them.
This class was great in Spring of 2012! Really interesting, easily applicable to many fields. Make sure the books are online, and you may not need to go to class, but if you don't, make sure you go to section!!
I don't particularly like math so I wouldn't say I enjoyed the class, but it was very well taught and the staff is great. I definitely recommend it over any other math class if you need to fulfill a requirement. Professor Levine really cares about the class, posts great lecture notes, and is super responsive to advice. The TF's host lots of review sessions to help prepare for exams. Course documents always have lots of errors though, which is annoying.
This course is quite interesting and not hard, as long as you are curious about learning as opposed to just knowing what you need to know for your last minute rush through the HW. And the instructors in AM explain very clearly these concepts! Don't PROCASTINATE. Psets aren't exactly short so start at least by Wednesday!
This is just another stereotypical math class. The concepts you learn are extremely powerful and applicable to the real world, yet the teaching staff simply wants you to get bogged down in the nitty gritty details like how to integrate some ridiculous trig function.  Definitely take this class over regular math 21b as they actually show some applications, but don't be fooled going into this--its just math, you won't see the real world for a long time.
GO TO SECTION! That's how you truly learn in this class.  The books are not helpful and there's so much that needs to be covered in each lecture it's easy to get lost.
Honestly, the class is somewhat frustrating if you really strive to ask the question "why?". You'll find yourself doing equations and calculating things without really knowing the reason behind it, and in addition you don't really see real-life application till about halfway through the course. That being said, it does get better and more interesting especially if you like math, so I would recommend it for those who are considering Applied Math as a major, or anything in that field.
Don't do it. Take regular 21b instead. Its taught way better. (Yes, I started attending 21b section instead of going to lecture)
ehh
Margo is a wonderful, enthusiastic teacher who really cares about her students. There is a lot of material covered in this course, but it is doable.
Take it if you want something a little easier that doesn't make you think too much. Don't take it if you don't really understand math or if you like to be challenged and learn new ways of thinking.
This class is so much better than Math 21b!
I would be likely to recommend if you are interested in math and its applications. The class is difficult in that it goes at a strong, steady pace. Nonetheless, very manageable if you stay on top of things, and a fair course overall.
Professor Levine is great! If you're looking for a solid (but manageable) intro to linear algebra and differential equations, take this class.
Go to section
Probably better than regular 21b, but not as big as a difference as 21a and am 21a.  It's math.  Ya just gotta learn it
In general while shopping, pay great attention to how well suited the instructor is for you personally.
if Margo explains stuff PDEs and those stuff better next year AND change Lebl and use something more useful then DEFINITELY take it!!
Make sure you have an interest in the subject.  This type of math can become frustrating if you do not enjoy it.
If Margot Levine is still teaching this course DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE. I switched in from regular 21b because I had heard it was easier (which it is), but I wish I had stayed in regular math 21b. It is not worth it because though it is easier, it is easier because you don't actually learn nearly as much, and you aren't required to think about what the math means besides plugging things in. Margot is an awful lecturer. She likes to make things sound cryptic (not kidding, her TF used those exact words when I asked him a question in his office hours) and harder than they actually are. It was much better to resort to teaching myself with the book rather than try to sit through lecture.
21b is likely more intensive, but at least the rigor will keep you away from the apathy of a large pre-med lecture course with individuals who have mostly already taken linear algebra and diffy q's and student TFs who don't care.
Everyone says applied math 21b is easier than regular, don't believe them. This class was difficult. The lectures were not useful. You have to teach yourself a lot of the material and the exams do not reflect the types of problems on the problem set.
This class is much more difficult, frustrating, and uninspiring than it appears, and I would hesitate to recommend it if it remains in its current state.
This is a good math class but STAY ON TOP OF THINGS. getting behind is the worst. also take the time to do practice problems, that is my biggest regret.
Find supplementary material (ie online videos or a book that works for you)
Read the lecture notes and do the practice problems. Know the concepts.
This course isn't too bad, but you should ask yourself if you learn effectively in lectures vs sections. This course isn't too bad, but it can be easy to fall into the habit of not going to class - especially when lecture isn't being all that helpful. Also, find one of the better TFs, regardless of who you get assigned to. It's just clear that some of the TFs got good grades in the class while some actually understand the material and can help you understand it
This class flies through material at a speed that does not allow for actual learning of the material. The lectures were incredibly unclear, although that may change with a different professor.
Compared to Applied 21a, the material in this class seemed easier to conceptualize, more interesting, and more applicable. The lectures and sections are all helpful, and it isn't hard to find a time to go to office hours. The teaching staff is very approachable.
This class is an awesome foundation in linear algebra and diff eq, however, expect long psets near the end of the semester!
Interesting content, Margo is a great lecturer, good support at office hours and section.
The material's cool, but make sure you do the work every week and UNDERSTAND it when you do it. Everything builds on itself and if you miss an important lecture (like the one about eigenvectors) you'll kick yourself later.
1. Find a textbook/online resource that works for you! 2. Keep up with the material! There's a lot of it and things build up quickly.
Do not take it unless you have to. May be better than normal 21a, but it is so boring.
This class is definitely more straight forward than Math 21b and I would highly recommend you choose this course over that. The two exams/final were pretty difficult and long. Margo's lectures are fine, but don't really go that much into depth with the material. There is a lot to cover and the last couple of weeks are really rough so don't slack off. The homework can sometimes be tedious to complete. The second, differential equations textbook is horrible - I would recommend using a supplement.
go to lectures
It is hard.  The psets are long and tedious towards the end of the semester so don't fall behind.
good class, i would recommend attending lecture even though you can probably get through the class without going. stay on top of work!
The course is definately worth taking. Very useful and well-taught.
interesting
This was a much harder class than Applied Math 21A. There is a lot of material to cover that is just more difficult than multivariable calculus. The class is fast-paced but as long as you keep up with the lectures, you should be fine. Homework is long - the nature of the material is such that individual problems can be rather lengthy. While the concepts may not even be that difficult, there is a lot of algebra that slows everything down. So start early, make sure you're keeping up with the material. Overall I enjoyed the class, but it could be frustrating at times not understanding what exactly was going on as sometimes you need to do an entire problem set and then look back over it to really grasp the concepts.
It's not that bad material-wise, but needs some serious ironing out of how it is run. Assuming it will be improving next year though
The least painful of Harvard's grueling intro math classes. Unfortunately, everything up through AM/M 21 focuses on procedure, practice, and rote learning rather than higher-level concepts like 23 does. Much of your grade is based on your exam scores, and many of the exams boil down to how well you can do complex algebraic and calculus manipulations, and how well you remember rote procedures. I finished the course thinking that most of what we focused on could be done faster and more accurately by a computer. Though one may argue that you must know how to do these problems yourself if you are to program a computer to do them, the course tends not to focus on concepts and high-level understanding, but rather the low-level nitty-gritty stuff. It would have been more useful to teach an awareness and understanding of these concepts and how they can be combined and leveraged to solve broad/complex problems, rather than how to do very narrow problems that somebody has already set up for you.This is the inherent nature of lower level math classes (it's been this way since learning arithmetic in elementary school). That aside, Margo does a great job conveying the material, and the course staff is strong and helpful. Plentiful office hours and outside help leaves you feeling well-supported. I'd opt for Applied Math over regular Math 21b, since Margo is a very good lecturer, whereas with the section-based Math 21b you run the risk of getting a TF who can't teach.
Margo was teaching this course for her first time.  Hopefully, in future years, it is structured better.  During lecture, she tends to teach at a reasonable pace but will end up cramming a lot of information in the last 10 minutes because she runs out of time.  She also tends to go over the hour by a few minutes.  My biggest frustration with the course is how lecture is about proving irrelevant proofs and then some of the problems on the problem sets are randomly chosen as if someone just looked at which section they were in, when in fact they weren't really covered in class.  The best part of the course hands down is Margo's personality, quirky and idiosyncratic.  Overall, a fair course that has room for improvement, but headed by a decent professor.
The lectures go very fast. You need to study really hard for the midterms. Class was okay, but not amazing.
Solid class, but it will take a decent amount of work on your own to do well.
Take pure 21b instead
This is tough material to begin with, but when the lectures are not good and the tests are on problems that we have never seen before, it makes it extremely frustrating and hard. I think the teacher is the main thing to look at when choosing between applied 21b and regular 21b.
You probably have to take this course, so take it.
The tests did not give a fair impression of understanding of the material. The tests would test things like whether or not you knew how to integrate trig functions or could do partial fractions. Section was very helpful but lecture was not. If you can handle 3 psets a week, take regular 21b instead.
Not interesting but well-run.
It might not be as rigorous as regular Math 21b, but I still feel like I got a lot out of this class. Advantages: it's not too difficult, the TFs were really helpful, the problem sets were just the right level of difficulty, we learned Matlab without detracting too much from the material. Disadvantages: sometimes it's a little disjointed, there's not as much stuff taught to give you a conceptual understanding of the material, so sometimes it's more of teaching you methods of attacking certain problems rather than why those methods are the way you attack those problems. Also, lecture could get dull, but overall wasn't too bad. In general, I'd say this was a good course, not without flaws, but I am satisfied.
Do pset problems over again to prepare for midterms since they barely give you any extra practice problems. Don't really have to go to lecture, but the textbook for diff. eqs is pretty bad.
go to section.
The linear algebra textbook that the course uses is helpful but the textbook for differential equations is not, which can make the latter half of the course particularly challenging. However, the TFs are really helpful and although Margo is not the most effective lecturer, she is so kind and very accessible outside of class.
This is a great math class. Margo is an awesome teacher who is very invested in how well her students do in the class. The lectures are interesting and talk about cool applications of the math we learn, and the section component is extremely helpful for gaining a better understanding of the material. Take this class!
Lecture is not very clear and focused on step by step problem solving rather than going over concepts. Rely on the textbook for understanding the big ideas and gaining an intuition for the topics. Section is useful depending on who you have as a TF and office hours are always crowded for pset questions!
This course is structured well and well-taught. Professor Levine is very enthusiastic about her work, and section is relevant and useful.
prepare more for exams than you think you need to - they are difficult!
The teaching staff is really amazing. Margo and Evelyn are really dedicated and they want above all to see students do well.
I don't know much about the lectures, so I wouldn't be the right person to be asked.
Margo did a good job teaching this class and you can tell she really cares about helping all of her students and being fair to everyone. Sometimes she gets flustered and makes mistakes while teaching, but she's humble and always fixes her mistakes. The linear algebra pace was good, but I thought the differential equations portion of the class was too rushed and not thorough enough, especially the part after the second midterm. Also, the differential equations book was absolutely terrible and I hope it never gets used again. Homework was alright, but it seemed like every week there was one unnecessarily hard question that just wasted everyone's time without actually helping you learn anything. Section was great and the teaching staff genuinely care about the class and the students.
This is a good class to take and you will learn a lot, but I would be sure you need/want to take it because it can be more time demanding for certain psets. The teaching staff is really invested in your experience and they are always there to help you succeed so anyone could do well with the right time put into it. Some things may be hard to understand at first but once working through the material for awhile it makes sense.
If you're trying to decide between this course and regular Math 21b, take this course. It's the same material but you'll be much happier with one pset a week instead of three.Also Margo make a boring topic seem fascinating. I would never get as interested in differential equations if it wasn't for her.
Take this instead of regular 21b
This is a great introduction to Linear Algebra and also a decent one for differential equations. Margo is a great teacher, as are the TF's, and you truly get the feeling that they are all trying to get to know as many of the students as possible. I also really liked the MATLAB portion of the course
Take the applied series over the regular math department if you aren't as mathematically inclined... on pset a week is much more flexible than three.  Also, Margo rocks, and her TF's are top notch.
It is very applicable material
Margo is awesome. She is engaging and really loves the material. Section can be so so, make sure to find a TF you like a lot. The class can be a lot of algebra, maybe even too much on pests, but has a lot of great non-algebra material.
Much better than regular 21b, based on discussions with friends. Not too much work. Fair exams. Margo is great.
Lectures not taught that well, ended up learning the most from section, and by reading the textbooks.
This class is amazing! I recommend it highly over regular math 21b. The problems are much more practical, and there is only one problem set each week compared to three each week in regular 21b. The exams are very fair, and the Matlab component of the course is interesting. Take this course!
APMTH21b is exactly what it is. It satisfies requirements, teaches you linear algebra and differential equations. Having taken 23a freshman year (I loved it, but wanted to spend most of my time in courses other than math...) I can say that APMTH21b is a much easier approach to learning math. It's much more like high school where you learn material but not so much the deeper more profound aspects of it. Psets do require some time, but if you go to class you should be fine.
It's an easy way to complete the linear algebra requirement, but I feel I might have learned more from taking normal 21b, or maybe the 23/25 series. If you really like Math, and want to learn about the theory behind the concepts, then don't take this class.
Very difficult class. I had a very difficult time understanding the material, but had I put more effort in I probably could have done marginally better. I can't blame any of the teaching staff for my experience, they were remarkable, some of the best at helping when I had issues. I just didn't enjoy the material we learned.
There's a rumor that Margo Levine, the prof who taught this class in year's past, will be leaving, so make sure to investigate the new teaching staff before you sign up. That said, if the professor looks ok, TAKE THIS CLASS. The format of lecture with optional section and only one problem set a week is way less stressful than 3 times a week section for Math 21b, and the class is formatted in a way that you can get tons of personal attention from the course staff if you need it and spend a lot less time if you don't.
Get ready to work hard!
As long as Margo is leading this course, I can 100% recommend this course. Have a passionate prof. whose enthusiasm of the course is likely contagious
A very solid introduction to linear algebra and differential equations. Not too difficult, and probably less time consuming than regular 21b. However, make sure to do plenty of practice problems before the exams. Margo is wonderful. She is so caring and helpful, and she really loves what she does. In fact, she is teaching this course voluntarily, and she is not getting any extra money for it!
This is a good class if you are trying to learn differential equations and linear algebra.  I found lecture to be not that helpful at times, but section is very helpful for learning the material.
if you have time for the increased workload take regular 21b instead
No proofs or anything. If you know how to do the problems on psets you'll know how to do the problems on tests. Significantly better than taking 21b in this regard.
Get to know Margo - she is awesome!
Be sure to understand the conceptual aspects of the course, in addition to the problem solving. Margo and Evelina are great about offering help outside of class, and they are very helpful in an office hours setting.
It requires much more work than Applied Math 21a
The thing I most enjoyed about this class was the engagement of the teaching staff. All were willing to help with questions and problems with the material.
This course is difficult and is not required for neither premed nor for many of the science concentrations, so don't take it unless you have an interest in the subject matter.
I gained a lot from this class. Although the lectures sometimes seemed to be going through material quickly, there was a lot of help offered outside of class that I found really helpful. As someone with no computer science background, I found the Matlab component of the class manageable and interesting
This is overall a pretty good class.  Margo is simply AMAZING.  I took regular 21a (loved it), but wanted to take AM21b because I wanted to get to know Margo.  That being said, I think I prefer the exams in the regular 21 series (only 4 questions per midterm in this course), but that is a small detail.  The only thing about this class that is sort of lackluster is the MatLab component on exams, but I think that might change for next year.
If you are deciding between 21b and applied 21b, you should heavily consider applied. The teaching staff is extremely supportive and always willing to meet with you if you are struggling. Since it is a smaller lecture, they are able to know you personally if you meet with them. Also, the material is presented in a very digestible way and the work, though at times challenging, is very doable.
Margo is an amazing instructor who is so passionate about what she teaches! This course is a bit challenging but if you attend lecture and reach out to the tis or Margo in office hours I am positive you will get a lot out of this course!
It's not a very difficult class and is probably a better way to learn linear algebra and its applications than the you would have in regular Math 21b.
If you can take regular math 21b, take that.  The lecture format is difficult for a math class, and it makes it a lot easier to miss classes.  If you really want to learn linear algebra, take the pure math class rather than the applied math class.
It is a good class.
Material seems easy in class but the tests are literally ALL application. I would definitely study in small increments rather than cram and read the book (Lay is really good and most of the pset questions and theory come from there; Boyce/diPrima is more dense.) The Matlab can be a pain on homeworks and basically everywhere else.
More flexible than 21b.  Teaching staff is very committed to having students learn.  If you want to learn, they will take the time to teach you.
Take this class if you have to fulfill the math requirement for your major, but don't want to strain yourself with a more time intensive class.
Although this class could sometimes seem tedious during the first few weeks when dealing with some linear algebra concepts, it proved to be a very interesting a rewarding class especially once we shifted into differential equations.  As long as you keep up with the topics in lecture, section, and homework, no one part of the class should be overly difficult or overwhelming, although you will have to work at it to end up with a solid grade at the end of the semester.
Suo's lectures make sense about half the time.  They are difficult to follow and oftentimes repetitive or seem irrelevant to the course week ~3-->8ish.In general, STRONG recommendation of taking 21b over AM21b.
I learned linear algebra I guess. The lectures don't really match the textbook and the pset making it usually difficult to do the pset without going to office hour. The professor is enthusiastic but I don't know if I would say he is the best lecturer. The lectures are definitely helpful to go to but at the same time, I feel like I don't learn 2/3 of the time. But the days that you do learn, it is important
Out of all the intro courses at Harvard for any given subject (i.e. Ec10), Professor Suo's AM21b has to be one of the best.  Professor Suo gives clear examples in lecture that allow you to understand the material--he also teaches at a reasonable pace that makes it easy to take it all in without getting lost during lecture (not to mention, he's hilarious at times--so you will look forward to lecture). The textbook is also excellent--if you put a lot of time into studying the textbook and are attentive in lecture, you will be prepared to do very well on the exams.  Even students who are not concentrating in a "technical" field should strongly consider this course--linear algebra is applicable to many other fields (i.e. chemistry, statistics, artificial intelligence) .  In all, this is a great course, and if you are deciding between AM21b and Math 21b, as long as Suo is teaching AM21b, you should hands-down choose this course.
This course is doable but definitely lacks components that make it unnecessarily challenging towards the end of the course.
Pretty brutal course just in general, don't fall behind
The class material is very interesting and the professor really teaches it very well. The exams were fair but the homework assignments were difficult and very very long, not just because the material was being applied in interesting and complex ways, but also because most problems assigned for homework came from chapters not taught in class. My TF understood this and explained these concepts in section to us, but being that my section was the day before the problem set was due, it made the whole hw situation pretty stressful. If you take this class, I recommend trying to get a section time that is earlier in the week.
the professor is the best and the workload is very manageable yet you learn all the material very well.
Very good class with very good professor.
Really fun!
Suo is my daddy.
Take this, pretty simple if you do the homework (which is easy, actually easy) and pay attention. Plus, linear algebra is v cool.
linear algebra is really cool! but learning about chicken and rabbits space was not
Take regular 21B instead. I've heard it's much better taught even if there's more work.
Way better options than regular Math 21b
This class is definitely more work than Math 21b, but you should take AM 21b anyway. Zhigang is a legend and the extra time spent on applications is incredibly useful. Unless you're looking to go into pure math, you will most likely be more interested in the applications of linear algebra than the pure mathematics. We probably spent a third of the course just doing work in economics, engineering, physics, biology, and of course, Zhigang's favorite example, the chicken-rabbit farm. If you want to take a class where you spend all week looking at meaningless matrices and listening to a random PhD teach you linear algebra, take Math 21b. If you want the most entertaining math lecture ever, take AM 21b. It's a lot of work, but the extra work is made up for in interesting applications.
(Keep in mind that this was the first semester this course was run with Professor Suo as the instructor and that there will hopefully be improvements in future terms). Overall, I feel that Math 21b would be a favorable alternative to this class.The beginning of this course progressed fairly slowly, with a week being spent on theoretical concepts such as "scalar sets" that came up on the first midterm and really did not seem to apply later on. As a result, the interesting material in the later part of the course had to be rushed through.The course overall did not seem to be very well organized, homework grading was often behind by 2 weeks and practice midterm solutions were uploaded fairly late relative to the first midterm. Additionally, TF's did not seem to have great communication with the professor; my TF did not know that a concept the professor put on the midterm would even be tested. As a result, I did not find section to be particularly helpful.
This class is really not very hard if you put in the work and focus to actually understand the material and not just memorize steps. Professor Suo makes his midterms and finals solely based on homework and lecture problems, so there will never be any real surprises. Similarly, problem sets are solely based on textbook and lecture problems.
Honestly not too bad. Take it if you have to, otherwise don't bother.
The Professor is a hell of a character and some of the material seems esoteric at first, but if done the right way you can get a lot out of it and maybe even have some fun.
It is way easier than regular 21B
very hard to learn material due to poor teaching
Prof. Suo teaches this class well. I would recommend you take this over Math21b.
The first two thirds of this class are pretty good. Professor Suo does a good job of directly connecting linear algebra with real-world problems with physical significance, and it's not too much work. The final third (between the second midterm and the final) was terrible. Problem sets were super long and unnecessarily hard, not even in a conceptually difficult way. They felt like random nonsense that hadn't been covered. Professor Suo insists on putting some questions in problem sets that are so long and difficult that they're done only by computers today just to make you have "sympathy for the computer." They're not even conceptually challenging, they just require 10,000 operations, and if you make a mistake even once, you get the answer wrong. On one problem set, a single question like this took students two hours. Many just didn't do it. Lectures don't make much sense in the last third of the class; the textbook and section were much more useful. The textbook is very good, so even though most students I talked to in the class didn't really understand lectures, we felt very prepared for the final because we studied the textbook and learned everything quite well. However, the final was a surprise because the problems were not standard problems that require a straightforward method to solve, like the ones in the textbook. They were set up to use a particular method that Professor Suo prefers and taught in lecture, but lectures are hard to understand, so most students learned from the textbook. As a result, a lot of us felt like our performance on the final did not actually reflect our understanding of linear algebra.
This class was a bit over the place with a new professor. Prof Suo is definitely enthusiastic.
Reading the book was the only effective method for learning the material this semester. The lectures, office hours and section were pretty useless (decreasing in value in that order). But it's a great book and teaches everything you need to know. Lecture was all right, but the teaching staff was wholly unprepared for office hours and section and frequently taught the wrong way of solving the problems, making the class much harder than it needed to be. If this class wasn't going to change, I could not recommend it at all, but I feel confident the teaching staff and Professor Suo will do what it takes to fix the serious problems of the course.
Shop both AM21b and regular 21b, and see which you prefer. The first two-thirds of the class was easy and straightforward, and then it became more difficult and confusing. The TF's this year were great, but there was some disconnect between the TF's and the professor. The pset problems aren't necessarily going to be like the problems on the exam, which can be worrisome. But overall lectures were enjoyable and Professor Suo is funny. Linear algebra is useful, so definitely take it--whether you take AM21b or regular 21b is up to you.
AM 21b is probably the worst class I have taken at Harvard. The professor spent half the lecture time ranting about politics and how the language of mathematics is so obscure. He used one single problem about chickens and rabbits, and tried to extend it to the entirety of the course material. Lectures were way behind the homework and we were often required to learn entire sections of the textbook on our own before we could do the homework problems.  I would have done much better in the class if I had never attended lecture and only studied from the textbook. However, the professor liked to invent terms special terms or names to use because he didn't like the ones in the textbook, which made studying extremely confusing. The only resource we had for the class was a 200 page Google doc in which the professor typed up all his notes for the entire course in bullet points using poor English, and because it was typed the mathematical notation was very hard to read. Overall an incredibly poorly taught and poorly designed class. DO NOT TAKE IF YOU WANT TO CONTINUE LIKING MATH.
How much you enjoy this class is 100 percent dependent on the teacher, so be sure to shop the class first. If you don't like how the psets, lessons, and section are early in the semester, they aren't going to get any better.
This course is useful for future math classes and for understanding linear algebra. However, I personally feel the course could have been taught much better.
The professor is good and passionate but often assigns work on material that he has not yet covered, be prepared to do a lot of reading to understand the problem sets
This course taught me how to solve particular problems presented to me, but did little to help me know WHY I was applying the mathematical theory. Although the course is admittedly new (this was the professor's first year teaching it), it was quite disorganized and led me to spend the majority of my time outside of class trying to figure out what was even going on rather than working on problem sets.
It's a good course but I was more entertained by the jokes of the professor than I was able to actually grasp the concepts
Take the regular 21b.  If you do take this class, be prepared to teach yourself the psets.
You will have a new appreciation for chickens and rabbits after this course. You will love Professor Suo. He doesn't teach the material as well as I would have liked but he will make up for it with his unique humor. The problem sets get a lot more difficult in the latter half of the course and you will have to try to learn a lot of the material on your own if you want to complete the problem sets. Utilize office hours to get questions answered. BUT there is only one pset a week which is nice.
Professor Suo teaches a lot of material in weird ways, to the point where TFs don't know what's going on. This is very frustrating. His homeworks range from being really hard to easy, and lectures don't follow the textbook at all (apparently intentionally).
Its a good class
If Professor Suo is teaching it next year, be excited for very energetic lectures, which keep you engaging. Be aware, however, that the course will be mostly self-study- he is unable to cover a significant portion of the material in lecture, and as a result, doing homework and studying for exams will require learning lots of new material.
The vast majority of the learning happens by yourself through reading the textbook or through asking questions to tfs and classmates. It can be frustrating to learn in this way, but regular 21b may not be much different, so you don't really have a choice.
Interesting material, Professor Suo does a great job explaining concepts, exams are pretty fair with some harder questions, homework is most of the time pretty reasonable.
The course material was very applied in nature, which is good, but the lectures felt separate from the psets.
If you want to learn linear algebra, do not take this course. Prof Suo is very entertaining, but the lectures are more of a spectacle than anything else. You will spend a painful amount of time repeating basic ideas, and at the end you will be unsatisfied with what you learned. Prof Suo is trying to redefine the foundation of linear algebra, so you will learn what he has created, which does not reflect the linear algebra that is accepted by the academic community. Also, you will have homework on topics before they appear in the lectures (if they appear at all), so most of your learning will be on your own. There will also be topics on the test that are not in the psets or in the lectures, but Prof Suo does let you know what they are ahead of time. You will be entertained by Prof Suo no doubt, and it is likely less work than the regular 21b course, but enroll with caution.
interesting material and suo was a good lecturer. beware that the first couple of weeks are deceivingly easy- the course really picks up as the semester goes along.
If professor Suo is teaching this class again then absolutely take it. He is very fair, lets you know what is expected and make sure you're well grounded in the basics and builds up. Makes this one of the best math classes i've taken and I took 1a through 21b.
This was a fantastic class with an awesome professor but just has tons of difficult work. The exams seem straightforward but can have a few random curveballs.
The professor of this course is sooo awesome. He takes the time to learn people's names and tries to get people to be more involved in the learning process than one might think of a lecture based course. I feel that the people that showed up to lecture had a great time and really left knowing more and having a greater desire to learn the topics than those who were confused when they didn't come to lecture.
Go to lectures so you don't have to attempt to interpret the notes yourself.
If you're taking this class it's because you have to - absolutely absolutely choose this class over standard 21B though, definitely a better alternative.
Professor Suo is a great teacher and truly enthusiastic about the material! He's really fair, and although I normally hate math, I actually enjoyed his course!
I feel very competent in linear algebra after having taken this class. As to whether to take AM 21b or Math 21b, it probably doesn't matter that much. The only way to know is to register for both and see if you like your Math 21b TF or the AM 21b professor better. If Professor Suo is still teaching the course in future years, I would highly, highly recommend going for AM 21b. He is a very clear lecturer with reasonable and concrete expectations.
