The final part of the semester can be very intense unless you have thought about and researched a possible topic for the final presentation and paper. This class inspired me to pursue further research in this field, and I highly recommend this course for anyone interested in taking a more specialized modeling course than AM50/115.
Fantastic class to take if you are interested in applied math/biology! It opens your eyes to a new field at the intersection of math and cancer biology. Professor Michor is one of the most prominent scientists in the area and it is amazing to be able to learn the materials from her.
This is a chill, but interesting and useful class.
It's a crazy class but a lot of fun looking back.  Not sure how much I grasped but in the end, it was a great experience.
It could be a really awesome course if it had a little more organization
This course is great! I will admit that I was initially skeptical when I walked in and experienced Beth Chen's teaching method for the first time, and I didn't think I would learn anything. However, this course has taught me so much about the mathematical basis behind music, and has completely changed the way I approach music. While there is no work outside of class, do not think that this means there is no work at all; all you will be doing for the 6 hours a week you have this class will be in-class assignments. For the first half of the semester, this will be exclusively Mathematica assignments, where you learn as you go. After the halfway point, half of your class time will be split between writing Mathematica programs and building your own instrument. By the end of the semester, we were able to convert a stream of note letter names and durations into sheet music using only Mathematica code, and each of us had built an instrument. This course may not be offered again in this format, but if it is, it's a great elective or fourth/fifth class!
The class is a ton of fun. Beth is really nice and lenient, and she makes learning quite exciting. However, Beth and Evelina tend to make the assignments harder than they should be because the topics and materials are very scattered. I didn't know much music theory coming in, and I don't know much about it afterwards, but there are a lot of music and math relationships that I've learned through this class. This is a great class if you are looking to understand the math behind music, but if you don't get music theory, this will be a bit more challenging. Beth is great though, so it's worth it! and you get to build an instrument too!
Fun class, sometimes a bit unstructured with the flexibility
I thought this class was a great way to blend music theory with math. I took it as a math elective and enjoyed building upon my basic knowledge of music theory using math. The teaching staff is terrific and very helpful if you run into any problems along the way. Some background in coding (mostly Mathematica, some MATLAB) is advantageous.
If you want to learn more about how music theory works at a fundamental, mathematical level, take this course.
All of the teaching and assignments were very scattered, off-the-cuff, and improvised, but the course was a lot of fun and there wasn't much work out of class. It also ended up being a useful introduction to Mathematica.
This course is probably unlike any other course you've taken. It's incredibly open-ended and collaborative, and really forces you to think outside the box and admit your weaknesses, while helping others with areas that are your strengths. I had a lot of fun and learned some very interesting things about music! Definitely take it -- you will grow as a student and as a learner.
From speaking with the instructors, seems like it'll be fairly different next time the class is taught. That aside, the topic itself is very interesting and something that one may not get much exposure to in other math classes.
Although this class does not require outside work (except for potentially at the end of the semester), you also do not leave the class with much to show. Interesting things are explored in class, but the context is not enough to truly understand the implications of the findings. Instead, a lot of what is left is simply cool patterns.
I definitely recommend this class to anyone. Beth is amazing and cared about her students. Still, she forces you to think outside the box in a low stakes environment and where if you don't collaborate with other student you will fall behind. The final project, where you have to make an instrument of your own was also extremely interesting and engaging. For sure one of the most unique courses at Harvard.
Best course at Harvard, now it's gone.DON'T LET BETH LEAVE
THE BEST CLASS EVER. Too bad it won't be offered again with Beth :(
Most of the class is working with your classmates to follow vague clues about what you should be doing. There's plenty of strange math and eventually the class becomes a Mathematica coding marathon. It is possible to get everything done in class if you work fast.
This is probably the most unique class I've taken at Harvard. Truly a fun but weird experience.
Super fun class! Beth is a character, but you grow to love her. Really cool semester-long project that's very open-ended and you can do nearly anything you want (virtual or physical instrument).
This is certainly a unique class.  The workload is very light, but class time can be stressful, because you're not always sure what's going on.  But maybe that's a good thing...
Without a doubt the most different class that I've taken and probably will ever take. There are very rarely ever assignments outside of class, the professor essentially just acts a moderator for the direction of the course and concepts are expected to be discovered via communication with peers, and she is prone to throwing bags of food at people. It's definitely an interesting class, but the teaching style may not be a great fit for everyone since the professor gets easily upset if the class isn't moving at the pace that she would like.
Amazing class. You learn about music from a rather different perspective, which is intriguing to both musicians and non musicians.
This course is by far one of the wackiest, and most fun I've taken at Harvard. I learned so much about music theory and Mathematica. The project component is super awesome, you get to build basically whatever you want music/instrument related. Beth is a scary but awesome preceptor. There is no homework or exams, so your project better be worthy of a Harvard smartypants.
its an adventure
Absolutely amazing class, you get out what you put in
Beth is an absolutely incredible human and clearly a genius. It is challenging to understand the depth of what we are learning, as most of it is far beyond my intellectual capacity. The course is extremely collaborative and fun, but be prepared to be very lost for some portions of the lectures.
Beth introduced very interesting material and really promoted collaboration. I made a lot of friends in this class and attending class was very enjoyable on days where I was able to keep up with the material, but stressful on days where people fell behind.
It is often advertised that this class is an easy A and that there is no homework and no tests.  Neither of these is true: to get the most out of this class, it is not easy, but it is doable.  There is no homework as long as you finish everything in the allotted class time.  If you don't finish in class, you have to do the assignment out of class before the next meeting.
Beth Chen, though she is leaving, is incredible. Though the initial tenacity may be off-putting, no instructor of mine has ever cared as sincerely about the success of her students and put in as many hours outside of the classroom to ensure it.
Beth is a great teacher, and you will learn a lot about working independently and collaboratively in this course. I definitely recommend taking it to learn music theory, CS, and math. The entire class is a riot and is one of my favorite classes at Harvard.
This is a weird course. We never had any idea what we were doing or why we were doing it, and Beth was of no help. To top it off, she frequently assaulted students by throwing random objects (makers, boxes, etc.) at them. The lab component was great, though.
Must take. EOM
The focus on collaborating with peers, not asking too many questions to the teacher, and limiting work to in-class was awesome.
This class is unique and will not be reproduced now that Beth is leaving; I'm sorry! However, the lab component of building your own instrument with Maddie Hickman was incredible and will hopefully still exist next year. Reach out to her and find out!
Great way to learn about instruments and music in a hands on way
This class is just so unique and you'll never find anything like it anywhere in the world - honestly. Beth's style of teaching is so unique and engaging and she manages to keep every class exciting, engaging, and requiring your full attention. She cares so much about the students also. Plus the component of the course to actually make an instrument was very rewarding and actually took a fair amount of work. The class is a gem.
Beth is an incredible teacher. I learned a lot from this class. Stay humble and respect the style of the course. If you get easily frustrated or bogged down when you dont know the answer, this may not be the class for you. You must struggle to have the ultimate eureka moment that this class provides.
Beth is really very very sweet, but sometimes gets too emotionally involved and upset during class. The class has a very loose structure, and often feels rushed, chaotic and stressful. That being said, it is a gem class, very low workload for a lot of learning. As long as your section has good people in it you will be okay.
This was an amazing class! Absolutely loved Beth and Maddie!
Start your instrument project early!
Beth is amazing and if you're willing to play along with the class format you learn a ton and have fun doing it
It seems silly reviewing a course that won't be offered again, but I would recommend taking this course. It can be exhausting at times, but Beth's approach to music theory is incredibly interesting. This is also the first course in a long time where I know the names of my classmates at the end.
Know your music theory! This class is lots of fun. You will become more familiar with Mathematica and see patterns in music.
Beth is absolutely amazing! Not sure if it's being offered again but it's one of the most collaborative classes at Harvard. While you will get an A, it's not about the grade. The experience of this class is like any other. Lab is also amazing and so cool that you can learn a bunch of engineering techniques!
Very interesting and low-stress course, Beth is fantastic.
This course was one of my favorites at harvard since it challenged me to take responsibility for what I actually wanted to learn. It forced me to collaborate and think about music in a new way! Beth is a little bit unconventional, but it is clear that she cares so much about this course and her students, and about everyone learning.
Gem of a class. No work outside of class. Beth and Maddie are awesome and passionate.
best class ever. like nothing youve ever experienced
This is the class to take.
So like, this is a very interesting course if you like math and music, as you would expect. If you don't know anything about music, honestly I doubt you'll get that much out of it, despite what Beth claims. There isn't any work outside of class, though there aren't quite enough labs in the semester to build a full instrument, so you may need to put in some extra work there. And if you ever don't finish in class, you might have to finish at home. Which happens a decent amount of the time because Beth always overestimates how much students will get done. Also, don't take it if you don't have a pretty thick skin. Beth is hard to deal with sometimes and you WILL be yelled at.
Beth is an amazing teacher. She is absolutely devoted to all of her students, and even though her methods are sometimes very unorthodox, it's one of the only classes I've taken at Harvard where cooperation was not only necessary, but ENFORCED. Also building a physical instrument is really cool. As a music and computer science joint concentrator, I was very comfortable with the material and found it extremely interesting to derive classical music theoretical concepts using pure math.
Beth is an amazing teacher who really cares a lot about her students and wants to see them succeed. She really is invested in your learning and makes this class incredibly entertaining and enjoyable. Would recommend to everyone.
This class is a must take. EOM.
The course material is very interesting. And I definitely learned a new way to think about music. However, the instructor didn't provide the most ideal learning atmosphere. She yelled a lot when people don't understand things, and also yells or gets frustrated when I ask questions or don't understand. She would respond with "I've already told you to much" or "Don't worry about it".
There was no work outside of class. Class was a little stressful but it was worth it. Beth is absolutely the best.
This was a really cool class that takes little time, and is an easy and really interesting 5th.
Good class, but I wouldn't underestimate the amount of music knowledge needed in the course. I found myself severely behind because of this at points in the semester. Of course Beth is great - goes without saying.
Beth cares so much about teaching this material and giving all her students a great experience. You will have a memorable time in this class, regardless of your prior knowledge.
great class and beth is an amazing professor who is so passionate about the material. I have truly never taken a course quite like this before and it will be one of my most memorable parts of my time at harvard.
This class is incredible for a number of reasons.  First, it has taught us all to think in a whole new way - to find patterns in everyday life, to find math in things we never had before, to question common theories, to trust ourselves to figure out theories along with our classmates. Secondly, this class taught me how to collaborate.  Beth shows us how we can all figure out this material if we just work with others  most Harvard students dont really have this skill.  This will be incredibly valuable for the rest of my life.  Finally, and the biggest reason  this class is so wonderful, is because of Beth, who is by far and away the most invested and caring professor I have ever had.  She is brilliant and genuinely cares about teaching her students how to learn like she does.  No other teacher I have ever had has been so incredible.  She presumes nothing and is willing to listen to her students and help them understand the math/visualizing through their perspective.  She has taught all of us how to come up with her innovative and unique music theory and geometry.  She has written her own text book and has come up with it all of the theories herself.  She offers to meet with every one of her students at any time.  Weve skyped and even met at 7 AM.  She even taught hours worth of sections EACH DAY for math 21a.  She would work more than 60 hours each week and STILL make time for her students.  She would stay late on Friday evenings and come in early Saturday mornings if a student asked her!  She goes the extra mile to create more sections to make sure that each student really gets to learn.The fact that Beth will not be working here next year is a huge loss for the Applied Math department.  Her two classes were fascinating, unique, and the best part of my day.  Im very sorry for anyone who hasnt had the chance to take a class with Beth.  If she comes back, you absolutely must take one of her classes!
[If Beth Chen is not teaching the course, most of this may not apply!]If you shop this class, you'll immediately get a sense of how it's run. Each class is a little chaotic; Beth hates lectures and requires collaborative problem solving. You learn to love the chaos, and you learn a ton about music theory. This is easily one of the most fun classes I've taken, and I'm really proud of the programs I created in this course.
This is perhaps the strangest class I've taken at Harvard (but in a good way). All classwork is done collaboratively and everything is derived through symmetry, intuition, and pattern-finding. In this way, it is very much unlike a regular math class. It is a bit of a roller-coaster, but at the end of the ride I came out learning a lot of excellent skills. This is a great class to take to gain experience with Mathematica.
It offered a good exploration of music theory and coding
