Good way t0 learn MATLAB, but the lectures are a bit tedious.
The concepts are explained extremely well. Zhiming is an excellent teacher. If you are going to use numerical methods later in life (which you probably will! a perfect example is something as commonplace as a linear fit of a model to data), I would highly recommend this course. It not only provides a nice survey of numerical methods, it teaches you their weaknesses, how/what to look for problematic results, and what you can do to avoid harsh numerical errors.
This is a very good course to take for a scientist or engineer who programs or works with computer models and wants to better understand some of the basics behind numerical analysis.
this is a great introductory course for students, regardless of concentration, interested in applying computational techniques.  it provides a look at a wide range of topics
If you know your MATLAB and enjoy linear algebra, take this course, otherwise, it probably won't be much fun.
"Parlez vous MATLAB?" If not, then you are a loser. Learn it with Zhiming.
APM 111 is a good introduction to scientific computing with a strong emphasis on learning and understanding the material.  The assignments are fun and manageable.
It's easy as hell if you know any math/coding at all.
Lots of coding
This is a good, fairly comprehensive introduction to scientific computing if you haven't programmed before or haven't used Matlab for research and data analysis. If you have programming experience, the class syllabus gives a good ouline of what will be covered, so you can decide if it will be useful for you.
This course provides very useful, widely applicable, highly marketable skills.
It's wonderful to not have tests or exams. The class is interesting and the problem sets are fun.
A great class that covers a lot of useful material and really teaches you how to program with MATLAB.
This course is very useful for mathematics students who have otherwise only been trained in theoretical proof that inverses, eigenvalues, etc exist without actually ever knowing how to efficiently calculate them.
this is a painless, fun, and easy class from which you can learn a lot and do really well and have a lot of fun
The structure is great and is focused on solving problems, and you learn a lot
The professor is a good lecturer, and the material is very interesting and useful in computational science.  However, the TFs gave minimal feedback on the assignments,
Material is interesting (though it is essentially fancy number-crunching)
If you want to learn how to use Matlab at Harvard, this is probably your best option.  Class while well organized and thorough is not always particularly interesting or exciting (especially if you're not someone who finds math particularly enjoyable).  The problem sets are all done in Matlab which you must largely figure out how to use yourself - or hopefully get help at office hours.  If the subject interests you and you want to devote a semester to Matlab then definitely take the course.  Professor Kuang is also very accessible and helpful at office hours.
It is a great course for people who have some background in the field already. Very interesting and manageable course.
The problem sets are not too time-consuming, and if you ever run into trouble, office hours are a great resource.  Also, no exams + a fun final project is definitely a bonus.
AM111 is a fun, interesting, painless course. The course staff are very enthusiastic and willing to help. The work is pretty easy. You can do your final project on whatever you want, but the total lack of guidance/help can make it difficult.
I think this a very solid, well-organized course. I think the material is very useful in terms of what it allows you to do with computer-based science research even though the material may not be intrinsically interesting beyond that point.
An introductory level course to a  big variety of topics. The class gives you a good flavor of capabilities and importance of scientific computing
This is very interesting course. The teaching stuff is good and very receptive to comments and suggestions.
It's a fair amount of work, but you know what you're getting week to week.
make sure you know your 21 series math
get help from tf's some of the material seems to not be covered enough in lecture for psets
This class will actually teach you useful stuff.
This is the best option for numerical computing at Harvard, but because of the wide range of material covered, without the time to explore any one particular topic thoroughly and in-depth, it can either go way too slowly or way to quickly for many students.
very useful class, will push you through basic programming--not always edge of your seat interesting though
You get really good at using MATLAB.  The teaching fellows are great and really help you in figuring out the problem sets.
It is an interesting, manageable class, but there wasn't much feedback for assignments.
great class for learning matlab
Excellent course
Easy course but all the coding can sometimes take a long time. If you don't know matlab, they you'll gain a useful skill; otherwise the class will probably be a waste of your time.
Problem sets are focused almost exclusively on coding, but lectures are focused on computing theories and techniques.  Great setup: you learn the techniques in class, and then practice coding in a context reinforces the techniques you learned in class.
This class is fantastic. I felt like I learned a lot of interesting, and applicable methods in AM 111 that will help me enormously in the future. I would highly recommend this over CS 50 if you're looking to fulfill the AM computing requirement.
Take it if you have time to do long psets every week
While the TFs are great and Jenny is a wonderful lady, the class itself needs a lot of work in its current state and I reluctantly cannot recommend it. I was probably one of the kids that did reasonably well, but the course was so problematic in the way it was taught because there are so few resources. Other than lecture, you get rather minimalist lecture slides, some good but also brief section handouts, and nothing else. It was really incredible how difficult it was to look up some of the more technical concepts and the awful thing was that there was no book, so you ended up finding things in level 9000 mathematics courses from other universities that were hard to connect. The midterm could have been worse, but it was very different from what we did in problem sets and hard to prepare for.
The class was good overall. Some of the material was poorly explained in lecture but section made the problem sets a lot more manageable. The midterm was a bit of a pain
Do not take this class unless 100% necessary or you are REALLY interested in the topic.
learn matlab; an applicable knowledge set gained from the course; not too challenging if you keep up with the problem sets; midterm was new this semester and really difficult
Take it if you want to learn how to do cool stuff with MATLAB!
Kind of scattered overall in terms of the presentation of the topics, and because so many are covered, each topic is not taught coherently. Very easy to get lost. Don't take unless you have experience with them beforehand.
Only take this if you really have a good reason to
A good course that introduces and reinforces some of the most important applied math concepts that are actually used in the real world. A good alternative to CS50 for Applied Math concentrators.
If it sounds interesting, take it! A lot of people were deterred from taking the class because it seemed like others had previous MATLAB experience. The class was hard for me, and I've seen MATLAB before. But MATLAB has a painful (in my opinion) learning curve, like many things. You have to suffer through it at some point. If you're willing to spend the time, then take the class. It's super useful and exposes you to a lot of really cool topics. Jenny is a fantastic.
I really enjoyed this class a lot, but there were some problems with it. The lecture slides which were posted online were not very detailed, and in the event that you missed a class it was hard to catch up. I would recommend also having the lecturer post lecture notes online, such that these can be reviewed as well. Also, I really didn't know what was the best strategy for studying for the midterm, since all of the problem sets were programming-heavy and not really relevant to the midterm material. I would recommend maybe posting more practice problems for the midterm component of the course.
This is a fun class with a relatively low workload. It has a lot more written math than I expected, but the methods we learned were interesting. The final project is also a really fun way to do something you're passionate about.
This is a great course in that it covers a lot of interesting, useful topics and the teaching staff is super friendly and responsive.However, it bothered me that there was no textbook for this class. The lectures provided good background and intuition on the material, but in order to actually apply what is taught (ie. in psets), a lot of Google searching is needed to fill in the gaps.
The material is interesting and spans a broad range of useful concepts, but sometimes this breadth comes at the cost of depth. At times, I felt as though my understanding of significant parts of the material was conceptual rather than functional.
It's a great class, but the problem sets can be a bit difficult. This shouldn't be too much of a problem if you aren't planning on this being a super-easy class, and especially if you can make it to section for help.
take it with a friend so you can do your psets together. they are graded very fairly and are not the end of the world. Jacob, the TF, helped out big time in section and office hours.
This class is very good - you get to learn a lot of neat mathematical methods, and you will become very familiar with Matlab
Go to office hours!
This course is amazing. Jenny gives engaging lectures, and Jacob is a wonderful TF. Pay attention in section, since it will help tremendously with homework. For final projects, just meet your assigned point person (mine was Jacob) and ask for guidance.
This is a very good, straightforward applied math class. It's definitely on the easier side among the department, especially if you've used matlab before. The weak side is the lectures which are beyond boring and have little to do with the problem sets - like, you don't have to go, really. I think out of the 30 people in our class, 5-10 showed for lecture....but the problem sets are pretty easy, the tf Jacob is AWESOME, and Jenny really means well.
Very good class, nice introduction to basic MATLAB programming, sections are extremely helpful walkthroughs of the problem sets.
Good topics covered for data analysis, will be really useful information to know about especially for research in the natural sciences.
This is an excellent course which introduces data-centric and differential-equation-centric scientific computing. The class is doable and is helpful for getting beginning experience with Matlab.
AM 111 really is a great course. You will be exposed to a wide variety of scientific computing topics ranging from regression to face recognition. The professor is sweet, kind, and really cares about her students. The problem sets (though sometimes lengthy) are often fair and, more importantly, carefully thought out and rewarding. Best problem sets I've worked on while at Harvard.
This is one of the best classes to take to fulfill a concentration requirement.  The class is structured very well and extremely well taught
This is a course with really great, applicable material that will teach you some cutting-edge techniques for data analysis and numerical modeling. I was not very engaged by the lectures, but thought the class was well worth it. The final project was my favorite part of the course, and was an opportunity to delve into any of the course's fascinating topics.
This is a great, low-pressure class to introduce you to scientific computing.  80 percent psets, 20 percent final project!
Prepare for a widely applicable course that will give you the numerical tools to solve real-world problems. Expect to spend a lot of time on the psets and make the most of the sections and office hours.
If Jenny is teaching, be prepared for a lot of work. This is very different than how the course was in the past. Not a bad thing, just be prepared.
AM 111 is a manageable course that will teach you about linear algebra and programming. Professor Suckale is great at explaining difficult concepts and there is always someone to help you if you get stuck on the problem sets.
This class has elements of programming, statistics, and applied math - the techniques are practical and applicable to a variety of scientific and mathematic fields. The workload depends on your previous experience with MATLAB. Course staff are thoughtful and helpful and want to make this experience as painless as possible.
The lecture is entirely useless. This class was only salvaged by Jacob being the best TF possible. If you have a different TF, this class will be terrible.
AM111 was a fun (though not usually easy) course. Because the grade is totally pset/project based, if you work hard your can guarantee yourself a good grade. The key is to get a study group together to work on the psets with. Definitely go to sections and office hours - they're an invaluable resource. The whole teaching staff was really invested in making sure we understood the material. All and all a great experience.
This course really got better as the semester progressed. Initially there were very tedious and painful problem sets that took 15-20 hours, but by the end things had leveled off.
THe initial linear algebra component was sometimes a bit overwhelming and confusing. It was also sometimes extremely tedious as the matrix notation got very confusing (with Fai sometimes being confused himself). The latter part of the course was very interesting in terms of numerical approaches to regression, interpolation, differential equations. Would have liked a better balance of assignment difficulty. Not an easy course!
The problem with this class is it is poorly structured and poorly taught. Professor Fai doesn't really understand what it means to be a teacher. He just writes his notes up on the board and thinks that somehow we understand it all. He makes it incredibly difficult to understand what is going on in class and he is such an awkward person that class becomes uncomfortable. On top of that, there was a disconnect between homework and lecture material. I really can't say I would recommend this class. You won't learn much and it will definitely be a struggle.
Under Fai, this course was taught very differently from the past. It was pretty disorganized, and you NEED to know Matlab beforehand if you want to do well. The course started on a very rough note (the syllabus didn't explain much and everything was graded hard), but as the semester went on, he made things better and graded fairly overall.
Topics covered are interesting, but lectures were kind of boring and grading was quite strict. But overall the course was not too hard and I think I've learned useful methods for solving math problems numerically
Lot of work but second half of course is much better than first
This class teaches a lot of interesting applications and facets of computing and the final project was very useful - however, parts of it could really benefit from better organization, as it often ended up being more stressful than expected. Will probably be better in future iterations.
This class isn't really an intro to numerical methods as much as it is simply a prolonged discussion of error and accuracy in computing. I didn't really learn how to use numerical methods to solve problems as much as I wanted to.
AM111 provides a strong background in computational techniques, but at a cost of a huge amount of time and stress.  The material is definitely worth learning, and the class itself is very interesting, but not for the faint of heart.
Do not take this class is Thomas is teaching it.  You will hate your life if you do.
This is an awesome class by an amazing young professor who actually seems like he  loves to teach. I would really really recommend this class!
This course demands a lot of time initially, and it will take a lot of time to learn MATLAB since syntax is not really taught in class, but the final projects are interesting.
This class was incredibly difficult. While you learn a lot about MATLAB and technical skills, the teaching process was challenging at times and the material could have been taught better with more examples and less theory. Things were made more complex than they needed to be and it distracted from what was important.
This class is harder than you expect. Even with a linear algebra background that I feel is pretty good, I found myself struggling at times with this course. Some of the coding tasks on the homework seemed to be impossible without  a capable TF's help. Overall, I learned some cool stuff, and I'm sure the course will be much better the second time around.
Probably the easiest math class I've ever taken. However, I found it quite enjoyable, and I really liked the opportunity to go deeper into an algorithm and make a final project out of it. Definitely a good 5th class with a normal courseload.
Mauricio is one of the best teachers on campus.  Really wants his students to learn and willing to help at all times.  TFs were also excellent.  Overall: interesting, well-paced, and not too difficult
This class was interesting and not a lot of work.  It is less a class in actual coding, and more an introduction to the theoretical aspects of how scientific computing works.  Therefore it is not extremely applicable but provides a foundation for future Matlab explorations.  Mauricio and the TFs and very receptive to feedback and were willing to help out whenever we had questions.
Definitely know Matlab or any other computer language going into the course. Though it isn't a prerequisite, it is easy to see how one can get lost. Structure of the course was okay and no exams made the class much less stressful, but it was nonetheless difficult. Mauricio is a great lecturer and knows the material well.
This is a great introduction to scientific computing techniques. Mauricio is an awesome professor and does his best to make the class fun and engaging. Spend time with your final project. The TFs and professor are there to help. Use them to guide your project.
I took this class with Mauricio and it was great -- interesting, applicable topics that he makes sure you really understand.The final project is a great way to explore something you're really interested in, and start working on a possible thesis topic.  Don't underestimate how much time it'll take to pick a topic!  This is the most important part and will really affect how much you enjoy working on it.
Take this course! It was very interesting to see how mathematical processes are programmed and where they potentially fail. Mauricio is a great professor, makes the class interesting and very helpful with the final project.
Mauricio is amazing. Class is a bit dry and you might not learn as much matlab as you'd like but overall a solid class! Not stressful but make sure to start the psets early!
Great course! Mauricio is a fantastic lecturer and cares about his students! Good overview of fundamental algorithms used in applied mathematics. Course does move a bit too slow though.
At times when I was in lecture I thought the class was taught poorly but looking back I actually learned a lot in the class-- I completely understand the codes we had to write for the problem sets and then how to apply them to other problems. This class is a great applied math class and I found that it was very helpful in giving me knowledge of matlab that i could then use in my other math classes. the problem sets were challenging because they are completely 100% reliant on code and matlab, but you come away with a very deep understand of the code and how to fix code in order to make it work. Mauricio gives you a lot of time for the final project and is very approachable and helpful with helping your group get started or if you find yourself stuck.
Do it! It's manageable and you learn a great deal in the second half of the course.
Mauricio (prof) and Armin (TF) are amazing.  Cliff (TF) is good, but I didn't have too much interaction with him.  Both Mauricio and Armin were really available, helpful, and know their stuff cold, so I really appreciated every time I could chat with them.Most people in the course are applied math, but a number didn't have programming before.  If that's the case, you'll have to catch up pretty quick.  If you do have programming, then you're in good shape, and you just need to have taken 21b.  Overall though, there's a nice balance between theoretical component and practical programming content to the psets.  The topics are mostly pretty interesting and useful, and actually this course was pretty influential in making me like applied math.  There was no exam this year - just psets and a final project. It was a really nice dynamic since it was really chill (except for the night before pset was due).I definitely recommend the course, but be aware that there is likely a staff change.  This year though it was chill, useful, educational, and fun!
It's not much work, but I also don't feel like I learned as much as I did in AM121 or Ec 1011 (could be a function of workload though)
This class isn't so much about MATLAB as it is about scientific computing in general.  We could've used any PL to learn the material we covered here.  That is, if you're looking to learn how to use MATLAB well this may not necessarily be the class for you.  The final project is a fun opportunity to work on a project of your choice.
It is extremely difficult to do well in this class without office hours. They were essential. The material is very difficult and sometimes seems pointless. Working in groups is the best way to succeed.
Thomas is a great lecturer and is very passionate about the subject. He is always very available outside of class as well.
This is obviously a Applied Math course so it isn't a walk in the park but due to the small class size there was a lot of help available. The problem sets were difficult but interesting and I did honestly learn a lot about MatLab. I feel as though I am much more competent in MatLab having taken this course.
It's better than CS50
Lecture was mostly made up of Prof. Fai talking to the board, writing down exactly what he was saying. Often complicated material was just breezed over and questions asked by the class were not answered well. The midterm was much more challenging than the practice midterm provided, and much of your grade is based off of it, so it is difficult to recover if you don't do well. While it does fill the AM requirement for computation, I'd likely recommend looking at another option.
It's a good way to fulfill the computation requirement and avoid the pain of CS50
