This class will teach you a lot. The weekly problem sets are manageable if you can complete the diagnostic quiz and the TFs are extremely helpful. I think this course is worth the grade risk that you undertake by choosing to enroll.
As designed, this course is not amenable to a schedule of more than 2 courses. It is designed as a high-consumption time intensive treatment of the subject. If you are able to put in the time, you'll get a lot out of the course and it won't affect your ability to keep up on everything else.
This class is fantastic, and will only get better with later iterations. The material is inherently very interesting and very relevant, and is presented in a very understandable and logical way. Yaron is a great guy and pretty funny, and Thiabut is a great TF. Note that it is a graduate level course, so independence and "mathematical maturity" are expected.
AM221 is a hard course, but the breadth and depth of material covered make it worthwhile. Make sure that the TF is great, since you will rely on their willingness to help you during office hours and by email. Finding a partner you can work with well on the project is also very important.
Great class, that takes some work but is very much worth it.
Solid material, project is a big component, easier than the average grad class.
An excellent introduction to the fundamentals of linear optimization which will prepare you for future courses in convex optimization. Not a comprehensive overview of general optimization methods.
I love optimization. This class is a great continuation of AM121 (Intro to optimization). I greatly recommend the class to anyone who enjoyed the topics covered in AM121. This class covers network optimization, which I thought was super cool. The workload is manageable (4 psets + 2 midterms + final project).
I got everything I hoped to out of this class. This is a great class for upper lever undergrads and first or second year graduate students.
The final project will be very time-consuming, so make sure to factor that in to your choice of what mix of classes to take. The main difficulty I had with the rest of the class was getting myself to focus in class and the need to be self-driven to get in the work.
If you are looking for a theoretical understanding of linear programming, then this is the class for you. On the other hand, if you are looking for something that is applied, this might not be what you are looking for.
This is a good course for those previously unfamiliar with linear optimization.
This course is a great way to exposed some ideas in operations research at Harvard.
This is a fantastic class! A really great followup to AM 121 -- you really learn not just how to apply optimization methods but why the methods work. Ozlem is very clear and very approachable; go to office hours if you're ever confused because she's great at clearing anything up! The coursework is very manageable, and Ozlem's very lenient when it comes to exams. As long as you put in effort, she understands and recognizes it.
Useful material, but lots of work (not necessarily too difficult, just a lot of it).
Ozlem is a really easy to get along with, very interested in educating the students and ensuring they are satisfied and understanding what she is presenting. She also cares a lot students' schedules. She also has some very interesting research that she does. I liked how she talked a little about the history and applications of operations research to introduce some of the topics she was teaching.
There aren't many optimization courses at Harvard, besides this and APMTH 121. I HIGHLY recommend taking one of them since the material is very interesting, practical, and important to learn as an Applied Mathematician. Because this was a new course, it was a little bumpy, but I would recommend it for later incarnations. The material is very important and I do hope this class is continued to be taught.
This could be a really great course. But there are surely better courses -- e.g., surely Bertsekas at MIT teaches a good (better) convex optimization course.  Also a course offered in the math department by a mathematician not a computer scientist (computer scientists tend to abuse notation like crazy) might be nice.  Optimization can be so nicely taught through a lens of geometry too, but this course just doesn't offer it.  On the other hand, the course is pretty easy, the workload is light, and you get to see a glimpse (though actually a really really small glimpse) into what optimization is about.
This course is a great introduction into convex and submodular optimization. If you are interested in this area, take it.
Good for students with little background in optimization.  Students with knowledge of optimization may not learn very much.
Very interesting subject matter.  The psets are challenging and take a long time (save time for the programming questions), but Thibaut was very accessible for help and there are only 4 of them.  Overall, moderately difficult but rewarding.
I took this course expecting to obtain a blend of theoretical grounding and practical applications.  The course is entirely theoretical and has left me feeling that although I understand the methods we have studied from an abstract perspective, I would not be confident applying them.
The psets can be quite tedious and the lectures seem to lack coherence, by the end of the semester the trajectory of the class does not appear to be completely straight. The professor can be awkward but he is generally a good enough lecturer. It is an OK class.
The programming problems are fun yet can be fairly time consuming.
Optimization is everywhere, great course!
It's important to have analysis experience to take this course.
