This class is very laid back. Only take it if you want to use complex analysis for physics/engineering.
This is one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. It was incredibly well-taught, and just overall a fun introduction to complex analysis. Section was also great, and the class was very chill in general.
This class is a very mixed bag. The material is pretty complex but 21a,b provide a solid foundation math-wise. Nitin clearly has great enthusiasm for the material, and is a complete genius - on the other hand he tends to assume that everyone else can follow as quickly as he does. The breakneck lectures are hard to keep up with and the first few weeks seem like a lot of messing around, but the material we eventually come to around mid-semester is really, really interesting. I also appreciated the no-exams format - but be warned, the homeworks are tough.My main tip for taking this class is to establish a good study group right away. You can do your presentations together, pull frantic all-day homework-doing sessions, and teach yourself the material. Get the textbook (Saff and Snider), and even though he doesn't follow the progression of it at all it'll give you some semblance of understanding where you are in the course. If you decide to take it, good luck!
Great course that is structured quite nicely.
If you don't follow what Nitin does on the board during lecture you'll have a hard time doing the problem sets. That being said if you pay attention they aren't bad. This semester (F15) we had bi weekly problem sets and 2 presentations that you're given guidance on. go to office hours - Nitin and Colin care about you learning the material!
Well-taught, easy course. A pretty painless way to knock out concentration requirements, but if you're really interested in learning a lot about complex analysis you might be better off in Math 113 or another course.
This course is interesting, and not too time consuming - the main components of the course were lectures, presentations, and problem sets. I had previously known pretty much nothing about complex analysis, and I think class is a helpful introduction. Lectures can sometimes be confusing (and sometimes notes are erased before having time to write them down), so it's important to attend class and pay attention.
Nitin puts a lot of time into making interesting psets and making sure everyone understands the material. For some reason no one ever wants to speak in class, so if you're going to take it, ask and answer questions!!
It's cool material but it's pretty hard to get. Nitin tries but you'll probably be teaching yourself the material.
This is a really excellent course, especially if you're looking for a less intense introduction to the applied math department.  Nitin, the instructor, is an absolute delight.  Complex analysis is interesting, and this class teaches it in a way that keeps it interesting.
The class and what it teaches are pretty cool. Even though I did not understand everything in the class, I still came away feeling like I learned something different and new and was exposed to some neat ideas. Nitin too is very very smart, deriving everything on the board from scratch and then erasing it all like no big deal. However, sometimes there was a disconnect between what he was teaching and what the class seemed to understand, his questions often drawing minute long silences. I think the course has many good qualities - the material is interesting, Nitin is very accessible, biweekly homeworks, and two presentations. However, the homeworks were tough - based in a lot of physics and sometimes requiring matlab coding - and the material too was sometimes very difficult to understand.
This is a weird course because you'll think that it is easy but it isn't really.  While there are no exams, the problem sets are VERY difficult and could take a long time if you don't go to office hours or have been to collaborate with.  However, Nitin is endlessly helpful in office hours and tries very hard to help you understand the material and he very much encourages collaboration.  It will be helpful if you have used or know how to use Matlab and if you don't that will again become a difficult task for you.  The group presentations can be super chill if you have a solid group and everyone does their work but can also become very stressful if you don't plan enough ahead or people aren't on top of their parts.  Finally, in terms of actually learning things in this class, you probably won't unless you make the individual effort to understand as there are no exams to make you really retain the information you simply regurgitate on the problem sets.  However, if this doesn't bother you then its much more manageable class.  Take this class if you're looking for a small workload, relatively chill second math class or something like that.
Very fun and interesting.
Nitin is a fantastic teacher and simply wants students to learn as much as possible from this class. The problem sets can be confusing, but their are very helpful office hours. That this is only homework and presentations is a huge plus.
The structure of this course was phenomenal! NO EXAMS AND BIWEEKLY PSETS. The subject was almost to abstract and complex, but the extremely low workload makes up for it. The teaching staff was very considerate about how busy Harvard students get throughout the year. They were very flexible about the material and assignments, granting additional help where they saw fit. I took this course as a concentration requirement for Engineering (SB Track). For those SB Engineers out there, I would highly recommend this class. I have to admit I didn't find the material very interesting, but you could not ask for a lower workload concentration course.
While the material in this course is certainly difficult and at times hard to wrap your mind around, the course is structured in a way that makes it much more accessible. This is a low-stress, high-reward class with psets only every other week, and the opportunity to give presentations on the material. Nitin is a great professor - it's so clear that he actually cares about you learning the material instead of memorizing formulas, and he's incredibly understanding and generous about giving extensions on psets. He's also clearly brilliant. It was a great experience to get to take a class with him, and I highly recommend this course.
Applied Math 104 covers the practical uses of complex analysis, but it tends to be a bit hand wavy on the theoretical side especially coming from a Math 23 background. The course is also not very well organized, with some parts that seem very distant from other parts. Math 113 is potentially a better option, but AM 104 is a solid 5th class, due to its low workload.
If Nitin is teaching this again, take it! After the first two classes I was ready to drop the entire course, but I'm really glad I decided to stick with it at the last minute because by the end of the semester it was by far actually one of my favorite courses. Don't be put off by the awkwardness at the beginning - Nitin is a really wonderful teacher. He obviously knows the material in and out, lectures are very streamlined, and he's incredibly kind and patient. Go to class - lecture notes don't exist, even for him. Homeworks are biweekly and reasonable, the in-class assignments are dreaded but helpful, and Jon is always happy to help too. Overall, really great class.
This class teaches you some really interesting information, but it's not presented in a great way. You will leave with a much better understanding of how to use and manipulate complex numbers to solve problems, but it is something you could teach yourself.
Take this course if you feel you can teach yourself mathematics. The topics covered are super interesting, but the course is poorly organized and does not have any book or other notes to supplement lecture notes. Nitin is super helpful and goes above and beyond to be a great teacher.
This is a small course for students interested in physics and learning different areas of math. It's interesting but it caters to a certain interests and if yours don't align then you shouldn't take it.
This class is taught by a new lecturer every year, so the class is not very well structured. The material taught in this class is pretty cool. I feel I have a solid foundation in complex numbers now. Complex numbers are important for a lot of real world applications. The class was not stressful at all.
This course, as it was taught by Nitin, was the structured in a very unusual way. At first this was strange, but it actually ended up making the course pretty laid back and manageable, despite the somewhat complicated material; there were no stressful exams, but rather multiple 'in-class assignments'. This helps you to keep up with the material without the stress of exams. Overall, it was pretty good and I learned a lot.
Run, run, run away. There are better way of fulfilling this requirement, and better classes to learn complex analysis- with good course materials and  enough resources to guide you through this fairly abstract topic. Head over to Math 113, Math 213, Math 55... Anything but this
Depends on who is teaching!
The course with Nitin was fairly easy and deadlines were *extremely* flexible. I heard awful things about the course last year, so these reviews are only applicable if Nitin teaches this course next year. If it's someone else, take it at your own risk.
Good course to take in terms of material, but lectures and class structure were sub-par.
It can be a very interesting course, but the structure was odd and slightly detracted from the overall learning experience.
This class is pretty useful, especially if you'd like a better understanding of Fourier transforms, singularities, and some derivations that become useful in probability (convolutions, random walks).  The prof was new this year, so organization of the course is likely to improve but, in general, Nitin was very approachable and humorous in lecture.  A more theoretical analog is available through Math 115 if that's more your style.
If you're at all interested in applied math, I highly recommend this class!  This is the material that applied math is all about. It's a little more theoretical (there's an optional MATLAB project at the end) but that's the beauty of it: rather than straight coding or plug-n-chug problems, this class is full of beautiful mathematics.  Complex analysis and Fourier series are extremely useful to engineering concentrators, and I can't imagine it being taught by a better person. Evelina is the nicest, hardest-working person I've ever met, and she will go to great lengths to make sure you understand the material she's teaching. If Fionnuala's TFing again, get into her section; she makes all the material easy to understand through the practice problems. Go to all office hours and sections if you want to do well though. If you're willing to put the time in, this class will prove extremely rewarding. It's a great class and worth every moment you spend studying for it. AM 104 blew my mind and exposed me to the true beauty of mathematics.
It's very difficult, more than you'd think, so take it with reservations.
This course covers a lot of cool, interesting stuff (check out the syllabus). It does cover things very quickly though and it requires quite a bit of time outside of class reading the textbook and working through problems for you to get the most out of it.
Some very interesting material, moderately difficult. Evelina did a great job teaching the class.
This is an interesting class to consider if you need to meet requirements. This year, the professor wasn't too great at explaining concepts, so you should read the book--it doesn't take too much time to read the sections and you will actually understand the material. The homework is a bit tedious though, especially when you have to evaluate really long integrals. But Evelina tries really hard and you will learn a lot if you put in the effort.
This class is hard. The material is much more abstract than that of the 21 series, but it does provide a pretty comprehensive overview of the uses of complex numbers. Take it if you think you might need the material, but otherwise, I wouldn't recommend the class.
Really be into complex analysis or its applications
Read the textbook, ask questions
Although the class was good, unless you are willing to do applied math as a concentration or doing research that requires complex analysis, I wouldn't suggest it.
Get ready to learn some awesome shit.
This topic was so new to  me that I had no way of knowing what to expect. In every math class I've ever taken imaginary numbers were some oddball that just appeared ever once in a while. It was just fascinating to learn just how many uses they have. The course is very fair and learning is the number one objective that Evelina has. She is available for help and office hours more than any professor I have ever had. Evelina really cares for the students and as long as you're willing to put in the work you'll be fine in this class.
Buckle down early and ride through to the end, don't get behind! Evelina is awesome and very approachable, a great resource of knowledge.
Very expansive and you learn a lot, but requires a lot of time, and hopefully the grading won't be too strict so as to "scare" students from the material
Think very carefully when deciding to take this course--consider all your options first.  While I definitely learned something, the cost was fairly high, and there may have been a better way of picking up this material.  First, a note on difficulty: the workload of the first two-thirds of the course is quite manageable (with bi-weekly problem sets this fall), but it ramps up quite significantly in November and December; the last problem set and final were VERY difficult.  Second, I wasn't too impressed by the quality of teaching: I often found lectures difficult to understand, and there was little connection between the material in this class and that in the 21ab sequence.  However, section was quite useful for when I was confused (which was fairly often)!  Lastly, a positive note: the course places a lot of emphasis on numerical methods, which is a pretty useful technique to pick up.
Always read the course notes before class so you can get the most out of the lectures.
This course is difficult in that there are no example problems so if you don't understand a concept you're in trouble. Also, the coding component of this class was difficult if you don't know matlab or mathematica going in. The professor is very willing to meet with you but has limited availability around when problem sets were due (tuesdays) so if you had questions you needed to go to Wednesday night office hours as Monday/Tuesday mornings were not free - this could be frustrating as I predominately worked on the homework over the weekend.
Only take this class if you are super excited about complex numbers and don't know much about them and want to learn more, and if you know very little about Fourier series. Otherwise it would not be very useful.
Complex/Fourier Analysis is a course that is useful for applied mathematicians, so you probably are taking this or MATH 113 in the first place. A lot of the material is based on intuition and "physicist's logic", which depending on who you are is either a good or bad thing (all of the arguments are perfectly reasoned however; there are no holes in the analysis). The course as a whole is very techniques-based, making it attractive for students interested in applications.
The homework is not difficult, but it's hard to figure out what to do with each question.
The problem sets and homework were really easy. However, the final project was a lot harder than expected. You will not have much work up until the final.
This course may be hard if you don't have a good math background.
To do well in this class, you need to be self-motivated to completely understand the concepts. It will not be too stressful, because you can always work with classmates on the problems. But you will not gain from the class unless you take it upon yourself to learn what he presents to you.
Kaxiras is a fun lecturer, and most of the time the class goes at a fairly easy pace, but the projects are very difficult sometimes.  You learn some interesting stuff though
Slow but steady. An enjoyable class, but it's not the exhilarating fast0paced exciting kind of class. It is very useful for physics, matches perfectly with physics 15c. Prof Kaxiras is super nice, although a little bit inaccessible. Take it as a fifth class if it stays the same, but be sure to check the most recent version because the material can make for a really challenging class. Also, it teaches you Matlab!
I had very little interest in any of the applications of this class. It seemed to be very physics-based, and I found myself lost very often. You also should have a computational background - I did not have one, and I struggled a lot with that, since a lot of the homework requires MATLAB or Mathematica. However, grading is not hard. There are no exams, and you can get help on everything from the professor or TF besides the final project.
Take this class if you can commit the time to it and if it is absolutely necessary, or if you have a VERY peculiar interest for the material (expansions of functions and complex analysis). Personally, I did not enjoy this class as much as I thought I was going to. The material can be interesting, and you do get glimpses of its applications in physics, engineering and biology, but it was not taught nearly well enough to be fully grasped. The organization of the class was somewhat poor and the work was often overly tedious rather than rewarding. BUT: although the projects were somewhat difficult, the stress-level is not horrible since there were no exams, and section definitely helped. Kaxiras and Pavlos were very enthusiastic and sympathetic, which was a huge plus for this course! That said, while I think I was given a good introduction to the concepts in this course, I don't feel as though I deeply learned anything. I'm still a bit unclear as to how this course paid or will pay off...
You'll get a good introduction to complex integration and gain a good understanding of Fourier analysis and probability. No nasty surprises, good course overall!
Great class! Problem sets are very straightforward and the material is really interesting. While sections may at first be intimidating (Kartiek and Pavlos might at first seem way beyond your level; not your easy hand-holding TFs), stick it through. Sections ended up being my favorite part of the course because Kartiek and Pavlos are funny, approachable, and genuinely interested in helping you out. Don't be afraid to ask any questions if they're going quickly because they will stop and make sure anything that's bothering you is completely clear before moving on.
This is a very good class if you have the itime to ut in. There is a lot of work to put it but it is worth it.
this course is super chill. Professor K was a great lecturer and super approachable.
You should take the course if you think the topic will be useful to you - I think that I learned a fair amount during the course. The problem sets take a while, and the exam this year was not representative of the course material.
The material was extremely difficult and there were not adequate resources to learn and comprehend all of it. The curve was also completely absurd. Kaxiras is just clueless.
This course is abysmal.  Take a different class if you can.  The problem sets are terribly boring or confusingly written, the TFs were terrible, completely unresponsive by email, and lost homework assignments, the professor and TFs tried to be funny but were usually just annoying.  The first part of the course is stuff that's covered in high school or Math 1b, the last part is simplified Stat 110, and the middle is just boring.  There wasn't even a textbook for the course, just the professor's error-probe lecture notes.  Take a math department complex analysis class or just skip it entirely.
Really try to understand the material, not just apply formulae mechanically. You'll gain a much better appreciation of what you've learned and how it all ties together.
This is an absolutely fantastic course!  Professor Kaxiras is an incredible lecturing and a super cool guy.  He is passionate about the math and ensures that we truly understand the material.  The actual mathematics in this course is truly beautiful.  Any physics, applied math, engineering, or science concentrator MUST take this course.
This is a good course to take if you're a sophomore; it provides you with a lot of tools that will pop up in science or lab courses.
keep up with the material...
This class should not be an applied math class: it's extremely theoretical and useless. The class is also incredibly boring: the topics (contour integration, Fourier analysis, probability theory) are discussed in a pure-math-y way without mentioning applications until the last class of the semester. Also, in a class called "Complex and Fourier Analysis" why do we spent two months on contour integration, one week on Fourier, and a month on PROBABILITY THEORY? I have no interest in statistics (well, none in complex analysis anymore either), and wish that the class had been advertised honestly. Do not take this class - fulfill the math requirement some other way.
