Take it if you're interested in the applications of abstract algebra
This is a course on abstract algebra: groups and rings. It is a good start for algebraic coding, cryptography and information theory. However, expect only a little applications, but theory.
If you are not good at constructing proofs on the fly, remembering mathematical definitions, or have no background in abstract math really, this class will be hard. Pay attention in class and take personal notes: do not just really on the class notes the professor puts up on the website.
This is a very good course to get a basic background in proof-based work, and a taste of how much of the material you learned in middle school can be abstracted. A bit of depth is sacrificed compared to the pure math department, but you learn quite a bit about interesting applications in the realm of Computer Science and computation. Don't be fooled by the ease of the course in the beginning; lectures become essential once you start beginning to cover fields.
This is not a mathematical course. Emphasis on applications instead of theory. Recommend for people who are interested in coding theory, cryptograpy, theoretic computer science..
AM 106 and 206 are the exact same course in terms of materials except 206 sometimes has an extra problem or two on problem sets (out of 4-6 problems), has a final project component (relatively short), and a slightly more difficult midterm.It's also a weird class in that it's supposed to be abstract algebra taught in an applied manner, which seems a bit contradictory. In this sense, the course suffers from two main drawbacks: (1) it's not really a math course for abstract algebra since it doesn't really build up any concepts using proofs but instead mainly goes over a ton of examples of definitions (2) there's a programming component of the course that is useful but it is not really addressed in the class. Valid seems to a nice instructor and knows what he's doing for the course but due to the nature of the course being an ''applied'' pure math course there's a very imbalanced learning process that disinterests students by the middle of the course. In particular, the first few weeks appear trivially easy but then, once the concepts get out of reach and become too abstract to understand intuitively then a lot of students become disillusioned and don't put as much effort as they should in understanding the concepts. Be aware of this and avoid doing this!
Take Am206 at your own risk. This class is hard and the extra work required on the psets really hurts. The essays also occur at the worst possible times during the semester (midterms). If you are looking for an AM class to fulfill your algebra req., take 106 instead.
This was a really interesting course, and a great way to be exposed to a wide range of mathematics.
If you're interested in learning abstract algebra, and if you're interested in how the subject informs techniques in computer science, take this class.
Take 206 instead of 106 if you're interested in learning about two topics (of your choice) in depth. In terms of problem sets, you'll only spend 2 - 3 more hours on them a week, and it's definitely worth it.
Anybody for whom this class fulfills a concentration requirement should take it.
Students expecting a rigorous, practically proof-based math class will not be disappointed.
As a CS/Math student, I took this class hoping to learn some applications of topics I'd learned in pure-math to computer science. Unfortunately, the vast majority of the class was spent developing group theory and (a much-abridged) field theory...lacking real depth or rigor. I spent fewer than two hours on the problem sets every week, and ultimately feel like I gained very little from the class. If you've taken Math 122 and/or 123, I'd give this class a path; there'll only be one or two weeks of material you haven't seen before.
Take this course! I would highly recommend AM106 or 206. At present, there aren't much resources available for 206, but if the professor is able to add another textbook or something to help those learning 206 along, then definitely take the latter. When I took it, it wasn't much work over the former--and presenting your own papers is actually really really cool.
I would encourage everybody who is thinking of taking 106 to consider taking 206. It is a very reasonable increase in workload, and I feel that through the problem sets and the papers I gained a better understanding of the material than I would have in 106.
