The class is not easy but the methods you learn are definitely useful! Take this class!
Basically just don't go to class, read the notes and learn from the internet, and then do the problem sets. That's where you'll really learn. Also, they aren't the shortest psets I've ever done... thankfully you can work in groups.
Do not take this course unless you're willing to put in a lot of time to learn the topics on your own OR if there's a new instructor.  Protopapas' lectures and course materials are not helpful at all.
Good class if interested in numerical math. Gives you a different view besides deterministic approaches. Homework takes a lot of time, but is very helpful.
Good survey of stochastic methods. Homework not too hard not too easy, but never felt like just 'busy-work' which is good. Notes have lots of typos.
material is very interesting, but you learn perhaps less about the theoretical underpinnings of the methods as you might like (as expected from an applied math course). be prepared to learn a lot on your own
This is one of the most practically useful course at Harvard.  You leave with a very useful toolkit of techniques for tackling a wide array of problems in the computational sciences.
It helps if you can learn material on your own or on the web.
The material is very interesting, but in my experience with Pavlos teaching it there is a ton of work (for me it might have been unmanageable without a group) and the assignments and expectations were often unclear. The final project involved a poster/poster presentation (more than a week before the final due date), a slideshow/slideshow presentation, and a write-up. There was a lot of overlap and I think it was too much.
Awesome
This course will really open up a whole new world to solve problems. Stochastic methods are useful in virtually any field of science. It will also introduce you to some very applied machine learning. As someone who had never taken a statistics or stochastic methods course, I highly recommend this course. It might be too simple if you have worked with this material before. Although Pavlos is not the best lecturer sometimes, he really is a nice guy and will work with you to help you learn the material.
Don't take it. The material is very interesting and very useful, but was not explained well at all. You should go pick up a few textbooks on it and read about it, then get a copy of the problem sets from someone else who has taken this course and work through them yourself.
tough but you can learn a lot after you have finished this class
Be prepared to spend alot of time on the homework.
This class is extremely easy but you learn some interesting and useful algorithms and how to implement them. Homework covers the material well and group work is encouraged, which is good. Class was not really worth going to since there were much more errors there than in the notes and the material was easy. The professor really wanted people to go though. If you like working in groups, take this class with your friends and have a good time.
The course has a lot of benefits, even if it seems disorganized sometimes.  If you take the problem sets seriously, you will learn a lot of very interesting stochastic techniques that can be applied to many areas of research.
I would highly recommend this course for students/researchers in any applied science field. With a warning that it is a lot of work, that for the average person the homeworks are doable only in a group.
This is an extremely useful class to take for any science PhD student. Dr. Protopapas is a very great lecturer, and very enthusiastic and nice too!
Good class, really interesting material.
An interesting and useful course, but not as engaging and clear in lecture as I expected it to be based on the recommendation I received from students who took it last year.
If you feel ready, take this class.
This course is excellent. Provides invaluable hands-on experience on stochastic algorithms with concrete results that are applicable in all areas of science and engineering. A must-take course for all engineers.
I would recommend this class only because the tools you learn are very useful for any statistical research, and there are very few classes at Harvard that are so focused on the practical rather than the theoretical. That said, lectures were generally unhelpful and unclear, and the course is forced to move slowly because of the lack of clarity in teaching. If you are motivated enough to learn the techniques outside of the framework of a course, you'll probably be better off in terms of time spent and material learned.
The course material is very interesting and useful. The methods taught in the class can be applied to a wide variety of problems. Professor Protopapas is very helpful outside the classroom. However, the lectures are generally pretty unorganized, and the suggested textbook is rarely helpful. The class can be very rewarding if you are willing to do some extra work to fill in the gaps left during the lectures.
Be careful with the lectures, but if you want to learn how to implement these methods this will be extraordinarily useful.
The class teaches VERY useful material based off of using randomness to solve problems when the analytic solution is too hard. I was shocked by how effective these methods are - Metropolis Hastings, Genetic Algorithms, etc. The lectures aren't great, but the professor and tfs are always available, even on gchat - they really make an effort to help you learn so you can use it.
Intellectually, it's painless and a little boring. The homework is very time consuming, so the course is a grind in general. All of the material can be found easily on the web or wikipedia, so you don't actually get much out of the class itself.
The only difficulties in this course come from the lack of clarity and direction of the assignments and the course in general.  Contrary to what the course manual says, there is very little "stochastic optimization" in this course.  Its main focus is on stochastic methods for Bayes statistics, and despite promises about the project, if you don't use Bayes, the instructor likely will not like your project.
Very time consuming but well worth it.
While the methods you learn in this class are useful and important, the class (in this incarnation at least) was a bit disorganized. The problem sets are tedious and long (and pretty hard in my opinion), but you do get to work with a partner through the whole class, so enroll only if you have a good partner to work with. Overall, the material is very cool, important, and useful. I'd highly recommend the class. Teaching staff is very friendly and nice!
This class is awesome. It is focused on the computation side of things rather than the pen and paper statistics. You'll learn Monte Carlo methods which are so useful for solving problems, even those that have nothing to do with statistics. By the end of this course, you'll be really good at Bayesian analysis and actually implementing it. The Prof tries to focus on the core concepts rather than the details. He is also very flexible and nice and will help you find intuitive explanations for what he teaches.
Lectures were difficult to follow as the material was not presented clearly. If you do take it join a group of 3 since this is a clear advantage.
This course offers a broad sweep intro to MC methods and current applications. I came in with relatively less formal statistics coursework and therefore some of the more theoretical proofs were difficult to understand, but the instructors did a good job of building an intuition for how and why certain methods were used.
During Spring 2015, this course was difficult. The instructors underestimated the time-commitment necessary to complete the first few assignments, and the assignments themselves didn't always yield deeper insights into the course material. And I felt the expectations for the final project were so far removed from the expectations of the assignment, that it was difficult to jump from the latter to the former at the end of the course.
It's a great course if you really want to learn how to apply the methods.
Great course! Lecture notes are very clear, and problem sets are fair and make sure to cover most concepts. Problem sets are pretty easy if you understand the lecture notes.The material is really interesting and has a lot of applications. It's difficult to see why this course would be important from the course description (or at least I didn't see what it meant), so check out the first couple lectures to get a preview of the material!It's possible to take this class without ever going to lecture because of the comprehensive lecture notes (if that is your learning style).
The quality of instruction and clarity of the material will vary wildly over the course of the semester. Some lessons were eye-opening; others were maddening in their impenetrability and inept presentation. But you will learn a lot about Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods and other topics discussed in the course, and that is probably worth it. Just think carefully about whether you need to learn from lectures or if course notes and outside materials are sufficient. Physical lecture attendance thinned significantly before the end of the semester, and you will not be alone in suspecting that those are not worth your time.
I do recommend this course to a person who likes general computer programming and is devotedly willing to study this topic very hard. Workload is not light, actually quite demanding, but the weekly assignments are really great and help you review what you will learn in the class more deeply.
I wish there was more motivation behind some of the techniques we learned. In the future, I want to mak the techniques we learned part of a toolbox where I know what tool to reach for for a given problem. Unfortunately, things were really not that well motivated, and while I was able to do the homeworks completely, I still felt I did not have a good intuition for when one technique would work better than another, or how well I should expect it to work.
The course is good for learning about material covered in the homeworks, but it's too easy to get by just copy-pasting code from lectures or sections. Good for learning about various methods, though you don't have to learn them all equally thoroughly.
The methods of this class are useful.
It's good as an overview of methods, but the psets are a not as satisfying as they could be and occupy a lot of time every week.
This class takes itself too seriously, to the point of having highly unrealistic expectations for student participation and work effort. The instructors are unsympathetic to a workload which does not revolve around one class. Weekly assignments, and a research project at the end that requires: a poster presentation, a proposal, a report, and a 3 minute screencast. Do not take.
Horribly disorganized where you must pay attention to a non-functional course website, a github, and piazza.
Course is very applied and theoretical development is not always complete.
great class. extremely useful methods. lot of work
Don't take this course if Verena is teaching it.  This has the potential to be a very useful class based on the intended topics, but saying it was taught poorly is a massive understatement.  The homework assignments are incredibly long as well.  I'm normally someone who gives very high scores in course evaluations, but I can't stress enough how frustrating this class was.  It was painful hearing basic concepts being explained incorrectly or the lecturer not knowing the answer to questions.
Please stay away. Obviously this is out of her subject field, so it might be unfair, but the lectures were disorganized and often had mistakes. Homework will have little feedback on it and takes a long time to be graded. Anyways most of it is busywork that is implementing yet another sampler. The Lecture Notes are quite good, so those should be sufficient for learning the material on your own.
Great course, lots of practical applications and some theory for good measure.  The workload will likely not be overwhelming.
I learned a lot from the course from doing the problem sets. However, I had to teach myself a lot of the material since the lectures were not well organized.  Also, be warned that the final project might have to be done in a group if there aren't enough TFs, even if the option to do the final project individually is offered at the beginning.
If the same lecturer is teaching again - the lectures can be the blind leading the blind. You will do most of the learning by completing the assignments. Overall, the material is important and is much used in industry for data science. You will really learn how to approach Metropolis-Hastings (MCMC) related problems which is important for machine learning and optimization related problems.
Great course, the homework's are a lot of work.
The homeworks take hours to complete. Plan accordingly!
Discuss a lot of stochastic algorithms, but the bottom line here is that all of these stochastic algorithms at a high level are methodical guess and check. That's it. All variations on this theme.  Given that the lectures (especially lecture notes!!!!!) were not always that great, though the homework's perhaps useful in developing intuition about how these methods worked, it feels like far too much work for too little reward. Lecture notes need to be better, workload needs to be tightened, and TAs seriously need to up their game. It's not a good feeling when it isn't immediately apparent that the TAs know what's going on.
Make sure you have some programming experience before attempting to take this class.
The subject matter is extremely important and I definitely learned things I didn't know at the beginning of the semester. But at times, taking this course was very frustrating.
It may take some time to do the homework, but it worth the time. Implementation of algorithms is interesting, and AM207 will also focus on some application. Great course
I did not find the lectures to be particularly useful. The uploaded lecture materials were more useful, but occasionally contained errors. The assignments were of appropriate difficulty, but the instructions were sometimes unclear. The Piazza helped with this, but responses were not always timely or very helpful. Towards the beginning of the semester, the grading of the assignments by the TAs was very erratic; students received wildly different marks for similar work. This problem was resolved after the first several assignments. Occasionally the teaching staff seemed somewhat hostile towards students.
I thought the problem sets were good for learning the material, but the lectures were not worth attending due to their slow pace. It was better to learn from the notes.
the material is very useful
What you learn from this class will be directly proportional to how much effort you put into the problem sets. It is a lot of work, but it is worth it.
This course is definitely time-consuming, but is much more time consuming at the beginning of the semester.  Monte Carlo is super useful.  To be honest, you'll probably never use any of the more advanced methods we learn again, but your ability to use basic Monte Carlo will greatly improve. Also, it's a great course to give you extra coding practice, even if you decide not to use Monte Carlo in the future.  Lecture can be confusing but notes are typically very helpful. It's a good course, but it's also not one that's essential to have- take it if it interests you.
Get ready to do some work, but it will pay off. The material is interesting and applicable, and the format lets you develop a good range of skills beyond the applied math.
This course will take at least 15 hours a week. The course material is interesting and it is taught well!
You can get by this course without spending too much time, but if you want to truly learn things, be prepared to devote many hours weekly.
This class is difficult and requires a lot of work. The teaching staff is really supportive which made the experience more manageable.
This class is both theoretically interesting and practically useful. You'll get better at thinking about how to model real-world phenomena with probability distributions and then actually fit those models to data.
Regardless of your program you will most likely benefit from taking this class. You will learn how to treat datasets efficiently and analyze them effectively
Prepare to spend a lot of time on your own thinking about course materials.
Some material is challenging, find a good study/homework group and a TF like Weiwei!
After taking AM207, I feel prepared to explore any data science topic that piques my interest. It opened a lot of intellectual doors.
It will be a dense class but also very interesting. You will get a lot from this class.
I think it is the best and the most useful core course for CSE program so far this whole year.
incredibly informative class with a large breadth of material covered. course materials were incredible, rahul put a lot of work into the course website and it paid off. great class!!
definitely a lot of work to complete all assignments, would not take it again with the same instructor but still valuable information in terms of sampling
This class is worthwhile. Rahul is a very involved instructor and the TF staff are helpful and friendly. It will be painful. This is not the fault of the teaching staff but rather the nature of the content. Much of this content is definitely not black and white and it really needs you to dig deep and get a little messy. The course is designed to get you comfortable with this idea of dealing with these open ended style of problems.
This class was really really good! I really feel like I learned a lot of useful stuff in this class that will be actively used in the rest of my life. Rahul and the rest of the teaching staff were fantastic and the materials on the website were extremely well documented. The psets took a solid amount of time but were never too difficult, and much of the code was already provided so most of the time on the pset was spent understanding the concepts (as it should be). If you are an undergraduate, don't be scared of taking this course. If you have a solid understanding of Stat 110 material and know how to code in Python then this course is very manageable (I spent a little bit more time per week on this than stat 110)
AM207 was a challenging and exciting class - I put a lot of time in, but am coming away with strong skills in a burgeoning field. The math is significantly less intimidating than it was before, and I feel ready to go out and start sampling everything. This class was a solid grounding and integration of the foundations of probabilistic programming that I pretended to understand before, and I feel much more confident in my ability to actually understand and troubleshoot what's going on under the hood of bayesian modeling.
This course is amazing! I have never touched data science is such a bayesian perspective. Great cover on involved math. You will really learning something at the end of the semester. Really interesting topics on sampling, hierarchical modeling and full bayesian. Well-designed problem sets and really enthusiastic instructors and TFs. Love the course and love the people! I like to discuss and think with such smart and nice people. I have learned a lot sampling methods, e.g. Gibbs and Metroplis, that could help in my own research. I would also love  to touch more on the stochastic topics further. Highly recommend for bayesian data science on sampling.
important concepts to learn. the material is good, you should definitely read some of the recommended supplementary materials
Do not take this class unless you want to devote your entire semester on it without doing any other class or research. It has more than 1 assignment per week on average, which is extremely time-consuming. The course material is not well-organized.
This is a great class if you have an understanding of machine learning algorithms but want to dig deeper into the mathematical and computational underpinnings.
I would recommend this course, with a couple of caveats. The work load is pretty ridiculous. At times, you'll be working on two assignments ("long" and "short", though the distinction is unclear) simultaneously. While the first few weeks of the class are manageable, and I was able to keep up with the readings and the homework assignments (albeit after much time spent), by week 4, things ramped up really quickly. I no longer had time to read the background notes/additional readings, as the assignments were so incredibly time consuming. If you already have quite a strong background in this material, you might be ok, and it might take you a reasonable (still a lot) amount of time to complete the homework. If you're new to the field and to python, it will be incredibly challenging and time consuming. And if you're somewhere in between, it will still be challenging and time consuming. If you're doing research, I would not recommend taking this class alongside others, as it is a huge time commitment. That being said, there is a lot of really valuable material in this class, and the instructor and teaching staff are incredibly helpful and supportive. Seems like one of the quintessential data/CS classes to take.
This course is very hard and effort-intensive, but if you go to office hours (sometimes a lot) you'll probably do fine. The homework sets are a huge amount of work but you also learn a lot and they're super relevant.
Excellent material.
This class is GREAT and should be taken with CS 181. Really recommended combo for all undergrads. You literally learn everything needed to be well-versed in modern ML / stats literature. Bear in mind that the assignments can be messy though so some amount of digging around and solving frustrating "what is this question asking" puzzles should be expected.
If you just want to learn how to use tools not about mathematical details, this is not the course.
This class is hard but you will learn a lot. Be prepared to invest a significant amount of time. Assignments typically look challenging at the first glance but are actually pretty doable and well-designed. Class materials (especially the codes) are very helpful; recommended textbooks are well-written. My major complaint is that lectures often go too fast and you will have a hard time if you have no prior knowledge on the topics.
Avoid IACS classes. Quality of instruction and organization tends to be poor. Would recommend taking courses that are directly managed and taught by Harvard tenure-track instructional staff in CS or Math.
This is not a data science course, so if you are looking for visualizations and interesting data mining applications, I wouldn't say this is the course. There is another course specifically for that. This is specifically about stochastic methods, which are often very practical for sceintific applications.
The material taught in this course is very useful for people in any sort of applied computation field.
This course is, without equal, the worst course I have ever taken. As the first negative course review I have ever written, I want to underscore how atrocious this experience has been. I'm not alone here either; look at the abysmal Q scores of previous iterations of this class to get a hint of the frustration. But the biggest issue, was the unprofessional treatment that some students received. This is not a story of a course experiencing growing pains; this is a course which has suffered due to the recalcitrance of its instructors to remedy fundamental teaching and operational issues, who instead insist on blaming the students' supposed inabilities.Verena's teaching ability is, quite simply, unacceptable. Simply taking some handwritten notes from previous years, and copying them onto the board while narrating it in some stream of conscious manner is not the hallmark of good, or even acceptable teaching.  You may as well have just been given the notes since there was no value added from the lecture. Few efforts were made to actually engage with students and check their understanding. There was never any real sense of why she was doing certain things, or how everything fit together. Towards the end of the semester, the main lecture theatre had around 10 people left in attendance. I've never witnessed that level of attrition, and it certainly was not just due to student laziness.Just a few of the "highlights" from this course:- Assignments were often confusing and too far removed from the content being taught, all in the name of "challenging" students. Most labs needed to be devoted entirely to explaining the assignments in detail. When an assignment confused people (and even a capable TF) into making an understandable mistake, Verena's response was condescension and incredulity, noting "[w]e are talking about Shakespeare here." Didn't realise English literature was a pre-req.- Some students' assignments were lost multiple times due to a ridiculous system where names needed to be specified precisely in the file name before being uploaded to Canvas. As far as I am aware, no other course requires this. Then it gets worse: some students were deducted marks in the first marked homework because they had not put their name in the filename, because it apparently caused extra admin time. Rather than conclude their system is ridiculous, and they should figure out a more robust solution, the remedy was to deduct marks. The irony is the instructors' constant refrain that students needed to stop complaining about the teaching and harden up since this was graduate school, when they run the course like a primary school where students are penalized for not putting their name down.- The official site cites a strict page limit for the final project (worth 40%) which was changed to "not exactly strict" (whatever that means.) This change was communicated only on Piazza. Too bad if you didn't see it or couldn't make sense of it, because you'd be seriously penalised for not having enough detail (see the next point.)- For the final project, TFs worked with every group closely, read the submitted material and gave marks. Verena then decided to mark down a large proportion of projects. She skimmed through and marked them down significantly (up to 40% in some cases,) often citing a lack of detail. The comments revealed she had clearly not read the Ipython notebooks (supposedly also assessed,) nor had she really understood the reports in depth; it was not really possible for one person given the marking deadlines. If you are going to overrule TFs who had more opportunity to read the project, at least give proper care to the process.- After final project marks were released, there were obviously a number of requests for a regrade. Some were actually granted, some were denied, and (incredibly) others were told there was no regrading period at all for the final project. Suffice to say this process was completely opaque and unprofessional.
This is a good course in general, mainly because it can expose a lot of useful materials to you, but if you want to master those skills, you'll need to do lots of work on your side, because the lecturing is not that helpful.
You have to take this for the CSE Master's Program.  Not sure why you would take it otherwise.
First of all, don't take this course!!!!! If you have to take it, then try to avoid Verena. She isn't familiar with the course material. Sometimes, she even has to ask another instructor to confirm one concept or another. Secondly, she is kindly of "Arrogant" and VERY mean in her office hour. She will treat you like a dumbass knowing nothing. Thirdly, the grading is ridiculous. What the staff want to do is to punish you and try to convey that you are a dumbass. The purpose of the home work is not encourage you but  punish you. I would suggest the university to let some "Professor" teach this course, instead of "Lecturer", given the amount of tuition paid.
Don't take this class if you want to learn about what is going on under the hood of MCMC
Watch out for this class. It is the most useful class I had this year, but the instruction is really really bad. You'll need to do a lot of self-study in order to compensate for the lecture and feedback quality.
This course is probably one of the best opportunities you will have to really learn the true behind Bayesian methods and MCMC. Plus some other cool stuff.
The materials are useful and interesting. But if Verena/Pavlos still teach this class, avoid it please. please. It would be better for you to just learn everything from Coursera.
I feel that most wrinkles will be ironed out over time. I thoroughly enjoyed learning the techniques and methodology but would stress that the instruction must improve and be further based on the actual math.
if you aren't confident in statistics and probability don't take the course
Learn Python in advance, go to lab (or watch Videos)
take this course if you are interested in the learning more about different stochastic methods to solve different problems. But take note that the lectures can be confusing and not helpful in learning the concepts. the sections are pretty good though.
Once again, check the instructor before register. Pavlos is good, but Verena is a SOOOOO BAD. She is arrogant and she even refused to answer my question after class
If you an extension student who is happy because you are taking a single Harvard course and you have practical experience working on topics covered in the course, you'll probably love it and quickly become the "teacher's pet". Furthermore, if you have studied these topics in the past, or are currently doing relevant research, you'll also probably fall into that group. However, if you're part of the overwhelming majority of students who are not in either of these two groups (i.e. you are a student forced to take this course because it is mandatory for your degree, and you have no experience with any of the topics beforehand), then chances are this course will frustrate you like no other. You will quickly discover that the instructors are completely out of touch with how poorly the lectures prepare students for the assignments or with how the lecture material is being received by the students (e.g. it often feels as if the instructors are pulling thoughts out of their heads or transcribing select portions of their notes to the blackboard at random, and you find yourself praying for a motivational example and/or some hint as to the purpose of what is being written on the board at any given time). But what makes the situation 10x worse is that year after year, the instructors seem intent on placing the blame squarely on the victims/students, and ridicule them behind-the-scenes for "not getting it". They refuse to acknowledge that their own lectures are largely disorganized and incoherent. As students, you will find yourself asking -- often -- "what kinds of interesting work/research/projects would be relevant that utilizes the method being taught" or "what practical application does this have in industry or research" -- and never getting a satisfactory answer. To add insult to injury, the instructors are quick to criticize assignment/project work product, despite providing little (if any) useful guidance. I have heard some students comment that feedback they received even bordered on vindictive. Until the instructors are prepare to fundamentally change how they deliver course content, I cannot with good conscience recommend this course to anyone. That said, you might not have the choice.
I definitely recommend this course for the material! I certainly would not recommend it for the way it is being taught and for how time consuming it is.
This is a good class to take if you're interested in sampling methods and Monte Carlo methods. It can be confusing at times and the assignments can be nebulous but if you can find the applicability to your other studies, it can be worth it.
The lectures cover a small part of what you're expected to know and a lot of the material is self taught. Too much material covered, and therefore you don't go into depth. It sometimes felt that we just learn the material required for HW because we have no time to cover everything that is trying to be taught.
Both instructors aren't really the subject matter experts in this field. Some messy code presented in lecture notes literally commented with "THIS CODE IS RATHER MESSY AND DOES NOT INCLUDE KEEPING TRACK OF BEST POSITION SO FARDO NOT JUST COPY PASTE THIS FOR THE HOMEWORK", which makes me wonder whether the lecturers aren't capable of producing the code in a well-organized manner, or they simply don't care. Lecturers are often quite hard to follow. Based on the importance of the subject in the Applied Maths field, I strongly recommend SEAS to find better Professors who actually know the materials well to instruct the course. For those CSE students who are required to take this course, suck it up. For those who still have the options to take it, please use your best discretion.
Many interesting topics covered, but you will have to do a lot of self-study to get most out of them.
Very interesting class, but the theoretical aspects of MC statistics is not thoroughly covered; I think the class is mostly designed to understand the concept and practice how to apply the concept in terms of writing algorithms in Python. Pretty practical but not very fundamental.
