Professor Valiant is an eminence in the field who provides an original, interdisciplinary perspective on graph theory. This course is a must for any student interested in the mathematics or computer science. My best mathematical experience at Harvard as yet.
The course is an excellent opportunity to improve proof-writing skills and work with other students.
Interesting material, could be improved by having better sections and better study materials
It's a great class with interesting material, the problem sets are challenging but not too time consuming, Professor Valiant is very sweet and enthusiastic. It's a good class to take if you have a requirement to fulfill.
Probably one of my favorite concentration classes thus far!
a good stepping stone to enter theoretical computer science
This class is great. The professor is amazing. The problems are fun.
you will learn a fair amount but it is very boring.
I personally really like discrete math and combinatorics, so this was a cool class to take. Especially if you have had Stat 110 (probability and combinatorics) or a prior class in CS or AM106, that is helpful. I would not recommend it as a first course in proof-based or even discrete math, but there aren't that many options or choices at Harvard--but mostly because the class was really poorly taught this year. Prof. Valiant is absolutely brilliant (he won the TURING this year), but doesn't have as much oversight over his class. Section was awful, but hopefully future TFs can improve this component of the course.
Section tells you how to do your problem sets. For this reason, it's not much work, but everyone does well. Hence, even though exams are only by one third total, that is where the variance occurs, which means exams are what determines your grade ultimately anyways.
The class is hard because of the exams. Problem sets don't take long, and they are not difficult to do. Section is very helpful for the problem sets. But don't expect the TFs to be good at explaining the material. They are good at helping with the problem sets though.
This is probably the best applied math course I've taken.  The workload is not too demanding and the material is fascinating.  Valiant is a genius, and it was great to take a course with him.
It's a pretty painless course, but you have to go to all the lectures because there are no lecture notes!
Leslie Valiant was the 2010 Turing Award recipient. Valiant is a pretty good teacher, but he does everything on good old black board at 10am without slides, so either plan on going to lecture or have some really good friends who take neat notes. Lectures are interesting, but don't necessarily match up with the weekly pset, which take forever. They walk you through everything in section though. Midterms are pretty tough, usually averaging around 40 out of 70. Best math class I've taken at Harvard.
Meh...some interesting stuff, but the only place to learn is lecture and there is no supplemental material.
You should do practice problems if you want to do well in this course. You should be mathematically mature to a certain degree.
The problems are usually pretty interesting.
The course material is very interesting/useful but the course is very challenging so I'd be careful encouraging students to take it.
This class is a good alternative to cs124. However, I had many problems with the teaching. Professor Valiant isn't the best lecturer and the TF's are undergrads who are consumed with their own work.
If you like combinatorics/ graph theory anyway and have a good intuition for the logic behind these, then the class will be pretty breezy, but you'll probably still see quite a bit of new material. On the other hand, if these things are fairly challenging for you on a fundamental level, this class will probably be quite challenging. That said, it's pretty accessible to anyone.
It's a good class, but the second half is definitely weaker than the first half. It's definitely worth taking for CS concentrators -- the concepts are exceptionally relevant to CS. But otherwise you might want to consider pass/fail or auditing instead.
The material is interesting and the problem sets are surprisingly entertaining. It's nice to have the midterm and the non-cumulative final.
Graph theory and combinatorics are just so interesting and powerful tools in many subjects.  Valiant does a nice job of clarifying the important concepts.  This is definitely a class where you cannot get what you need just by reading the book because lectures beat the book by far.  Sections are also great at developing problem solving skills and making you really think through the problems.
If you're looking to meet the CS theory requirement, this course is a very painless alternative to CS 124. After suffering through Math 23 and CS 121, I was relieved to find a math course I actually liked.
This class is very interesting and very relevant to computer science.  It is pretty time consuming though, and you are being curved against smart kids.
So much better than CS124
Pretty awesome and painless class. Do your assignments diligently and you will not have a problem with the midterms.
The material was interesting but the class was lackluster; it seemed like the professor just did not care.
This is a very fun class, but it will only be fun if you like the challenge of solving tough math problems.
It is overly important for computer scientists. However, many other fields are overlapping with the course material (graph theory, combinatorics)
It's pretty interesting, not too difficult if you put in the time, and it has no final.
It's very interesting, the professor is boring, the problem sets get hard.
The class is very difficult.
You MUST take a course with Les Valiant!
The course followed the text very closely. Lectures were generally not engaging, but the staff was nice enough.
This was a decent class. The first part (graph theory) was fairly difficult. It seemed like there was no particular way to think about the problems; you just sort of try things until it works, which was frustrating. The second half (cominatorics) was much better, however.
I LOVED IT!! the material is really fun. the textbook is really useful too, so I'd recommend getting it. the midterms are hard though.
It's a nice first exposure to math for more applied students!
This course has its pros and cons (what are the odds!). On the one hand, the material is really interesting. In addition, if you are concentrating in something like CS, this material is very relevant. But on the other hand, the coursework is extremely challenging and the grading is really harsh.
I really enjoyed this course, especially the graph theory portion (though I hear many of my peers preferred combinatorics).  I took it as a sophomore in CS who took Math 23 as a freshman (ugggh) but has yet to take CS121 or Stat110.  This course reminded me why I really enjoy math, which 23 had made me forget.  Some prior experience with proofs is helpful, but you don't have to be a master.  The class provides a lot of resources to help you out if you need it and there's a good chance you'll either have friends in the class or make some.  People with a really wide range of skill levels take this class - from CS sophomores trying to avoid 124 to applied math concentrators to people who are good at math who take this as an easy senior spring course.  This course generally works for everyone.
A solid introduction to graph theory and combinatorics.  Professor Ergun sometimes got lost in lecture and rambled a bit.  But presumably Prof Valiant will be back next year and the course will be different.  The material is good for this interested in the subject.  And the class is not terribly difficult for those who have had some explore to graph theory / combo.
This is a fine Applied Math class.  The fact that the grading is primarily assignments is great, since you can focus on these weekly problems rather than just focusing on an exam or two.  However, the material is not all that interesting and the problems often get unnecessarily complicated.  Not too difficult, but this class won't be thrilling.
I thought this was a great alternative to 124. The material is still very challenging, so don't expect an easy class. The material is still very applicable to CS though, and I found the topics really interesting. If you want to seriously pursue engineering/CS after college, I would say you should take 124 or 124 and AM 107.
Really interesting material, fun problem sets, though a tad bit abstract.
I really enjoyed AM107 and felt that I gained a lot from the course. I learned some specific mathematical strategies and facts, but (more importantly) became a better mathematical thinker.
Its really hard and graph theory is really uninteresting. Combinatorics is a little better. Needs to be taught better.
Definitely a better alternative to CS124. Significantly less work and easier
A good way to learn about graph theory and combinatorics/fulfill your CS theory requirements. Fair problem sets, hard exams, but that is pretty standard.
This class has doable problem sets, especially if you start early and ask questions at office hours (which were really helpful). The two non-cumulative midterms were really tough, mostly because they are long and only expect you to answer about half of the questions. There is no final which is nice. Valiant lectures clearly, but he is not always the most interesting of lecturers. Generally the material is pretty interesting.
Great class. Prof. Valiant is a Turing award winner and a genius. Lecturing style is not flashy but extremely clear (i.e. don't expect to be excited by the lecturing, but given that you're interested in the material itself, the lectures are very effective). It could work as a first proof-based course, though having some theoretical math experience  definitely makes it easier. For CS concentrators considering taking this in order to "avoid CS124", I've taken both and yes, this class is probably better. But there's also very little overlap between the two classes, so I'd highly recommend taking both or you'll miss out on really important stuff. This is not a good class to take if you don't genuinely think graph theory is really cool.
I think this course does present a good alternative to CS124. Quite honestly, a lot of people will say that chickening out of 124 is awful, etc. etc. However, I think that is a notion that does not have the most merit. 124 is difficult, but I am not sure that the extra time you are forced to put into that course results in your learning that much more material. If you are interested in learning about some key algorithms that might have applications in your comp sci life, you can learn them in a much less painful environment on your own. This course is good to teach you about graphs and how graphs are used to solve interesting problems. The combinatorics part is a good overview of things you might have learned in stat 110.
It's an interesting and relatively painless course. The workload is very fair, and a lot of the material is fun.
I would recommend this over CS 124. Go to every class and section. Section will go over problems that are similar to the homeworks.
Don't except the professor or tf to explain anything
I really enjoyed the class.
problem sets are tough, but they are generally the same length each week and you know what to expect. lectures are useful and there are no lecture notes posted.
A great deal of material in this class is covered better by other classes, including Stat 110 and especially CS124. If you are not a CS concentrator (or just want to learn about graph theory) this can be an interesting math class to take.
The material is pretty interesting, but the problem sets can be challenging.
The lectures might feel long, but I learned a great deal about the topic from an established professor!
This is a hard class. The material is hard to grasp, and the exams are a trial by fire: the problems are easy once you get them, but they are like puzzles, so it can be hard to get them in time. The material is totally fascinating and it's worth taking.
Professor Valiant can make the material very, very boring. It was very hard to get through an entire class without losing focus a few times.
Interesting psets, not too much work.  A good second math course.
The class is very hard but the topics are very interesting. As long as you keep up with the course during the semester the work should be manageable and the course completely doable. Office hours and section are key.
AM 107 isn't a terrifically enjoyable class, but it's an honor to take a class with a Turing Award winner. The material is useful, and the class is a decent alternative to CS 124, though 124 is certainly more applicable to a CS concentrator. I don't regret taking this class, but the material was very difficult to understand and lectures weren't hugely helpful.
Do not take this course. Find another course to satisfy your interest in graph theory/combinatorics. Valiant is a very bad professor. It is difficult to understand him and even more difficult to follow what he's saying in lecture. Lectures are solely devoted to complicated example problems and proofs and help very little with problem sets. Problems sets often have problems that even the TF's have trouble solving in office hours. Midterms are ridiculously difficult. There are absolutely no resources available for the class (no section or lecture notes, few practice problems...) That being said, the subject material is very interesting. But this course does not do it justice.
Relatively easy yet rewarding
The generally unhelpful professor and TFs, combined with complex and obscure subject material, made this class a thoroughly difficult and unpleasant experience. Do not take this unless you are comfortable doing proofs, teaching yourself higher-level math, and dealing with the dismissive and condescending attitudes of the teaching staff.
107 is a solid theoretical treatment of graph theory and combinatorics, but is not for the faint of heart.  The problem sets and midterms are among the more difficult in the applied math department, and the course demands a significant amount of work each week to stay on top of the material.
There will be work
If you don't have experience with algorithms don't take this class. The class seemed really interesting at first and first pset was easy to figure out from class and the book but quickly went downhill. It required a lot of time in office hours and TF/Prof Valiant did not teach problem solving strategies. Many answers were expected to be intuitiveProfessor Valiant is a brilliant professor but terrible lecturer. He reads and copies straight out of his notes (similar to the book), is not very receptive to questions, and is horrible about responding to wrong answers proposed in class.  Sections were only offered on the weekend, and office hours were so busy it was very tough to ask the TFs questions.
This class is great! The professor explains the material very clearly and systematically. The homework assignments were actually fun! They definitely were challenging, but they were also doable which is great. There are only two downsides of the course: 1) the exam problems are just as difficult as the homework, but there are 7 exam problems while there are only 5 problems on a given homework assignment. I do a lot better not under timed conditions, so it was more about getting lucky and thinking of the right trick quickly then actually understanding the material. and 2) there were no resources online and he never gave us a reading list from the book, so if you missed a class you potentially missed a very important topic without an easy way to catch up. But otherwise, the course was great and I would definitely recommend it!
Tough class. Work together with peers at office hours.
it's fun and relevant material, good for problem solving
The problem sets take longer than it appears on face value. Go to office hours/find a study partner, especially because the problems are like puzzle solving (so it helps to have someone to knock ideas around with).
This class is great! It is definitely not a substitute for CS 124, which I took at the same time, and vice versa, so if that is a reason you are considering it, do take both if you can. Also, you do not have to be an applied math or CS concentrator to take the class (I was Neuro), as long as you have background writing proofs and with problem solving, or are willing to pick it up.
Do not take this class!!! The concepts are interesting, but you should take the math department equivalent because the teaching and organization of this class are both so, so, so poor. The professor is clearly brilliant but does not know how to explain concepts to people with only above average intelligence. You would do better spending an hour reading the book than going to lecture. And if Chan TFs again, absolutely do not take the class. Chan actively discourages students; he has, on numerous occasions, implied that certain students were dumb. He is just plain mean and unhelpful. I walked away from that class disheartened by math.
This is an unsatisfactory class in graph theory and combinatorics. Lectures are dry, and notes are not posted online so you either stick it out or follow along in the book. The first midterm was unnecessarily difficult, and some of the psets were as well. This is not an unbelievably hard or time consuming class, though it will be a frustrating semester unless things change.
Tough class to tackle on your own. Would definitely go to section and meet peers to talk about the material with.
This class is extremely difficult, and your success on the exams will mostly depend on whether or not you can find little tricks in each question. Doing practice problems will hardly help at all, because every question is so different. Be prepared to get slaughtered on the exams (everyone in the class does though, so it's more of a hit to the ego than the GPA.... hopefully). You definitely glean some cool knowledge about graph theory (what the heck it even is!) and it gives you some neat problem solving techniques in general. Unless you're pretty comfortable with proofs and discrete math, enrol in this course at your own risk!
This is a really great course.  Professor Valiant is a really great lecturer, the material is really fascinating, and it doesn't require tons of work to learn a lot.  I highly recommend this course! Also, I took CS 124 and AM 107 this semester and I would personally suggest that CS concentrators take AM 107 to fulfill that requirement and take CS 124 P/F (don't skip 124!  It's a really good class, but I'd suggest doing it P/F so you don't kill yourself time-wise)!
Problem Sets are time consuming but manageable, especially if you go to office hours. The two midterms are difficult and hard to prepare for.
I found this class to be an unexpectedly wonderful balance between an interesting class where a significant amount of material is covered, and a reasonable workload, sometimes erring on the side of an easy workload. I felt like there were many times where I was surprised that I finished the problem sets in this class relatively quickly. It's  a really straightforward class: keep up with the material, review notes, do the psets early rather than late, and you're golden.
This class is terrible. Miserably boring problem sets with no relevant applications whatsoever. This class is designed to help computer scientists better understand certain theories, but it ends up being a ton of work for no added skill or such understanding.
Take it if you're trying to avoid taking 124.
The psets suck but are interesting if you work in groups. Also the midterms are extremely tough but the material is worth studying.
I took this instead of CS 124 and have to say that while it was less work, it isn't easy. You want to feel comfortable doing a lot of proofs, read the textbook and go to section.
The material taught in this class has the potential to be very interesting and useful. That being said, of the 36 classes I have taken at Harvard, this was by far the worst. I have never seen a professor put less effort into a class. Some of the TFs mean well but the assignments are quite difficult and often the TFs don't even know how to explain certain  questions. You should also know that this is very different from most applied math classes, in that every problem is a proof. Additionally you can expect test with averages well below 50%, for which you will be given no feedback on why you lost any points. If you are thinking of taking this class I highly encourage you to reconsider, until serious changes have been made to the syllabus and teaching staff. Taking this class is one of the worst decisions I made at Harvard and I hope you will not make the same mistake.
The easy alternative to CS 124 for the theory requirement for CS, though not terribly useful or fun. Seems more friendly for applied math majors?
Be prepared to work a lot in this class. The homeworks are sometimes really difficult but with a good group, you can do most of them.
It's a good introduction to Graph Theory and Combinatorics, but is NOT a substitute for CS124 by any means...
The material is very interesting, and Professor Valiant is wonderful to get to know.
Professor Valiant is very smart but his lecturing style is not effective. The majority of the class was hard to follow along since his handwriting was not all that great and he would lecture to the board. Also the class is a lot more theoretical than any other applied math class I've taken.
This class is terribly taught - yes, Prof Valiant won the Turing which is awesome, but it doesn't mean the class wasn't very poorly taught. Also the median on the first midterm was 19/70.
You likely not learn much from this course besides going to the office hour for the answers from the TF.
The material taught in this course is super interesting and very applicable. It allows you to solve all sorts of CS/puzzle type problems; but, it is extremely time consuming and the midterms are pretty rough. The problem sets take a while if you haven't had prior experience with proofs and thinking graphically.
It's hard. The lectures don't really teach you what you need for the HW. It almost feels like the HW/Tests and the lectures are two different classes.
This is a difficult and fast paced course. I don't know how helpful lectures are for completing the problem sets which account for most of the grade and can typically be completed during office hours the night before they're due.
It's hard if you don't have a strong math background. And I mean strong - like most of my classmates were math olympiads participants/winners and had a knack for this sort of thinking. That said, it's not impossible to do and because it doesn't have any prereqs, if it fits in your schedule and you need the course this year, might as well take it. The book is pretty clear but the psets are harder than the problems in the book and you'll need to do a lot of practice problems. Lectures/professor's handwriting are hard to follow; he's brilliant but that comes with its burdens.
The lecture is a little dry, but the content is fascinating if you let yourself become invested in it.  I love the mind puzzles feel of this course and would recommend it to anyone who wants to embrace a fresh branch of mathematics very different from the traditional diffeq/linearalg path.
This class is great!  The material is very interesting, and the problem sets are enjoyable and help with understanding the material.
Such a great class! Honestly, doing these problem sets (especially the ones on graph theory) was so rewarding! With that said, it is a fairly difficult course, especially if you're not the best when it comes to combinatorics. But if you go to section / office hours and work with others on the psets, Applied Math 107 is a very rewarding experience! The lack of a final is also great!
If you've taken math 23 or above, this shouldn't be too hard.
If you like going in depth in a mathematical subject, don't take this course. If you prefer a highlight reel of interesting subjects, this is an excellent course. In general, I would strongly recommend it among the options required for the applied math major, but I probably wouldn't recommend it if you're majoring in anything else.
This is a great class, lots of fun, and not too challenging. It's not too much work, psets usually have 4-6 problems which can be done in 1 night. However, they're often of the logic problem solving variety, so having a partner or group to work with will make this course a lot more manageable and fun. If you've done contest math before, this class should be pretty easy for you. Some familiarity with proof techniques is useful. This course should NOT be considered a substitute for CS124. I have no clue why CS concentration allows that. I took them both (taking both does not have much overlap) and this class is only tangentially related to CS; it definitely did not prepare me to be a good programmer like 124 did. If you're a CS concentrator, you should DEFINITELY take CS124 as a core class; AM107 is a fun side class but isn't really CS at all.
Professor Valiant is a titan in CS! Although he is not usually the most exciting lecturer, the course covers many important topics in combinatorics and graph theory that every computer science major should be exposed to. The class is also skewed towards assignments so students can be less stressed out by exams.
The material is interesting, just hope for good TFs.
Pretty moderate difficulty, but very little work required. Especially if you're a senior and want some time in your schedule, take this course over cs124.
This class is pretty interesting, but the first half of the course (graph theory) depends on you finding the trick to make the proof work. It's not hard, but it's annoying and tests are hit or miss.
This is a really excellent class with an excellent professor. Expectations are clear, the support is there and the exams/psets are challenging but rewarding. Exactly the way a math class should be.
Don't underestimate the amount of time spent on psets. Do go to office hours and you can get high marks on all the psets. Lectures are helpful on graph theory, the book helps a lot with combinatorics. In lectures, Valiant can be hard to follow but he often literally lays out how to answer questions on the psets, so it can be worth following.
This class truly focus on problem solving and helps you gain good intuitions about relevant problems. Prof. Valiant may be hard to follow at times but he has a brilliant mind and if appropriate effort is put in to the course one could learn a ton. I've taken both CS124 and Stat110 and still find this course interesting and challenging.
Its hard
it's not too hard of a class, just have to keep up a bit
Great class in about every respect. Salil was an excellent lecturer, Jack and Chan ran helpful sections, and the problem sets were (for me) the right balance between interesting and difficult problems.
It was very challenging but pretty cool. It made me think about math in a different way than I previously had.
If you have the chance to take it with Salil Vadhan, definitely do it. Make use of office hours and sections! They're super helpful, especially if you choose to take this course with Valiant (whom I've never had as a professor, I've just heard less than favorable things about this class when he taught it). With Salil as professor, I would say this course required about 5-6 hours of work outside of class per week for me. The problem sets are tricky but manageable if you go to office hours. The midterm was fair, but the final was pretty brutal. I found this class pretty difficult, but I have no background in computer science, proofs, or logic. In terms of my math background, I took the Math 1b-21b series and had no trouble in those classes. That being said, they were no help whatsoever in AM 107. When the course description says that the only prerequisite to take the course is "mathematical maturity," it really means it. This course requires you to reason and logic things out in really interesting and (if you're like me) unfamiliar ways.
This is an interesting class, but it is definitely difficult if you do not have exposure to math competition style questions. I did not feel like the exams measured how well you learned the material particularly well. However, the professor is very accessible.
It's not a bad class, but there weren't enough practice questions given for me to feel comfortable with the material
Take it only if Salil is teaching it! He is amazing! And go to lecture and take notes because exams are open note. Also go to office hours and do well on the homework. The graph theory part of the course was 10/10, the combinatorics part was not.
This course was awesome! It provides a great introduction to graph theory and combinatorics, and lectures did a good job of balancing the theory/proofs with applications. Salil was a great lecturer and incredibly helpful/engaging; he was much of the reason why I enjoyed this class so much. The class was small enough that lectures were interactive and it was very easy to ask questions.
Cs124 will take more time and be much more applicable.
AM107 is a really really interesting and fun course! This was definitely a class that require problem solving rather than rote memorization of formulas, which I preferred, but that also meant that sometimes homework and exam questions require intuition and if you can't think of the answer there's really not much of a way to come up with it with some given steps.
This class is hard. Be ready for it.
Better than CS124 if you are a CS concentrator going into something that doesn't require knowing the 124 material. Because grades are so low for everyone in the class on exams, I have absolutely no idea what I'm going to get in this class which is a little bit nerve wracking. Lecture is pretty hard to follow and the professor does not provide notes. Unless you are taking this class to get out of CS124, I would not recommend it. It is pretty difficult and not super interesting and I dont think I learned that much.
CS concentrators: Don't take this. Just take CS124. This is a bad idea
Valiant is not likely to excite you, but if you find the material interesting (I certainly did), and that doesn't bother you too much, go for it. The vast majority of the grade is determined by homework, which becomes a challenging but workable part of your routine. The midterms (only 17% each!) are difficult to finish in time, but easily fixed by the curve.
Do take this class, but make sure to come to lecture and do not take the content lightly. The subject matter is brilliant, and this class does not consume an inordinate amount of time.
For hardcore math people only
Valiant's lectures can be a bit dry, but the material is cool and the problem sets were basically pleasant. I took it concurrently with CS124 (for a totally unrelated requirement), and I can't believe the CS department will accept this for the same requirement as CS124 - it's infinitely easier. One five-question problem set roughly every week (each question taking between 5 min and an hour to answer, the whole pset usually about 2-3 hours), two in-class exams. Not trivial, but not a terribly hard class overall, and I certainly enjoyed it (I know not everyone agreed, though).
The lectures are boring but the math is some of the more interesting you will find at Harvard.
Go to office hours, lecture is basically the book.
Go to office hours. The book is good but does not always cover the homework entirely  for this, your TFs will be immensely helpful.
