Easy class, but if you want an a you have to put in quite a bit of effort
Relatively painless way to learn a lot about nutrition and global health.
This class made me realize that you don't take classes here because you hear they are easy. You should generally be interested in the course material of the classes you take. This class seriously killed a part of me on the inside. The TF I encountered in this class is probably the most unpleasant TF I have ever met in my life. Assignments had no purpose except to bring your grade down. Material was unclear and standards were even less clear.
take SW25 if you want an actual global health class. you won't get much nutrition out of this course that a quick wiki browsing of the various micronutrients won't give you. avoid this unorganized class that puts more emphasis on stupid requirements than the actual content. i took this class because i wanted an easy 5th, yet ended up with an obnoxious class i'd rather have not take seeing as i had actually no reason to take it whatsoever.
Seems to have gotten far more draconian than last year...Clifford Lo is by far the best thing about this class.
It's very easy, but it's hard to gauge the content you need to know for the exams and how well you're doing in the class. Additionally, the majority of the work was compressed towards the end of the class.
You'll get a lot out of this class if you are interested in the principles of global health and do all of the readings. However, if you are looking for in-depth knowledge of the underlying science or policy, this is not the class for you. The content of this class is very surface-level, meaning that it'll give you a broad big-picture idea of global health and nutrition, but teach you little about the smaller (but very important details), such as the current state of funding, biochemical mechanisms, etc. If you are interested in the sciences, I would not recommend this class.
grading is very arbitrary and unfair.
Not as easy as it was last year (so I've heard). Manageable nevertheless.
Great course for a broad range of global issues regarding health and nutrition.
unlike most classes, this information is relevant NOW.  it is cool to learn what is going outside of our harvard bubble
It provided a good introduction to global health, particularly on how nutrition affects health outcomes.
good, interesting class with not a huge workload. the topic is extremely relevant to today's world.
It is very easy to get a B, but very hard to get an A.
The subject matter of the class is beyond interesting and the lectures were for the most part entertaining and informative. The class way is a great way to learn about health and scientific topics without needing to really delve into the science.
I loved this course! People had said that it was boring and required no work, and this was certainly not the case -it was super interesting and did require some work (but not as much compared to other courses and not having a final was a plus). The material is fascinating if you're interested in learning about nutrition, deficiencies, and health in general without much emphasis on the sciency chemistry component. It is very applicable to daily life and easy to understand.
I would say that it is important to keep up with the information given out in lecture
Super easy
it is very beneficial to attend all lectures
TAKE THIS COURSE if you want an easy gen ed!
This course can be very interesting and fulfilling if you put time into it to actually speak face-to-face with your TF. However. for the most part, the readings are relatively pointless; everything that they discuss is covered in class and they take up a great deal of time. Also, the grading can appear to be relatively arbitrary at times, so make sure to take time to talk with the TFs about their expectations for each assignment
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS! Worst decision I've ever made. If you think this course is easy and that's the reason for you to take this class, that is a HUGE mistake. The grading is completely random and you will get points deducted for the worst possible reasons. DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS!
It is so boring and not as easy as you would expect. Take something more interesting.
Unfortunately, I didn't emerge from this class with much more knowledge than I had walked in with.  Lectures are interesting, but your enjoyment of the class depends significantly on the quality of your TF.  Expectations for assignments and the midterm are also extremely unclear.
Very easy class with not much work but if you go to lecture the stuff that you learn is also incredibly interesting. It is probably more productive if one does the readings but it wasn't necessary for the course. All the assignments can be done with the knowledge from lecture and the midterm can be prepared for by the review they give us
The concepts addressed in this course are extremely interesting and relevant, and the class really provides insight into how nutritional and health problems are most effectively dealt with.  It also opens students' eyes to the vicious cycle between malnutrition and infection, and it gives the tools necessary to think critically about how to solve global health problems in the future.  The lectures are too long, however, and concepts aren't really explained here.  Section is crucial for undertanding the material.  Some of the assignments were tedious, but the final project concept was interesting and challenging.
Try to get Julia's section - it will make or break the course. She's the best section leader at Harvard. Overall, awesome course for both science and non-science concentrators. You will learn a great deal about very interesting and currently relevant material. Absolutely no qualms - only praise for this legend of a class.
The execution of this course was a DISASTER. The very first day of the course, we were told explicitly by Dr. Lo that the course would be about synthesizing ideas and understanding methods - not a list of memorization. Then, come the midterm, we were evaluated on the most inane minutiae. While students prepared by thinking critically about the topics, using reference books as a guide for specific data, the TFs only seemed interested in asking about obscure diseases, specific height-to-weight percentiles, and trivial vocabulary. It's like asking students in Math 1b to do long hand division just to see if anyone screws it up. The assignments themselves were no better. All but two were crammed into the very end of the semester, and, in my opinion, all were extremely unclear. They didn't seem to make students think about the material, but instead made them jump through silly hoops that didn't serve a conceivable purpose. Write a letter to the minister of health of a country of your choice? Is that just a fun creative project, or do you actually want to do substantive research about the country in question?Grading by and large seemed arbitrary. Assignments that I barely spent time on received perfect grades, while assignments that I worked very hard on were given C's with practically no explanation.Also, having a "blackout period" before each assignment is due, wherein students aren't allowed to contact their TF's (especially given concerns above about the spacing of assignments throughout the semester), is pointless, frustrating, and completely backwards with regard to pedagogy. Why shouldn't we be able to ask our TFs questions in the final days of working on an assignment? That is when we will most likely have the specific, fine-tuned kind of questions that need a TF's answer.I'm not sure who made all these decisions, but they took one of the most fascinating, interesting subjects of the modern world, taught by some of the most stellar faculty Harvard has, and made it into a giant headache.
It's ultimately not worth taking, even if you want an easy Gen Ed. I ended up having very little incentive to do the reading - even though I thought the subject matter was interesting and worth knowing in theory, the lectures / sections made it so unbearable that I found myself losing interest throughout the semester. Take another class where you'll actually learn something substantial and be happy.
Take this class if you have a genuine interest in Nutrition and Global Health, if you do not, this class will not be nearly as enjoyable.
Very easy class
Class was not that good.
Take at your own risk
it seems like an easy A class at first, but its not. its a disorganized easy like b to b- class. not the gem it is advertised as
This class is largely a waste of time and a disappointment; I  found myself spending excessive amounts of time trying to "perfect" useless assignments graded on arbitrary criteria. Find another Gen-Ed to fill the SLS requirement and take Farmer's Case Studies in Global Health instead to gain insight into the issues surrounding global health.
interesting and easy class overall. however, i feel like they're a bit too nitpicky about the assignments, especially the final project.
This class would be easy if you care about the subject matter. If you are not very interested in global health, however, lecture and section are extremely boring and the assignments are a pain. They aren't inherently difficult, but they also aren't interesting. Also, sometimes the assignments were graded surprisingly hard. If you are interested in nutrition but not global health, do not take this class because it has very little to do with food or nutrition in general. Nutrition is merely a framework within which global health is discussed.
This class is an easy grade and it's near impossible to fail the class, but it is so large and disorganized that not much learning takes place. There are low expectations of the students from the professors and that did not improve things. Lectures were ineffective and often did not touch upon the readings at all. Requires little work.
This course isn't particularly difficult, just make sure you pay attention and keep notes as it'll help when you're studying for the midterm. With the assignments and projects, just make sure you answer every question that they include in rubric.
It's an easy and mostly painless way to fulfill a science gen-ed if you're not interested in pursuing the sciences. If you are interested in the sciences, this course gives you a very broad understanding of health and nutrition as it applies to the world, which I think is very important for those going into medical fields.
If you need a very easy Science B core (or whatever the GenEd equivalent is), then this could definitely be it.  Otherwise, it's a very big class that doesn't really sustain one's interest (unless you really LOVE the topic) over the semester.
Relatively easy class. If you get the right TF, this can be a fun class too.
It might look easy, but really it isn't
It's a very easy class, good way to fulfill your SLS requirement. It focuses a lot on the global health aspect though so if you're into the class for nutrition, you'll only get a few lectures of it.
The material was very interesting and you tend to walk out of the course feeling satisfied with what you've learned.
Its easy, relevant to your daily life, and even inspirational
If you are a global health secondary and have taken sw 25 or 24 or ghhp 99, no need to take this course.
- after the first couple lectures, becomes uninteresting- the information you need to know seems very basic; just end up learning what vitamins do what and what stunting/wasting is
This course is not difficult at all, and I found it to be very informative, interesting, and at times, exciting. The course will give you a good background in global health and nutrition, but really only take it if you're interested in this topic. I have friends who took this as an elective without any interest in the topic and they hated it.
Good and relatively easy way to satisfy the GenEd requirement. Interesting topics and issues, but the class is huge so not very personal. Section good and assignments pretty easy.
Easy course, great material, highly recommend it!
This is a fun and eye-opening class
It's not a lot of work, but the work that is there is graded toughly.
This is a very interesting class with a lot of interesting lectures and pretty chill professors.  Just don't listen to people who say it's easy and think that you don't have to do any work.  Yes, it's easier than a lot of other classes, but you can not get away with not doing any work!
If you want an easy class, this is the one for you. Assignments are kind of like high school busy work, however, the material is interesting. Dr. Lo is the best!
Scope out a good TF.
you NEED a global health background. this is a poor introduction in terms of how harshly it is graded and how little they prepare you for it. plus, the blackouts many days before exams and the lack of availability in teaching staff (it was impossible to get in touch with the writing fellow even a mere 2 hours after the google doc had been posted because all spots were filled up) made this class very close to impossible for those with even the slightest bit of inflexibility in their schedule.
This course cannot decide if it's an "easy" SLS offering, or a more serious introduction to Global Nutrition.  As a result, there are only a few assignments, and no final... but the assignments are graded in arbitrary ways, and the midterm requires an inordinate amount of detailed knowledge.  As a result, the course fails, both at being easy, and at effectively teaching the material.
The professors mentioned early on in the class that details wouldn't be the main focus of the class, but you should expect them to be the main focus of the grade..
You will not learn much but there is no work.
Do not take this class.  The lectures are not very engaging and the relationship with the teaching staff is terrible.  Assignments were given assuming a much higher level than could have been gleaned from lecture or sections, and they ultimately were not very useful for understanding material.  The course was graded much harder than was congruous with the assignments given.
Clifford Lo is wonderful. The lectures are really boring at the beginning, but some of the more policy-based lectures (which no one went to) were really interesting. The midterm is a lot of random details--not big picture, like they tell you at the beginning of the course. Painless way to get rid of a gen ed, but not fulfilling at all.
Make sure to follow the assignment guidelines exactly. EXACTLY. You'll lose just as many points (if not more) for exceeding the page limit as you will for incorrect content. Grading is harsh on silly things (page requirements, etc.) but loose on actual content/comprehension.
You get out of this course whatever you put in. It can be as interesting as you want it to be.
It's fairly easy, but difficult to sit through.
This class sucks. The material is so interesting, the class turns you off to it. This class is so focused on trying to make it a difficult, rigorous course that they do bullsh*t things with grading. The class itself is no hard, but it's likely you'll get a B because of the way they decide to stress formatting, etc.
It's fairly easy and requires little work.  But they are extremely picky on assignments, and most of the tfs suck.
It is a very interesting class, but do not take this class unless you are very enthusiastic about the subject. Indeed, there is minimal work, but the few assigned projects are graded very subjectively. If you do take this course, try to get Ida Hatoum as your TF. She's awesome!
Excellent professors, relevant course material. The course makes you care about global issues. If you want an easy class though, do not take this. There's more work than you think.
This class is very poorly organized. Definitely do not take as an elective!
It was hard and some of the assignments seem like busywork.
Hopefully you get a good TF. It makes all the difference
Great class however success depends somewhat on the TF.
if you want a fun core, this class is for u.
A great class!
This class gives a holistic overview of the issues of global health, starting at the basics. The lectures are pretty interesting, although the 2 hour class can feel really long. The material is pretty easy, and the assignments are pretty fair.
not a particularly interesting course. not too challenging but you will need to do work--wouldn't take this class to blow it off
This class is super easy, but DO YOUR WORK or you won't do well. You're going to get out of it what you put into it.
Find yourself a less irritating core class.
This is an easy class with interesting subject material and assignments, but there is a disconnect between the usefulness of the readings and learning the material. The lectures are also incredibly dry and boring.
Solid intro to nutrition class. Gives you  an overview of the burden of diseases and the role of nutrition in a person's health.
not as easy as it is perceived to be
In this class, you will do little and learn less.
I would tell them to attend all lectures, and to really try and pay attention during each lecture.
This course is trying to be tougher on it students by implementing mid-terms and grading pretty harshly on the assignments.
plan the assignments in advance!!
Interesting course but the lectures are long and hard to get through.  I didn't really find it necessary to do the reading and the assignments were fair.  The midterm wasn't as difficult as I expected, but you had to know the details of the course.
Very interesting even if the lectures are a bit long
This was an incredibly uninspired, boring class.
This class is not for people that are not sincerely interested in Science, or are not particularly good at science. I felt like this course favored students who had a lot of background knowledge of the subject and it really hurt people that did not know a lot about the topic. It was really difficult to ask questions because the teachers would often make you feel like you didn't know simple answers if you were confused. Directions were seldom given.
this class gives a great overview of nutrition and global health, and it covers a lot of current topics that everyone should know about. take it!
Easy and interesting way to fulfill SLS requirement.
Its an easy SLS class, but you could take a more interesting and/or organized SLS
The midterm is difficult.  The other assignments are embarrassingly easy.  This class could be great - the material is fascinating - but people don't care enough to make it good.
Make sure you're interested in the topic because if you aren't it can be quite painful to go through it.
This class could still use some structural reorganization, but it is a useful topic to take a course in. If you want a serious introduction to the field, this may not be the course for that. Also, although the coursework isn't that difficult, the grading isn't always lenient.
This is a great way to fulfill a gen ed.
Great course that teaches you useful information (that is relevant to your life). One of the few courses offered at Harvard that focuses on nutrition. Not much work and the assignments are enjoyable
An easy GenEd and an interesting class, but don't take it as an elective or if you are a science major. The huge size of the class and the formatting/page limit strictness of the assignments, which are not very demanding but also not that inspiring, mean that you could spend your course choice more wisely. The TFs are a huge asset, a really qualified and dedicated group. Other than a cursory look at vitamins/minerals, it is much more of a social science class, and tries to cover too much material.
Meh. Easy class. Extremely boring lectures. Don't be fooled by the first few lectures taught by Prof. Lo. They were entertaining and informative. But the class goes downhill from there.
The lectures often feel draining and do not often seem completely necessary, but make sure you attend your TF sections. These will really help clarify the information you're learning in the course.
The course is interesting but the grading can be frustrating at times because there was a mean for every assignment and points were taken off arbitrarily just to meet that mean.
Group work can be a pain in the ass. You get a lot jocks and seniors who don't give a damn and you get stuck doing most of the work if you care about your grade.
You learn some interesting, big-picture global health issues. However, the class glosses over more substantial information and the grading is very arbitrary. The best aspect of the class is the Q&A that some of the big name professors take at the end of their lectures, which helps to provide the first-hand accounts of big names who actually work in the field.
It's best to take this as a pre-med student interested in the global implications of your work.  A really fun class overall.
take the class and go to lectures
Be sure to pick your group mates wisely.
This class offers a lot of great information about the health issues facing the global community, and offers a great overarching look at the field.
Don't take this class- I thought it would be a generally interesting discussion after having taken SW25, another public health class.  But the class size was too large to have a genuine discussion although the profs attempted to foster this environment.  Overall, people took this class for the wrong reasons and there was no space for those who were genuinely interested in the subject material.
Perhaps one of the better options for non-sciencey people, but this class is not quite as easy as it sounds. Too many assignments and the final project is also too much work for a Gen Ed. Still better than Life Sci though.
Take this class if you are interested in global health/ saving the world...you'll be inspired by the impact our generation can and will have on the world!
If this class's format does not change, do not take it. It somehow makes very interesting and pertinent issues un-engaging, and the student body that takes it becomes less invested in the class, making it a lot less worthwhile to take. The head TF this year attempted to make the class "difficult", and it just didn't help make the class any more useful, because it just was more annoying to do the work that was graded on a ineffective scale and made grades on simple assignments low for no real reason. I'm not saying this as a grade grubber, it was just annoying to do what you considered good work (for example, writing a certain amount for a paper), and being docked points for reasons like that you had gone over the amount of pages (though the page allowance was too little to begin with for you to make any productive work). It seemed as though it was set up so you would do the work, but TFs didn't want to take the time to read your completed work.
There is a difference between being difficult graders and giving bad grades simply out of principle. The grading for a number of assignments did not match the students' effort.
It can be dry at times, especially some of the lecturers and a good TF makes a huge difference. Easy way to knock out a Gen Ed
Do not take this class. While the professors are great, the TFs grade very harshly and do not accommodate.
The class was mediocre- good professor and a few great TFs, but it seemed thrown together and could be better organized.
If you attend class, the course is very rewarding.
This class is disorganized, and the TFs take themselves way too seriously. The professors are great and the material is interesting, but the logistics of the class were unknown to the students until the very end. Unforgivable.
Go to all the lectures and interact in section
You don't need to go to lecture.  Sections are painless, a very easy class.
The assignments were graded too harshly hence I woud not recommend this course. Plus, they do not prepare you for the level of difficultly that is the midterm. The health minister of Mexico who gave a guest lecture was particularly boring.
This course may look interesting and promising from the description and initial lecture, but it eventually boils down to a poorly lead set of disconnected lectures and ridiculous assignments.  Definitely do not take this course, even if you'd like to boost your science GPA.  I'd much rather take a course that's slightly more difficult and well organized.
Take this if you want an easy gen ed.  However, it has many flaws.
This course is supposed to be easy, but the grading is very harsh (they take off for extremely minor details) and many of the kids already have a background in nutrition and global health which screws up the curve.
it does not require too much work, but it is hard to do very well in the class
this class was not good. lecture was a waste of my time and so boring and the only time i learned was in section. the assignments are supposed to help you learn about the topic, but i can honestly say i know very little about nutrition and global health now.
If you are even remotely interested in global health, or just nutritional requirements in general for the world population, you should take this course as you will definitely get something out of it.
Seems easy for non-science concentrators but is actually a waste of a Harvard class.
Be ready to be thorough in assignments
Overall, this class is a "shoulder-shrug." This course is a great way to meet the life sci gen ed requirement if you are not a science person. The course itself has very little relevance to anything you will do and I often felt like I did not get a lot out of lectures. With that being said, lectures are a waste of time, and this class makes you do a lot of busy work for nothing. It is by no means an easy A, the midterm is tough and grading is very tough by TF's on assignments. Also don't take it if you do not like doing group projects.
excellent class to learn about nutrition. great class to take senior year
A painless course that is both rewarding, insightful, and interesting. It will spur you interest in Global Health and compel you to recognize current challenges in developing and developed nations. This class gives you a chance to really appreciate and engage with material without being stressed by exams. It's a gem.
Not a lot of work but you can actually get a lot out of this class if you put the time and effort in. Reading material is interesting, and there are many TFs and professors with tons of experience working in nutrition.
Don't take this course just to get the gen ed out of the way, there are probably more engaging ways to fulfill SLS. If you are genuinely interested in global health, though, it's probably worth considering.
Although it looks easy and doesn't require a lot of you, in the end it can be frustrating because you're competing with so many other students, it can be very hard to stay focused during lecture - very hard - and what they expect you to know is vague and vast. Some really motivated people enjoyed it, everyone else seemed a bit disillusioned.
Compared to the many other global health course I have taken part of, this is probably one of the worst. If you're looking for an easy course, this suffices as it currently stands. The grading system encourages a checklist assignment and not actual synthesis.
This is a fascinating course that allows students to dive into learning more about nutrition and global health. It is fun and interesting.
Cool concept for a class but in the end just not what it is chalked up to be
This is an extremely doable class. Just be extra careful with the assignments and do everything exactly as said on them, even if some instructions look as though they were "recommended/optional" points.
You might be tempted to take it because it's easy, but it might be more fulfilling to take something that's a little more meaningful. The current course felt more like a very cursory survey of topics, although the teaching staff is very dedicated.
interesting enough, but it wont challenge or stimulate you much
I learned a lot from this class, but there is a lot of busy work and you should study hard for the midterm.
Great class taught by very passionate professors.
Take it!
This course is an interesting and informative way to fulfill the SLS requirement for a non-science person.
It is not too hard but the grading on assignments is pretty hard so you have to put a lot of work into them.
Great gen ed
This course was disappointing.
Great way to fill in the SLS general requirement! It has very topical material and no final exam, and all the assignments are pretty interesting as well as useful for the future. If you get a good TF, it is very useful to hear their feedback, and most of the lectures are actually very interesting as well.
It's a wonderful way to learn about something new/not often focused on. So many diseases, illnesses and symptoms can be treated by simply monitoring or changing a diet. It's remarkable.
very easy
This class did not have that many assignments, which is relatively low-stress. However, the weight of each assignment is thus, increased and sometimes may lead to lower grades than expected.
painless way to get a ged ed out of the way
This course is good, but the section leaders need to be improved.
Class is too large, grading is weird and usually brings your grade down
I feel like this class is going to get a lot of negative feedback here, and I feel this will be, for the most part, undeserved. The problem with this class is that it is presented as very easy, so a lot of people who are not interested in global health take it for easy gen ed credit. Then they realize they have no interest in nutrition, do not listen in lecture, do not participate in section, do not do the readings... And then they tell you the class is boring. As someone who has a genuine interest in global health, I thought the class was interesting and well-taught. The professors are super nice and funny, the slides are clear and the assignments are fun. I just wish they would make this class a little harder so that people would take it more seriously.
The professors are very willing to take advice and comments from the students, and they're really enthusiastic about what they're teaching which is fantastic. If you aren't fond of labs, and have a science requirement to fulfill, by all means take this course.Still, make sure you understand the depth of information that is required of you to avoid unnecessary studying. The readings are way more in depth than necessary for assignments or exams, and they can be confusing for non science majors.
I would definitely recommend you to take this class if you are interested in Global Health and you want to tackle some of the nutritional problems in the world. There is low workload, fair test but arbitrary grading on some of the assignments. It is perfect for a 5th class but not perfect if you want a GPA booster.
There is interesting material covered in the lecture that definitely helps build awareness in key global health issues. Poorly designed course readings and assignments severely detract from these exciting topics.
Interesting!
A very straightforward class with a diverse set of assignments.  Fairly fun and painless on the whole, would highly recommend it!
I loved this course! You will come out of this course knowing so much more about global health. TAKE IT!
Its a great course on nutrition and public health that will introduce you to the field.  Its not super rigorous, and can be taken as a fourth class.  You should be passionate about global health to get the most from the course however.
Probably the best SLS course for non-sciency people. This is not to say that I didn't learn anything, but that there's not too much input needed for a good bit of output...which I would consider a win when taking a class, especially if it's your fifth. I say take it. ALSO, IT LOOKS GREAT IF YOU'RE APPLYING TO GLOBAL HEALTH PROGRAMS FOR THE SUMMER.
This course was my fifth course and was an excellent choice.  The class is easy in the sense that assignments are not very demanding and do not require much beyond some elementary research and/or completion.  There are perhaps easier classes out there that do not have as many assignments; however, this course was not a burden at any time during the year.  in addition, the material is interesting and relevant so lecture/readings are bearable even if you are not extremely interested in global health.
I learned a lot about the importance of nutrition in health. The two hour lectures were sometimes a bit long and dry. I like that there was a final project instead of an exam.
Pretty good class
The topics are interesting and the purpose noble, but the administration of the class (especially the assignments and the quality of sections) makes it basically unbearable. The approach taken to the issues is extremely simplistic, and you distill just about every concept (biochemical, social, economic, statistical) down to the point where you're not really learning anything true.Take Professor Farmer and Kleinman's course instead.
This class isn't too difficult though the final project was a bit time consuming. For the readings, just knowing the abstracts is fine. I personally wasn't pleased by the midterm in that the TFs didn't tell us clearly what we needed to know. I ended up overstudying a lot for it.
It is really interesting and you learn a lot, and you don't have to do any of the readings. The midterm, while covering a lot of the material, is only 20% of the grade, so it's like another mini-assignment. You get a lot of help on the final project. Take it! You'll learn so much.
Great intro class in medicine and global health
Really fun, relaxed, easy, great professors, great material
Interesting material, manageable coursework.
Enjoy the material and the teaching style of the professor.
very interesting subject matter!  great assignments and knowledgeable lecturers
This course was really interesting and very relevant to anyone interested in public health.  There was little to no biology presented, which could be a pro or a con based on your biology background.  The lectures were all interesting, and a lot of interesting guest lecturers were brought in.
Future students should have a strong interest in nutrition.
Take this course if you want to learn about medical scholarship and how to use it. It gives students an accessible, (reasonably) unstructured opportunity to engage with the medical issues through well-thought-out assignments.
Overall, a fantastic course that will pique your excitement about a super important issue facing the world right now. No matter what field you eventually want to be involved with, you should take this class so that the issue will always be in your consciousness. Recommend doing the readings, because I regret not doing so. Some of the lectures will blow your mind. The final project is one of the most rewarding experiences of college experience yet.
The class is really great in that it makes you aware of global health issues.  It's definitely a class that gives you a better perspective of the world.
This class is extremely easy, but it's easy not to learn anything because it's unnecessary to do any reading or go to class
wonderful class, you should take it
This is one class where you come across answers to the global health problems and not just questions
If you took a freshman seminar or any other class about nutrition or health, this class is a great continuation of those topics!
Great class, you learn about personal health strategies and about careers in public health intervention.
Great class to fulfill a gen ed. Very possible to get an A.
i would definitely recommend this course to anyone that needs either an easy good grade or and easy core / elective / filler class! this is a great class to learn more about nutrition around the world.
I would tell them that I didn't really learn that much from this class because the information was difficult to retain.
A great course to open your eyes about the global public health crisis and what we can do to help.
It's very interesting, it's not very hard, and you don't need a strong science background at all to be able to appreciate and understand the material.
Lectures are not particularly helpful or worth going to.
The course is interesting without requiring much from you.
useful class. well-taught and well structured. caring, involved, knowledgeable professors and teaching fellows
this is a great class if you are interested in public health in any way (especially for summer opportunities--great connections!) and want a class with a lot of fun assignments. however, be warned that the lectures are long and you don't really need to do allll the reading.
Very interesting and it allows you to research things you enjoy. It's easy but you want to learn because it isn't forced on you.
Go to lecture and keep up with the assignments. If you haven't studied nutrition or global health before, you'll pick up some useful facts. You don't have to want to change the world to take this class.
This class often feels repetitive and it is unlikely that you will feel like you have come away with any new knowledge or skills at the course's end. That said, if you are a non-science concentrator and need to fulfill a gen-ed or core, it is an easy although tedious way to do that.
very easy class - learn some cool facts
This course was an ideal Science B Core- I learned so, so much, but without having to spend a lot of time fulfilling a lab component, and better yet, without having to take a final exam!
Gives you plenty of nutrition knowledge and some global health perspective (through awesome guest lecturers), exactly as the class name indicates.
Great easy interesting intro to global health.
Great class. Not to hard, but very passionate teachers. I would make sure you get to know the professors they are amazing and have much to share.
Though it's an easy course you aren't likely to get very much out of it.
A good, painless and engaging Science B.
This was a fairly easy course with few requirements. The workload was manageable, and the material was interesting. There was very little hard science involved.
if you want to know a lot about global health, take this course.  there really is a lot that the instructors want to teach you.  it also happens to be an easy core/gen ed.
A very easy class with few assignments and great Professors and TF's.
Total waste of time. You won't learn anything. You won't get anything out of this class. Total waste of time.
It's a great way to fulfill the science of living systems requirement without feeling overwhelmed (if you're not a science person).
It's a totally manageable SLS class
Will give you excellent overview of health topics.
Pretty easy course with 4 main assignments throughout the year.  Not much work and you get out as much as you want to put in.  No need to attend lectures but they are interesting if you care.
This class is a great way to fulfill the Science B Core requirement. There are no exams. Be prepared to work hard on the written assignments.
You don't need to go to lecture.
No midterm. no final. Relatively painless assignments. Need I say more?
It is a great way to get rid of a science requirement without having to get bogged down in any of the hard sciences.
This class is great. You get out whatever work you put in. You can make it as easy or as difficult as you want.
This class was one of the most informative courses at Harvard in terms of what is going on in the world today.  The material is astonishing and true to life.
This is an easy class. The section was unhelpful, but there was very little workload.
Easy class, but it might just make you want to do global health. The guest lecturers are great, an the goal of the class is to inspire you. The final project is wonderful.
Great and interesting material. Lectures amazing, but not enough incentive to go. Section leaders INCREDIBLE, especially JULIA!! Assignments really interesting. Not much work, but I hear they are making it harder
The second part on global health was fantastic but the first part on nutrition was very frustrating.  It might be better to just take a global health class.
Easy class, no tests, good way to fulfill a requirement, interesting
This is a great class to learn about an interesting topic while getting a genEd requirement. You really get out what you put in though, so it is good to be self-motivated.
This class has a large support network through the multiple TFs and Professors. Be sure to use them as a resource.
It's really fun, you learn a lot, the faculty is great (Dr. Lo is the best), and the project was different than any other assignment I've had at Harvard.  It was refreshing and rewarding.  My group had a fantastic time making a video and became good friends.
This class was really interesting and the professors had a lot of enthusiasm about the topic. Great science course for non-science people AND science people.
Take it only if you are very interested in global health issues on a general level.
It's incredibly easy but not all that interesting. If you're looking for an easy way to fulfill your SLS requirement (as I was), it's a good one. The course is not terribly organized, however, and sections vary widely.
Study the different nutrients
This is a remarkably undemanding class. However, you don't really learn that much. If you want to take an easy science core, this might be for you. If you want to learn about global health, take Paul Farmer's class instead.
Take this class and you will leave with a solid understanding of how to implement a nutritional intervention in developing countries.
great introduction to public health
This class is a great introduction to the challenges facing global health and nutrition. It requires very limited work but is very interesting. The faculty is absolutely amazing and there is a cool final project.
if you aren't very interested in global health/nutrition, this class will be dangerously boring.
I loved this course - I really enjoyed the lectures, guest talks, and especially my section.  It's a great core or elective class.
Take this course if you want to take an easy fifth class.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
It seems like a great class because there's no work involved, however, as a result, you don't get that much out of it.
Make sure you hassle the tfs to get back your assignments and know how you are doingin the class
Great introductory course to issues in global health
So easy. Take it. Sometimes I forgot I was even enrolled in this class because it required zero work, yay.
Great way to learn about nutrition and its relation to global health, and the faculty is amazing.
There is not a lot of day to day work.  You are on your own to learn all the little stuff about the course, but the assignments are awesome and you can really take a lot away from them.
I recommend this course with no reservations, because it was accessible and fun to students of all backgrounds.
Interesting class, beware of the final group project.
You get from this class what you put in; you can get away with doing very little work, but if you do all the readings you'll learn a lot.
You have to be interested in the material to get a lot out of this class. Since there is no final exam or midterm, you gage how well you want to listen and learn the material by how interested you are.
This course was great--I learned so much about how we can get involved in  global health issues.
The lectures were a bit dry, but the assignments were really helpful in developing life skills such as analysis and writing memos. It also allowed me to research and analyze various global issues I was previously unaware of.
This is an easy and amazing class, with amazing professors, and real applications of science content, unlike some Core and Gen Ed science classes.  The issues dealt with in class were the same people deal with in Haiti and Kenya, which makes a world of difference in motivation.There are no tests or final.  I appreciated the extra time I had after this class was finished (by April 20th) to work on my other classes and papers.
Interesting material, but poorly organized course.
Without a midterm or final, you don't have to learn anything you don't want to learn. You don't have to go to lecture. You don't have to read. You really don't have to do anything unless you want to. The material is interesting, though, so you may want to.
Please attend a lecture first. If you enjoy lectures you will learn a lot.
Very very easy way to complete Sci-Living Systems requirement. However, the class was not very interesting, despite my interest in global health. Lectures were intuitive, sections were useless, readings were not useful. Assignments were good, though.
It is not a super interesting or engaging course. Hopefully, they will do something change that.
This class is a must for anyone interested in pursuing a career in public service. It will help you gain a real sense of real-world context of nutrition, and it is fascinating to hear about the real experiences of those who dedicate their lives to these causes. The course however, is a little tiresome in terms of organization and assignments, and more geared towards those with a specifically scientific mindset.
You MUST take this class. Trust me.
This class is so easy. Take it
This is a very easy and painless way to fulfill Gen Ed requirements for non-sciencey people. It's wonderful!
Good introduction to the field, very manageable, and gives an opportunity to delve into areas of your interest in the assignments and projects.
That it is a good science core but not to use it as an elective UNLESS you want to engage with the professors on your own time--the teaching staff is absolutely incredible
TAKE IT
Wonderful lectures and teaching staff.
This class is a great way to fulfill a gened but you'll only learn something from it if you actually want to.  Also, regarding the final project, try not to get stuck with an annoying freshman who makes you waste hours of time on the little details that don't matter; how you present is more important than the tiny details.
Lectures were interesting and TFs and professors were invested and enthusiastic, however, I didn't gain as much quantitative knowledge as I would have liked
at least have an interest in public health issues or you will be bored.
Take it if you are truly interested in the field of global health and/or nutrition. If not, it's possible that you would find the material and lecture dreadful to go through. For those interested, it is a great chance to explore nutrition and global health in a positive and group-project oriented way. I enjoyed it!
It requires no science or quantitative ability
Shoulder shrug...
The lectures are long.
This is a great intro course to global health. However, it is not very well organized. It is not particularly good for undergraduates.
I took this class because I was interested in the material. I think I would have enjoyed it if the information was presented in a more rigorous or advanced manner.
Graded pretty hard on a points based system. Lots of readings, but very fulfilling. There doesn't seem to be a curve, so you get out what you put in. Has screwed a lot of kids who didn't take it seriously in the past. If you genuinely have a passion and interest in global health issues as well as the basic biochemistry underpinning it, you will love this course. The teaching staff is so enthusiastic and is among the best in the world for this field.
For someone with a background in global health, this course was easy, but still enjoyable; a perfectly painless way to fulfill the SLS Gen Ed.
take this class if you love public health
unfairly hard midterm
Great way to fulfill SLS and learn about something that is applicable to non-science concentrators as well. The TFs are really accessible and the course is entirely designed to really teach you the material, not test you on meaningless statistics. Final project is a great opportunity to learn more about something in the class that you find exciting and design an intervention around it.
It can sometimes be boring but overall it's a pretty good class, especially if you need a gen ed requirement. If you are interested in global health at all, it is an interesting class to take, but it might not go into as much detail as you would desire from a global health class.
This was a great way to fulfill the SLS requirement. It may not be the absolutely easiest option, but work is fairly minimal, but the subject is important. It teaches a subject I think everyone should have a basis in - it is a mixture of current events and what your body needs to stay healthy. The lectures are occasionally dull, but the subject matter is always interesting.
If you are interested in global health and do not have a background in the subject this class is a good option for you. You learn a lot about an interesting field.
This class was an amazing way to fulfill SLS. Even if you have already fulfilled this requirement, I would still suggest this class if you are interested in being a more educated person of the world. You learn global and truly important information--amazing!
This class does not require that much effort, so if you're looking to get a gened out of the way you may want to consider this course.  However, lectures are incredibly dry and sections feel very long...if you have no interest in global health at all, this course feels like a waste of time.  It may be beneficial to find another course that mildly interests you for this gened that you may have to put a little bit more work into rather than drag yourself through this course, which is pretty easy, but is tough to focus on.
It's not a bad way to fulfill your SLS requirement (especially if you're avoiding a class with a lab), and you learn more than you thought you would about nutrition.  It's a pretty interesting subject with a light workload.
lectures are boring, section is boring, but it is somewhat useful information and not that painful way of satisfying requirements
I went into this class dreading it - I needed to fulfill my SLS gen ed, and this seemed like the least painful way to do it. It ended up being one of my favorite courses that I've taken at Harvard. Professors Lo and Duggan are fantastic and I had a lot of fun doing the final project. If you're like me and fear the sciences, or even if you actually like them, I highly recommend this course!
Brutal class, not interesting, not fun, didn't learn much.
Pretty easy if you put in work
Pretty easy gen ed. Great way to fulfill SLS. Literally requires very little effort.
This class is worth it even though many of the lectures are less than spectacular. The assignments are pretty good and it's a manageable workload. I also found the topic really interesting but if nutrition is not of interest it's probably not the best way to fulfill the SLS requirement.
This may be listed under SLS, but a lot of the issues discussed go into the realms of social science, so don't be intimidated if you consider yourself to be incompetent at science. They have also pared down a lot of the readings and other works over the years, so there is not much busy work.
Easy course; don't need the textbook (save your money); no final exam (just a midterm, big project, and some interesting little stuff in-between); group project can be a hassle since its late in the year and organizing times to meet is chllenging, but the project's as fun as you make it; learn a lot about how you can improve your diet, nutrients/supplements/minerals, how to interpret scientific studies, and how deficiencies affect those around the world. Lectures can be boring (unless Clifford Lo is conducting it), and sections are very helpful in digesting the material (no pun intended). Take it as an easy fulfillment of the SLS GenEd requirement, or to just learn about nutrients and food/solving hunger/poverty, etc.
Not as easy as previous students will tell you. It gets harder each year it is offered.
great class, should be interested in the material.  good to figure out if you want to go into global health as a secondary.
you actually learn some pretty applicable and very interesting things about nutrition. i thought it was enjoyable and the workload is certainly more than reasonable. if you genuinely like global health, you will enjoy the material and reading of this class.
This is a great course if 1) you're interested in getting a nice overview of important issues in global health or 2) you're interested in easily fulfilling the SLS requirement.  The workload isn't very heavy.  I really enjoyed the readings, and found them very relevant.  Take this course!  You won't regret it.  Also, Dr. Lo is great and very approachable.
informative
Y'all. So easy. So much fun. You learn so much too. Best class. I'm definitely getting a secondary in GHHP now.
Thought it would be an easy gen ed fulfillment but instead was surprised by something way more difficult than I signed up for. Not because it's a tough subject matter (trust me, it isn't), but because you don't know what is going to be on the tests or quizzes before you take them.
Very very easy, as long as you prepare for tests. Don't need to do much reading.
2 hour lectures are long - but the class only meets once a week. The concepts are not hard and pretty intuitive and the material / guest lecturers are pretty cool! Definitely recommend as a SLS gened that doesn't require any/much science.
The course really educates you on larger issues in global health and teaches you frameworks for approaching global health and evaluating the relative efficacy of different solutions. Everyone global citizen should be educated in these issues. Importantly it also teaches you how to read and utilize scientific literature. Do be warned, however, if you don't like group work.
This class does a great job of opening your eyes to the nutrition needs of people around the world. The class makes you passionate about global health, and it builds your compassion for others as you learn how they're affected by micronutrient deficiencies.
Easiest class at Harvard
This course can serve as a very easy fulfillment for the SLS Gen Ed requirement. It does not have a final exam, which helps reduce the workload during finals period and the assignments are not difficult at all. If you spend two days preparing for the midterm, you can easily ace all the multiple choice questions. Lecture attendance is not mandatory, which means that with this class one could reduce the weekly time commitment to 1.5 hours. There is no homework in the course and the final group project can be a fun exercise if you choose the right project partners.
Easy but mostly uninteresting.
This class in an interesting way to engage with public health, and an easy way to engage in that whole "boosting your GPA" thing.
This is literally the EASIEST class I've taken at Harvard. It was also interesting which makes it a gem of a science gen ed.......
ATTENTION TO DETAIL WILL MAKE OR BREAK YOU IN THIS CLASS.
Does not give you a heavy workload, and is interesting enough that you actually learn something.
great class. very interesting. applicable to real life
Baller. Class. Really well-run, great material, and it's all so pertinent to the outside world. You will gain professionally useful skills and also just cool nutrition information.
Great class. No busy work. Limited amount of work, and they prepare you well for quiz and midterm, so you dont waste time studying non relevant things. Take it
Great way to fulfill the SLS Gen Ed.  2-hour lectures are brutal, but sections were great.  Material was not too difficult, and I did learn a lot of things about personal nutrition and global health that will help in the future.
A great and practical way to learn about nutrition and its relevance on a global scale. The assignments, quizzes, and tests are very straight forward and the section part of the course is great.
NA
A painless and worthwhile course on public health and nutrition!
An engaging course that motivates you to ponder why we are not acting on the capacity that we as a civilization already have to save the lives of millions of people around the world. Motivates you to take the lead and act on our capacity to do so.
This class has a lot of information to digest, but it also is very interesting. Some of the readings, however, are hard to understand and full of statistics. Audrey is a good section leader, and Prof. Lo is hilarious!
This is a great gen ed. They don't try to fool you--the material and assignments are clearly presented to you and the grading is fair. You also learn a lot about health and will take something away from this--not the typical boring, useless gen ed. Take this class!
If you're looking to balance your schedule out this is a good course. If you're into global health you may find the pace really slow because it is definitely taught for a (generally uninterested) gen ed audience. The quiz and exams make up the majority of your grade and are basically all memorization so if you put the time in, you'll do well. The final project is nice to finish before reading period but it is kind of a pain nonetheless.
If you're looking for an easy SLS, you've found it. That's it. There'll be SOME busy work you have to do, but it's pretty painless. Highly recommended as a good way to knock this Gen Ed off, this is coming from someone who HATED his SPU!
an easy gen-ed but not incredibly interesting or enlightening. Could be but the topic is not taught well..
It's easy, there is no final exam, and the material is interesting enough. If you are not too enthusiastic about your Science of Living Systems gened it's a pretty safe option.
You will end up learning in some depth about nutrition and global health if you attend lecture and pay attention. Worth pursuing if you have interest in any of these fields. There is some degree of memorization necessary for the exams, otherwise it's alright.
I'm an English concentrator and this was my favorite class this semester. So take it!
It's easy way to fulfill your gen ed, and you learn a lot of really interesting things about public health and nutrition
This class became what many expected: an easy way to fulfill a gen-ed/  Unfortunately, the staff often knew that many who took the class were not seriously engaged, and so it became something of a joke.
Incredibly boring
Painless class. Take it if you need a gened.
This class will not require a lot of you, but if you are interested in the subject, the readings are generally interesting. The professors are really legit, so talk to them! And study for the midterm!
This class is golden! love it take it
You learn a lot about basic nutrition and the biggest problems currently facing global health.
Take it! Pretty chill way to get SLS out of the way. Lectures are gonna bore you silly though.
Easy way to get rid of a Gen Ed. Pretty eye opening as well, material is pretty interesting for the most part.
This class is a good way to fill your SLS requirement.  All the information you need really does come in section, like the instructors say at the beginning of the course.
a good fifth
This is a great class that will expose you to many types of major health issues in the world today.  I would recommend this class to everyone because everyone.
Good class, interesting subject matter and very manageable workload.
Easy gen-ed, but along the way of fulfilling your life sci requirement, you'll learn about endemic health issues around the world (and feel both extraordinarily fortunate and motivated to change something)
very interesting course, great lectures and reading. lots of assignments that can seem tedious, but don't take too much time. the final project is a great way to synthesize the information learned throughout the semester.
Not a difficult class per se, all work is really self-motivated, the projects you do require you to take initiative in finding a problem and coming up with an effective way of solving it. Very little rote memorization or regurgitation, which was refreshing.
SLS 19 is a really fun and painless class. It would be a great way to satisfy an SLS gen ed especially if you aren't too fond of science. It is super informative and makes you want to go cure every vitamin deficiency in the world.
If you have any interest in nutrition or global health and are not a science-oriented individual, this class is perfect for you! Just be mindful that it does require work but that it is meaningful and well worth it.
I loved this course. It allowed me to explore both nutrition and public health and I recommend that anyone interested in those fields takes this course.
This is an awesome way to fulfill your SLS requirement.  You will end up learning a lot about important 21st global health challenges if you put in the time and the effort and it will expose you to interesting and varied guest lecturers.  The professors and TF's all truly care about the material and have dedicated their lives to solving the issues the course presents. While some complained that lecture was lengthy (2 hour lecture) and that many students in the course were unengaged, it is still an amazing class to get SLS out of the way  --- and you shouldn't let others' disengagement deter you if you are interested in global health.  The workload is minimal and section is amazing with dedicated TFs. The final project is to design a global health nutritional intervention -- which was a lot of fun and allowed for creativity and grant proposal writing practice. I highly recommend this class!
Lectures are tedious!! Boring does not even begin to explain them. Section is decent, however.
This is definitely a painless way to fulfill a gen-ed, and I learned some stuff that will stick with me, including what goes wrong when you don't eat your vitamins (e.g. if you don't get enough Vitamin B9 in the womb, you can be born without a brain o_O).
Great course to take care of SLS if you are not a math/science person
Course was awesome, it probably will make you want to actually do something in the world. But in terms of like, grades/experience in the course.... depends on your TF, completely. You can have a TF who's really passionate and awesome, you'll like the course. Or you could get Caroline and hate it.
I took this class as an elective and found it to be very enjoyable. The workload is relatively low, however, make sure that you have a good group for the final project so that you're not stuck doing everything. Otherwise, the assignments are all manageable, except the midterm was graded quite harshly and didn't necessarily align with what we learned in section (so make sure that you prepare VERY VERY well with that). Otherwise, Dr. Lo is a great professor that's very engaged in the class (he'll often come to sections) and makes the class a pleasure.
This class is interesting, but only up to a certain point. I'm not sure that it was worth taking because I still don't have a deep understanding of global health and nutrition. Sure, some of the lectures / readings were interesting, but the instruction, in general, could be improved. If you really want to learn global health, I'd take a different class. If you need an SLS... take a class that's actually interesting. There's no reason to waste time on an uninteresting class!
The enjoyability of the course depended on your TF. The lectures are extremely boring, but the assignments can be fun.
The chillest way to fulfill the SLS gened.
This is a good class for an introduction to foundational nutrition knowledge, and some of the serious global health problems going on right now. I found that both of these topics were helpful.
Great class to take if you want an easy and interesting Gen Ed
Why would you ever take this class? It produces a cursory glance at global health issues. This is the problem with the gen-ed system at Harvard. This course teaches absolutely nothing but is weighted the same way as any other.
Great way to fulfill SLS. Not hard. Some of the lectures are great (Professor Lo's are the best simply because he is as entertaining as he is intelligent). 1.5 hr-long sections are not that bad--they plan them out well, so there is little dull down time). They prepare you very well for the midterm (their study guide is fantastic) and readings are mostly unnecessary to do well.
This class might be a bit too easy if you have considerable experience with science classes. That said, there is a great potential for learning if you remain committed to doing the readings and truly engaging with the course. Get into Rachel Blaine's section if she's still TFing the class; she's a wonderful teacher.
This class is interesting and not too difficult. However, make sure that you get a good group for the final project. If your group does not do any work and slacks then your grade will be sunk. The guest lectures are interesting, as well as the topics. The midterm and quiz are not hard if you study. I would definitely recommend this course if it were not for the group component.
I'm totally convinced this is the best way to fulfill the SLS requirement. I had no problem excelling in the course despite coming from a humanities background. The things you learn are actually practical and the teaching staff is there to help you, not trick you.
Most of the people who didn't like this class probably never went to lecture or didn't pay attention if they did. That's a shame, because they were each interesting in their own way. One of the big draws of this course is the cast of lecturers, all experts in their own right. It was a treat to get to hear from each of them, speaking about their specialties to laypeople.
They say this class is easy -- and it is -- if you have a good group! Basically, don't take this class.
DON'T TAKE THIS COURSE. OMG. DON'T. SO BORING.
This class is the best way to fulfill the SLS requirement for non-science majors. It's pretty interesting and very manageable.
This course is a lot better than past Q evaluations on it. The smaller class size this semester helped them to simplify things. There is really no need to do any of the readings, because everything you need to know is explained in section. Ida is a great TF!
This class verges on being great for being super easy and not taking up a lot of time, and being awful because the time it did take up was a complete waste. It honestly depends on your perspective. I am very interested in nutrition nd global health, so I kept going into this class being very optimistic... but seriously though. Unless you have a strong interest you're not going to get much out of this course. All the main professors are busy doctors, and students are definitely not their priority. (Also, who's Dr. Fawzie? We saw him ONCE this whole semester) Except for Dr. Lo! He pops in frequently in section and always says something in lecture. He's awesome. Lectures are 2 hour excruciatingly boring blocks of time. Be warned. Course load was perfect--great if you're looking for something to balance out hard pre-med classes.The tests are also very fair and reasonable, a great improvement from what I heard last year. I think the main strengths lie with the TFs, as the main professors (with the exception of Dr. Lo) are... disengaged with the students at best. Anyway, I had Ida as my TF and it was great! Get her she's AWESOME. Finally, I did not use or open any of the required textbooks. Do NOT waste your money!
I loved this course. If you are interested in nutrition at all, this is a good class for you to take. There is a large focus on global health, but also a lot on individual nutrition.
Very good class. interesting material and not too too difficult of a workload.
This is a class that will take up no time at all until the day before the midterm / quiz and the week leading up to the final project.
This course is a good way to fulfill the SLS requirement if you take good notes and start your final project early.
It is a class that will teach you a lot about nutrition deficiencies, not so much case studies, but you will leave knowing all the vitamins and minerals! It is not stressful, very interesting, and fun to go to (section), lectures can be boring.
This is a fine choice to fulfill the gen ed
This is a great basic class with useful information, especially for those wanting to do field work in nutrition. The guest lectures are good, but the regular lectures tend to be a bit dryer. Overall, I'm glad I took it and got my SLS out of the way. Not a whole lot of work but lots of good information.
Section is great, lectures are terrible
It's easy but you learn a lot out of it.
attend the lectures
This is a very fun course. The material is fascinating and useful. The professors and TFs are very supportive. Definitely recommend it!
It is a good class and you will learn much about nutritional deficiencies in the world.
This class will give you a great grounding in nutrition and global health topics.  its not too hard if you pay attention in lecture and study for the midterm, and the case studies are very interesting.  Some lectures are more engaging than others, and you have a lot of different lecturers, but I learned a lot and found this course very interesting
A bit too chill, and the midterms were all memorization (sometimes for random small things we barely touched on) and points were taken off pretty fiercely.
SLS 19 was a great class for a person who is not a science major and has to fulfill the Gen-Ed requirement. Very interesting class.
You will be introduced to wonderful topics and amazing people, but the lectures last little too long.
Not a class for people who are against group projects. It's also helpful to be one of those people who actually shows up for lecture every week.
This is a good way to fulfill your science requirements.
I would tell students that are looking to fill a Science B/Science of Living Systems requirement that this course is a low time commitment way to do so. I would advise against taking it as an elective. Lectures are boring and the midterm was unnecessarily hard. If you have no interest in science and really just need to get the requirement done in a low priority way take this.
You will learn alot of useful information, very interesting
It is a science class for people that are not great at science.
It's easy to keep up with minimal studying--get the most out of lectures, guest speakers, and section.
Good class, lectures sometimes good sometimes bad depending on the lecturer, but definitely should go because quiz material comes pretty much from the lectures.
it can easily spark your interest in global health because of the wide array of issues discussed
This is a great aspect from which to learn about human health. To me it was much more engaging than a class on anatomy or biology proper would have been.
Do not take this class if you want to feel like you've learned something about science.  Do not take this class if you want a serious introduction to global health.  Do not take this class if you hate group projects.  Do not take this class if you dislike being made to memorize silly things.  SLS 19 can't decide if it wants to be a science class or a global health class, so it ends up shortchanging both.
This is the best way to fulfill an SLS requirement if you're a non-science person. It's super easy and actually really interesting.
This class has a light course load and the material is actually very interesting. As a prospective CS major this class still managed to spark some interest in global health.
If you're interested in health and nutrition, this class is great. I feel like I've learned a lot but there wasn't too much work. The group project is annoying, but really not that much work. Take this class! It's a good class for second semester seniors or would be very manageable as a fifth class.
It's an easy enough class, and I think if you do the readings and go to lecture you'll get a lot out of it.
The teaching staff is unmatched. They make the class worth it even if this is not your area of study!
a great way to fulfil SLS while simultaneously exposing you to relevant global issues
Easy and great!
Relatively low stress class (you should approach it with interest and not as gut.) Ultimately, I got a lot out of the course.
This is a great class!
This is a really good way to fulfill your SLS requirement! The topic is interesting on the global and personal level. I believe this course made me both a more knowledgeable global citizen and a more health conscious college student. The workload is very manageable, but make sure you play close attention to the details about specific wording on responses because they expect you to repeat those verbatim. The last project is a lot of work, but it is also extremely rewarding! My final project is one of the assignments that I am most proud of because I learned a great deal about a subject I never thought I would study (I never thought I would study science in college).
There are way better ways to satisfy your SLS requirement.
This is a very straightforward class. The material is very easy to understand and the assignments are not difficult. The final project can be a little annoying, especially if everyone else in your project group completely blows it off. Be warned though that since this class is so easy, there will essentially be no curve, so you have to marginally try on the assignments. (Btw, if you don't know the answer to a question, a good default answer is either vitamin A or obesity)
Its really not that bad.
This class does not require much but is not easy when it comes to grades.
An easy way to fulfill your SLS requirement, and also to learn about relevant global health problems in the world today
Great way to fulfill the SLS requirement
I found this class incredibly fun and interesting, although I am not from a public health background and do not plan to pursue any sort of study in public health. If you are looking for a fairly interesting gen ed that isn't too time intensive, take this class. Dr. Lo is very kind and the teaching team is invested in making sure every student has a fulfilling experience.
-the grading is brutal. You think you can survive it, but honestly you cannot.
This is a great way to complete the SLS requirement. Not only is it easy, but even as a Humanities major, I found it really interesting and relevant. You get out of it as much as you put into it. They're picky with grading for Homework and Midterm, but just be detailed and careful and you'll be fine. Good class.
This class is very good for SLS requirement, and it helps give basic information about healthy lifestyles along with health issues in the world today.
It's marketed as an "easy SLS for social studies concentrators," and the first two lectures before study card day makes the class seem really easy (no final, etc.). But it's actually very science and math focused.
Great class. Second half of the class gets a bit boring, but you learn so much about public health and its applications in different disciplines. Great Gen Ed!
It teaches you many interesting facts that are helpful for future reference.
the course is not only interesting and has a great teaching staff but is also fair
Is this class interesting? Well, it's very easy.
The only thing this class taught me was how to spell diahrrea.
definitely the best sls gen-ed, engaging and not hard
People want a streamlined Gen Ed that teaches some important, broad fundamentals of a certain area without getting in their way too much and sucking up all their time. That's exactly what this class is.
You do not need much background and you will learn a lot.
It's very interesting
If you need an easy gen-ed and you like nutrition and global health it is a good one to complete your credit.  Lectures are large and quite boring, and most of what you learn comes from Section.
It is a good class with lots of interesting material but the lectures can be quite long (2 hours) and the lecturers try their best but most people can't concentrate very well for the whole 2 hours. Section is good and most of the material tested come from section. The learning catalytics include questions that can be quite picky and doesn't really test if you read the material or not.
Very interesting. Will learn lots of relevant information.
Take this class for a manageable gen. ed and to learn about basic but critical global health concerns.
This is a good Ged. Ed class for those interested in Government and International Relations. Memorization of the science is minimal and you learn about a very relevant topic. Make sure you do know everything for the mineral quiz though.
If you are remotely interested in health or international development, this class is the class for you!
SLS 19 is an easy class for your SLS credit. Lectures can be very dry, but section is pretty awesome and tests/assignments are very straightforward.
Great class. Very easy but also interesting. Definitely recommend!
This was an awesome course, one of the best I took at Harvard. You learn a lot without the coursework being overly difficult. The exam and quiz were very fair, and the group project was very manageable because you could split the work between four people. The material they are teaching is very important and relevant. Seems like everyone has something to learn form it no matter what their concentration is. The class was run very smoothly and was very structured. Overall a great choice for either a GenEd or an elective.
A informative and relatively easy course to fulfill the SLS requirement.
This is an interesting Gen Ed that exposes you to serious health problems that plague the developing world.
This is an easy class, but its very grounding. It connected me with the world around me in a way that many other classes have not. It's easy to get caught up in your own problem sets and lab work. This class pulled me out of that bubble.
Very easy, but I'm not sure it was worth it. The assignments were simple and tedious, and the readings were dry. Discussions in section were interesting.
SLS 19 is a fantastic way to fulfill the gen-ed requirement, as it is fairly easy, but also incredibly engaging and interesting, and well-taught. The class is very organized unlike a lot of other gen-eds, and you do end up learning a lot about a field that very few students have a significant knowledge of.
Painless way to finish the SLS requirement. Take this course.
This is a good class to take if you need an SLS. If you're interested in global health, there are other classes to take that students take more seriously.
Would HIGHLY recommend this course if you are looking to satisfy SLS especially if you have a particularly difficult course load. The class is fun and you will learn much about public health and nutrition in a very relaxed setting.
It was a very easy class but I also learned a lot. Definitely changed the way I think about food. The intervention design project at the end was a lot of fun.
The grading is very harsh in  this class
Fun and interesting Gen Ed course. Provides insight into the global health climate and teaches us basic tools to make a difference.
This is a great class that is low stress and does not require a whole lot of work. Since there isn't a lot of work you actually get to learn because you want to learn and you don't have to worry about turning in assignments. This was by far my favorite class all year. The lectures were enjoyable and interesting although a little long. Global health is a great subject that is so relevant today. This class is worth taking either as a Gen Ed or just as a class to fill in space. I highly recommend it.
There are better courses on global health, and there are also better SLS GenEds to take in lieu of this course.
This course is a really great opportunity to take a fascinating and relatively work light gen ed about a topic that is increasingly relevant in our world.
This class has made me more consciously aware of major issues happening across the globe. It has also made a strong effort to connect these issues to many other disciplines, which I particularly enjoyed.
This is really easy course with a lot of busy work. You can definitely get by not doing any work but as always, you get out of it what you put in.
This is a really interesting class! It's nicely paced, but I learned a lot. Definitely good for someone who needs to fulfill a Gen Ed, doesn't want to work too hard, but also wants to learn something interesting. I definitely think this class will influence the way I eat.
i'd say take it. great painless way to knock out gen ed, and very interesting material.
This class is a great way to satisfy the SLS requirement. There are no labs, and the class only meets once a week for lecture and once for section. Also, instead of problem sets (like there are in other science classes) this class has readings and very easy case study assignments. This class is also not at all time consuming, and if you attend section, you will do well on the exam and on the assignments. I highly recommend this course!
Definitely take this course if you're looking for a low-stress course where you can definitely learn a lot about micronutrients and global health interventions in nutrition. The first half is very skill heavy, but the final project is quite effective in having you pull together what you've learned conceptually throughout the semester.
Very easy and rewarding course.  Excellent lectures and no final exam, only a final project, a nutrient quiz, and a midterm.
Don't take this class. It tricks you into thinking it's easy but when the grades come in you're sorely mistaken. Graded harshly. Too much busywork. Find another Gen Ed.
Great SLS without a lab and with only one 2-hour lecture a week. The assignments weren't very difficult and required straight memorization in most cases. Would recommend this gen-ed to anyone in a humanities field who does not want to take a lab-intensive SLS requirement.
Take this course. Very laid back, almost no work at all. Just study for the midterm and you'll do great
This class is a gem, because you will love not having a final exam and being done with much of the class before Reading Period even starts. Watch out, however, for lecturers who lack focus or direction and give you lots of material without much solid intent. However, most of the course is well-run, well-organized, and well-executed.
Pretty easy class that you actually learn from
Lectures boring but interesting subject matter. Nutritional interventions are a big conponent. Would recommend
It's easy, interesting, and you can apply some of the material you learn towards improving your own health.
SLS19 is a an interesting Gen Ed that teaches important real-world relevant material. Its a moderately easy class that does not require an excessive amount of work.
This is overall a very topicall interesting course, but fails to be intellectually challenging.
interesting class; it's what you make of it; great lecturers and you can learn a lot from final project
Enlightening about nutrient deficiencies in the world.
You touch upon many topics related to global heath and nutrition. The lecturers are very knowledgeable and section is very helpful.
The lectures are hard to sit through but section was great.
Amazing class! Great intro to global health.
its a gem
It's actually quite a good class, in addition to being light in workload.
Great course for the SLS requirement. Useful material, engaging lectures, and no busywork.
Pay attention to the wording of your answers on all assessments! Rewatch lectures.
It's a very easy class, you'll get from it what you want.
This course is very easy, but that means that homeworks, tests, etc are graded incredibly severely. For example, I am a stat concentrator and lost 5 out of 35 points or so on a homeowork for giving the statistics definition of a 95% confidence interval, not the SLS 19 textbook definition. It's so easy that they grade things incredibly closely.
This is a pretty painless way to fulfill the SLS requirement. The assignments are straightforward and the course work can be pretty interesting. Sections can be fun and engaging if your class participates. The group/ final project is not difficult and allows you to apply the concepts you have learned about all year to a topic of your choosing.
For those of you that are interested in saving the world, this is one of the classes to take. I truly believe that the subjects that were covered in class are important matters to have in mind at all times, and being able to put your life in context with these topics is a humbling learning experience.
Best gen ed out there. This is the course to take if you want to meet the SLS requirement in the least painful and most efficient way possible. Very little work required, yet very high yield. You learn so much simply by being enrolled in this class. It's a perfect overview of global health, and exactly what a gen ed should be: painless, straightforward, and actually useful for real life.
It is one of the better GenEds, but that is not saying much. Interesting and stress free.
SLS 19 is a great way to get a taste for global health and nutrition and is very much manageable. You will walk away knowing a lot about nutrients and nutritional interventions. The course always has very respected figures in the field of public health.
This course is an easy introduction to global health, through the lens of nutrition.
The class is fairly easy, and not having a final is nice!
This is an educational, easy way to fill the SLS requirement. You don't spend too much time in class/section, and there are no psets or labs. The issues taught are also important to know about.
Great SLS gen ed
Interesting course -- TF were all very helpful, interesting lectures, assignments are straightforward
You will likely be temped to skip lecture, because they are quite boring. If you do go to lecture, you will end up on facebook.
SLS 19 is a great way to fulfill the SLS GenEd requirement while also learning a great deal about nutrition and its role in global health. Be sure to have a good group for the final project!
Harder than you might expect from its reputation.  It was impossible to be over-prepared for the midterm.
easy way to fulfill the gen ed but lectures can be painfully boring. 2 hours is a long time.
This is a very easy, straightforward class with the exception of the midterm. They test the readings (which are long and boring) in detail and the other brutally easy assignments in the class are not representative of the midterm questions. Make sure to study a few days in advance and you will be fine. Pretty interesting class with some real-life applications.
This is a good, low-stress SLS course.
To fulfill an SLS requirement, this was an amazing course. I hate science classes, but enjoyed this class. I recommend that you simply go to lecture. Lecture was sometimes boring, but just go. Also, section does a great job of condensing the necessary information. Also, final project instead of an exam? Yes please! Basically, go to class, get to know the TF, and you'll be surprised by how much you get out of it. (If you are a science-y student, this class may be more boring).
Very light workload but make sure to study for the midterm since it is not as easy as you would think. Lectures are a bit dry but if you're interested in the material it is worth going.
This is probably the least of a lot of evil SLS geneds. That's not to say that it was painless. It's very dry and difficult to engage with, but I found it fair overall.
This course is really interesting.  EVERYONE should possess the knowledge offered in this course.  If you take this course and put in the effort, you'll leave as a better, more-informed global citizen.
Take the material seriously and actually do the reading.
This class was very chill, as it didn't need any real background in global health or nutrition, but did a good job in teaching us the basics of nutrition in the context of global health. Global health is a recently emergent concept, and I recommend this course to anyone who wants to dabble in the field.
Dr. Lo is one of my favorite lecturers at Harvard and no final exam makes the class very stress-free. The final projects can be fun if you choose a topic that interests you. This is how gened classespecially should run.
the project at the end will require a lot of work, but besides that the class is not too much of a burden. the global health topics are actually quite interesting
Its very disengaging for such a meaningful topic - good gen ed though
Take this. It's a gem.
I thought this class would be a boring gen-ed, but I was very pleasantly surprised. Think its a great way to knock out the potentially troublesome sls requirement.
It's a great science class for those (like me!) who are not science people. Easily applicable to real life, and very interesting.
I really enjoyed the first half of this course. I thought the material was very interesting and Professor Lo was great! While I liked the material, the grading on assignments was very difficult. It wasn't as much of a "gem" as people made it out to be.
The group project is fun.
Easy course but fantastic exposure to top professors in the field of global health
This class is very useful to learning about your own nutrition.
I would say take this course with caution. It may appear easy with the lack of a final exam. However, the midterm was very difficult so keep that in mind.
Nutrition and global health are both interesting and important topics, and the class will teach you about them. The lectures are pretty good, and I enjoyed my section. I thought the assignments and exams should have been better, and grading was maybe harder than it should have been. Decent class, though.
This is the best way to satisfy the SLS gen ed. There is not much work and the tests are very easy. Even though it is easy, you actually learn a lot and have fun doing so!
It's a great way to fulfill your GenEd= you get really inspired by the course material, you learn a lot but it's not too demanding and you feel you're learning something deeply important.
Take this class as a manageable, approachable gen-ed.
I think that the teaching staff tried to make the course "harder" this year, but instead of making it harder they just made it more nit-picky.  This needs to change.  I lost points on my nutrient quiz because because I wrote a strength and weakness that I had discussed in my section but had not been discussed in the graders section.  I asked my TF but there was nothing she could do because she wasn't the grader.  This class really needs to change.  Two hours of lecture is too long for this type of class the lectures are very boring and it should be split up into two days.  And the nit-picking it outrageous I thought the grading was incredibly unfair.  I was very disappointed with this class.  Unless you really need to fulfill SLS and nothing else fits into your schedule I would not recommend taking this class.
If you're looking for something easy, not stimulating and sometimes interesting, take it. It is what it is. If you're super into global health and nutrition...I'd try looking around for a smaller class.
It is a good general education course to take as it is interesting and not too much work. I never felt overwhelmed taking this course, and always looked forward to working on it.
This class is great! Lectures are dry sometimes but I loved sections! The class really sparked my interest in global health!
Not a lot of work and pretty useful material to know, but can be boring at times. The midterm was graded pretty harshly but the assignments overall were fair and the TFs really helpful for them!
Wonderful course! I learned a lot!
Good class.  Make sure you study for the midterm, or your grade might not be what you want it to be in the class. I thought lectures were interesting, and section was very useful.
Easiest class I've ever taken at Harvard. TAKE IT.
This was a terrible class.
it is a manageable class
It is what you make of it
This is a great gened if you need to fulfill SLS or if you just want an introduction to Global Health. The group project at the end isn't bad and actually enjoyable. Although it's nice that lecture is only once a week, the two hours is a really long.
I enjoyed section and thought the final project was useful for learning the materials from this class. However, the quiz and midterm were surprisingly difficult, especially because each section focused on different aspects of the course so not all sections were taught well for the exams. Also, because the class is so large, TFs split up grading each section of the exams so there was unfair grading. It seemed like the exams were trying to trick the students more than test the students on materials that were focused on during lecture and section.
This course has interesting material and is pretty low stress but the midterm and other assignments are somewhat poorly written and graded. You have to put in more effort than you might think to do well, but I learned a lot of really relevant information.
This is a great SLS gen ed if you don't want to go the SLS 20 route.  It meets once a week, the assignments are not time-consuming at all, and the material is actually quite interesting.
Much more of an emphasis on global health than nutrition.
I think this does a great job of sparking a general interest in global health and opens our eyes to the problems that exist in surrounding countries. The assignments are very manageable and quite interesting. Great class.
The subject matter is somewhat interesting. The reading is very manageable. But the group project is way too long, has too many components, and was a very frustrating experience for me because some of my group members were not reliable or did not put in the same amount of effort. Dr. Lo is wonderful and engaging for the first three weeks, but then you have a slew of guest lecturers as well as the other two professors who are not nearly as engaging and the subject matter they talk about can feel very all over the place. Your experience also seems to vary a lot based on your TF. As a humanities person, it was a decent way to fulfill SLS and I think the class has a lot of potential to be really great and could improve.
This is a challenging course that teaches very useful knowledge
Not too much work, but interesting subject matter.
Incredibly easy gen ed. A little unfortunate they were so nutrition-focused though, it would have been a much better course had they expanded it more broadly to issues of water, sanitation, and hygiene as well.
Not a lot of work, as these comments indicate. Just take a bit of time to study for the quiz and the midterm, and you'll be fine. No workload outside of those and the very doable project.
It's good for a gen ed, but honestly, based upon how I designed my courseload, I was hoping it would require a little less time/effort. The final project was especially a pain (group), and the midterm was harder/trickier than I was prepared for. But if these are things that don't bother you/you can get past (you can) I'd say go for it and knock out the pesky, ever elusive SLS. Also, clearly I'm not very vested in global health as an interest, but if you are, it's probably a great course.
It is the type of class where you get out as much as you put in, but it is relatively low time and stress and is a interesting and great course to take to balance with some much harder ones. It also is good for everyone because it requires no prior knowledge.
If you don't have experience in the sciences and are looking to fulfill a gen ed take this class. It's not a large time commitment but it's also likely the most boring class I've ever taken and the lectures are pretty brutal.
It's very difficult if you're not someone who is great at memorizing details
painless way to fulfill a GenEd and actually learn a little something something along the way
Surprisingly, I really enjoyed this class. Lectures were usually interesting - and, if they weren't, they were posted online (or you could zone out in class without anyone noticing). The topics discussed were important and fascinating. Section was generally enjoyable, as well. The class required little outside work. Lectures were only once a week. Assignments were fairly simple and doable. There was no final exam. All and all, a really solid SLS gen ed course.
Horribly boring lectures and exams that test for specific graphs and statistics rather than concepts and understanding. TFs and staff are not helpful in responding to class performance and treat students as just a collection of numbers.
Don't take this class because it'll be easy. It's 0 work, but it's not really an "easy A." Like a lot of other large, easy Gen Eds, the grading is totally arbitrary. In order to make a distribution, the teaching staff deducts several percentage points for things like missing units, etc. It feels like 5th grade. DO NOT take this class. You'll get nothing out of it.
You will take this course in order to fulfill a gen ed requirement and leave having learned invaluable concepts about global health. The information is extremely salient in such a health-conscious world.
Easy, often boring, good teaching staff.
Interesting SLS gen-ed for those not too interested by science (this is more social science). Course format is fantastic; meeting once a week for 2hrs is extremely manageable.
Take the section component of this class seriously.
This is not the easiest class that you will take at Harvard, even though you will hear that from some people. Be prepared to put a lot of time into the final project, if you want to make things perfect! You can get lucky and have a wonderful TF, who will make everything much easier in the end.
Fairly easy nutrition class. Not the most interesting, but not awful either.
its standard and easy, take it if you are trying to knock out a gen ed
Prepare for the most nitpicky grading you've ever seen
It's important to stay on top of the work. Having an interest in global health will make the course a lot more engaging and interesting.
This class is surprisingly interesting.  Perhaps you have preconceived notions of what a class on global health entails, but if they are not positive this class will shatter them.  Take it.  You will learn a lot without having to stress too much.
The course is interesting, but grading and exams can be difficult to figure out entirely.
The course is completely manageable in terms of coursework. However, you'll really get much more out of it if you do the readings and actually have a desire to learn more about international health and development.
There should definitely be better sls classes. This class has pretty  unclear expectations on the tests  (a lot of rote memorization) and  lectures are  not always engaging.
The devil is in the details with regards to the assignments.
SLS 19 is a good way to fulfill the SLS Gen-Ed and isn't too hard. There are periods of more concentrated work, e.g. studying for the nutrient quiz, the midterm, and the project. None are too bad; make sure to have a good group so that the final project is not unevenly divided. The grading and questions for the midterm in particular and some of the other assignments were unnecessarily tricky and stingy, so be sure to study for it.
It isn't as easy as everyone keeps saying that it is. I wish I could've taken another SLS course instead.
Fun, light course. You will get as much out of it as you put in.
Make sure you have a good group for the project!
This class was an easy way to fill the SLS GenEd requirement. I did not do much consistent work for it at all. The final project was an exception and actually took a fair amount of time, and you need to be willing to spend a lot of time working in a group. In addition, the midterm was very detail-oriented and I found it difficult. Doing the readings was not necessary because both lecture and section were very repetitive of the readings. If you're looking for an easy SLS A, this is a good choice. However, it was also relatively boring. While the material itself is naturally interesting and important, it was such a struggle to sit through the two hour lectures and remain engaged. Given the subject matter, I found this to be extremely disappointing. Although I appreciated the lighter work load, I would have preferred a class that was more engaging (even if that meant it was more challenging) and where overall I felt that I grew as both a student and a global citizen.
Do not take this course if you are looking for an easy SLS gen. ed, especially if you are not a science person.  This course is a lot more difficult than past years, specifically because it has been known to be an easy course.  The day-to-day homework/reading required from this course is minimal, but the quiz and midterm were extremely difficult.
This class is easy and can be very interesting.
This class is a gem. Not only is the workload light, it is also an interesting and very relevant topic.
Pretty simple class with not a lot of work, but lectures can be long and are important for tests.
it's a good class
great class to learn more about nutrition and global health!
This class requires hardly any work but the TFs are still fair graders. You have to put work into the few assignments there are and the midterm definitely requires studying but if you read and pay attention in lecture, this class is fairly easy and also quite interesting.
Ok class. Not a big time commitment; no final is nice. You learn things you can learn in 1 month in 3.
If you do not have even a slight interest in the topic, the lectures are going to be painful. Since it is SUCH a big course, and it is known as an easy GenEd, the course is administered like a government department... so they do not allow any flexibility EVEN for thesis-writing seniors. The section material that your TF promised will be posted online may not make it to the course website (which HAPPENED). The Head TF was also "pretty sure" that the review session for the midterm would be posted online, and she promised to keep us posted about the situation... and surprise, she DIDN'T. The prompts for the assignments and the evaluation criteria are pretty VAGUE, which made me lose a lot of points. You have to surprisingly put in more work than it looks like it demands, so don't take it. The only good things about the course are Prof. Lo's lectures and not having a final.
This course is a friendly and simple way to satisfy the SLS requirement without too much sweat. It is just really large, sort of impersonal, and everything is done in "bulk." It is sort of like taking a MOOC. You won't learn a ton, but you will have some knowledge of nutrition and the way global health professionals think. Also, the final project is fun, practical, and a really nice way to end the course working with a group.
This is a great way to fulfill your SLS requirement. If you actually pay attention in lecture, you'll do better than 90% of the class without even studying, but you'll also learn some really interesting things about one of the most important fields that exists. However, the course title should probably be Nutrition **IN** Global Health, not "and". The only nutrition we learned was in the context of global health.
TAKE THIS COURSE SERIOUSLY. The material very important and you will only get something out of the course if you put work into it.
Not very fun, pretty easy though
This is a great way to get rid of your SLS requirement. Very little weekly workload, but the final project can take a good bit of time.
This class is pretty easy for the most part. But it's a terrible class. Lo is a great lecturer, but the other lectures were probably the worst lectures I've experienced in college. And there was lecture participation on top of that. Don't take this class.
It's easy!
This course gives you a good introduction to the basics of nutrition and global health, and the guest speakers provide various perspectives on the material discussed in class. The lectures get progressively dry and dull as the year goes on though.
Took this class because I'm interested in global health. I am a pre-med student and was VERY disappointed by this class. I am sad I wasted time in this class, and should have taken a different global health class. Don't take this unless you're looking for an easy, but incredibly boring, class.
This is not a scary science class for those who are still traumatized by chemistry and phsyics
This class is a good way to learn about nutrition with light reading but engaging sections and work overall.
Lectures are boring, and this definitely won't be the most thrilling class you take, but it is a generally easy way to fulfill the Gen Ed requirement.
Right now this is the best SLS in my opinion.  That being said its choosing the lesser of all the evils.  The grading is very annoying and its impossible to get A's on the exams/quizzes unless you literally get everything correct.
Feels like a high school class with filler homework assignments and a midterm that nitpicked understanding of small details.
This class is interesting and easy; great way to fill a gen ed or a start to global health if you want to see if you're interested.
This a tough class, be prepared to work hard!
The course material was really interesting, but the lectures were boring so it was hard to focus most of the time.
Excellent course which, if you are interested in public health, gives a great survey of nutritional problems and solutions. The professors and teaching staff were extremely devoted.
This course is a very easy and painless way to fulfill the SLS requirement. While you do need to study a little bit for the vitamins and minerals quiz and for the midterm, it is all memorization and does not require high level understanding of the concepts. As a GHHP secondary, I also found the class rather enjoyable and interesting.
This class was great. It required very little work, but you actually do learn a lot. It was very fun.
It's a good class. You'll learn a lot about the field.
Not too difficult, and a GenEd where you learn a lot of practical/useful material
Class is a little too boring, could be a sweet class with some changes
you will learn a lot about the third world
It's an interesting and good way to fill the SLS requirement, but do still try to go to lecture and study, because there are multiple assignments that will test your level of engagement throughout the course.
Very easy but very informing and enlightening.  Great way to gain an understanding of global health issues and how easily some problems can be solved.  The nutritional components of the course are also helpful on a personal level.
The lectures are sometimes dry, but the TF's are literally incredible. Definitely worth taking
Make sure you put in the effort to study and to do the work - although it is a relatively easy class, you'll still need to memorize a lot of stuff for exams
The teaching staff decided to increase the difficulty of the course in order to screw students over. It is a general education course, and therefore people are taking it to fulfill a requirement. We are not here to learned every single detail of the material, but more generally the themes and larger ideas. This was how the class was originally portrayed by the instructors in the first lecture, but then the difficulty and focus was quickly switched.
This class started off interesting and pretty good, and then became decidedly less so.
The class is a relatively painless way to fulfill a Gen Ed. However, be warned that some of the assignments are tedious, and the midterm has some surprisingly tricky questions.
This course provides a fantastic introduction to nutrition/global health from theoretical and practical perspectives. Prior to the course, I already had quite a bit of background in nutrition, but I nevertheless gained a lot and broadened my understanding of the field. Highly recommend it to anyone with an interest in global health!
Too few assignments offered. If you do not do well on the midterm, you are automatically in a grade hole
A great, fun class. Be careful on the assignments though - it is important to follow the directions exactly as given. Overall, a good class and a good way to knock out this GenEd Requirement. You will learn stuff that will actually be helpful.
Good class, take if you want to learn about global health
interesting course and they want each student to understand the material
It's a fairly painless way to get rid of the SLS requirement. Not super challenging, and the material is interesting. But be warned that lectures get pretty dry after the first few weeks, and the reading is kind of dull.
It wasn't the best course, but it wasn't the worst course. Take it if you need to fill a gen-ed requirement, but be prepared to put in work for the midterm.
This is a great class. Well taught and very interesting.
This is a great fulfillment for the sls requirement. You actually learn a good amount that you can apply to your every day life and it is a very light workload.
Best gen ed ever. Aside from taking a freshman seminar, you probably won't be able to find an easier class (and this one counts for credit too!). Class was interesting and definitely helped me gain some new perspectives on global health issues, whilst at the same time being very low-stress.
Tests aren't as easy as they seem. Must study for at least one day.
It's an easier way to satisfy the gen ed instead of taking a "hard" science course (i.e. bio, chem, physics) but it's extremely boring and requires pure memorization to pass.
Great class if you are interested in learning about global health but don't know much!
The course is very little work but graded very harshly! beware!
Ridiculous grading on assignments: rote memorization is prioritized over actual understanding of the material. The TFs only search for keywords and consequently penalize answers that are qualitatively as good yet lack the buzzword. Disappointing.
On the whole, this class is easy and an interesting way to satisfy a GenEd for those of us who don't like science. However, it can also be incredibly boring. Also, while the professors and TFs were all kind and incredibly well-versed, the structure of the class leaves something to be desired. Multiple weeks would pass with no assignments, followed by a single HUGE assignment on one weekend. I also got a vibe from course staff that they were making a concerted effort to make this class seem more serious or difficult than its reputation would suggest, leading to an almost pedantic and aggressive feeling at lecture at times.
Assignments are mostly busy work but not difficult - they grade fairly harshly on precision because the questions themselves aren't hard. Project is fine. Overall a boring but pretty painless way to fulfill SLS
The grading is very harsh.
So easy so easy lololol
do NOT take this class! Under any circumstances. No, it will not be easy. No, it will not give you a nice window into nutrition or global health. It is brutal. Take at your own risk.
This is a straightforward class with interesting material that's applicable to the real world. It's especially good for non-science concentrators because it also touches on the policy aspects of global health and the importance of nutrition on a large scale.
Prepare to sit in long, passionless lectures where pseudo-intellectuals chime in just to make the learning process more painful.
The grading is harsh. The course is very useful for life purpose.
It starts off interesting and then gets kind of boring
It was easy but it was so boring and I don't feel like I learned anything in the class.
This is a decent way to do a gen ed but it is not a course you can do well in easily. I found the grading of some assignments to be very arbitrary which was very frustrating. The assessments themselves are fair, though, and there's not much weekly work. The lectures can be really long and tough but overall I'm glad I chose this for my SLS.
Take this class if you're interested in nutrition or global health or just want to meet your SLS requirement in an engaging and enriching way. I think this is a class anyone, even without a science background, can do well in because it is clear what is expected and how to prepare.
Not too difficult and doesn't have a lab component, but can be quite boring and monotonous, feels like a high school class some times
For a social sciences/humanities concentrator looking for a gen-ed, this is it. The coursework is understandable for anyone, and deals a lot more with global issues than with advanced science terminology. Even thought I, like a lot of people, took it as a gen ed to get out of the way, I actually learned a lot, and the projects were really interesting and fun. I enjoyed this class a lot more than I thought I would.
It is easy but incredibly boring. I felt like it was the biggest waste of time here, but if you want a class with minimal work, would recommend.
I think while the subject matter was interesting the course was a bit intense for a gen ed. It seemed that the course staff expected a lot from us between learning catalytics, hour and a half sections, a dense final project and strict grading.
class is easy but don't slack off
Relatively painless way to fulfill SLS requirement. Workload is very low and the course material is kind of interesting. The final project can be a bit annoying though.Neither the textbook nor course pack are needed.
It seems easy because of the low workload but the grading in this class is VERY tough
If you are interested in the science of nutrition it is a great course to take.
Any athletes who complain about this course just aren't trying. With minimal effort and basic memorization skills (think freshman year of high school biology level) one can do well on the midterm and nutrient quiz and get A's on the few assignments. Show up to lecture/section to get attendance points but participation isn't necessary. Would totally recommend for humanities kid looking to knock out a gen ed. Make sure you get the smartest people in your section for the group project though, as it's a big part of your grade and you don't want to be stuck with any work burden. You're guaranteed an A if you marginally try.
People claim it's a gem...false
Relatively easy class but prepare yourself for a lot of assignments!
Do not take this class. Honestly this was my least favorite class I have taken at Harvard. The material was not interesting and the lecturers did not motivate enthusiasm amongst the students. No one wanted to be there in lecture and I could feel it.
This class did not turn out to be the cakewalk that many people expected it to be. It is a doable class, but you have to be prepared to put in the time and effort to really know the material. There is a lot of memorization that goes into this class. But if you are looking for a way to fulfill your SLS requirement, this class is fairly painless. And the content is also pretty interesting. This class has greatly informed the way I view nutrition and diet.
Get solid team members because it will make your life easier. DO NOT TEAM UP WITH FRIENDS BECAUSE THIS PROJECT IS LEGIT GONNA MAKE YOU QUESTION YOUR FRIENDSHIP WITH PEOPLE ESPECIALLY IF THEY DON'T DO THEIR WORK ON TIME.
This class is fairly easy, and you are able to get through the class with very minimal effort, but keep in mind that the lectures are very boring and hard to sit through.
very light, take it
I would recommend this class only to those without a background in this field already, as otherwise it will be a pretty simplistic review. I am looking forward to new Gen Ed system where there will be more choices for science courses.
Waste of a class
This course advertised itself the first day as being laid back and focused on the genuinely interesting material. However, arbitrary grading on many assignments, sections that took far too long for the amount of content delivered, and a failure to generate enthusiasm all led me to be extremely disappointed. I would not suggest taking this class, particularly as a bio concentrator looking for something interesting and low stress.
Super easy class. That being said don't plan on getting an A because grading is based on very few assignments that seemed very subjective. Like you get points off for writing too many sentences in an answer, or not being explicit about implicit course material.
The first day of this class makes it sound like a breeze but it is graded really bizarrely hard and is incredibly unorganized. I would be careful about taking it for an easy A because it is sneaky easy to not get an A. Take it if the material interests you but do NOT take it if you want a guaranteed A.
the lectures are soooo long and required bcus of learning catalytics questions, but the class work is easy and managable..get good partners for final project...a lot of the learning happens in section
Not as simple as it first seems, but VERY manageable. I you go to lecture and section, listen to what profs/TFs have to say, you'll be more than prepared to do well. Take it, get the Gen Ed out the way and learn some really important things.
Take it but don't be the jerk who disrespects the lecturer by staying on your laptop or talking the entire lecture.
Great class that makes you think about how to solve real-world nutritional problems.
Class is pretty easy, mandatory lectures and sections are annoying as much of the information is inconsequential on tests/assignments.
This class equips one to become more nutritionally-aware about one's own health as well as about global health issues.
The course is straight-forward. Attend lecture, study for the quizzes/midterm, and dedicate the necessary time to work on your take-home assignments.
This course was very difficult and not interesting.
This class is really straight forward. Stay on top of the work and you'll do well. It's one of the easiest classes I've taken at Harvard and a really great complement to my otherwise tough schedule.
Prepare extensively for assessments. Know that course grading is marginal--based on tiny deviations from standard concept definitions and non-standard written answers. In my experience, these deductions did not reflect conceptual misunderstandings, but syntax problems.
Don't listen to the rumors that it's an easy A course. It definitely isn't.
It was fine. Easy but pretty boring. They were unclear on assignments and graded what I would deem as "unfair."
The class was decently interesting, and the assignments were easy, but the grading was a hassle.
There are a lot of small components to this class, and the grading at times can be ridiculous.
Take it only if the rest of your schedule is incredibly busy. No work, but not worth it
that you should take this course if you are interested in learning more about the state of the world's health and it has actually refreshed a lot of my memory regarding basic statistics and statistical biases
I would tell them that this among the worst classes I took at Harvard. I found it incredibly boring and was surprised at how a topic that is so important and interesting could be made so dull.
Great way to fill the SLS requirement!
This class is a great introduction to global health and personal nutrition, whether you are taking it for a Gen Ed or an elective/secondary requirement. I did not expect to enjoy my SLS Gen Ed but I really like this class! It does not require significant time or original thinking but do not expect to breeze through the exams without studying. The tests and assignments demand serious studying to do well but luckily they are occasional.
Take this class to get the requirement out of the way, NOT because you're interested in nutrition/global health. You won't learn much, but there are a lot of straightforward, painless assignments and the bit you do learn is pretty interesting. You'll be surrounded by unengaged students looking for an easy class, so only take it if that's what you're looking for...
This course is a gem, however if you put in a little work you can get a lot out of it.
If you are not interested in nutrition and global health, you might not feel like you gained anything from this course.  Additionally, if you struggle with group projects, this is not the course for you.
It's either very interesting or somewhat bland
Lives up to its reputation, easy sls gen ed for non-science people. Also actually teaches you a lot about nutrition and global health, which can be interesting at times.
It's not as easy as you think it's going to be. While you don't need to keep up with every reading, the assignments are graded pretty harshly and the feedback is subpar. But I guess a good way to get your science Gen Ed out of the way for non science people.
This course is very manageable and interesting. The 2-hour lectures can sometimes drag on, but the section component of the course is very good.
Terrible class. Absolute waste of time.
Great SLS/SPU fulfillment
The course has a reputation for being easy but it's likely that the instructors made it more difficult in recent years.
While the work is relatively easy and the subject matter is objectively interesting, the lectures in this class are painfully boring. Section is bearable if you have a good TF, but I would not recommend taking this class unless you absolutely have to.
This is an interesting class if you need a science Gen Ed and want something related to policy etc. I most valued the information about various global health interventions etc. I think Profs Duggan and Hu did their best to make it engaging and *not just a lame Gen Ed* but that's the mentality students are bringing to it, so lack of interest in lectures isn't their fault.
This is the worst class I've ever taken at Harvard. There is not nearly enough material to span an entire semester. What's worse is that this problem is exacerbated by a bunch of random guest lecturers who just brag about the work they've done in some foreign country and how it's tangentially related to the course. Assignments are laughably easy yet harshly and arbitrarily graded. The two-hour lectures lull you to sleep, and the instructors won't let you go on your laptop. I really can't think of anything positive to say about this course. Don't take it.
While this course is certainly not demanding in terms of time required, it is a waste of a course slot at Harvard. Lectures are monotonous and not particularly well-done. Sections are better, but assignments in and out of class do very little to bolster learning. Professor Lo is great, as was my TF, but the course is truly a disappointment.
An example of a course slogged down by being a gen ed. Wish it was smaller so that discussions could be held about these problems in a setting where people actually cared.
Not a very difficult class. Low time commitment, <4hrs / week. Lectures are long and both lectures and sections are required. Would recommend to fulfill gen-ed
It was a little bit more work than I thought it was going to be from the description. The pace stays pretty constant though.
DONT TAKE THIS CLASS!! You think its a gem but they screw you with the grading. sosososo hard
The professors are wonderful! The content is not particularly challenging, but is both interesting and practically useful.  I would highly recommend taking this course! It's a great way to fulfill a gen ed requirement. That said, you'll get out of this course what you put into it. It is possible to do very well in this course without doing a huge amount of work, but you do need to at least pay close attention in lecture and section, study for the nutrient quiz, and familiarize yourself with the main readings discussed. People here who are commenting about getting low grades likely did not pay attention in lectures or do the readings. They give you all of the answers and tons of helpful hints/warnings about where they are going to take off points in lecture and section if you listen carefully.
this class is a great way to get a science credit in! really interesting and manageable if you are interested in global health
This is a great course if you allow it to be. You can make the course great by actively participating in it and absorbing as much information as you can.
This course is the definition of a GEM. With a low workload and truly interesting information, if you are looking to satisfy the SLS requirement, take this course. There is no lab and the work is straightforward. While the final project is not "easy," it is very nice to have a whole group working on it and to be able to submit the essay and be done long before finals. Also, the information on nutrition is directly applicable to daily life (I lost 15 pounds in a reasonable, sustainable way over the course of the semester based on the material I learned in this class)
this class is interesting and fun, though definitely not great. I am very interested in nutrition and feel as though this class missed an opportunity to relate it to our own lives and help us solve the nutrition problems that are right in front of our own eyes; the terrible eating habits of most Americans. Though I supposed that really wasn't the focus of the course- it is a course on global health so focuses largely on developing countries. It's pretty easy and you can get an A with not much work, though it often felt very unsatisfying. It seemed like they focused on teaching us how to do well on the exam with not much of an emphasis on learning simply for the sake of learning. Which of course many students like and is what they may be looking for in an easy gen ed,which of course there's nothing wrong with but it's still fairly unsatisfying.
This is the ideal science course for a humanities concentrator. No knowledge of chemistry or biology is previously required. The material covered is truly fascinating. It is also applicable to everyday life.Be aware that this course is taught by multiple professors. I really enjoyed this unique structure. Lectures are delivered by a different professor each session. You will get to know many passionate individuals really working to make a difference in the world.The readings are all manageable. You will have to do them in order to succeed in the course. Exams are fair, but they require memorization. Grading is nit-picky. You must pay attention to the directions. The final project requires a substantial amount of writing, thinking, and research.This class is time-consuming yet rewarding.
This class is honestly not worth taking. It didn't challenge me as a student in anyway, and I didn't feel like i learned much about global health. It is tempting to take it for an easy gem, but it's not worth it.
worst class i took at harvard. uninteresting material.  pointless assignments.  mindless regurgitation.  stingy grade deductions (on middle-school level assignments).  even the professors don't strike me as particularly bright... some of the "best" presentations for the final project presented in lecture were poorly thought; one was even offensive (and wrong).  completely representative of everything everyone complains about the study of public health.  there are other gems out there.  AVOID.
Take the course if you absolutely have to fulfill the SLS requirement and hate all of your other options, but, otherwise, take something more engaging.
Yes, this class is a gem that's really easy but also if you don't do any of the work you'll get screwed over so spend like an hour on it every week and you'll be fine. Also this is the worst, most boring class ever but take it if you need SLS credit.
This class is very straightforward. Just be aware that they can be sticklers when it comes to grading and overall the class caters to the lowest common denominator, so isn't terribly engaging.
The course material is fine, and throughout the semester, the class isn't very demanding (it doesn't even have a final exam). However, the lectures aren't particularly engaging, and the assignments are graded too harshly. Also, there's a group project at the end which is a headache if you're not into group work.
The topic of this course is very interesting, but since this is a gen ed, the course doesn't dive in too deeply to some of the subtopics. The final project at the end is manageable if everyone in your group participates.
DO NOT TOUCH THIS CLASS WITH A FIVE FOOT POLE. Not only is the grading arbitrary, but the fact that other students don't take it seriously means that the group project will be a hellish experience! Also, the midterm covers some very, very random content..
If you want a really straightforward class with a predictable workload and don't care if it's also really boring, then this class is for you---really great to balance your workload, especially if you're writing a thesis or taking 5 classes. This class is so easy.
It's not just a public health class, a lot of it is really specific on a personal basis in terms of nutrition
The course material is not difficult but this is not the gem you're looking for.
na
Pretty easy class. Study for the midterm and you'll do well as it is pretty straightforward. Lecture is really brutal and it feels impossible to pay attention for the whole 2 hours. Section is really boring too, but you're taking this class to get an A, not for the material.
It's a nice class, but it's not as easy as people make it out to be. Take it only if interested in subject matter
you learn a lot, and it doesnt feel like learning! definitely do it!
I found that if you put in the work when it counts in this coursetrying on the assignments, studying hard for the midterm, and attending lecturesit will be rewarded. I found it to be a very manageable gened in my schedule and would recommend it to anybody looking to fulfill their SLS or SPU. Utilize your TF for helpthe final project can be a bit tricky. But overall, a very manageable class that actually did teach me valuable health and lifestyle lessons.
material can get a little dull but if you do the work its an easy way to fill a GenEd
If you are looking for a science gen ed or are not a person passionate about global health, don't take this class. The amount of effort required to do well is not worth it when you consider how terrible lectures are and that this class essentially tells you to travel around to look at the short people in developing countries. Don't waste your time.
Pretty low workload and genuinely interesting content, take it!
Nice gem class to balance out higher-workload courses! Plus you learn a lot about what nutrients do what + where to get them, world health issues and how people are addressing them, etc. Super interesting material! Lectures can be long though.
yes
This class was a really interesting GenEd and since I'm not a science person, a good class to give me enough of an understanding without being overwhelmed. It made us consider the ethical and physical effects of a lot of interventions and the way that real change is being made and needs to be made in the world. It had direct impacts on the way I lived my life and taught me a lot of useful life knowledge. It also taught how to write a project proposal and has been most useful in extracurriculars because this is deals with global issues which are ongoing. The grading is kinda harsh and the final project is more work than it seems like  at first, but at least there's no final. They have some really interesting and important people come and speak though if you can make it through the 2 hour lectures.
Be wary of arbitrary grading. Make sure you get a good TF (ANDRES!). Work hard on the project.
This is a very interesting yet easy class. You not only learn about personal diet, but global health issues. Definitely take it!
Course has interesting information and workload is not crazy. However lectures get boring towards the end of the semester.
Good class. Not much work, informative, but not conceptually difficult. Just pay attention in lecture. Advice: be anal on the two or three assignments you have since they are graded strictly.
Take this class! You'll learn so much about Nutrition and Global Health, which is useful not only for your own health, but also for being a good global citizen.
Fairly painless gen-ed that genuinely makes you a better citizen by providing the basic tools for understanding how and why local and global health interventions matter. Pay attention to the lectures and take time to understand the big picture concepts, and you will be just fine for the assignments and midterm.
Good gen ed. Not too much work but learned a lot of useful stuff.
This class has a reputation of being 'easy.' As much as Professor Lo would love for everyone to get an A, it is definitely not 'easy' to get one in this class. This course does demand a certain level of effort on every single assignment, especially since there are so few of them.
One of the easiest ways to fulfill SLS requirement. Pretty interesting material, assignments aren't too hard, final project isn't bad at all.
Class sucked. It was supposed to be a gem but I imagine what happened was that teachers heard of the class's reputation, so they started grading things unfairly difficult. Least favorite class of the semester. Lectures were pretty boring and repetitive. Section is so useless. It's an hour and a half and we spend most of that time doing useless activities. Expectations of the class were completely unclear. Head professor wanted everyone to get As and the TFs and other professor thought differently. Final project sucked. You have to do a group project with kids from your section. It's great if the kids from your section are hard workers, but if you get unlucky and they just aren't, you will have to suffer. It's completely random who you get essentially and thus, how you do. It's just so confusing what is actually being asked for in this class. Really didn't like it at all. Probably wouldn't recommend it. It's still relatively easy, but the amount of suckiness really outweighs that for me.
Mildly interesting.
This is a very chill way to fulfill SLS. The first 4-5 weeks are pretty interesting as well, which is a bonus. However, do put effort into the few assignments you have to do to ensure you can maximize your chances of getting an A. Also be sure to pick hard-working partners for the final project.
Don't think that this will be fun or easy unless you really have a desire to learn this stuff. You learn about nutrition deficiencies in Africa and India.  It's not fun stuff but some assignments are enjoyable and relatively straight forward.  Take your TF's advice and go to office hours!
This is a fine class! Not the hardest class and you learn a good amount. More busy work heavy but sometimes thats good for balance with papers and P-sets. Make sure you get a great group or else you will be screwed for that.
Go to class and it's easy!
Great class with interesting lectures. Like many big lecture classes however, having a good TF/section will make or break your experience.
Study your ass off for the nutrient quiz. Otherwise pretty painless way to fulfill the gen ed. Chill class, readings optional, teaching staff are fun and interesting.
I know this class has been coined as an easy class, but if you lazily go through the assignments and don't go to section you will not get an A. That being said, all you need to do to get an A is pay attention in sections, and that will help you tremendously with assignments, the midterm, and the final project.
This class doesn't require a lot of work, but I found it really hard to do well. If you actually do all of the readings and pay attention in lecture, this class would be easy. But that said it's often difficult to do that and I did nor do that myself. If you are interested in nutrition and global health take this class but it's not just an easy gen ed to fill your science requirement which is what I thought going in.
This is a great gen ed course and an excellent introduction to nutrition. However, if you're more interested in global health this isn't the course for you. This course is mostly focused on macro and micronutrients and as a government concentration I was more interested in global trends than in the nitty gritty of nutrition. Either way it is a very interesting course and painless way to fulfill the SLS requirement! Great teaching staff!!
Lectures are dry, and the group project can be painful if someone in your group decides to be flaky, but overall an easy class.
It is very easy but they grade harshly so to get a good grade you do need to put in the work. the content is very boring but can be useful especially for athletes. I enjoyed this course
it's a very easy class, you should go to lecture, but you definitely don't need to do the readings (except the few emphasized ones) and to make sure you memorize everything for the nutrient quiz
Not a hard class at all. Make sure to go to OH for the assignments as they are graded pretty harshly. Also make sure you study for the quiz and midterm. Not hard to do well in this class if you do the work. Gem.
Good gen ed, not too much of a time requirement and interesting material. The readings can be long but they help prepare you for section and eventually the final project. Pay attention in section. That is the most important for the tests/exam material.
This class is what you put into it. It has the ability to be very easy as long as you keep up with it. The material is interesting and not inherently difficult, but don't leave the final group paper until the last minute.
na
Very easy, but pretty tedious. Learned a lot about nutrition but the largest chunk of the course is focused on the group project which gets annoying and doesn't teach you a lot
This class was a relatively painless way for humanities kids to take a STEM gen ed, and this is coming from someone who waited until senior spring to fulfill the last science requirement. It's not a super easy classyou need time to memorize a lot of material for the exams and the grading on the homework assignments is harsh, but the material isn't super conceptually challenging and the assignments themselves are fair. The material is interesting too!
Very dry and boring course! Do not take it!
take the exams seriously, I guess
read directions carefully and everything will be fine
TERRIBLE COURSE. GRADING IS QUITE RANDOM.The presentation at the end can be stressful if you dont have a good group. Sections and lecture are painful to go through.
You may take this class because it is a gem, but it requires a little more work than you might expect.  I found myself thinking about the class more often than I expected.
A gem among gems. One two hour lecture a week + 1.5 hour section. Can be a drag at times, but you don't really put in much work outside of attending lecture. They have a few assignments that are straightforward to do in just an hour or two. Study for the nutrition quiz and midterm(review lecture and section notes). Don't need to do all the reading, just read whatever your section leader tells you that you are going to be talking about that week. Start the final project early.
It is an interesting class. The course instructors care deeply about the material. I would say you get what you put into this class.
Easiest SLS I could have imagined.
The class is interesting in that you learn about how nutrition impacts health. However, the 2 hour lecture was quite difficult to concentrate in and sections were most often painfully boring.
An easy course to take for an SLS, but very difficult to stay engaged with the course unless you're personally fascinated by nutrition
This course will seem like a gem, but is sneakily a hassle. The first bit is quite enjoyable and quite easy. Once midterms for other classes start you will be annoyed at doing the trivial assignment this class assigns and going to the 2 hour lecture where you see all your peers on their computers shopping or watching cat videos.
It is interesting and manageable, but you have to do very well on the assignments/quizzes to succeed in this class.
I think this class is a good example of an SLS Gen Ed requirement actually contributing to the health and prosperity of the world as a whole and is more than just filling a requirement.
This course will help you think about your own health.
It is interesting and teaches you applicable information.
This is a really easy gen-ed. I wish I had taken a class like LPSA, SLS20, or Psych 15 so I could have actually learned something, but if getting the highest grade/effort ratio is what you're looking for, you've found your class.
This class isn't challenging if you stay on top of it. Don't assume it will be a complete cakewalk.  With that being said it's a gem and the material is relatively interesting.
It is a pretty easy class.
This is the chillest way to fulfill SLS. There's like no work, it's very easy to understand, and it talks about really important topics.
The class is very easy and the teaching staff doesn't expect much. Don't be discouraged by the first lecture when professor Lo predicts that half the class will die of heart disease.
This course is incredibly easy and gets the job done to fulfill an SLS requirement. Lectures are relatively boring and long, but they are not essential for doing well in the course.  All of the assignments are easy. However, the final project is grading slightly more stringently, so don't phone it in completely.
If, like me, you find the Gen Ed program to be bureaucratic idiocy, then this is the class for you. I intend to let Harvard rob me of as little time as possible. If Harvard is worried about 'kids' not challenging themselves in diverse areas of study, they've admit the wrong people. So use this class to learn something interesting without taking up too much of your time.
This class isn't difficult per se and I took it as a senior spring elective (I didn't need the gen ed credit). The grading is rigid  whether you're right or wrong is pretty black and white  and exams are memorization-based. Might be a good or bad thing depending on what you're comfortable with.Lectures were dry and not extremely interesting in my opinion. The final group project is good in theory and would be quite interesting if you have a genuine interest in global health and are willing to put in the work to come up with a compelling solution. Sections were very helpful for understanding the material and readings; I had Alvin, who was great!
This is a great class, especially for the SLS requirement. The lecturers are usually very interesting, and I suggest you pay attention, as they are only once a week. Section was great and fun, and overall I would say take this very topical course and learn about issues in global health that are truly very important from people who are leaders in the field.
It's a nice course to take if you just want an easy course to get a good grade in. But I wouldn't take it if you actually want to be challenged and learn something inspiring.
Straightforward, especially for someone concentrating in science and/or who has already taken Stat 104.
Take this class!
This is a really good Gen Ed to fulfill SLS if you are not a science person.  It is largely based in other fields besides 'hard science'.  There was really only one difficult assignment, and if you study exams will be very easy.  One caveat is that lecture is very boring, but you should attend because they take attendance.  Everything that you learn for this course you will learn in section, which is again boring but necessary.
What a gem.  Dr. Lo is my hero
This course is an easy way to fulfill the Gen Ed requirement while simultaneously being exposed to a wide range of topics.
I personally found course material to be fascinating as well as easy.
This is a gem. If you do 2-4 hours of work a week consistently, you're getting an A. It's also the first gen ed class that I've liked. Professor Lo is incredible at generating enthusiasm about the topic. You learn why nutrition is so important to the world in general.
This course is pretty easy and you will have no mandatory work most weeks. However, it is not very interesting, and the grading is tough to make up for the lack of difficulty. So it is an easy course to coast through, but it is hard to get an A in it.
Great way to knock out SLS (no lab). It's a pretty easy course, there's no final, and the instructors all want to see people do well. Only downside is that 2-hour lectures can be tough to get through, but on the whole, I'd certainly recommend the course.
Easy course with not a lot of work and you still learn a fair bit as well. Solid gen Ed
It is very easy with minimal work load, but it is kind of dry and boring
Beautiful class where you actually learn a lot and not be completely stressed out
This course was terrible. I don't know if there are better SLS courses out there since I only took this one, but do not take it. There is not thought in this class, it is all knowledge. Memorization and memorization. Maybe you want that, I don't. I want a class that treats me as a person and not a computer. No not take this.
There are probably better SLS geneds you can take, but if you want an easy gened, take it.
Assignments are pretty nitpicky and start early on the final project
The class is an interesting alternative to psych gen-eds, has a light workload, and applies to pertinent issues regarding illness, overpopulation, and nutrition.
Easy but make sure you take the assignments / assessments seriously. Class is very easy so any points off hurts distribution wise
Good course
Fun class!
It was a very interesting course that is a good way of learning about global health issues or applying and reassessing the knowledge you already have.
Interesting and not super work-intensive
This is a good course if you are all interested in Global Health.
This class has low workload while still being engaging. The lectures can be long but the topics covered are interesting.
I think this is perhaps the easiest way to get through the SLS requirement. The teachers want you to do well and the material is actually more interesting than you'd think. That being said, it is known as a gem for a reason. You probably won't get that much out of it as an educational experience.
Great course with great professors.
This is a very manageable class with no final exam, which is always a plus. You do need to study for the nutritional quiz and midterm since everyone tends to do pretty well on it. I probably learned the most in section and it becomes very enjoyable if you have prepared and have something to contribute. Be careful with the wording on assignments especially with the 95% confidence interval and risk ratios. The information was pretty interesting although some of the lectures were a bit dull. Two hour lectures can be quite a bit to handle but only having lecture once a week is nice. I would definitely recommend this class.
Solid class. Really try to do well on the nutrition quiz and midterm and then your grade will fall into place. Lo is awesome/hilarious.
It is an easy A but the lectures are both mandatory and incredibly boring so it may actually not be worth it
Very easy gen-ed, and doesn't require much work at all. I guess all of us are interested in health, at least on a personal level, so some of the information is actually quite useful!
My group project ended up being really difficult because I was the only one really putting effort in -- so it made it really hard and stressful and it put me in a really uncomfortable position.
This course is really interesting, especially if you're interested in global health. The professors are extremely knowledgable and enthusiastic about the material they're teaching. Also, the assignments are really fair and it's one of the most structured and organized sections I've had, so it's not boring.
This class introduces you to global health in a really accessible and interesting way. The assignments are useful. Would recommend. Spend time on the final project.
Pretty easy way to get SLS done
The grading is very harsh.
Great class, great workload, and great way to fulfill the SLS requirement.
It's easy, but you will dislike this class. I highly recommend.
Check before you take this class - kind of dull lectures, but no final, just a long final project. Your move.
Incredible class, you learn a lot in a very accessible setting. Required lecture attendance forces you to keep up with the material which is very helpful. The material is presented in a way that demonstrates the importance of public health to everyone.
AMAZING painless way to knock out an SLS gen ed! The lectures can vary (depending on who is lecturing) but the material is actually super useful. Also, very light workload and the midterm was super fair / straightforward.
a good way to get SLS gen ed out of the way
Very interesting, and important information, with no prior knowledge required.
Lectures are super dry, but its the easiest class I've ever taken at Harvard. Seriously recommend it as a manageable 5th class.
This course is very engaging. The science and interventions you learn about are all very interesting even to non-medically oriented students. Many times, the course grappled with the ideal of global health interventions and practicality of different approaches.
As a concentrator in the social sciences/humanities, SLS 19 has led me to change my senior thesis topic entirely and has actually inspired me to consider pursuing a graduate degree in public health. Though lectures were 2 hours long, the material is generally pretty interesting and engaging (depending on the week), but it does require a minimum level of interest on your part as well. Section really depends on your section leader, and the exams/quizzes were fair, but you do need to prepare extensively for them. The final project, which was probably my favorite part of the course, can catch you by surprise toward the end of the semester, so would definitely recommend getting started on it early and doing regular follow-ups with your group.
You will learn a lot of nutrition and its importances in disease. Pretty manageable workload. I took it as an elective, but if you are not super into science, this class would be a great way to fulfill the SLS requirement.
Readings and lectures are important to assignments and the final project especially, so you need to pay attention to both of these.  Wording has to be really precise. Overall, if you're interested in the subject matter, it's a good gen-ed.
You get out what you put in. I loved this class. I did the readings and went to lecture, and I learned a lot about material that I am thoroughly interested in. But not all the students in the class approach the material in the same way. If you're interested in the material this class is great, if not it could be boring. Regardless, the class does move a bit slowly because there is only one lecture a week and section is essentially a repeat of lecture.
Do not take this course unless you are actually interested in global health. It is not engaging enough to be useful to anyone who is not already interested.
This is an easy and interesting way to fulfill your SLS requirement. If you can last through the 2 hour lecture (you'll know if you can after shopping week), you should be able to last through the semester.
It's a great way to satisfy SLS requirement.
This is the perfect gen ed! The work is clearcut and manageable, and lectures and sections were interesting, not to mention relevant to real life. Dr. Lo is both brilliant and a regular comedian--he's hilarious but he's hilarious in a way that only adds to his teaching. Nathalie was a lovely TF, very helpful and understanding.
If you need to fulfill SLS gen ed, this is the course for you. Low workload and very straightforward in method. If you are interested in global health and nutrition, it is a good introductory course. Professor Lo is an entertaining and engaging lecturer (but he only gives a few of the lectures we have in class). Downside: not much thinking for the class, it's a group final project (choose your partners wisely!), and class can feel long
study for the midterm and the nutrient quiz so that you don't get surprised by them. they're just memorization tests, so you either know the stuff or you don't. The final project isn't too bad. Go to lecture even if you don'd do the readings.
Fun and relaxing gen ed to learn more about global health. The final project is the best part where you get to apply what you've learned throughout.
This class is a great way to complete a GenEd.
It's a good course for a GenEd. Worth taking and not too much of a time commitment.
This course is absolutely terrible. IT's just a bunch of guest lectures who talk about the most boring materials imaginable. IF you are looking for a course with a lab, this will do, just be prepared for the most boring two hours of your life.Also it has a group project, and boy oh boy are lose a piece of work. You'll most likely get stuck with 2 people who won't do any of the work and you'll be stuck doing all of it. You have been warned.
That if you memorize, the course is easy and relatively interesting.
A very interesting class to take.
This class is enjoyable and has a fairly low workload.
Very easy class, but make sure to study enough.
a very easy way to get sls credit, but often feels like memorize/regurgitate kind of like a high school health class
It's good for an SLS class because there are no labs, but still not amazing. Workload is low but the projects require a good amount of time.
Really easy with very interesting material, especially in the personal nutrition half of the class
easy but useless. poorly run class
