Be prepared to learn most of the course on your own.
This course is conceptually pretty difficult - so do not expect an easy course! The work load is very light though, which is nice. Susan Carey is a titan in the developmental psych field; she is the best person to teach the course.
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE.
A good class in which you get what you put in. If you try to understand the content, the class is really interesting.
Some students had taken an intro psych class and were taking this as part of their majors but I didn't and I felt it was totally manageable, even though I had to get used to the style of readings and coming up with experimental designs. The subject matter was really interesting, even though I'm not looking to concentrate in psych.
This course was not organized, the lectures were hard to follow, the sections were rough, and the exams were overwhelming.
It was a good class. I liked the subject matter and papers.
This course covers very interesting material,  but can be incredibly dense and hard to understand.
This class is interesting (particularly in the second half) and Professor Carey is very accomplished in her field. All of the teaching staff care very much about the subject material, but at times it seems a bit disorganized. Lectures are not the most engaging, but Professor Carey is very invested the course and very much wants every student to succeed: when one student suggested an example that would help illuminate a concept, Prof. Carey was excited and said she planned to bring the example next time she taught the course. Make sure that you stay awake in lecture, it often illuminates the readings (which can be sometimes tricky), and complete all your assignments, and you will likely enjoy this course. I definitely did!
Don't be turned away by Professor Carey's initial lectures that might be hard to follow and boring at first! The class gets much better a few weeks in! That being said, I would not take this course to fulfill the SLS Gen Ed..I would consider it a more difficult SLS especially if you have no prior psych experience. For psych concentrators who need to fulfill a foundational course, I would highly recommend this class! There is not very much work and I've learned some very interesting things that I will readily apply to my life when I am a parent! Take Dev Psych!
This class has the potential to be very interesting and enjoyable, but you won't get that from just attending lecture and section. The material is interesting, but you must be proactive in your readings and independent review in order to fully understand it. At the end of the semester I realized that I had learned a lot more than I had thought I did, but that was only after I had spent many hours preparing for the final.
Material is interesting, but lectures are a bit dry and sometimes confusing. Sections were great and helped a lot.
This class is alright. For a SLS, pretty good. Professor Carey is not the most engaging lecturer, but the materials are interesting.
The subject matter is fascinating, the content is fun, and the teaching staff is incredibly qualified and relatable.
This class makes some questionable claims about "innate" gender differences and explains many complex social traits and phenomena in terms of evolution, hormones, and biology. Definitely take this class with a grain of salt, or maybe with a sociology class...
A really nice course under the SLS catalogue. You won't have to do tons of psets and struggling with papers and reading every week. Yet you'll still have a fun time and actually learn  a lot from Prof. Carey.
Great course to take if you want to know how and what babies think! A mix of science and psychology!
This class is heavy on cognitive science and evolutionary psychology, so don't take it if you're not interested in either. The written assignments are graded harshly, and the directions are pretty vague: it helps to talk to a TF about the assignment before submitting it just to make sure you know what exactly they're looking for.Exams were pretty frustrating, and many of the questions seemed designed to trick and confuse.However, I did really appreciate the way in which the content was taught: instead of just throwing a bunch of concepts and findings at us, Dr. Carey would present a few important studies/experiments and then explain what these studies show us about development, and how all of these studies build upon one another.
Keep up to date with all readings.
An interesting class, but lectures were somewhat dry.
Lecture is pretty boring, and Professor Carey is hard to understand sometimes. Her slides often don't make any sense at all when you go back to look at them later. Definitely take advantage of section.
Take it if you're truly interested in the material because the readings and the assingments are fantastic - super interesting and informative.
I personally enjoyed this class and found the subject matter interesting. I would say that it is relatively simple, however others definitely have a different perspective. If you can get Shilpa as your TF, you should - she is great! If you aren't interested in the subject matter I might suggest that you choose a different class, though you can still make it if you just want SLS credit.
The information is very interesting! Do not be afraid of taking this class, if you are not a science person. It is so accessible, and the amount of work assigned is very reasonable.
If you are going to take this course, you should have a moderate-good understanding of how to look at things scientifically. This course was more like a science course than I was anticipating. It is also helpful to keep up with the readings as it will make lectures clearer and easier to understand.
If you're interested in the course material, you might like this course, but the lectures are so boring that you might end up becoming disillusioned with the subject matter as a whole. Sections are fantastic, assignments aren't too bad, but both the midterm and the final are doozies.
Lectures for this class weren't that exciting and sections weren't that helpful either. I may be biased since I wasn't overwhelmingly enthusiastic about the subject material to begin with, but I did not enjoy this course and found myself confused and lost at times since the professors didn't interact much with the students and my TF wasn't that helpful.
SLS 15 is an good Gen Ed class to take to fulfill your SLS requirement: it is interesting material, yet does not require much work.
A more humanities-based intro to psych, with better lab experience.
The reading is very light and interesting, but the tests are quite difficult. The lectures move quickly and it is useful to do the reading before lecture to make them easier to understand and write down. Pay attention to graphs and charts. This class was my favorite of the semester and has motivated me to take a lab course with one of the professors next semester. You get out of it what you put into attending and comprehending the lectures.
This class is really great, but it is what you make of it. You can either put in the effort and get out a lot out of it (which I highly recommend, because it's worth it), or you can slide by and still learn some interesting things.
As a linguistics major, this class gave me a useful perspective on my field. If you are a ling major who needs an SLS class, this is a good fit.
If you are interested in the field of psychology with some prior experience, this course is an interesting approach to the field.
Interesting introduction to cog sci that offers a humanistic view on the innate capacities of the human brain. Good for people interested in philosophy and neuroscience, though a bit bland for those with a pessimistic view of humanity. You might not learn much new, but you'll see how a scientific discipline acts in dialogue with the humanities.
The material taught in this course is highly interesting, even if you are not a psychology concentrator. The course provides you with great resources, such as two famous and accessible professors, as well as very supportive TFs. This makes it easy to work with them on your performance in the class and to improve yourself continuously.
This class is awesome!!!  I recommend it to both psych concentrators and people looking to fulfill a gen ed.  It is interesting, the material is clearly presented, there is not a lot of homework, and help is easily accessed.  Gen ed students, so not be deterred by the fact that there are a lot of psych concentrators in the class, it is still pretty easy and MUCH better and easier than SLS 20.  There is some overlap between the two classes as well.
Do not take this class if you expect to learn any cohesive lessons about developmental psychology. The course is disorganized in its presentation of content.
Very interesting! Among the four classes I have for this semester, I enjoy this one the most.
The class is kind of boring with a decent amount of work
One of the more harmless SLS classes out there. But you have to know the material inside and out for the tests. Not just facts but on an in depth conceptual level. The tests only benefit kids who know everything in depth. All others will have a hard time with them.
This class is probably most beneficial for psych majors. For anyone who wants to take this as a gen ed, think twice. It's a lot of work and the exams are very difficult. The lectures are also complicated, convoluted, and lacking any conclusions. At the end you'll probably find yourself wondering not about the many experiments you learned about (those you'll have remembered) but about the actual themes of the course, which are never well explained.
A really interesting take on how we come to know the world around us. Not a demanding class until the exams when you needs to know all the experiments.
This is an interesting overview of developmental psychology; very little time is spent discussing or observing the relative cuteness of babies, which I initially feared would happen. This course provides an introduction to fascinating subjects such as spatial perception and social and moral cognition.
Lectures are fast-paced, but by the end of the course you'll realize that there is a lot of helpful overlap over topics.
The conclusions of the course are interesting though the material is difficult.
It is easy, but it gets repetitive, and sometimes tedious. The lectures have a very slow pace. However,  at the end of the course you realize you have learnt a lot.
Only take this if you have taken SLS 20, do not take as a GEN ED. But, it is a good course if you are interested in psych.
Good but dense lecture slides and often run out of time - make sure to take notes on a laptop, even though the teacher says to use a notebook (if you want to get everything down)
Understand the basic mechanics and motivations for the different experiments. The lectures do a good job at explaining the experiments.
It's not an easy core. The exams are quite difficult and test you on specific experiments mentioned somewhere in lecture or in the readings. A lot of interesting information, but in the end you want to ask yourself: why would I even need to know this? This question is never properly addressed in the class.
Interesting material, but there is a lot of stuff to learn if you want to succeed on the exams.
Don't take it. Seriously. Don't take as a psych major. If you need an SLS, there are plenty of more interesting ones that have a better course structure. This course has potential, but it is terribly organized.
This is a fun and very painless way to fulfill the gened requirement. The professors are really very good and I was almost convinced to switch my major to psych!
This class is very interesting, and is well worth your time if you are interested in the subject matter.
pretty boring material.
This course provides a pretty compelling narrative in determining where we get our 'knowledge', by arguing that much of how we view the world is determined innately. The course might start off with things that seem 'mundane', but it lays a foundation that builds up to something grander.
Let this be your first introduction to dev. psychology
Very interesting class. Be prepared to learn a lot of material!
You learn a lot of interesting stuff in this class, but be prepared to learn about experiments in an absurd degree of detail and prepare really, really intensively for the exams.
Interesting topic, and ambitious attempt to cover many bases to explain a fundamentally complex question, but far too much information is stuffed into each lecture, and it's often difficult to process the main directions of the course from being swamped with details.  It was often unclear what we could expect to be tested on.  That said, if you read the textbook and readings, you'll learn a ton about the nature and origins of human knowledge and development.  It really is interesting stuff.
Fascinating course for someone with no previous psychology experience. Assignments can be tricky - it sometimes seems like the TFs are looking to nitpick - but if you attend every lecture and pay attention (which, perhaps unsurprisingly for a Gen Ed, many don't do), it shouldn't be too difficult and you'll come away with a broad swath of information on child development.
I think you have to really find the course material inherently interesting to enjoy the class. Lectures are fast and the slides aren't always posted right afterwards, so that made things difficult. Definitely do the readings, preferably before lecture. They really help!
This is not a good class to take for a General Education requirement. It may be interestingly, but overall, it is poorly taught, and could be improved greatly in terms of organization and teaching support.
The lectures aren't the best but if you stay engaged it is interesting.
midterm was very hard and this class does not give a lot of feedback, but it's an interesting topic and spelke is a great lecturer!
Lectures were very long and dense. It is also frustrating how the course didn't do a good job of integrating all of the themes of the course at the end, and you are left to do this on your own.
a lot of experiments, but not a good understanding of why they are important. the TF really did not care about this course and actually never gave back our last assignment. the professor isn't bad, though, and she seems really excited about the material at least. did not do a good job of bridging being a gen ed and a psych class
Good class on developmental psychology. Helped me better understand how humans think, behave, and develop. However, beware that this class is graded harshly, and be prepared to regurgitate small details. Too much of the exams were based on regurgitating small details of experiments (such as the age of the experiment subjects, etc.). This should not be a memorization course. TFs also don't really seem to care about the students.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. Unless you are actually interested in developmental psychology, I would recommend not taking this class. The tests were more of an attempt to trick you than actually an attempt to see what you had learned. The TFs were brutal and the lectures were unbearably boring.
This class was a good overview of developmental psychology.  Liz is a good lecturer, and the material is really interesting even if you aren't planning on concentrating in psych.  I had no psychology background and am not a concentrator, and I felt like the material was accessible and not over my head.  However, we did not get much feedback on our assignments, and the TFs refused to give us study guides to help us study for the midterm and final; they also refused to return the midterm on the basis that they will reuse the questions.  Hopefully this will change, but beware if it's important to you to have guidance about the assessments.
Do you like dense PowerPoint presentation?  What about babies?  No? Yes? Well, this course might just be the mixed bag you're looking for!  The material is moderately interesting but fairly nit-picky, and with any luck the teaching staff will have improved.  In my experience, I was on my own with this class: the assignments, while very short, never really came back with feedback (if they came back at all), and there was embarrassingly little prep offered for either the (difficult!) midterm or final.  This class ultimately gets stuck in the mire somewhere between being a full-fledged science course and being a worthwhile gen ed. Probably a solid alternative to other intro psych classes, though, if you want an intro psych class with a relatively small number of students.
The professor is always super busy (unavailable), which is understandable, but not helpful; and the TFs are equally unhelpful
take this class only if you're very interested in origin of knowledge (learning about infants). you won't learn a lot of development in children, but will focus on how infants obtain their knowledge. this can be boring if you're not passionate about the materials.
don't take this course as an elective. it was not very exciting
This class did not inspire me, nor did it offer me information that I can use to transform my reality. But, it fulfilled a requirement. There was nothing ideal about this class for me, but it allowed me to get my degree.
This class was just ok. A few things I wish I had known ahead of time: (1) attendance was not factored into our grades whatsoever. (2) There's no feedback on assignments. My grades were emailed to me with no comments or explanation. (3) The midterm questions did not correspond well to what we were taught, and there's minimal opportunity to compensate for a poor midterm grade. (4) My TF never conveyed any semblance of investment in my success in the course, which was quite unfortunate.That said, you'll hopefully have a better TF and a better overall experience should you decide to take this class.
This class had it's ups and downs. The positives (that should probably weigh more on people considering it): the content is interesting, and Professor Spelke is a great lecturer. If you want to learn a lot about psychology from someone influential in the field who is really enthusiastic about the material, you'll enjoy it. However, the sections were essentially useless, the TFs didn't get assignments back in a reasonable amount of time, and there were four 3-page assignments worth 10% of the grade each that we didn't get much help/direction on. Check the syllabus to see if they've restructured the course before taking it; if they have, it will probably be much better.
Interesting class. Very little reading, but still learned a ton. Must attend lectures but they're interesting and very clearly explained. Little work needed outside of class to prepare for assessments if you were paying attention.
This is a great class to explore psychology in a relaxed way. You can put as much or as little effort as you want. (within reason)
The class size was small, making everything feel more intimate. The material was interesting, the lectures engaging, and we watched videos of babies all the time.
It's a good opportunity to take a class with someone who truly is a leading member of the field. You'll learn a lot.
This class is not really about efficient parenting/teaching and child development in a practical sense. It has a more theoretical approach about innate vs. learned cognitive mechanisms like depth perception and number representations (whether or not babies can do this at birth). I'd say this class requires you to be absolutely interested in this type of concept, so if you're taking it to fulfill psych foundational requirements, Social psych and Abnormal psych are more practically applicable and cover a larger range of topics.
This is not an easy or, in my personal opinion, very interesting class. I'm a psych concentrator and I found a lot of the concepts quite difficult. If you are looking for a more fun and accessible Psych intro class or SLS gen-ed, take SLS 20 or Psych 15.
Do not take this class. Professor Carey is a sub par lecturer and the feedback/progression through the course is painful. Pick another SLS credit for Gen Ed if you can and spare yourself a class that is harder than it appears, boring, and a lot of work.
If you are looking for an SLS requirement--I recommend this one. Maybe not for people who have taken a few psych courses, but very good for someone new to the field.
This is a great course! It's a pretty easy Gen Ed and it covers very interesting material!
This course is a bit hard to follow. Professor Carey can be confusing and a bit dry.
this class is entertaining and very interesting!
This class covers topics that are relevant just because you are a human, whether you are interested in pursuing a degree in psychology or not.
This class focuses on details and case studies, both of which can be very granular. However, after you grasp the knowledge, the result is very satisfying.
It is a very interesting course that will challenge your thought processes and require you to think outside of the box.
While the material can be very interesting, its presentation isn't great, and section is an unfortunate waste of time. If you're interested, read the Keil textbook and Carol Dweck's Fixed/Growth Mindset papers and skip the class.
Good class. Can get slow, though, so make sure only to take it if you find the basic material interesting.
I took this course despite warnings not to because I am very interested in developmental psychology and wanted to learn more about how children learn about the world. I can say with confidence that there are better ways to learn this information than by taking this class. The material is very interesting, but is not always presented well and the course suffers from a general lack of engagement and energy. Professor Carey and Professor Spelke's lectures are full of information, but can be dense and there is little attempt to engage the students. However, if you acknowledge all of this and want to learn in depth about many topics in the field of developmental psychology, this class may be good for you. I know I learned a ton.
Probably don't take this unless you are a concentrator or specifically interested in developmental psych. Don't take this for gen ed. It seems like you don't need specific knowledge, but it's incredibly difficult to get caught up on things like experiment types, step-ups, specific jargon, expectations about the kind of analysis that's appropriate, if you're going in blind. It's all very alienating.
This course provides an introduction to developmental psychology with great breadth and depth while paying attention to considerations from neuroscience, economics, and philosophy.
The teachers are passionate about the topics, and the TF is always available to meet outside of class, but the lectures are a bit boring, so have an interest in the class.
Developmental psychology is a topic that I have a lot of interest in, but I still hesitate to recommend this class because of the nature of both lecture and section. Sometimes I felt that despite how small the class was, there wasn't really any facilitation for discussion, and in section sometimes, I felt we were just being talked at instead of discussing things (minus the final section about moral reasoning when we had serious, engaging discussions about the different moral dilemmas).
Some of the nicest professors you can have at harvard.  However, lectures are impossible to understand.  Quite possibly one of the most difficult, challenging, and frustrating classes you would take here.
You will have to read all the material in this class and will be given little to no indication on what you will be tested on. Drs. Spelke and Carey are brilliant researchers, but mediocre pedagogists; consequently, you will spend half the time listening to them talk about their own research or debates in the field that interest them. This has been my most frustrating and unrewarding classes that I have taken at Harvard. The professors seemed to be unwilling (but not incapable) if simplifying their material for a more general university audience. Instead, they consistently preferred to employ the jargon of their own particular field. Words like "constraint" and "domain" often had their own specific meaning, which was never explained in class. When students felt brave enough to ask for an explanation, they were often met with just more jargon that mystified the meaning of the terms themselves and what exactly developmental psychology is contributing. The curse of knowledge weighed very heavily in how they thought about and presented their material.
A great course to take if you have genuine interest in experimental psychology and the building blocks of a wide variety of developmental theories.
I'm sure this class is alright, but I was not engaged in it. I was just here for the Gen Ed. The Gen Ed system is a bummer.
The course is largely based on research work so logical reasoning was very important. It has prepared me to be a more scientific person. I would suggest students with a better grasp of science research and experiments to take this course.
The material was very interesting and it was amazing to be in class Professor Spelke and Carey, both expert researchers in their field.
Try to take any other SLS or Psy class if possible. This class was a HUGE waste of time in terms of actual lectures and the accompanying essays. Lectures are monotonous and dry. Exams were unnecessarily hard and an overall waste of time. They tested not accumulated knowledge, but rote memorization. I thought we were in college and beyond meaningless busy work, but I could be wrong... This class was the definition of #WasteYourTime2k16. As Queen Bey said "Don't hurt yourself [taking SLS 15]"
While this course is a very manageable workload, the lectures are pretty dry and the overall structure is little messy.
This class was SO hard. I pretty much always felt confused.
