keep up with the readings!
it is an interesting class but difficult for a gen ed
Berry's lectures are brilliant - I'd take the course simply for the enthusiasm and interest he creates in class. This is also a pretty easy and fun gen-ed option.
Good, well structured course. Work load is very reasonable, concepts were not that hard to grasp. Trips were fun, professors are enthusiastic and give very good lectures. Reading the origin was painful, but you can get away with just skimming it. The other textbooks for the course are totally unnecessary. Course provides insight into Darwin's time and background.
This class is not too hard, not too much work. Very interesting, though. Even if you don't take the class, go to lectures just for fun!
Had I taken this course my freshman fall, I might very well have gone the science track. This is the best teaching you will encounter at Harvard, bar none.
I think I discovered a trick.  Take second-year gen ed's that got mediocre Q scores their first year. The teaching staff will have improved the syllabus a lot from the first year and will be eager to impress for better Q scores. In all seriousness, Janet Browne and Andrew Berry were two of the best lecturers I have had and the subject material is really interesting. A good SLS that is pretty easy, but not a joke the way that some (SLS19, cough) are.
I think I was able to survive this course because I have prior science background. I think the course would be absolutely miserable for someone with no science background who was just trying to fill a gen ed.
Best science core! Small lecture taught by two profs who are not only brilliant, but good teachers, too.
Don't take it if you're interested in the history side because after about six lectures that ends.
Take this class! Take it! The professors are both hilariously funny and know their stuff, and you have to be really, REALLY easily bored to get bored in this class. If you have ever wanted to know more about evolution (but maybe aren't a hard science person), then take this course! It's a painless and fun way to fulfill a GenEd requirement, and I guarantee the professors' enthusiasm will rub off on you.
Assignments are much, much more difficult and mathematical than the fairly easy lectures and readings. Don't be fooled.
This class is awesome! The material you learn is extremely relevant to the debates on Darwinism. You learn the science as well as the historical background to evolutionary theory.
I loved everything about this class, from the professor, TF to readings, problem sets and lab component. If you are a humanities person looking to fill a SLS gen-ed, or if you are interested in evolution/Darwinism in general, take the class!
I've always been really fascinated by Darwin from both a scientific and a historical aspect, so I was really excited to see this class in the catalogue. I don't think I'm alone in this sentiment. The lectures are very interesting, and I always felt that I came away learning a lot. Professor Berry and Professor Brown are both experts in their subjects and are interesting (and, in Professor Berry's case, entertaining) lecturers. Don't be offended if Professor Berry pokes fun at you or places your Harvard ID picture on the Neanderthal branch of a primate phylogeny. Also, on a slightly cautionary note, my fellow history majors should not be fooled by the first three or four weeks of class. This is not actually just a history course; in the end, it turns out to lean heavily towards science. But that just means you have to dust off your high school memories of learning about DNA transcription, etc. I really enjoyed the class, I'm glad I took it and I'm a little sorry it's over. It's the best class I could hope for to fulfill by last science Gen-Ed.
This is an extremely enjoyable way to fill an SLS requirement if you're a Humanities concentrator. There's a significant history component, and the science component is both manageable and very interesting.
this is a pretty cool class - introduction to some of the most radical scientific ideas in modern history, fun professors (shout out to andrew berry), relatively low work load - it seemed sort of under-enrolled for what it was. great way to fulfill a gen ed. take it!
In terms of sheer entertainment, this must be one of the best courses Harvard has to offer. The Browne-Berry double-act is priceless: to see two of the most prominent figures in their respective fields riffing off each other and cracking endless jokes was the highlight of my Tuesdays and Thursdays. The material is fantastic - it provides you with an excuse to finally read the Origin of Species, and the breadth of the course is excellent. A big shout out also to my TF Lukas - you are a scholar and a gentleman, sir.
Professors are fun and upbeat, but lectures still drag. Make sure you attend them though, because they aren't recorded and the slides don't tell the whole story. Make sure you study for the exams. There are no trick questions, but if it was mentioned in lecture, it can be on the exam.
Browne and Berry are both fantastic lecturers, and compliment each other in a great way; Berry is hilarious, but Browne is just as engaging in a subtler way, and the combined perspective of History of Science and Evolutionary Biology that they bring is really well balanced and is the perfect way to approach the subject. Reading the Origin for section chapter by chapter was also a great way to tackle that and really enriched the course. Take it! It's a great SLS (something I never thought I would say of that Gen Ed category).
The professors and teaching staff are phenomenal. Easily the best class to satisfy the SLS requirement.
This course is not difficult. It is well taught, and Andrew Berry makes lectures endlessly entertaining. If you're looking for an interesting, manageable SLS course, this is the one for you. If you want to delve deep into the subject matter, look elsewhere.
The first half of this class is history of science and the second is more about evolutionary biology. Sections are the best!
The course is easy, but the work is really backloaded (10 page paper and surprisingly hard final). While Berry is an entertaining lecturer, there's a reason no one went to lecture: they're mostly useless. Yea he's funny, but it frequently felt like the primary objective of the class was to make jokes, not explain concepts. We ended up wasting a lot of time in section learning the material instead, and never covered any of the readings. The lab takes up several classes and a section, and yet there's no written report due, WTF? Apparently one of the sections didn't even finish the lab, and it just didn't matter at all.They basically put the bare minimum number of requirements on the syllabus to qualify as a gen ed, but it's really poorly put synthesized (for example, a scientific final paper, but you don't get assigned even ONE SINGLE SCIENTIFIC PAPER to read in the entire course. You're just supposed to randomly know how to write one). If you want an easy class, take it, but the only useful material will be whatever you do on your own, and it won't matter for your grade.
An fun-ish and easy gened, if that's what you're looking for. Probably won't really change how you think.
A fun enjoyable class, but be prepared to learn a lot of material!
Janet browne and Andrew Berry are fantastic, they taught me so much and I always felt like I could stand out in class despite the size of the course. Also just a really cool way to learn more about darwin and the history of evolution in general.
This class is really easy, but only touches on the science -- the focus is on history of science. Still, Andrew Berry is a great lecturer, and makes it entertaining.
Blimey what an incredible course. The hoi polloi of Harvard just gripe on and on about how terrible their Gen-Eds are, but people in this class just smirk, assured that they have chosen one of the best Gen-Eds out there. Even if you've fulfilled your SLS, at least take the class Pass-Fail. Professors Berry and Browne both present the material in a wonderful, engaging fashion that makes every lecture a treat. Professor Browne is the world-expert in her part of history of science. Whenever I'd look up a concept on Wikipedia during class, Professor Browne would be cited on the bottom. And Professor Berry is simply the most dynamic, engaging, British, censor-less lecturer at Harvard. he creates a fun atmosphere that's still educational.
The first half of the course focuses on history and is very interesting; the last half is more biology-oriented, and might be trivial to a biology-concentrator but is fascinating for everyone else.
This class is a must if you want to fulfill a gen-ed, if you're a senior who wants one last good experience before leaving Harvard, or if you want to be called a "bloody wanker" the first class.
This class is not a gem. Its very interesting and not super difficult, but not an easy ride either.
This class is very easy and incredibly dynamically taught.
pretty fun, but work gets a little more intense near the end of the semester
Such a painless and fun way to complete the GenEd requirement. I laughed out loud at least once during a class, and the outside readings were painless and most of the time unnecessary. One of the bad things about this class was the final paper in addition to a final exam. However, the paper was actually kind of fun to write, and the exam was pretty reasonable. Highly recommend.
As a music concentrator I still found like I got a lot of stuff out of this class. Wholeheartedly recommend. One lab satiates that "pooh a lab" thing. Assignments not too heavy. Origin really interesting to read. Lectures both very entertaining and engaging as well as good cogent explanations of the material. Sections review the lectures from the previous week (genius) and Origin of Species book. Exam/midterm good level of difficulty. And the history of science stuff (Go Professor Browne!) puts this super important theory (evolution) in historical context in a really cool way.
This class was extremely eye-opening to the often overused/misrepresented aspects of Darwin's works. Dr. Berry is an extremely engaging lecturer and classes were interesting and well taught. Recommend!
Great class, light workload.  Dr. Berry and Dr. Browne both give great lectures.
This class is extraordinary.  Take it if you have any love of science or evolution.  Dr. Berry is amazing. Worth attending Harvard just for him.
This is the greatest SLS class for people afraid of science. Andrew Berry is a hilarious lecturer and Janet can hold her own as well. The section leaders are all great, and Evan is especially personable and helpful! I really enjoyed the applicable nature of this course's commentary on sexual selection and religion vs. science. Having shopped all SLS courses with a Q-score of 4 and above, I'm glad I settled on this one!
This is a great class and you should definitely take it if you are trying to fulfill your science of living systems requirement. The professors are both very engaging and the material is very interesting. The first half of the class is primarily history and the second half is primarily science, which allows for a very broad and well rounded understanding of the theory of evolution.
Not much feedback from teachers and section leaders.
Very interesting and engaging, although maybe not the absolute simplest and easiest, way to fulfill SLS. Andrew Berry is possibly the best lecturer I have ever had the pleasure of learning from. The material is fascinating, especially to those with a slight interest yet little background in genetics. The problem sets aren't too bad. The midterm is a little annoying because it focuses primarily on the history of science component of the course. No reading is required except the weekly Darwin chapters, and even those can be skipped sometimes despite the weekly chapter questions. However, if you want to do well on psets and tests, you need to go to lecture. There are no outlines, and lecture slides are not helpful for learning what was taught in class. You need to sit through lecture and take notes to know what was taught in class. In preparing for tests, your notes are pretty much the only thing you have. Overall, I wouldn't describe this as a "gem" GenEd. However, if you need SLS and are interested in evolution and evolutionary biology and want some of the funniest, most engaging lectures you will ever get, take this class.
Take this class for the lectures: Berry is a star and Browne is the world's foremost Darwin biographer. The first half of the class (history of Darwinism) is definitely more interesting than the second (inheritance and population genetics); if you've taken AP Bio in high school, most of the science will be review.
very fun and extremely well taught
This is the best SLS gen-ed. It is not exceptionally hard, and Professors Berry and Browne strive to make it a truly liberal arts gen-ed experience. Take this class if you want an SLS that is relaxed, but will still teach you a thing or two. On top of that, Browne is the leading biographer on Charles Darwin, and Berry is the leading biographer on Alfred Russel Wallace, co-published with Darwin. Who better to teach you how to understand Darwinism?
Great solution to the "bio" gen-ed for people who want to learn about more than just science.
professors are incredible!
This class is very interesting, especially the history of science component.  At times though they go through the biology and science components a bit quickly and do not do a good job of explaining that material.
If you are a woeful humanities concentrator (as I am), looking for a low-key, fun 'biology' course, take this one. Dr. Berry is exhilarating and the course is not too challenging.
Great and fun way to fulfill the SLS requirement. Both Dr. Berry and Dr. Browne are engaging and entertaining. You also will learn a thing or two.
As everyone else will probably say, this is a great class for non-science types to fulfill their SLS. I basically took this class because of Andrew Berry. He's fantastic, and everyone should take a class with him. Be warned, the class is very heavily stacked to the second half of the semester, which actually suited me well, but with a 10 page research paper and a 3 hours final, it's a heavy load for a gen ed in finals.
This is a great class to take.  The lectures are fun and enjoyable.
This class gets much harder towards the end. Grading feels arbitrary at times, and it is frustrating that we never get to know why we got points marked off. Not a bad class, not great. I wish now that I had taken SLS20 or Social Psych.
This class was a lot of fun. You get to learn about Darwinism in its historical context (beyond even just Darwin himself) and some of the basic science about modern genetics. The class per se is not though, but don't take the work too lightly. "The Origins" can be a little bit dry and take longer to read even if you are a fast reader. Otherwise, a good way to fulfill SLS without it feeling like a cop out.
arbitrary grading
Second half of the course is difficult but it is very interesting. Dr. Berry and Dr. Browne do a great job with lecture.
This is an interesting way to fulfill your SLS requirement. You'll learn some material that will engage you more than you might expect, but you won't be taxed in a way that would distract from your other academic commitments.
Take for SLS.
Andrew Berry may well be the best lecturer at Harvard, and Janet Browne one of the world's top Darwin experts. This is a great class as an elective or if you need to fulfill an SLS requirement. If you have a biology background it will be very easy, if not the second half of the course will be useful but a bit more challenging.
This is a fantastic way to fulfill the SLS requirement.  It is not difficult, the lectures are great, and I learned a lot.  Definitely the best gen ed I've taken at Harvard.
This class was great! It was optimal for a person who is not going to go into the sciences but is interested about evolution.  I found that the professors were engaged and passionate and the class pushed me to think critically.
This class is a good SLS for non-science people. Professors Brown and Berry are really funny and try to make the material accessible and engaging. Exams are pretty hard, even if you have been to every lecture and section, so make sure you study!!!!
You do no have to deal with science until after the midterm, but once it begins, it comes on strong.
A little tricky for a non-science concentrator, but interesting material, particularly in terms of understanding and taking a stand for science in contemporary debates about evolution.
There is not a lot of work, but it is hard to do really well on the exams
I surprisingly enjoyed this class! If you took AP bio in high school and did well, this class will be a breeze. First half is history of science: situating The Origin of Species within history (the religious and scientific thought leading up to the publication, and social movements that it spawned afterwards); second half is some basic evolutionary biology: how do species arise, what is sexual selection, considering the fossil record, etc. Pretty interesting stuff, and also seriously the easiest class I've taken at Harvard (senior, in stem)
This is probably one of the better ways for humanities people to do SLS, but they kind of make life harder in the second half with most of your grade dependent on science even though they spend half the course on history.  Gen eds are always going to be stupid like this and I haven't taken other sls classes, so it's hard to say for sure.  Also, be sure to talk to your tf a lot about the guidance-less final paper and be prepared to do a lot more reading in the second half.  Also don't waste your money buying zimmer because no one cares whether you read it.
Probably one of the best ways to satisfy SLS out there.  This course is an uneasy combination of biology (Dr. Berry) and history of science (Dr. Browne). This uneasy combination manifests itself in a couple of less-than-ideal ways: the instructors interrupt one another, the bio and history of science don't really interact all that much, and some material is given a strange amount of emphasis. 

This course takes a clear stance on a controversial issue: the theory of evolution should be preferred over creationist theories, and the theory of evolution is not incompatible with religion. When dealing with an issue like this, respect and rigor are called for. Unfortunately, the course staff elected to offer neither, preferring to play clips from Family Guy while turning up their nose at those who have creationist beliefs. While their facts and arguments aren't wrong, they certainly don't come off well.
This is an excellent class and I would highly recommend taking it as your SLS. Dr. Browne and Dr. Berry are both fantastic lecturers and work extremely well together. The material is interesting, relevant, and not too difficult. It's a great mix of history of science and evolutionary biology and you'll leave the class feeling like you really learned relevant information. Unlike other classes, section is actually helpful and not boring.
Interesting Gen-Ed class
Andrew Berry is hilarious and makes the 1.5 hour lectures pretty enjoyable. The first half of the semester is a tad more boring only because Janet's voice is so soothing when she teaches.
It is hard to understand what you know and what you do not. I thought I understood what was going on in lectures, but when it came to the midterm I had trouble articulating what I knew even though I understood a lot of the material. I did not use the vocabulary they were looking for even though I had few ways of knowing what they were looking for. Section does not have much to do with class and we continue reading Origin of Species long after we finish with darwin in class.
Definitely the best way to fulfill the science of living systems requirement -- and Professor Berry's lectures are honestly a joy to attend; he's hilarious. I'm not a science person at all -- this is the first science course I've taken at Harvard -- but he made learning the "science" half of the course an actual pleasure, which was so unexpected. Also, I think the course really succeeded in connecting the material to real, current-day debates. TAKE THIS COURSE IF YOU'RE FROM A SMALL TOWN OR THE DEEP SOUTH WHERE NO ONE BELIEVES IN EVOLUTION. I'm so prepared for debates now!
Not a heavy course, but a very enjoyable experience. The professors are awesome people.
This class is fairly easy over the semester (light workload) but most of the grade is based on the final paper and final exam, which makes reading and final period pretty tough.
It's a great class if you enjoy great lectures (especially from Dr. Andrew Berry, who is an absolute legend).  The sections and tests, however, seem oddly detached from the material you grow to love through lecture, so take with some caution.
Andrew Berry is a god among men.  Even if you HATE biology, you should still take this class just by virtue of the fact that Andrew Berry is teaching it.  He's knowledgeable, he's engaging, he's entertaining, he's funny, and he makes you want to learn about evolutionary biology.
This is a great class. Fun and you'll learn a lot if you don't study science. The professors are incredible. If you need an SLS, take this.
Changed my view of the world. My favorite class of the semester. Excellent teaching.
Take the course because of Andrew Berry. If you shop SLS 12 for one class, you'll know what I mean. The workload is incredibly light (only 2 p-sets, each of which is fairly basic). However, I would only recommend this course with reservations because the treatment of evolutionary biology, while wide, might not be as deep as someone with a real interest in biology might like.
a lot of work, section is useless, Prof. Berry is very entertaining
The course provides a very interesting way to complete your Science B or SLS requirement. Expect dynamic, quirky, and enthusiastic professors that grant a new understanding of Darwinism and evolution. Be prepared to encounter a plethora of historical information and scientific topics, and perhaps grapple a bit with understanding some of the more dense material. The course could be appealing to anyone, even someone entirely disinterested with this particular subject manner.
I would tell them that it was false advertising and that the lectures started getting more complicated but less understandable.
I usually don't like science, but I loved this class.
This was the most important course I have taken. Not to be melodramatic, but it changed my life (or at least my world view). It was also highly enjoyable: lectures, sections and the course books were all fantastic. I cannot think of a course I would recommend more.
If you want a fun science core that you get a lot out of, this is the class to take.
Even though history of science with evolutionary biology sounds like tons of fun, it may be difficult to balance the expectations for both.
It's easy. The lectures are fun. It's a painless way to fulfill the core.  The problem set and midterm and final are bizarre.
The lectures are interesting and entertaining, as well as the readings, but the assignments are a bit difficult with no background in science.  I would recommend this course to a student who did have some science knowledge, or a friend who is a biology concentrator.
The professors are great, and the lectures are very interesting; however, the tests are impossible to study for because you have no idea what the important parts of lecture were.
Going to lecture is recommended... there is some rote memorization that that is helpful for.  Also, lecture is fun, so you really should, anyway!
Take this course if you are ready to suppress your religious views.
Take this class. You will not regret it.
This class gives a good introduction to Darwinism, although it was a bit repetitive and disorganized. I'm sure that some of the confusion will get worked out in the second year of the course.
I would tell future students that the overall lesson learned from the course is pretty good, but that the material is very difficult.
This is the first course I have taken at Harvard from which I could not take something of value. I really tried, but the material was not relevant to my life or studies in any way. The course covers biology at a high school level with university level gadgets. It is not a good use of any student's time, in my opinion.
This is a good core choice for Science B in that its at least a manageable workload and interesting.
I would advise looking for a different Science B core, although the relevance of the material might be a strong recommendation for this one. Perhaps it was because this was the first time this course was offered, but I often felt that it was being cobbled together from week to week. The lectures often seemed long and confusing; it was not always clear how one topic connected to the next, even within the same lecture. It might have worked better as a 3-day, 1-hour class (instead of 2-day, 1.5-hour), for which only one professor speaks per lecture. I did not feel that the midterm was fairly graded.
This is a very interesting class, but the workload is a little difficult. There is a reasonable amount of reading, but there is a lab and two challenging exams. The course tries to cover so much material that the professors sometimes gloss over important concepts that they should spend more time on.
Andrew Berry is hilarious
The exams are really specific
so much fun! It requires work, yes, but it is worth it. If you enjoy the natural world and history, this is for you. Incredibly well-taught, well-conceived. Great!
A very interesting class, but with somewhat unfair exams and the occasional dud lecture. Do not get me wrong - I really liked the class a lot - but there are just a bunch of little things that need to be fixed.
Painless way to fill a core
Lots of reading
Far too much busy work for a science core.  At the same time, it is far less "sciency" than other classes, so it's a good core option for humanities people.
Easy way of fulfilling Science B, especially for humanities majors
Take this class if you want to be belittled by science snobs.
This class is a little demanding for a gen ed class, but at the end, you feel informed about scientific matters that you might otherwise never hear about.
Know what you're getting -- it's a frustratingly weak science core, with little guidance, structure, or coherence to the course as a whole, but Berry is entertaining and it requires no work.
Class was not well thought-out.
History is the first half; serious science is the second half.  Be ready!
The course is a relatively painless way to fulfill a core or gen-ed requirement.  It is also helpful for seniors writing theses that the requirements are mostly concentrated towards the end.
I'm not sure I would recommend it to those fulfilling a core requirement.
It's a good class, and it's not incredibly difficult, but be prepared for them to zoom through the science portions of it.
Two words: Andrew. Berry.
The study of evolution is actually quite interesting; this is a theory that it is important to understand, and this class allows you to understand it.  But, the lack of focuses lectures and sections seriously detract from the quality of the class, so I would advise students to shop this course but be prepared to drop if things haven't improved when next this class is offered.
This is a great, multi-disciplinary overview of the scientific, theoretical, historical, and sociological premises of "Darwinism."  It is a great Gen Ed course for humanities concentrators, because it brings science to bear on a number of great social and cultural debates, many of which are contemporary to us.
This is one of the worst courses I've taken at Harvard and billed itself falsely as a class that caters to "liberal arts majors" ....
You know there are other Science B cores, right?
Great way to fill Science B with material that is not esoteric - this class has broad implications for many other fields of study including philosophy, sociology, government and history.
make sure you memorize the terms and definitions for the tests
Need a Science B? This is your course.
The material is interesting but the work that you put into the course is not likely to be reflected in your grade.
If you are a history concentrator looking for a "science lite" core, this class will be perfect for you. If you're looking for anything more substantive, stay away.
TAKE IT
Great way to fulfill the Science B requirement - interesting, taught in an engaging manner, and not too much work/too difficult.
This course is very interesting but more science based than it initially appears.
Knowledge of genetics and biology helps.
Would only recommend if there aren't any other appealing Cores offered.
The professors are very enthusiastic and fun, but the exams are surprisingly not that easy.
As a requirement, it's somewhat like ripping off a band-aid, except for three long, excruciatingly painful months.  Avoid at all costs.
This is one of the most entertaining core classes I have taken. I learned a lot and really enjoyed the history and science components. It's a great choice for a Science B core since the lab component is pretty short and the material is relatively easy to understand.
It is an incoherent course that jumps around often, grades unfairly and sets unreasonable expectations.
Fun, interesting, great way to fulfill Science B
Take this class if you want to learn about the history of Darwinism, especially the early history.  Don't expect to be blown away by the science.
A great introduction to evolution as well as the history of science
It is a lot of fun and Professor Berry is a great lecture-er
The mix of history of science and science is great, but it does mean you have to study and plan for assignments differently.
It is an interesting opportunity to learn a lot about a very specific topic, but sometimes the transition from History of Science to Science was frustrating, and it can be a long time to spend learning about one person/topic.
This class is great! It is moderately easy, but very interesting and Professor Berry is a fantastic, hysterical lecture. All in all this is a must-take if you are at all intrigued by Darwin and the theory of evolution.
The material is very interesting. Andrew Berry is a fantastic lecturer. Be very very careful with choosing a TF/section. In this rendition of the course there was a huge discrepancy in quality of sections.This class is not exceptionally easy, although little work is required to get by.
SLS 12 is an enjoyable course and a great way to read Darwin and come to appreciate what made it such a momentous text.
Pretty painless SLS class. Berry is entertaining and you need to know nothing more than said in lecture. Unfortunately it has a final paper and final exam although it appears that they are going to grade the papers kindly so it won't end up being too bad.
Fantastic way to fulfill SLS.  Dr. Berry is wildly entertaining.  The class is structured uniquely in that up until the midterm it about the history of ideas and the history of science.  This is interesting.  Then it goes into evolutionary biology which is also interesting and it is not much in depth so even I who had not taken any bio since 9th grade could do fine in the course.  I find myself brining up things I learned in this class (maybe too) often outside of class.
This is an excellent course to take care of a gen ed requirement. Andrew Berry is a fantastic lecturer, and this was easily my favorite class to take this semester simply because I loved going to his lectures. He's hilarious, explains concepts well, and is very approachable. The workload overall is completely manageable and you don't need to be a science person to do well. Everything is very well explained. Take this course!
This course is enjoyable and has a fairly light work load. The history of science portion is probably the best part, and the lectures for that section are very engaging. The science content in the latter half is a little thin but fun. If you want to really dive into biology, you should probably take LS1a or something.
TAKE THIS CLASS. I'm a senior and this is the best class I've taken at Harvard. Andrew Berry is SO entertaining, and evolution (particularly the way he teaches it) is fascinating. Nowhere near a crazy amount of work, and you don't have to be a science major to do well in the class!
This class is a good introduction of hist. of sci. and darwinism. Berry is a great lecturer. Great way to fulfill SLS.
This course is FANTASTIC!!!! Dr Berry is a brilliant communicator and teacher. This class is a really fun and informative way to fulfill SLS. I recommend it wholeheartedly and unreservedly. The sections vary hugely depending on your TF, ask for Chelsea Link - she's brilliant.
take this class! very interesting material, fun lectures, great way to fulfill SLS credit
Berry et al. are hilarious. If you need a gen ed or have room in your schedule and haven't read 'The Origin of Species,' take this class.
this is a great class, but it will go much more smoothly if you go to lecture and do the origin readings. besides, Berry is a great lecturer, so going to class never felt like a chore. The tests are based on lecture material.
It is a bit of work, but very interesting.
Fantastic way to fulfill a GenEd, especially for a humanities or social science concentrator. You will learn a lot about Darwinism and its history, which is certainly important to understand well beyond the confines of modern biology. Also, you will learn some bio (it is an SLS after all). You also may develop a crush on Charles Darwin, as Berry (who is awesome) has already taken Alfred Wallace.
Overall, the course is easy and interesting. However, the combination of a final research paper as well as a final is pretty heavy for a gen ed.
This is a great way to fulfill the SLS requirement. Loved going to lecture and its very straightforward and not difficult.
This course is great! Don't be caught off guard, though; the first half of the course is all history of science, but you will have to study some actual science in the second half, so don't get too comfortable. Prof Berry is excellent, and the class was very enjoyable and educational. I think every student should have the knowledge that this class gives (every person, actually).
Avoid this course, because the sections are awful and the grading is arbitrary.  Only take it if you have enough of a solid background in biology in which case it wil be easy.  The actual material is fascinating but is ruined by other aspects of the course.
This class is equally informative and entertaining. I think everyone should have some knowledge of our origins and this class caters to this inquiry, especially if you're not planning on concentrating in the physical sciences. The overarching theme of evolution is always present throughout this course, but you will also learn about human behavior, history of science, and some molecular biology. Also, Dr. Berry is hilarious, so I highly encourage you to take this course!
This is not really a biology course. Personally I like the lecturer, but was kind of frustrated when he kept stressing that science and religion were two separate spheres that did not interfere with each other and one could believe in Darwin and God at the same time without feeling conflicted (which was hardly true to most people I knew), because he basically chose to skip the most important questions. The course as a whole did not change my feeling that the Origin is more of a variant of the Bible than different from it. Would not recommend to science students.
A really fascinating course - despite my interests lying almost exclusively in the Humanities, I always felt engaged in this course and feel as though I have learnt so much from it.
Fun, engaging, and painless class to take for SLS.  Andrew Berry is a fantastic and funny lecturer!  Not a super science-y course, but will probably enhance your understanding of the mechanisms of evolution.
It's like your favorite NOVA series brought to life -- with supplementary readings and assignments.
Andrew berry makes any class worth taking, but if you are a bio person i'd beware of taking this.  it happens frequently that you get points taken off for "thinking too complexly" (my TFs words), even when you give answers that would get you an A in a real bio class.  painless Gen ed though
This is a good class for your SLS requirement. Pretty interesting, Berry is a great lecturer. There is nothing revolutionary about it: a relatively simple but interesting take on the history of evolution and then a grab bag of science about evolution.
A pretty easy way to meet the SLS requirement. You learn about biology and history of evolutionary thought. It's pretty painless, and there is a cool lab and a field trip. Dr. Berry is a great lecturer and the 1.5 hour lecture feels like half that.
A very fun class - relatively stress-free for a GenEd, and Doctor Berry is awesome. Would definitely take it if you need to fill SLS.
Andrew Berry is a phenomenal lecturer and his presentations are both colorful and informative.
Class gets tougher. Make sure to complete the psets and use them to study
This class is a perfectly decent SLS gen ed.
This is an awesome way to fulfill the SLS GenEd requirement. That aside, this is straight up an awesome course. Dr. Berry is a fantastic, hilarious lecturer who does a great job communicating ideas and generating enthusiasm. For me, section was always both a good time and very helpful in understanding concepts and expectations. All in all, the course was interesting, fun, and educational without being a pain at all.
Do not take this simply because it is a gen ed--if you do not find the material interesting, you will not enjoy it nearly as much as you could, or do as well in it.  However, Professor Berry is an awesome lecturer.
It will demand more science than you'd expect! Final paper and final is a killer amount of work. Be cautious. If you are a history/humanities person, you will feel a little lost towards the second half.
Before any criticisms, I should say that I learned a LOT from this class. Andrew Berry is the best, and so was my TF Chelsea Link. On the other hand, I thought that the exams were too tough and nit-picky (considering that I studied for days and days for both).
This is a great class and Andrew Berry is a great professor. He makes the material fun and exciting.
This is AWESOME. Great way to fulfill SLS, especially if you're a social sciences/humanities person. Andrew Berry is hilarious, lectures are fun, the material is interesting, the assignments are easy, and the workload is super manageable.
This class was an interesting and engaging look at the history of evolution, as well as its basic scientific underpinnings. It is definitely geared towards people who have not taken science since high school, which was helpful for me.
An understanding of evolution is critical to being an education person. That is not a comment on the science-religion debate on the origin of humans. Rather, it is that understanding the process of evolution and how that has shaped human society is crucial for anyone who is interested in people. So the topic of this course is extremely relevant. If that is not enough reason to take this course, then Andrew Berry should convince you. He is a phenomenal lecturer who is both engaging and informative. Worth taking the course just to see him.
This class is a great and fun way to fulfill your SLS general education requirement.
Great SLS class for those interested in the Humanities. Dr. Berry keeps things entertaining, even when the course gets science-heavy after the midterm. Thoroughly enjoyable and utterly painless Science Gen Ed.
Great way to fulfill the SLS requirement. Berry is hilarious and worth getting to know. The content is interesting and not too difficult, with a decent amount of history of science thrown in. Also, Darwin is an absolute genius and it's definitely worth reading The Origin for your own edification.
LOVED this class.  First of all, Andrew Berry is a boss and one of those professors you HAVE to take a class with before you leave Harvard.  Just so dynamic, funny, interesting, and also a leader in the field - he knows what he's talking about.  Learning about evolutionary biology I think at least in its basic form is key to being an educated citizen of our planet, and especially for those who are more history oriented, learning about the factors that influenced Darwin and Wallace in forming the theory is really interesting.  For non-science people, definitely a great way to fulfill SLS.  Note, however, that there is an 8-10 page paper and a final exam, but that's about the extent of the work in the class (other than weekly Origin of Species readings).
This course is very interesting. However, the amount of work that it requires can be deceiving and it only hits you at the very end. Reading The Origin of Species was sometimes overwhelming and extremely unnecessary, yet we had to submit weekly response papers on it. I'd say I was very disappointed to know 60% of my grade was still to be determined during reading/final exam period. The final paper was really challenging and a bit out of place, given the context of the course. It's definitely the best I could have expected for a science Gen. Ed. but it as also a lot of work.
This was a good way to take care of my SLS. Professor Berry is a great lecturer, and keeps the material fun and interesting.
Solid gen-ed course. Don't take the midterm and final lightly, as they are tough but fair.
While e course has promise it is too much of a risk too take. Barry is an amazing lecturer and teacher but has not organized his course at all.
This class was very fun. Professor Berry is an excellent lecturer and covers a wide range of topics. The course is great because it's manageable without seeming boring.
Amazing lectures. Really interesting material. Little work load. BUT: it is not easy, and sections with JIM WHEELER are awful and must be avoided!
This is a great class taught by an amazing professor. If you are at all interested in the material or in taking a class with Dr. Berry, TAKE IT. However, be advised that the workload is considerably high for a Gen Ed.
Though it may seem like a particularly specific course the material covered is something everyone should be familiar with.  Take it.
Understanding Darwinism is a great course for anyone interested in the history of evolutionary science or modern evolutionary biology. Andrew Berry is hilarious and the lectures are both interesting and informative. There is very little outside work; no required lecture readings, but the weekly sections do require long readings from the Origin of Species and short responses to these readings. The midterm and final were definitely manageable. Don't be fooled by the first half of this course though; this turns into a very science-y class after the midterm, as opposed to just history of science. Having said that, learning about the history gives you a real appreciation for the modern understanding of evolution, and a background in science is not necessary to do well in this course.
Amazing lectures.  Great way to learn about Darwinism and evolutionary theory.
This is a easy and painless way to get rid of your SLS requirement if you're not a science major. Science majors can take it as an easy fourth or fifth class.
Good class to take for those looking to avoid a science specific SLS.  About half of the class is history, and the rest was not formula or equation driven, but rather themes and theories.
You have to take Understanding Darwinism, it is an amazing history of science/evolutionary biology course with ANDREW BERRY!
The teaching team of this class has fantastic energy.
Andrew Berry is phenomenal.  This class was one of my best experiences with the Gen Ed system.
Andrew Berry of course is fun, so that makes this Gen Ed a lot more interesting than other ones. The material is also very interesting and relevant to a general understanding of the world. While it does go into the nitty gritties of science from time to time, it still is a course you will remember stuff from and think about after you've finished.
Andrew Berry is absolutely fantastic, and the material is interesting enough.  The exams are difficult, but it's an otherwise painless and enjoyable SLS course.
the lectures were unbelievable interesting, and all the teaching staff so wonderful, approachable, interesting, and fun!
Dr. Berry is great and lecture is fun.  This class will change the way you look at the scientific and non-scientific world.  However, if you're not the kind of person to go class, this is not worth taking as the paper and exams aren't exactly a breeze or fun.  But assignments were fair and the Origin is a must read.  I found section to be extremely helpful in synthesizing information.
Andrew Berry is a phenomenal lecturer. His British wit, quirky energy, and turns of phrase make lecture worthwhile. The content of the course is easily understandable and the coursework breezy. The course provides a good overview of evolutionary biology and history of science. The biology is applicable general knowledge. You'll come out of the course with a solid non-expert grasp of evolutionary biology.
The class is fun and substantive. I don't know how you could do better in a Life Science Gen-Ed.
Take it! Berry is the best
Dr. Berry does a great job of presenting material in an engaging manner. Evolution is something that all human beings should be required to know about and there is no better way of learning about it than taking SLS 12.
This is a science class for people who like reading and tend to shy away from science - half history of science, half hard science. Easily understandable science concepts, by and large. Good teaching staff. Dr. Berry's lectures are a riot.
Great, but drags on a bit.
This course is fantastic whether you come from a science or humanities background. Dr. Berry is a phenomenal, entertaining lecturer and you're unlikely to every read the Origin of Species unless you get assigned it. Definitely worth taking!
This class is a great and engaging way to fulfill the SLS class. Andrew Berry's lectures are some of the best I've ever experienced at Harvard and I found the topic, both the historical and scientific components, extremely interesting. Definitely worth shopping and would strongly suggest taking this class before graduating!
The first half of this course is history of science, and it is very interesting. The second half of the course is manageable evolutionary biology. You receive very little feedback, no one can estimate your letter grade for you at any point during the course, and no one can explain why you did less well than you feel you did. However, as a humanities major, it is a good SLS course.
This class is a really interesting way to fulfill a gen ed requirement. Professor Berry's lectures are incredible, interesting and funny at the same time, and I was able to learn more about an interesting topic i otherwise wouldn't have studied.
Absolutely phenomenal class. Andrew Berry is one of the best lecturers you'll see, and the material is great to know about. A great way to fulfill the SLS requirement.
It is history class more than a science class. The section is pretty irrelevant to the course and you have to read the Darwin. Attending lecture is also pretty important to doing well on the exams. Overall more work required than knowledge you get out of the class.
take it pass fail or don;t take it at all
