This class is wonderful if you are really interested in the subject matter and are self-motivated to learn about it.  If not, the lectures will not teach you everything you need to know - you actually need to do the reading to absorb everything, and this takes a lot of time.  So if you really want to learn about trees and forests, make sure you are ready to put the time in yourself to learn about it.
This class involves a lot of dedication with labs during the week and outside field trips. It is well-taught and the professors are very understanding and willing to help, which is what you want from a Gen Ed. I don't regret taking this class, by any stretch of the imagination though.
A surprisingly fun and relatively easy course. The small enrollment size made for a better learning environment and closer interactions with the professors. While the title is not the most exciting, I was happy to find out that trees are both fun and interesting to study.
This course was relaxed, fun, informative, and on a cool topic. The labs and field trips were great. I'd definitely recommend it, especially if it's this small a course again next year.
This class is a hidden gem in the Gen Ed curriculum. Professor Pfister and Richardson are very enthusiastic about the subject and make the technical parts of the course easily understandable if you don't have a strong biology background or need some refreshing. My only critique is that the test questions tend to be rather vague.  The field trips to places like Harvard Forest, Mt. Auburn Cemetery, and the Arnold Arboretum are really cool and you learn so much! Same with the lab component, where you get to do plant dissections. Definitely take this class if you have room!
This is a great course because it teaches you a huge amount about trees, which are central to most of our lives even when we don't necessarily know much about the way they grow and function. There were so many eye-opening moments, interesting facts, and ways of looking at things that will stay with me, and which will influence the way I look at trees for the rest of my life. The class has a great "learning to work ratio", but though it's generally really easy, don't expect to breeze through it without paying attention or learning the material. Basically, if you're interested in learning more about trees and climate change, and are willing to put in at least a minimal amount of effort, you'll really like this course.
I love this class! Professor Pfister speaks beautifully (yes he speaks slowly but get off your iphones for two seconds and listen to what he says and you will find his sentences to be beautifully constructed little houses of knowledge). Professor Richardson is enthusiastic and cool and makes great slideshows! The TF, Brett, is also great. The field trips are great. The whole thing is great.
This class is absolutely amazing.  One of my favorite classes I have taken at Harvard.  It is very interesting without requiring huge amounts of work.  The professors and tf were very knowledgeable and engaging.  Also, we get incredible field trips.
This course lies to you in the course description by making itself sound like a wonderful humanities-inclined science course. And then it gives you SCIENCE...so preparation in genetics, biology and chemistry is what you want up your sleeve. The lectures will be dreadfully boring and at times you will be lullabied to sleep by monotonous voices telling you the story of the cambium. Just ... no.
This is a wonderful class for those interested in being made aware of a part of our lives--the trees that surround us---on which we don't ordinarily spend a great deal of thought. It was taught with enthusiasm and good cheer on the part of both lecturers and the teaching fellow.
There is no work (aside from reading) which makes the class easy in terms of workload, but section and lecture are so different that it makes it nearly impossible to study for tests. lecture: 1+1=2; exam: sally has 3 apples and gives 2 to Adam...derive the theory of relativity.
SLS 25 is a fun class that really makes you look at trees and forests in a new way.  The field trips were a great way to get off campus and still learn a lot!  The class lacks some organization and some of the assignments were a bit fuzzy (like the last essay you have to write), and this class does require more time than you would think because of the (rather unstructured) 2 hour labs each week.  Professor Pfister is the most abominable lecturer I have had at Harvard, if he is teaching the class again I would recommend against taking it.
If you need a relatively painless way to satisfy the Science of Living Systems gen ed requirement, this course does not have too much work. There are also some cool field trips (Arnold Arboretum, Mt. Auburn Cemetery, Harvard Forest).
I didn't expect for the course to be as detailed as it was with plant structures.  The course has a name that is seemingly innocuous but the title truly is misleading.  Only take this is you're really interested in plant biology otherwise it'll be a bit of a struggle to deal with the material.
This class is not very engaging in the long run. There is only so much you can learn about trees (in the generic introductory form) before you have to turn to other subjects.
If you're willing to spend most of the class learning plant biology, this is the class for you. Ecology and conservation enter the class from time to time, but not seriously until towards the end.
This class is really easy, and while I love trees and forest, this class has some serious issues that it needs to work out, because it is terribly run. It might be easy but you will be frustrated with it all semester.
It's staightforward, easy and surprisingly interesting. It's small, though, and you actually do need to go at least most of the time if you don't want to have to put a lot of effort into learning the material on your own.
This is a great course to learn about how trees and ecosystems effect your environment. It does however require some memorization. Good SLS to take.
best sls gen-ed ever. if nothing else, take it for the field trips.
easy, great labs, amazing field trips to the Fog conservation facility, Harvard forest, Harvard arboretum, Mt. Auburn cemetary
Great class. Take it even if you don't understand the subject well. If you study, you won't regret taking it.
