Get a whole new perspective on how to (or how to not) treat disease. And how modern society has altered our environment so drastically that our genes have not had time to compensate.
The teaching staff is fantastic (lectures were SO engaging, even after lunch!), and you'll learn amazing facts and hypotheses that apply to your life as well as to medicine and biology in general. Evolutionary medicine is such a cool field!
If you are pre-med, this class is essential to take. Very interesting and useful material.
If you love medicine, because you are a premed, or are interested in public health, or are generally just interested in learning more about the basis of your health, take this class! I see a lot of parts of my life very differently right now. This was one of my favorite classes (if not my favorite).
They taught this class like it was an HEB course and not a Gen-Ed. The professors put tons of material on their slide that was unneeded and repetitive. They did not offer very good explanations. Sometimes they would explain theories that they did not seem to fully understand. The tests were too specific, especially in such a course that was very broad. They should have made a study guide of some sort to at least guide students in what they should study. The readings are laborious. They teachers do not know how to give a lecture and communicate information succinctly. I learned overarching themes in evolution, but I wish the teachers zeroed in more on things they deemed important instead of trying to address so much. They guest lecturers helped, but Crespi, a visiting professors, was INCREDIBLY boring and taught the class like it was full of seniors. The professors taught interesting information. However, they added too many graphs to slides. It was not fair that HEB concentrators and life sciences concentrators had seen many of the slides before and latched onto the information easier than others. There were entirely too many useless graphs in the powerpoints.
This is an advanced level human evolutionary course, alot of background needed.
It is incredibly interesting and relevant.  This course changed the way I look at medical issues.
Great class for pre-meds looking for something different!
This class was very interesting, and the topics were easily applicable to diseases/phenomenon we often read about in the media.
Your life will actually change if you take this class.
This is a really interesting class!  The kinks will likely be worked out in the next few years, but overall I definitely started to look at medical issues in an evolutionary context in ways that seemed quite illuminating and helpful.  Units on sleep, anxiety, chronic disease, and birth were most interesting to me.  While other units could be less exciting, overall the course taught me a lot I didn't know.  If you study for the midterms you should be fine, and the final project is a fair bit of work but you get to pick the topic so it can be very rewarding.  I'm really glad I took it, and the professors are great.
If you need to knock off a science, you'll probably be pretty happy doing it in this class.
This is an amazing class! The professors are fantastic, the course material fascinating and incredibly relevant for health today.  Even if you are not premed or even interested in medicine the course is definitely worth taking
This is a really interesting class with great professors-- fascinating if you are looking for an evolutionary perspective on diseases.
Really great class taught by passionate professors who enjoy teaching and make themselves very accessible.
The professors are incredibly boring, and the content is interesting, but the format in which it's taught is awfully boring.  I felt like I was in way over my head because it seemed like it was directed toward the students who had a strong background in things related to evolutionary biology.
Evolutionary medicine is a growing field and this course gives you an excellent introduction to many of the evolutionary problems that medical professionals need to deal with on a daily basis. The lectures and readings were so interesting. The assignments were actually fun to do! If you're looking for a class that will put you on the cutting edge of medical research, this is it!
This class presented very interesting material that, in many cases, will also be useful for improving our own health.
If you have no science background, you should be slightly wary about taking this course. If you have some background in science courses at Harvard, however, you will definitely enjoy SLS21.
This class was so interesting! I feel like I learned so much. It was so engaging I often talked to my roommates about what I had learned! It was a new class so of course there's room for improvement in terms of overall organization of the class, but it's definitely worth taking! Also, you don't need any knowledge of evolutionary principles to take this class.
If you are an HEB concentrator go for it.  If you have taken LS1b, LS2 you're good.  If you're thinking about taking this as a non-science concentrator for gen-ed credit FIND SOMETHING ELSE.  They give one slide to explain what histones are.  They provided no practice exams and the teaching staff was either too busy or didn't care enough to get involved.  The exams were poorly worded.  It's interesting stuff but they found a way to make me hate it.
If you put the time and energy into understanding the concepts, you will get a lot out of the course.  In particular, it is important to really focus in lecture, as the concepts that are discussed are not so easily understood at first.
This is a very interesting course - particularly if you are pre-med. However, it might be a bit difficult for someone who hasn't had any previous biology or HEB courses as they assume some background knowledge. However, it is definitely doable and the professors and TFs are readily accessible.
Great class to take if you want to learn why some diseases persist in light of evolution.
This is an interesting course that will expose you to interesting takes on disease through evolution.
A fantastic course that integrates evolution and medicine. I will never think about infectious or chronic disease in the same disease.
Great class, but the only downside is that about 70% of your final grade (and 70% of all out-of-class work you will do) is done in the last 3 weeks. The final project, paper, and final were all manageable, fair, and rewarding, but they all occur back to back making it easy to get behind and not succeed in the course. Take the course- but take heed of this advice!
The material covered in this class is very interesting.  However, it's the type of material that doesn't really require a class to learn.  Although this is an SLS class, a majority of the students are premed, so expect a good amount of test preparation from your peers.
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE AS A GEN ED UNLESS YOU ARE A SCIENCE CONCENTRATOR OR PRE-MED. This course is tailored as such but the concepts and biological mechanisms that underly some of the diseases you learn are very intricate and I felt that the professors didn't acknowledge that they oftentimes were. I am an HEB concentrator and I still felt puzzled by some of the topics. There are other wonderful ways to fulfill a Gen Ed but this isn't one of them. The class is extremely interesting and rewarding but only if you are willing to understand the concepts. The exams and disease report are pretty much all your grade is weighted on and personally I felt the exams were tricky because they war every specific and there was very little exam preparation materials. For those who can have this course count for a concentration requirement, TAKE IT. You probably will understand what is going on and enjoy it more thoroughly.
Come to all of the lectures-they are quite long and so much information is packed in them.
Super interesting, and light on the work until the last 2 weeks
SLS 21 is a great course! It will definitely change the way you perceive evolutionary theory and application.
It's an interesting course that will change the way you think about diseases and disorders, which is particularly useful for pre-med students but should be applicable to any living human being. If you're an HEB concentrator, some of the material will be repetitive, especially if you've taken HEB 1310 or Judith Chapman's Stress seminar.
Excellent class.  Nunn and Ellison are great lecturers, the material was great and it changed the way I looked at a lot of diseases and science.  Not a terrible amount of work necessary for the class, though the readings and podcasts were all pretty interesting in their own right.
It's an alright class, not too difficult, cool material. Nothing spectacular.
A great class with taught very well by very good professors. It's as close to a class about medicine as any undergraduate course at Harvard. It's very relevant and interesting. There is a lot of work at the end of the class, but it is very manageable otherwise. Beware that those without science backgrounds might feel lost in terminology and concepts used in class and might have to put in a lot more time than the many students with science backgrounds. That said, it is a very interesting course, great for anyone.
Can be very interesting at times. Wouldn't say that all the readings are absolutely necessary.
The exam and disease report are extremely irritating, but Nunn is a great lecturer and I learned a lot. you might consider taking it P/F.
It's very interesting and a lot of fun. The entire teaching staff is very accessible and enjoy talking to students, so go to their office hours and/or ask them questions after class. You can't just sleepwalk through the exam, but if you've been keeping up with the reading and have a good grasp of the concepts you should be fine.
This is a really interesting course that has transformed the way I think about medicine. Be warned that about half of the enrollees are HEB concentrators taking this class for their concentration and degree ... ugh FML .... but besides that, I really enjoyed this class and would definitely recommend it regardless of your background!!!!!!! SO INTERESTING !!! If you're looking for an SLS, this one is pretty good IMO.
Nunn and Ellison are great lecturers. This course is so interesting because it shows you all the ways in which humans are mismatched for our current environment, and why it leads to so much disease. It makes you consider your own health behaviors in a whole new light.
For students who don't focus in the life sciences, it is an excellent way to learn about medicine and evolution.  A course full of substantial foundational knowledge.
This course is extremely interesting and has changed how I think about medicine, disease and the world in general. The concepts I learned have actually influenced some of the decisions I have made and will make in the future concerning my health. As a non-science, non-HEB concentrator I had some difficulty understanding some of the concepts and conveying my thoughts the "correct" way, but hopefully in the future the course will become more accessible to those with less of a scientific background.
interesting lectures. midterms and exam were straightforward but the grading was tough. they looked for very specific key terms, so you have to write a novel to make sure you hit what they are looking for.
The exams are... strange. The questions are a bit vague, and the grading scheme doesn't align with what the questions are asking. I found it frustrating that I got a lower than expected grade on the midterm simply because the exam wasn't written to elicit the answers that they were asking for.
