This class was interesting but difficult at times.
Amazing class, but test grading is awful
If it's offered again, this is a prime, prime way to fulfill SLS -- you'll actually learn something, the lectures are engaging, and the work will not take you more than an hour a week. The final project is pretty inconvenient but the fair exams make up for that.
While the subject matter is interesting most of the time, there can definitely be moments where it does feel like an introductory science class. The problem sets aren't too difficult if you look over the lecture slides. Overall the class is pretty good but I would only really recommend it to someone interested in medicine and the human body.
It is a lot of work for a gen-ed
Great gened.  You learn 5 weeks of science and then apply it to very useful and interesting topics.
Though the lectures are very interesting, section can often feel dull to the section activities that are not particularly exciting. Furthermore, the p-sets do not really prepare you for the exams, which are much more difficult than the homework assignments.
Amongst the uninspiring selection of SLS gen-eds out there, this is one of the better ones. The material is kind of interesting, but you won't need to spend much time on any of the work. This makes for a good fifth or sixth class for someone trying to get through the SLS requirement.
If this class is offered again TAKE IT. It is a very interesting class for the SLS requirement and even if you have already completed it and are looking for an interesting elective that won't take up a ton of your time, this is a great one!
Well sadly it's going away after this year, but man, talk about an accessible and enjoyable learning experience in an otherwise potentially daunting topic. The lecturers are super cool and the teaching staff is very thorough about making sure you learn the week's main concepts. Highly recommended.
Do the homework, show up to lecture, the tests are graded pretty tough
Great class, put in the work and you will see the results.
The trifecta - you'll be interested, you'll learn a lot, and it is easy.
Molecules of Life is a cool introduction to the science of medicine for non-science majors.
Take it for literarily the easiest SLS class
The course is great. One of the best I have taken at Harvard. If you need to fulfill the SLS Gen. Ed. requirement, this is one of the best options. I am a Gov. concentrator, and I found the material to be accessible and worth learning.
This is a great class to get a sense of what it would be like to study medicine/science in more depth.
This class is a good basic science class both for those interested in science and those uninterested. Lectures are engaging and cover a wide variety of material ranging from diabetes to cancer to stem cells, though generally one lecture is spent on each topic, so you never really get an in depth understanding of the topic, but you learn just enough to feel like you are better informed about major health issues. The work load for this class is minimal compared to other science courses. It is not necessary to take AP Chem or AP Bio prior to taking this course, but it would certainly give you an advantage.
Go to Office Hours early to make sure you grasp the material. However I don't know if this course will be offered again.
I really enjoyed the material from this class.  Interesting concepts that explain how our bodies operate on a daily basis.
Molecules of Life is a great class and I hope it continues to be offered. Lectures are fun and you get a lot out of them (David and Jon are great at making the material exciting) and the week-by-week workload is manageable with one problem set a week. There is a final project and a final, but as long as you start the final project early and write on something you're actually interested in, you will get a lot out of it.
Great class for non-science people. It's unfortunate that this class won't be offered anymore.
If you're looking to fulfill an SLS gen ed, this is a fantastic way to do it. Extremely manageable work, accessible TFs, interesting and funny lectures, and you get learn a lot about how drugs work!
Great class, you should take it!
The TF and review materials are wonderful and approachable. The material presented in the lectures is incredibly fascinating, but often the exams tested on materials that were buried in the lectures, and they were far more difficult than the tone of the courses would at first suggest. Nonetheless, the topics are very important; once you learn how to study for the course, it isn't unmanageable, and the teaching staff really is great.
In this class you will learn a lot and have a new understanding on a lot of things you used to take for granted.  I am actually impressed with how much science we were able to learn this semester.  That being said this is definitely not an easy GenEd.  There are psets and section every week, two midterms, a final project (10-page paper), and a final exam.  The class is hard and grading can be harsh.  That being said, you will learn a lot.  Take this class if you want to gain an understanding of the world you live in not if you want an easy GenEd.
Interesting class that is a great course for people who aren't going to concentrate in a scientific field. The professors are great and are very accommodating!
The material and homeworks are pretty easy and manageable, but the tests ask you to apply the knowledge a lot more and are pretty difficult. If you only study one thing for the test, make it the practice problems and practice test and do them more than once.
it's a good class but the grading is tough on the exams
A lot of work towards the end. 10 page paper + a final is no joke. The grading is not easy either, so although the course material can be alright, getting an A is very difficult.
You will definitely leave with a better understanding of the medical world and how our bodies function. The professors and TFs really explain everything from the ground up and touch on interesting and controversial topics whenever possible (stem cells, birth control, marijuana & opioids, etc). Also I had never even taken bio or chem in high school let alone college and I was able to follow the lessons. Great class, really strongly recommend.
That it's going to require work if you want to do well. Each day put in a little bit, so you aren't cramming the night before a midterm.
This is an easy class and a perfect way to fulfill the SLS Gen Ed requirement. Even though it's easy, it's also very educational, and having read evaluations about how easy the course was, I didn't expect to  learn nearly as much as I did. It's a lot of fun and the activities in section are not to be missed. The p-sets aren't very difficult and only take 3-5 hours each week. I'm not interested at all in biology, but I was extremely interested in the material we covered in class. The toughest part of the class, in my opinion, is the final paper, primarily due its length (10-12 pages) rather than its topic (which is mostly up to the individual).
Really interesting and not too challenging, definitely worth taking
supposed to be super easy isn't that easy
Best SLS class.  I've heard it might not be offered again, which is too bad for people who haven't had the chance to take this class.  Great gen-ed: easy, interesting, and pretty fun.
Workload is light during the week. Exams grading is very nit-picky and at times unclear. Also, class is a clicker class so going to class is mandatory.
caveat: yes, I am a science concentrator. I thought I was in for a joke class my senior year when I first signed up for it. But to my pleasant surprise, once we got past the basic lectures in the beginning (what is DNA? hydrogen bonds? how to draw methane), there was something new and insightful in every lecture that I learned. Take this class, if you are looking for an easy elective. No matter what your science background is, you WILL get something out of it.
This was a great course. Lectures were very effective and entertaining and the section leaders do a great job.
Molecules is a dope class, you learn a ton of interesting things that are relevant to your life. Although this course is not a heavy work load it is still quite hard to receive high marks on tests and the final project. I highly recommend this course.
This was a great class to take if you don't care for Biology. Yes, you will have to learn about it, but I cannot imagine a better Gen Ed to fulfill the SLS requirement that is as interesting as this class.
This course covers a broad range of topics, all of which are extremely relevant today, and arguably will become more relevant moving forward. The material is accessible to everyone, regardless of previous experience in the life sciences. The workload is low, but there is much to be gained from the interesting lectures All in all, this course is a great way to fulfill a gen ed or even just as an interesting elective.
TAKE THIS CLASS!! Lectures are fun, interesting, relevant and enjoyable.  The profs are hilarious, the material is great, and it is an all around wonderful experience.
This class is great! It covers really relevant science that you actually care to learn about.  The lectures provide understanding of what goes on when we take certain medicine or have certain disease without going into too much memorization.
Pay attention in class, make good use of section to solidify what was gone over in class, Dr. Spong is amazing
The class material is EXTREMELY interesting, and both of the lecturers are AMAZING! The assignments are not particularly difficult, nor are the exams, but the grading in the class is pretty harsh, so make sure you learn what type of answers they are looking for in order to get full credit for you answers.
The subject matter is made relevant because the topics of lectures are interesting to college students across all disciplines. They also bring in questions of ethics, legality, and social norms.
You'll learn a lot, but won't be crushed.
the material is really interesting but also not my cup of tea. the tests are graded under the assumption that you don't know anything that you literally did not right down.
It is not necessarily an easy class in the classical sense of a "gem." But it is designed in such a way that it is easy to learn because of all of the materials available to you. It is a fair class and completely do-able. I highly recommend this class to anyone looking for an SLS requirement. I would even take this class as an elective because it is interesting and I got an A.
This course epitomizes what a gen ed class should be. It is an extremely interesting survey of a variety of relevant topic areas in chemistry and biology, while maintaining a common theme (that being the molecules that hold these topics together). It does not suffer from an excessive difficulty level that makes it impossible to enjoy, like many gen eds. Nor does it bore you with its simplicity, or redundancy. If it's offered, there is no better way to fulfill the SLS requirement.
The lectures are very well taught and interesting, and the sections include fun activities, but assignments and tests would at times be a rude awakening as compared to the lighter tone of the rest of the class. The material has the tendency to seem deceivingly simple, but the wording and unnecessary complexities of many of the questions might trip you up and cost you points.
This class was amazing!!  I wish I had taken it as a freshman--i might have switched from Social Studies to a life science concentration.  My eyes were opened to the beauty of life and the body and I'll never be the same because of it.  Take this class and take it now--don't wait.
This class has very little work. Like, an hour a week. Great for non-science concentrators with a busy schedule who need to knock off the SLS gen-ed. Well taught. Grading was kind of odd, lots of just looking for key words, and feedback was poor unless you went to an office hour or asked your TF. But overall, a very good class!
An easy class that has very interesting material. The lectures were easy to pay attention to, engage the class, and had interesting material. The sections had fun activities and my section leader was strong.
It is a very interesting class
Well, take this class if you want to take what is definitely one of the most super-subjective courses I've ever taken (including humanities). The grading for this course, especially for the final project, was extremely harsh. Also, whether or not you enjoy the course can depend on your TF. Also, despite what they say the course requires you to know an excessive amount of material. I liked the professors though, although honestly some of the lectures were too science-heavy and got very dry.
Molecules of Life is a great course for students who aren't very interested in the sciences - this class will apply to your life, and you will most likely enjoy the lectures and section activities. It is also pretty painless in terms of work week-to-week; the tests do take some studying, but they're not absurdly difficult.
The lecture are interesting, but the course is run/graded by capricious robots
Overall good class. Low workload, but an absolutely fascinating exploration into the basics of so many different and important fields in biology. The professors are extremely knowledgeable, great lecturers, and nice to chat with in office hours. And I had a great TF (Ahmed!) which made, section surprisingly interesting. Highly recommended.
This is an amazing class!  The case study approach really allows you to gain a basic understanding of the way that molecules (such as drugs) work in our bodies.
Not gonna happen again :(
Lectures are interesting but exams are not easy
Molecules of Life is the perfect biology GenEd.  The material is interesting and relevant, but the assessments are manageable for the non-science major with little time to devote to his/her GenEd.  The perfect combination!
Take this class, its interesting and not too difficult.
This class is amazing and teaches a lot of really good, real-life applicable information.  This is the gen ed to take if you're not a sciency person because it is very manageable with no prior knowledge.
A good biological sciences class for those not in the sciences. Simple problem sets, and apparently simple exams with slightly nitpicky grading.
Awesome class, take it, professors and TF's are great.
The material is very fascinating and applicable to the real world, but if you're not very good with science, the science might be a tad hard.
This class is amazing!
Bad news first: people can say what they want, but if you want to do well this isn't an easy class. The exams can kind of sneak up on you--they require a lot of critical thinking. Having an exam and a final project at the very end is quite a bit of work. But it's the kind of class that makes you want to do well. The professors are so smart and so nice and the material is incredibly relevant to--well, just about everything. By the end of the semester, I could be in a conversation with anyone who was doing any kind of biological research, and chances were that I had learned about it directly or indirectly through this class. Classmates who were writing senior theses in the sciences; friends who were studying biomedical engineering; postdocs I came across in classes or extracurricular activities--I could have informed conversations about their work with all of them. That was exciting and eye-opening. Take this class if you want to feel like a better-educated person.
If you're looking for a relevant, interesting SLS gen ed, this is definitely a good class to take. The material is always interesting, and I feel that I came away having a better understanding of many of the biological occurrences that affect us most often. It's not particularly difficult - although don't take it thinking it's going to be a joke-gen ed since there are lots of details and some concepts may be a bit complex - but overall it's a fun, interesting class and the final project is a really cool opportunity to explore something that interests you.
The course covers a lot of interesting and very practical information that is VERY applicable to real life. Beware the homeworks and exams; they can get very tricky. This course covers too much material and is too time consuming for someone looking for an easy GenEd.
Great course on many levels. Fun, easy, little work, take it.Only tough part is the Final research paper and Final exam back to back
Best way to get the SLS Gen Ed requirement and have fun while doing it!
Just challenging enough. You'll learn a lot. Lectures are fantastic. I've never been more satisfied with a Gen-Ed.
As a concentrator in social sciences who needed to knock out the SLS requirement, this course was highly satisfactory. I thought the class overall was relatively easy, and the course materials are also really interesting. It wasn't overbearing amount of science dealt in the class, but enough to be interesting and engaging. I recommend this course to all non-science majors out there who want to fulfill their SLS requirement.
Everything is really fairthe exams, the psets and the final project. You just have to make more effort if you haven't taken chem/bio in a long time, but the concepts are interesting and the lectures can be really interesting and even fun. Definitely a gem. Everything in the course is relevant to everyday life, so definitely fun topics to learn as well. Great course, and unfortunately, one of the few great gen eds!
This class is not very difficult and very engaging.  The professors are funny and sections are engaging, with cool activities like extracting DNA from strawberries.  The weekly homework assignment is extremely manageable and effective preparation for the exams so there should be no surprises when they come around.
Accessible, not stressful, still a lot of information to memorize.
The class is very easy. I spent at most an hour on each problem set, and they provide a lot of resources. My only problem is that there is no drop, so if you mess up one problem set or exam, then there's nothing you can do but do better on the other components of the class. But other than that, it is an easy and engaging class.
Very interesting material that is relevant to our lives. Provided at just the right level (not daunting, but in-depth enough to yield a solid understanding). John and David are both awesome! I hope this course gets offered again.
This class was fantastic.  I am a senior and a history concentrator, and I took this class because I am entering the field of healthcare in my job and wanted exposure to topics in healthcare.  This class provided that exposure and introduced me to new vocabulary terms.  The lectures were engaging and funny, and section wasn't too bad.  Not too much work, but the work we had was meaningful.  I truly feel like I left the class smarter than when I started.
There are a lot of assignments in this course (problem set every week, two midterms, final exam, final paper) as well as a grade for using your clicker in lecture. I thought it was a bit much. Nonetheless I do feel that I understand medicine a bit better after taking this class.
This is a fantastic course to fulfill the SLS gen-ed requirement. Everything you need to know in the course is taught in the first few weeks, and then the rest of the course applies this to subjects such as sex development, cancer, diabetes, and drug use. Lectures were very well done, and included videos, interactive clicker questions, and humor. The professors can seem a bit intimidating, and can be difficult to approach, but they're very nice and willing to meet and discuss the course and/or final project. There are nine problem sets in the course, due each Monday except for those following exams. They followed from lectures, and were relatively straightforward, though the TFs are a bit overly strict with grading, taking off for small errors or omissions. They usually took about 2-3 hours to complete. The exams were more difficult than the problem sets, and were on the whole fair. The final project (a 10 page paper on a related topic of your choice) takes a bit of time, but can provide a nice opportunity to apply the concepts you've learned to a topic in economics, law or sports. In terms of grades, half of your grade is composed of three exams (including the final), a sixth is your final project, and the remaining third is lecture and section participation, and homework. Overall, highly recommended for non-science students looking to fulfill the SLS requirement.
The class is extremely easy if you go to lecture and pay attention.  Otherwise, you will be surprised at how quickly your test scores drop.  Most people who complain about the course being too hard only think that because they never go to lecture.
Great way to fulfill the SLS requirement.
This is definitely an interesting course for the gen-ed seekers, or anyone generally interested in molecular chemistry who wants an easier/toned down course. Both Jon and David are great lecturers who shrewdly select topics that will be off interest to college aged-students (i.e. how drugs affect neural pathways, how sex organs affect development) and the generally curious. This course also demands far more in the way of common sense than any science-specific knowledge. Attend lecture and put in the (meager) 2-3 hours a week required for the psets and you'll do well.
Brilliant course material for a broad understanding of the developments and challenges in biology, disease and drugs.
Go to lectures! The study guides put up for the exams leave much to be desired without in class information - they are truly not a replacement for lectures.
Easy course that will fulfill SLS
Prof. Liu and Prof. Clardy are amazing lecturers. Especially for non-science people, you get so much learning bang for your buck, so to speak.
This is a difficult class that requires significant weekly work
Without a doubt take this course as your SLS gen ed.
This class is great. Just make sure you keep up with the material. If you really pay attention during class, you'll never need to do any extra studying for the homeworks or the tests.
lot of work
Grading can be frustrating at times, and leads every answer to be redundant so as to cover all of the necessary points. Material and lectures are quite interesting though
Wonderful class and very informative. Two great professors and lecturers. Fascinating material. Highly recommended for all, especially students interested in science, even though it is a Gen Ed class. Great overview of many important topics. Thought-provoking.
This class is great for someone dreading their SLS requirement. Life, and molecules - are actually quite interesting, it turns out. Especially when discussed in relation to very applicable and relevant topics. The lectures are fun; the professors are great. The information is taught in a very effective way so although I knew nothing about molecules beforehand, I was able to complete the problem sets and take the exams with what seemed like the perfect amount of work. I am quite happy I took this course and it even helped me think about my personal interests, design and creative writing, through a new lens.
I found every single topic we learned about fascinating, homeworks aren't that difficult and the profs are legends.
Great course, hopefully they don't get rid of it
This class is by far one of my favorite courses I've taken so far.  It is well organized, so interesting and the professors are amazing.  I loved going to lecture and learned so much that applies to my every day life.  Great class!
This class is a really great survey of chem and bio topics. I really enjoyed it.
While the course is not difficult, it covers its wide range of material in surprising depth. Both Prof. Liu and Prof. Clardy are excellent lecturers and quite approachable. The grading was perplexingly picky at times, but not in a way that really affected performance in the course.
This class is very low-stress, but the information is interesting. If you have a background in science you shouldn't have much trouble with it at all.
Take it!!! It's honestly a great class. Graded fairly, you learn a lot. Every concentration can benefit from this.You learn so much more than just science, but also social aspects about common diseases and biological things that you actually want to know. I actually want to take this class again!
Great SLS gen ed.  You learn a lot of things about interesting topics.
This class is amazing and very interesting! It is a great science class for people who aren't super interested in science. It's very applicable and very relatable to the real world.
This course is extremely easy. It's basically the same class as LS1a, but for humanities types. Not a bad way to fulfill SLS, but if you're a science concentrator you will likely be very bored.
It's a great class.  Lectures are amazing.  I learned more in this class than in any other Gen Ed.  Best SLS out there.
Great class.  The class is extremely well organized and taught and covers so many relevant, important topics
This is an excellent gen-ed course that didn't just focus on the mechanics of molecules and signalling, but also the practical applications. That helped me appreciate an otherwise very 'sciency' subject in the context of the world. The lectures were informative and everything followed logically, and are fun as well. However, don't expect to just skate through--you must go to lectures and look over lecture notes to do well on tests. You are expected to be very thorough when answering to demonstrate that you actually understand the science core of the material, because though a lot of the test answers can be technically gotten 'right' through logic and basic knowledge, they want to know that you really get it. So do your work, and this could be one of the best courses you take for gen-ed.
The comment on the q guide last year that convinced me to take this course was that "it was a hidden gem."  This comment was absolutely on point.  I never expected to enjoy this class, but it ended up being my favorite class this semester. (by the way, I'm a humanities concentrator).
Great, broad overview of a plethora of scientific topics! Especially good for someone who does not come from a science-heavy background. I took AP biology in high school as a sophomore, but have forgotten practically everything. This course was a great refresher of some old topics and dozens of topics that I had heard of, but never explored in great detail. What is fantastic about this course is that it is not all about memorization like most of the other science-y, pre-med classes. Rather, it requires an understanding of fundamental concepts which you can then apply to a broad range of topics. This is especially true for the exams. Overall, a fantastic way to fulfill the SLS requirement, especially if you are doing a concentration that does not require a specific sls course.
Compelling, one of the best class organizations I've ever had, concrete, clear, geared towards non-science people (which is what a gen ed should be), amazing class!One of the best SLS classes you can take if you are not a science major (and maybe even if you are)!
It allows you to better understand how things work on a molecular level as it pertains to the human body and its processes
This is an amazing class. Professors Clardy and Liu are not only extremely knowledgeable but they are amazing lecturers. I'm not a science person and this class made me interested in science. The workload is light and not busy work at all. It's actually really interesting. DEFINITELY TAKE THIS COURSE!
SLS 11 is a great course for two reasons: well-taught and relevant. Professors Liu and Clardy are great lecturers and you can tell how genuinely enthused they are about teaching this course. They know their stuff and they love sharing it with students. The content of the course is also extremely interesting because they're all topics that are relevant to every day life. The science behind pharmaceutical drugs, substance abuse, cancer, mental disorders, and other subjects that many of people talk about on a daily basis is thoroughly taught in this course. If anything, this class really makes you more knowledgable about the amazing science that surrounds our everyday lives. And, although this class has a rep for being an "easy gen ed" don't let that catch you off guard. Yes, the material is not very hard to understand and you don't go very deep with the topics, but there are A LOT of different topics that are covered so be ready to put in the time to study them all. As long you don't take that for granted and really listen in lecture, SLS 11 will probably be one of your favorite classes of the year.
This class was an amazing way to fulfill the science of living systems requirement. I do not like science but I thoroughly enjoyed this class. It was interesting, engaging, and applicable.
If you know anything about molecular biology or have taken any biology class, you'll breeze through the first month of the semester and the first mid-term basically just off what you already know. It starts getting a little complicated towards the end, but it's definitely manageable. Good SLS requirement or elective if you need an easy class.
the staff is freaking amazing and SO INSANELY HELPFUL! you CANT fail.
One of the best classes I've taken. Everything you learn is interesting (even for non-science people) and relevant to real life. The class is very well organized and the lectures are fairly engaging.
grading is a little hard.
This is a great and painless way to take out your SLS requirement, especially if you are a humanities or social sciences concentrator. The amount of hard science you need to know is minimal, and the staff will help you to gain a good understanding of this science. The themes covered in the course (like cancer, prescription drugs, alcohol and marijuana, stem cells, etc.) are really interesting and important for any human to know.
The class can be good and is moderate-easy, but don't be surprised if they grade hard.
Certain weeks' lectures are more interesting than others. You get to do interesting and odd scientific experiments in section, like observing moths and chewing pills that block your ability to taste certain flavors. The weekly problem sets do not take a long time, but it helps to do them with a partner to check answers. There are two midterms and a final, that are not that bad if you put effort into studying. The final project is graded fairly harshly. A bit more in-depth and recent chemistry background from high school would have been useful for me, especially at the beginning of the course.
Pretty easy course. Psets take 1-2 hours the night before they are due. Professors are pretty awesome, my section TF was also helpful and fast on grading. Section was mandatory but not useful for me, lectures were long. We covered a lot of interesting material, and the tests are straightforward and easy. There's a final project AND exam, which I found to be a bit excessive.
TAKE IT!
It is not an easy class. the material is interesting but the exams are hard and the course is graded harshly
This class was an excellent way to fill the SLS Gen Ed and it was really interesting. The TFs are incredibly helpful if you have questions on problem sets, but the p-sets are manageable anyway. Also, the exams (especially the final) were very fair if you take the time to prepare for them. If you need SLS then take it!
This class covers a lot of material on diverse subjects, but you learn a lot. I feel like this is one of the classes I learned the most in at Harvard.
Very interesting material and well worth taking!
The class is not as easy as it seems, but you will learn a lot, and the material covered is fairly entertaining.
This course is an excellent course.  I am so glad that I took SLS 11. It is a really large bang for you time buck.  It will not take very much of your time, but the subject is fascinating.  You will learn a lot of really interesting stuff that is probably quite applicable to your life- how cancer... is.  Ideas on how to slow down aging.  What causes different problems in your body and how.  Because of SLS11, I'm considering switching my concentration.  Great stuff
I think this is one of the most painless Science of Living Systems you can take. I thought the homework wasn't too hard but do pay attention on the tests and start working on your project early, so that it doesn't frustrate you when it's due. Also, pay attention in lecture, and learn as you go, as opposed to trying to cram it in at the end.
A very fun course
Highly recommended to fulfill SLS. Not hard but not a joke either. You will learn a lot of really interesting stuff about biology and its relevance to our daily lives. There is a wonderful emphasis on concepts over memorization and case studies abound. I feel like I learned more information that I will use throughout my life in this class than any other science class I've taken, including AP Bio. Take it. The profs are chill too.
The content material of this course is very fascinating. Average is demand of time required. Exams are fairly difficult and a good knowledge of the minute details are needed to do well
It is a science class for non-science students.
They are nit-picky
This is a very informative class about general ideas in science that everybody should be aware of.
Very well-organized, with reasonable homework assignments and exams, as well as clear connections to how molecules our relevant in our bodies and in the real world. Professors Clardy and Liu are both hilarious and will make sure you clearly understand the topics at hand, from swine flu to heroin. Great SLS Gen-Ed. Pay attention to the key topics in the lecture slides and you'll be fine.
great course, but hessitant to suggest without background info
The most interesting and relevant course at Harvard. You will have a good understanding of many hot topics without having to learn all of the complex chemistry and bio stuff in premed classes.
I would more proactively figure out a TF that works best for you. Sometimes it seemed that some were more enthusiastic than others.
Overall, the class was pretty interesting and interactive, and probably one of the more fun SLS classes.
This class is the ideal gen ed. It is extremely informative and will do so much to inform your thoughts on scientific and health related issues and current events. It is a really reasonable work load. The material is generally logical and straightforward, but you wont feel like it has been dumbed down. The professors generate a ton of enthusiasm and the teaching staff runs it extremely well. I really think its the best way to satisfy the SLS requirement.
This class is great, definitely would take it again! The class is an interesting survey of relevant and present topics in medicine looked at from "beginners guide" viewpoint. It's incredibly organized and the p-sets and sections are great. Take the class if you have the chance.
This course really let me down. While the material is interesting, it is not something that you could not research on your own and is material that is very readily available on the web and even wikipedia. I felt that the structure of the course discouraged learning and the TFs were unfair in their grading, awarding very little partial credit, not giving constructive criticism, and only looking for check off phrases. This is a class I took for a gen-ed and I felt that it was overly demanding in how you needed to prepare for the exams and homeworks. I thought this was going to be a great class and was severely let down.
The selling point for this class is the subject material. However, the lectures aren't really above and beyond anything you could get from summarizing the year's headlines from "Science" magazine. It purports to be an "easy" class; this may be true, but should not be taken lightly if one is considering adding it to a full schedule. In general cases, I would strongly advocate against taking it.
Take this class if you want a fun and interesting science/chem class.
This is a wonderful gen-ed for people that aren't that comfortable with science. Lectures are interesting, and sections are fun!
My friends and I agree that this was the perfect gen ed. It didn't require any background knowledge, it understand that the people taking it didn't know that much about science, it didn't require ridiculous amounts of work, and it explained so many things using one concept: is the molecule an agonist or an antagonist? Apparently this might have been the last time they'll teach the course, which I don't understand at all, but I'm so glad I got to take this to fulfill SLS before they stopped. IT WAS A GEM.
I learned that physicists > biologists.
The lecturers are great and you learn so much useful information! The homework questions are geared toward very specific answers, so ask your TF if you have any questions.
SLS11 was a pretty good gened. Lectures were pretty interesting and assignments weren't too time consuming. However, even though I am interested in the sciences, the class was not very easy and required work especially around exam time. The class has both a final project and a final exam.
if you don't consider yourself a science-y person this is the course for you bc the material deals with real issues its exciting
This is a really good Gen Ed class if you don't know much about chemistry or biology.  You'll learn a lot about some of the basics but also the most current developments in the medical community.
I'm a History and Literature concentrator, and this is one of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard, including classes I've taken for my concentration.
Lecture and section are really engaging for science and non-science concentrators alike. Be warned about assignments and exams, though: it's graded based on a checklist, so there are certain phrases that you're just going to tack on the end of every single answer to get more points.
Good and interesting SLS class but be warned that this class is quite tough to get an A. The TFs literally take off for the smallest things on the HW and tests. If you are okay with graders taking off points for basically nothing, then go ahead and take this class. The topics were interesting though...
This is a great class for your SLS requirement. It's really interesting, really accessible, and very well taught.  The staff do an incredible job at making it interesting, especially for people with no science background.  The testing is really straight-forward and they even write review guides for you.  Highly recommend it.
Very effortless class where I actually learned a great deal about biology and  medicine. It's great for non-science concentrators.
You will learn so much from this class that is applicable. You will notice this once you start reading anything remotely scientific, and it's awesome!
SLS 11 is a low workload course and is really interesting!
This course gave a great overview of incredibly important and relevant topics, and I really enjoyed how much enthusiasm and creativity the professors put into their presentations. I learned a lot about important scientific developments without feeling too disadvantaged as a humanities major. Thanks for a great semester!
Great class - overview of interesting bio without being at all challenging. Hope it is offered again.
Super awesome class. Easy and fascinating. It may seem at first that you won't learn too much that you don't already know, but that's not at all true. If you want an in-depth look at how scientific discoveries are made or how pharmaceutical companies develop drugs, this is the class for you. Take it for the professors too, you won't regret it!
its an overall great class.
easy, fun science core!
TAKE THIS CLASS. It's SO much fun. You will learn a lot, without memorization, and it will all be relevant to your everyday life. You won't regret it! The profs are really cool, lectures are great, and the expectations are reasonable. If you need an SLS Gen-Ed, or are just interested in the biology of our lives, take this class. Exactly the science that every person who graduates from Harvard should know.
If you are looking for a science class without getting bogged down in the little details this is the perfect course for you. Interesting lectures that apply to current issues today, 1-hour labs/section compared to 3 hours for most science classes. You will learn a lot of basic science for life. And if you are interested in a particular topic during this class, you can explore it further on your own.
An excellent survey of current topics in biology.
You get out what you put in. If you go to lecture and do the work, you'll learn a lot.
This course is one of the, if not the, best class I have taken at Harvard. It actually made me question whether I wanted to change the course of my studies and focus more on science. An extremely enjoyable and WELL TAUGHT class staffed by extremely competent, knowledgable, and kind individuals. Sufficiently rigorous to where you can take it seriously and keep up with the work, and yet, not a class that will inundate you with work. A good course if you are feeling edgy and are looking for a fifth class. Cannot say enough good things about it!
This class seems easy, and most people do well, but its definitely not a joke, and you have to put the time in to get the material, because they cover a lot.
Take it take it take it this class is amazing and easy and so interesting!
The professors are engaging and funny, while the course material is fascinating and exciting. This is not a dull basic molecular chemistry class.
painless way to get rid of a Gen Ed requirement. interesting class, cool professors, tests are not too bad.
Very interesting. I thoroughly enjoyed myself.
This was a great class!  I never liked science much in high school, but this class honestly made me enjoy the material I was learning.  No textbooks are required, all the information comes from lectures (which are super interesting!).  I would highly recommend this class!
Class may seem hard at first, but stick with it, it's pretty easy and interesting.
Nothing about the courses material is very difficult.  The grading and teaching fellows, on the other hand, are completely different stories.  While it might not take up a lot of your time to do the problem sets or study for the exams, I warn you that you must be really careful because the TFs like to take away points as if they are Team Rocket and your points are all the valuable rare Pokemon in the world.
Take this class - it is very easy, it is interesting, and the sections are loads of fun.
This is the best class to take for your SLS requirement! Dooooo it!
Great class. You learn interesting stuff and it's very low time and low stress. I highly recommend, especially if you need a class to round out a tough semester.
The best science course I've taken here-- fascinating, fun, and completely manageable workload.
Best Gen Ed I have ever taken. You learn a lot and what you learn is not only interesting but useful.
Great way to complete the SLS requirement! Professors are very smart and engaging and the material is highly relevant and interesting (e.g., cancer, HIV, pregnancy)
Very painless, effective way to get rid of your gen ed. And some of the concepts that we learn are very interesting and relevant!
One of the most fun classes I've taken at Harvard. You learn quite a lot more than the usual Gen Ed, while still being exciting and fun.
A really straightforward way to satisfy the Gen Ed requirement, with a lot of interesting (humanities friendly)historical details, stories of discoveries and approaches to modern ethical dilemmas.  Extremely well organized, with lecture slides and videos online.  The lectures are pretty funny too.
The subject matter is very interesting but the exams can be pretty tough if you don't study the right things. Make sure to establish a good relationship with your TF, as it can be really beneficial.
As someone has said before, this class is *actually* a hidden gem. It covers a lot of material and in relatively good depth while not expecting that people in the room are pre-meds, so the humanities concentrator won't either feel like things are being "dumbed down" for them or feel overwhelmed with things like memorizing individual amino acids and reproducing the structure of all the DNA bases. I feel like the material being covered is relevant and interesting enough to even warrant a science concentrator to take the course. The professors and the TF's are excellent, and even if you've already gotten SLS out of the way, take this class anyway. Don't let the first few lectures make you think that the class will be too boring/easy - I first thought that it was all going to be review of high school chem, so I almost didn't take the class, which would have been one of the biggest mistakes of my college career. All the material is really relevant, both in terms of your own personal biology and our world as a whole, so definitely take this class. It's that good, and you really won't regret it.
Great. Take it.
Take it to fulfill the science of living systems gen-ed or if you really like  learning about molecules.
not a hard course. exams can be difficult and require you to think further.
Extremely well run course, and also very interesting material.  Couldn't ask for a better gen-ed
I'd tell them that this is an awesome class that you learn a great deal from. The material is extremely interesting, and keeps you engaged throughout the entirety of the semester.
This class is great; pretty easy, very interesting. You can't go wrong by taking it.
Interesting class.  Relates to several contemporary issues.
It's an interesting, painless way to fulfill the SLS requirement. If you have taken High School chemistry or Biology you will be totally fine.
If you want an easy science Gen-Ed that is taught as condescendingly as possible to non-science majors, this is the course for you. Lectures were okay, sections better, but the material is not treated in depth and the assessments are very easy.
Great SLS gen ed
Great class. Not only is it not alot of work but you actually learn something interesting.
Great science class that you learn a lot of useful in everyday life concepts and not overloaded with work.
Fun class, but the grading system can be pretty harsh depending on the TF.  Good way to fulfill a SLS req.
Great professors, manageable workload, interesting and relevant material.
Not a difficult class, but I didn't feel like I learned very much.
Probably one of the most interesting classes I've taken at Harvard. As a science concentrator I was for some reason able to take this as my science of living systems gen ed course and I am very happy I decided to do so. Having taken organic chemistry, I think I was able to appreciate the material much more than my classmates. It's so awesome to see all these beautiful molecules that have shaped history and affect our lives every day.Jon Clardy and David Liu could have a little more excitement in their lectures, but they still present the material well and in a very clear way.
Not a hard course, but you end up learning about a lot of cool things.
TAKE IT.
This class is very practical in what it teaches. However, you really have to be a humanities major to make it really matter for credit. The class is definitely taught as science for humanities people, though. No memorization or mindless studying is needed. You really only need to make some connections between how some biological agents functions, and most of the problems set/test questions fall together.
This was by far the best taught course i had at Harvard. It is a core, and I hate cores, but thank God for this one! It is easy, interesting, and i feel like i learned a lot of important stuff in it; I never found a course that would encompass all these qualities.
The material is interesting and it's a fairly painless way to fulfill your core or gen ed requirement. But sometimes it may seem like you don't know why you are doing something or how things relate. Also, the TFs grade things differently so depending on who you get, your problem sets may be graded more strictly than others.
This is a good look into bio and chem. I now know very applicable concepts and this class has made me smarter! Take it!
The perfect Gen Ed class. Not too much work, but still interesting. Weekly very short problem sets, which are perfect for easily keeping up with a class without too much effort.
good class that covers many interesting topics.
A great science gen ed
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!! This class is like a hidden gem. It really is fantastic and you won't regret it. It was my favorite class this year and I'm not even a science concentrator. And it's definitely in the top three running of my favorite class at Harvard. Go to office hours with Jon and David. They are true, true, true educators. Despite their amazing accomplishments in their field (and I'm talking amazing!), they're down to earth and talk to you like people and understand how hard science can be.
Go to lecture, go to section, keep up with the information, but it's fun, it's interesting, and well worth a class
Great class, definitely take it.
If you want to fulfill your SLS requirement easily, this is the one to take. The professors really are great, and the material is simple and straightforward. The tests are also very easy.
I took this as an easy fourth class and could not have been happier. I had to commit very little time to the class, but the information taught was pretty interesting and useful.
This course is amazing!  I really enjoyed it this semester - it was so interesting to learn about chemistry and biology in this way.  David and John are both great professors and they teach the material so well.  Even though there is some work involved in this class - it was work that I enjoyed doing.
Not that easy, but it won't get any easier than this for a science.
Good overall basis for scientific knowledge
If you like science or interested in several of the hot topics in medical science - stem cells, obesity, cancer, etc.- right now, take it! It is a fun course where you will learn a lot.
problem sets do take long, especially since they're worth so little. the professors are awesome though. definitely go to lecture.
The course makes up for easy material with arbitrary grading.
A good way to fulfill SLS. You'll actually learn some interesting and valuable things. Easy, but beware blowing it off.
This class is very easy. Here's the most efficient way to get an A: don't go to lecture - read the lecture notes instead, don't spend too much time on Psets since they only count for very little of your grade, but study a lot for the exams. The review notes for the exams is all you need to do well.
It is the best SLS class to take.
Not too painful - good way to fulfill that GenEd. No textbook required.
It is not as easy as people tell you it will be. The material is very interesting and in the end you will learn a lot. Section is fun.
YOU SHOULD TAKE THIS CLASS. THIS IS THE PERFECT CLASS FOR YOU. LOOK NO FURTHER FOR YOUR SCIENCE B. the class is coherent, well-organized, well thought out. The professors are expert lecturers - funny, succinct, clear, effortless. The material is interesting and relevant. It is not too difficult but you are still learning something. just take the class.
good class. make sure you focus on the psets. they are hard graders.
A great GenEd course - there is very little busywork and the lectures are interesting, so go to them! You will have to study for the tests but as long as you do, they are not too bad.  It's very fair and understanding that its students are not science majors, and the material is interesting as well.
Materials are quite interesting. Sections are fun. Pretty good choice for fulfilling SLS.
Don't worry if you aren't someone who generally likes science- the class in really interesting and really easy. It's the perfect way to get this Gen Ed done.
Taking this course was one of the best decisions that I made--by far one of the best Gen Eds out there!
A fun, interesting way to get SLS out of the way
Great great class. You really learn a lot of practical, concrete science applicable in so many ways. I really loved the class
Unless you need a gen ed class for SLS, then don't take this.
SLS 11 was a great class! I know a lot more about topics in biochem that are interesting to debate and discuss.
There was far too much work for a gen ed class. There were 12 problem sets, two midterms, a final project and a final exam. The material was not that hard but the grading on the problem sets was too harsh.
Painless. Take it. It also covers some very interesting scientific issues. It's actually a pretty good course. Don't slack on the problem sets.
Fun, easy way to fulfil the core.
I think the material for this class should have been easy, but for me it was very challenging. I'm not sure why but I had a hard time, especially on tests. I feel like it's still an easy class compared to other science courses at Harvard, so I'd recommend it if you want a relatively painless way to satisfy a requirement. And it definitely presents really interesting material that's worth knowing; I thought both Jon and David were good teachers. I just had a hard time with a lot of the material.
Take this class! I hated biology in high school, but loved this course - material is very relevent, sections are really fun, professors are really excited, smart, and acessible...advice for you if you decide to take it 1) go to lecture - professors are world authorities to not attend lecture and see how they think/present material would be pity 2) review your notes everyday after lecture...get questions clarified after lecture or email your Tfs or ask them in section....it's not necessary to do this to get a good grade, but I guarentee you you'll get close to a 100% on all your homeworks, will remember the material and internalize it so it will stay with it, and won't have to study for the midterms other than take the practice tests - I'm serious 3) email your Tfs early in the week if you have questions on the P sets - P set questions tend to be a little ambiguous and seem esoteric, but really are testing good stuff 4) go to office hours at least once for both professors - they're really cool!
This is the best Science of Living Systems class out there. It requires no more than twenty minutes of work per week. The class is very well run and clear in its expectations; no unpleasant surprises on the exams. If it's ever offered again, take it!
It's a great Science B or SLS.  It's very do-able for non-science types, but also interesting because it covers things that affect or will affect our lives.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Everyone should know the material in this class!
Great way to fulfill your science B, and interesting nonetheless.
The professors were great. The material was interesting. The course was easy.
This was probably one of the most interesting options for a Science B or Science of Living Systems class--it was easy without being a joke, and it looked at ethical, legal, and business issues surrounding the diseases we covered.
It's an amazing intro bio (if it can be called that) course about how molecules play crucial roles in our day-to-day lives.
It was very interesting, covered a lot of ground, was not esoteric but rather related to a lot of issues that lay people care about.  It was also unbelievably easy.
This class is one of the best classes to take to fulfill a B-core, or for the new classes, to fulfill the SLS requirement.  The professors are great, the material is interesting and the work is manageable.
It was interesting, easy, and way better than my science A class. The lectures were mostly interesting, although a little long. Clardy and Liu were often very fun to listen to and their lectures had a lot of engaging components, though I often drifted off toward the end.
enthusiastically recommended as a core, but otherwise, only if interested. very user-friendly and painless, and makes science articles in the ny times relevant to my own life now
Moths used in one of the sections ate some of my shirt.
I hate the core.  I cannot think of a core class that I truly wanted to attend.  That feeling was only magnified for the science section of the core requirement.  However, taking SLS 11 was not only not a horrid experience - it was incredibly enjoyable!  Proffessors Clardy and Liu were enthusiastic lecturers and presented material in a way that was clear and exciting to a non-science concentrator as myself.  Section was not the usual futile exercise either.  We performed easy but engaging experiments and discussed important social aspects of the scientific topics presented in class.  A great core and a great course overall.
fun, fairly easy way to fulfill core
Great course and excellent way to fulfill a core (especially Science B, which is a tough one).  No books to buy; no readings really.  Great lecture notes.  Very pertinent information to know for life.
Very easy, interesting, great way to fulfill Core.
The easiest way to satisfy Science B.
This course is an excellent way for non-science concentrators to be exposed to the intriguing world of medicine and diseases in an incredibly approachable way
This is a great Science B/ SLS core! The professors are great and it is a very fun and painless way to fulfill your science requirement.
It does exactly what the core is supposed to do and is painless. Learned more in it than I do in a lot (maybe most) of my "real" classes.
Very good course with a lot of information, but fortunately what is tested is the fundamental concepts covered.
Take it!!
Easy, interesting, and painless!
This course is fantastic and a great way to fulfill the Science B Core.  The professors are engaging, sections are fun and the material is very interesting.
By far the best core and possibly the best class I've taken at Harvard.  Not an overwhelming amount of material and all material is presented in lecture.  Lectures are fantastic, interesting and even entertaining. Everyone should take this class.
The material is interesting and practical, but I wish I had taken a more rigorous science course.
This is an amazing class that is very relevant to life.
THIS IS AN AMAZING CLASS! I love it!
This is the best Core I have taken at Harvard.  Take it.  You won't regret it.
Easy and fun!
It is one of the best science cores you can take. Interesting, entertaining, great professors, and not hard!
it was amazing. I learned so much and felt very engaged in the course.
A fun and easy way to fulfill a requirement, or a great elective. possibly one of the best classes i've taken at harvard.
Great way to get Science B/SLS core!
This is one of the most relevant classes at Harvard, which is made even more astounding given how easy it is. Take it.
Painless core
It's like your interactive high school science course, in a good way.
This is the perfect core: interesting, relevant, a subject area I would not learn about in my concentration, and not too time-consuming.
I would recommend this course to everyone.  The interesting material and engaging lectures generated excitement about current research in the field and provided practical knowledge that can be used in daily life.  An excellent way to fulfill the core/gen ed.  This is what general education should be.
it's easy and you'll learn things that you actually want to know.
I felt that it was a good core class because it wasn't too intense about the science, it was actually relevant to my life, and the workload was reasonable.
You will learn the scientific side marijuana, understand what the hell people mean by stem cells, and learn about the ongoing war on cancer.
IT ROCKS
This is such a great class. It is really easy. It is awesome. It's also really interesting.
This course tells you everything you didn't know that you wanted to learn, from the scientific basis of hermaphrodites to why marijuana and opiates feel good.  What more could you ask for from a science class?
Assuming that this course will be easy, will make it difficult to do well. Treat it like a serious course to do well.
There probably is a science core out there that is less painful.
it is a fun and interactive course
If you do not mind being treated like an incapable schoolchild, then you should take this course.
This is not an easy class, nor was it well organized.
Take this class, don't get skullfucked by an anal retentive premed.
This class is easy and interesting. Unlike the other crap offered, this class actually accomplishes the Core's goals - it makes you find a subject outside of your concentration interesting. The professors are good, the lectures are well-organized....Aaaand most importantly it is uber-easy. Just take it, already.
Take this class, it will help prepare you for topics you will need to know in the real world.
For students who have barely any background in science, this is a great course to fulfill your Science requirements, or to begin putting your foot into the door of the science field.
It's tough, but interesting and well run.
This is a good course for humanities majors who don't want to have to learn any science.  It requires no science background and definitely won't take over your life.  If you are at all interested in science though, don't take this class.  It amounts to a brief and surface level survey of the central dogma and some interesting applications thereof.
Molecules of Life is among my favorite classes that I have taken at Harvard. It is easy, fascinating, and very informative. If you are a humanities major and have not taken any science classes, you need to take this before you graduate. You will not regret it.
Great class.
easy course (although not as easy in the past - exams are substantially more difficult), lecture slides are great, material is interesting and relevant
This course is what you put into it and it has the potential to be very interesting and fun.
Tell students to take this class but to be aware that the problem sets do not always correlate with the materials covered in lecture. The professors are good lecturers, and the topics are quite interesting.
Good class, but tougher than you may think.
Don't fall behind on lectures!
Best SLS class you can take.
This class teaches you so much about the phenomenon of life and the interesting biology behind it.  It's organized in a way that is easy for non-science literate people to understand and allows us to gain insight in the chemical processes that are responsible for so much of our experience!  Fantastic class!!
it is hard and not that great a course
Well taught; relatively painless.
If you want an all-around enjoyable simple science class, here you go.
It doesn't require much work, and it's an easy way to complete the gen ed requirement.
Take it!
With this class, you'll do abour an hour's worth of work a week, if you don't go to class every once in a while, all the lecture notes are very helpful and online...the information is interesting, the only HUGE downside is the fact that there is a final exam and paper, which was horrible. But the class is interesting, and I had a fantastic experience with it!
Excellent way to fill a Core/Gen Ed requirement!  So little work!
Take this class if you want to learn some chemistry and biology while applying it to real life, ie. it is useful after college
This class is not as easy as many people make it out to be. It is not simply a rehashing of material. You need to be able to apply the information that you learn to different sorts of problems.
It is a great science class, especially for Non-Science concentrators.
Put effort into the homeworks, seriously.
You learn a lot without it being too painful
Good
The course is pretty good overall, and the lectures are useful, but almost read verbatim from the lecture slides, so it's not always necessary to attend lecture.
You're not going to study all day long for MoL, but it's not a painless course.
The course is great. It doesn't just cover the principles of the molecules in the class, but adresses issues that many people are affected by, such as diseases and steroid use.
Science is a real downer, but you have to get it over with.
If you are the type of person that learns a foreign language by extensively studying the "helpful phrases" section in a travel guide, then this course is for you.
The lectures are interesting - I actually enjoyed what I learned, and looked forward to attending!. The material is all really relevant applicable to life, and is presented in an organized, compelling manner...Not difficult, no readings - and super super interesting...one of my favorite classes at harvard so far (because of content).
The problem sets can be done in about an hour, and you can read the lecture notes before the exam without ever going to class and do well.  It's a great way to fulfill a core.
Be ready for super difficult homework assignments and tough midterms. The paper is a godsend for your grade if you prefer writing papers. review sessions are useless, so only go if they organize them better
This is a great way to fulfill a science requirement. The professors are great, the material is not challenging at all, and there is some pretty interesting stuff.
This was one of the most enjoyable classes that I took this past semester. I truly learned a lot about science through the lens of many contemporary issues!
All humanities and social science majors will find this class extremely and relevant to their studies; instructors are fantastic and are devoted to presenting difficult and complex material in a digestable way
Great core course. Very useful information.
It's not the easy A I thought it would be. Be prepared to study quite a bit for the exams.
Great class with an average workload.
Well taught and manageable work required.
Awesome course. At times fascinating, when otherwise, quite easy.
It is important to have an interest in the subject matter of the course.
Very easy class, you never have to go to lecture. Everything you need is on the course website.
Great way to fulfill a Core.  Everyone should take this course for the practical knowledge it conveys.
This class is one of the most interesting classes I've taken
lectures can be very very boring. homework is ok. for a core class it is pretty tough though. i found a handful of lectures to be interesting but for the most part i was unhappy every class
Take it if you're looking for a good science core. It's not a lot fo work, but will still ifnorm and challenge you enough
Perhaps a Harvard classic; but it could use renovation.
This class teaches science in a way that non-science people can understand. Now I can read articles in the NY times on medicine and other topics and understand them.
This class was made much harder after the last que guide.
Decent class, good sections, but lectures can be tedious.
A great Science B, although I've heard that they've made it harder since last year. There were definitely difficult moments, but on the whole, the class was great.
If you don't feel like you have a very strong science background and are looking for a course requirement, this is a great fit.
Take this class. It's better than any other Science B elective.
It's a core, but it's a good core to get Science B outta the way.
This course taught me a lot of great information, but was filled with inconsistencies in the area of exams.
Go to lecture.
I think this class was a bit easier the first time it was offered, and the first and second midterms differed a great deal in terms of difficulty. But overall, it is a pretty easy way to fulfill a Science B or Science of Living Systems requirement. If you've taken advanced science classes in high school, some of material is a little repetitive but I didn't mind.
The subject is fascinating
It's a good gen ed requirement for people not into science.
This course is a good way to fulfill a CORE requirement. The material is interesting and applicable to your life. It is a good choice for non-science majors and the workload is relatively light. The course was made more difficult this year than the previous year. Students should realize that this course is good, but is not a cake walk.
If you're not a science person, this class is for you.  The topics covered will give you an appreciation for the world around you and make you a more informed person.
it is a good class if you want to know how your body is affected by small molecules such as hormones and enzymes.
Really painless and fun core
I despise science, but SLS 11 is the best course that I have taken at Harvard. Professors Clardy and Liu genuinely care about the students, and the course is well-organized, informative, and thought-provoking while maintaining the perfect difficulty level for its target audience. I have never taken a course that so adeptly connects every concept presented in lecture with the theme of each lecture, which in turn ties into the greater themes of the course. I would recommend SLS 11 to anyone and everyone.
problem sets are not hard (just review them with a classmate).  however, exams are REALLY HARD!!!!  way harder than the problem sets, and on topics not covered in the problem sets.also, the final project is a little weird.  all topics are really broad, so it's hard to get a grasp on anything fully.
Wonderful class that was very educational and enjoyable.
Good way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement.
This is a really interesting course that is not extremely challenging.
A great class that is not overly difficult (but not a walk in the park either) and teaches science in a way that is relevant to students' lives. Very fun! The professors are wonderful and engaging lecturers.
Overall, the class is very interesting and it is a good course to fulfill a science requirement for non-science concentrators.
Fun and informative way to fill a core
i thought i hate science until i took this class
TAKE IT! the material's actually super interesting, and it's a really painless way to fulfill your science b core, or sls requirement. unlike some other cores i've taken, i really appreciated what i learned, and it's definitely made me a more knowledgeable person. i can actually follow the conversations that my pre-med blockmates have! plus, the professors are AWESOME and super accessible and friendly.
The class is not going to be painful, and wont throw any surprises at you.  If you are looking for a straight forward class that isn't going to make you mad or cry, take this class.
Solid, harmless way to fulfill the core.
This class is not very difficult and a lot of fun. It actually inspired me to think more seriously about a career in the health sciences or medicine. Take it.
It started off easy but got very difficult after the first midterm.  Beware.
This is a fun and extremely stimulating course that can help you fulfill a Science Core.
Don't do a creative project for the final project. Just write a paper.
Do not take it if you're looking for an easy science core.
Joke core.
Not too difficult (though more so than some might suggest) and very interesting.
Absolutely great course to fulfill a science B requirement.  Lectures are fun and entertaining.  The information is actually useful outside of the classroom.  Sections are easy and fun.  The workload is minimal.  The structure of the class and the interesting subject matter make it both easy and enjoyable.
A great way to fulfill the Science Core requirement.
Molecules of Life is NOT "easy" per se - the weekly problem sets were tricky at times, and definitely best done in groups.  However, while it wasn't easy, it wasn't tear-jerkingly hard either.  For a science core/gen ed, this is a great class.  Professors Liu and Clardy were very easy to listen to and the subject matter, while very, very broad, was also very interesting.
Great Class. Very entertaining. Very manageable.
it's a fantastic way to fulfill science b. really interesting stuff but only goes in depth as far as a non-science major should go.
it is difficult, especially for non-scientists; the professors admitted to making it harder after last semester's (spring 2009) course evals came in; that is counter-productive and should not be told to students!!; pretty relevant to current scientific and ethical problems, but densely covered information; also, the lectures include unnecessary information that until the end one does not know if it is important or not (for example: background "historical info" and famous people who discovered things - this was not tested, was not relevant, and made class be extra-long!)
It's a small workload, and the lecture notes, video, audio are all posted online, which is nice. The exams were okay, one seemed too difficult and a little unfair. The professors care and are funny.
An interesting, relatively painless way to fulfill the Science-B/SLS requirement.
molecules of death
It is a great way to fulfill your Science A, or science Gen Ed. The professors and TFs were good, the workload was very manageable and the material was really interesting.
One's experience largely depends on the TF.  I visited different TF's sections, and the dynamics in each was very different.  My section was terrible, whereas others were great.
The section activities were always very interesting and engaging, and lots of fun!  However, don't let the first third of the course lull you into a false sense of security.  You really will have to work eventually.
I would tell students to take it, because the topics that are discussed are very interesting; however, I would warn them that the tests are a bit difficult.
Great class, very enjoyable.
The material is interesting and relevant to today's world.
I was a second semester senior and this was my last and best core. The professors to a terrific job of making every lecture worth attending. The material is fascinating and enriching without incurring the usual stress of Harvard. It was a treat.
The subject matter of the course is fascinating. I loved learning about the science behind such prevalent diseases as cancer and diabetes and the section activities were innovative yet reinforced the lecture material. However, I took this course because I am not a "Math/Science" person and I needed to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement. It seemed as if the professors assumed that the students had a background in chemistry and biology as they briefly introduced complex scientific concepts without explaining them fully. I had a lot of trouble with this as I did not expect to have to understand concepts such as drawing structures, etc.
This course is fascinating, the teachers are hysterical. Try to find a TF as wonderful as mine!
Great, manageable class with awesome subject matter that is applicable to real life.
especially as a way to fulfill a core, this was relatively painless, interesting and contributed to my general useful real world knowledge
It's a lot of fun, a painless way to learn science if you're not a science person, and a genuinely great class.
SLS 11 is a great way to fulfill the Science of Living Systems Gen Ed requirement. Subject matter is relevant and useful to any person, especially non-science students who are interested in other disciplines. Everyone should obtain the science background you get out of this class.
Was an interesting class. I wish they weren't so critical in the way they graded exams. There were numerous times where I would write something down (either in homework or exams) that showed I knew what the general concept entailed. Because I didn't use the precise language, I was penalized.
fairly easy and you learn relevant scientific and medical issues we face today
Much more difficult than anticipated. I would not recommend it unless they find they course material especially interesting.
This is a fun class with interesting material. If you want a challenge though, look elsewhere.
Great class.
Take this class!!! If you need a science core then definitely take this class!!!
Its not as easy it it seems.
One of the best courses at Harvard! You actually learn something that is applicable to your own life, which is always a good thing. You learn SO MUCH about yourself and the world around you, and do so in a way that doesn't bust your butt.
The material is interesting but the work is tough
Great class!
