Very interesting lectures and pretty cool labs (get to see real fossils and stone tools) but the midterm/finals are impossible. It's a very large amount of memorizing very small facts so that you'll never remember it all. Concepts are only scratching the surface, you need to know all the nitty-gritty details.
This class isn't hard but isn't exactly interesting either.  I was really excited to take it because of the subject matter, but I found Prof. Lieberman to try too hard during lectures to be funny, making it seem tedious and uninteresting.  Labs were mostly fun and informative, but could also be tedious because we had a lot of tables to fill out. Also, they grade really hard for no reason.
This course gives a great overview of human evolution while going into pertinent details giving students a new perspective on life.
This is an easy class to take even if you think you aren't good at science. It is fun AND relevant to many current issues.
Be prepared to memorize a lot of years.  Professor Lieberman gives the impression that you don't need to memorize many of the details he gives in lecture, but they will appear on exams.  Knowing details are crucial--I went into the midterm with a good grasp of the major concepts and evolutionary trends stressed in the lectures, and found that much of the test was devoted to a few years and numbers that had only briefly been touched upon.
Before I took the class I read that it was entertaining, pretty easy, and that an annoying amount of memorization was required for the final. This was my experience. You learn a lot of cool stuff, lab and lecture are good, and you will probably end up cramming some details before the midterm and final. It was a good class.
RUN.Unless you want a little nap time in the middle of your schedule, in which case apply away.
Hands down my favorite class this year. Professor Lieberman is both a gentleman and a scholar. I now more passionately want to be a Homo erectus hunter-gatherer than I did before.
Comprehensive and fascinating explanation of human evolution, but very tough for a gen ed
Make sure you keep up with the readings and ask lots of questions.
Be prepared to do work. It may seem useless to do the readings sometimes, but really, they do help clear up big picture ideas, especially the sourcebook and ESPECIALLY the articles Professor Leiberman himself wrote. The class has a lot of interesting ideas and useful information, so try not to get caught up in the little details. You do have to memorize A LOT, but once you get passed that, you really can gain a lot from the course. You will have to put in a lot of studying for the mid-term and final though to synthesize all the information.
lectures are good, but disorganized and hard to do well
The class is fascinating and generally accessible. Further, the course requires minimal work to succeed.
Very interesting class
Great class that delves in depth into the evolution of the human species. Requires memorization of a lot of specifics, but is worth it.
This is an incredible class, everything that Harvard can suggest. You have a leading professor and top tf's. You have material that influences how to live life. You have classmates who want to have conversations about this material. Lastly, this class provides a base for lots of self-reflection on the world, humanity, and humanity's role in the world. This class doesn't end at the close of lecture; this is the kind of Harvard class that arms you for the world.
A painless way to fulfill your Science of Living Systems requirement.
The professor is truly excellent, but you'd do well to find a core with more consistently meaningful material.
Interesting, painless, good professor.
The material is very interesting, but for someone with no background on the subject, all the memorization requirement is daunting. Having a background on concepts in biology (metabolism, DNA) would also be helpful because the twenty-minute overviews given in lecture might not be enough to help you grasp the material.
Make sure you study the specifics that the professor goes over because the tests are highly based on memorization.
This class is a great way to fulfill your SLS requirement, because the professor is engaging, the topic material is fascinating, and it is laid out so well that it is hard to not follow along. A great way to answer the big questions of human evolution. The class is also constantly evolving itself as human evolution is a dynamic field of discovery. Lierberman is FANTASTIC!
Go to the lectures.
At the time of midterms and finals, it takes a ridiculous amount of preparation, and ultimately, with such a vast amount of material covered for the test, you can study for hours and still do poorly on the test because it might not ask what you focused on in your studying. Lectures are fun and interesting, but the final assessments are brutal.
If you like the material, this is a great course. You will be handling bones in lab as well as measuring teeth and cranial capacity. If you are not interested then labs may be a bit boring, but still MAY help you understand material better.
Don't skip the lectures.  They're really enjoyable, and all you need to know for the exams is on the slides.
I think what you learn is really cool! If you run, take the class. If you are a pre-med, this class is super cool - you learn why our bodies are the way they are. If you want to cure (or to avoid) cardiovascular disease, Type II diabetes, fallen arches, etc then this class gives interesting perspectives. If you want to go to the zoo and be able to tell your kids many cool things about the animals, especially gibbons, gorillas, and chimps then take the class.
Study the details.
This is a great course for those in the HEB department or those in need of a good GenEd.  The lectures are interesting and the lab sections are fun.  There is not excessive work; however, when there are assignments be prepared to spend a lot of time on them.  As for exams, be sure you memorize everything!  That is not a complaint but very important if you want to do well in this course.  Also, Lieberman is amazing and be sure to go to his office hours if you are in this course even if you just want to talk.  He is always willing to talk to you and keeps you interested in the subject matter.  If this course interests you whatsoever, take it!
This is a good way to satisfy a core or GenEd, and the material is deceptively fascinating.
The lectures are interesting. Lieberman is excellent, and the TFS knowledgeable, available, and friendly. There is little week to week work, but heavy studying is needed for the exams. It is easy to do poorly in this class, but with some memorization, it is easy to do well.
There's a lot to memorize
Professor Lieberman is phenomenal, but the course is new, and I would wait a few years for the Q scores to morph the class before recommending it with enthusiasm
There is interesting material to be learned, but it is buried under a lot of unnecessary information and details.
Great class! You should take if you would like a background on how we evolved and how our evolutionary past is relevant today
It is a great, interesting class and Professor Lieberman is enthusiastic, knowledgeable and engaging. Don't be fooled by how funny and nice he is - the class is not especially easy.
It's a good class to take for your gen-ed. It is more heavy on the science than the anthro, which shouldn't be that surprising, but it's something to keep in mind.
It's interesting and fun to learn about how humans evolved.
pretty good but gets a little repetitive...good core nevertheless
Course is more difficult than it appears at first - lots of emphasis on memorization, and there's a lot to memorize.  Otherwise pretty painless course on interesting material that sheds light on our own bodies, with a team of very dedicated and enthusiastic teaching staff.
Very good introduction to human evolution, broad, clear lectures, insightful.
It is an interesting class, but more demanding than it might initially seem.
It's a good gen ed, but it does involve WORK. and labs are graded harshly. Have heard its well curved but not sure how well that's gonna turn out... basically misleads you in how much work it is and how SPECIFIC the test questions will be.
The lectures are interesting, with very cool material (if you find evolution intriguing). You'll also like a lot of the course if you are a runner (and will like talking to Professor Lieberman even more).However, labs are painful (not hard, but painful); they consist of measuring skulls for an hour and a half each week, which turns into mindless, tedious work. In addition, your labs will be graded harshly, even if there was no reasonable way for you to have known the information. Some of the labs are awesome though: we did a lab on running mechanics where we hooked students up to measure their metabolic rates in different running gaits; in another lab, we looked at actual Paleolithic tools (very cool). With the exception of those two labs, I found lab to be monotonous and frustrating, which was really a damper on the course. Likewise, I found the exams to be painful (not hard, but painful). While, with a fair amount studying, I knew most of the material, the final was brutally long and difficult to finish. The midterm involved a lot of annoying memorization. We obviously do not have our grades yet, but the course was constantly graded pretty harshly for a Gen-ed, leaving non-science students at a big disadvantage. Overall, this is a good course and you will leave with a lot of knowledge about human evolution. The highlight of the course is Professor Lieberman; he is a fantastic instructor and individual. My biggest advice: if you take this course, take FULL advantage of the professor at your disposal- talk to him, ask him questions, run with him. I am very glad to have gotten to know Professor Lieberman and look forward to staying in contact with him in the future.
This is a really great course.  Not very easy at first, but if you're willing to keep up with the material, it's definitely possible to do well, and I think it's worth it.  I found the material fascinating, and even though it's an introductory course, I really did get the sense that it allowed me to engage in a serious way with the topic.  Professor Lieberman is an excellent lecturer and the TF's are very kind and willing to offer one-on-one assistance.  I highly recommend taking this course.
The class is very interesting, but too intensive for a general education class.
I took this class as a Gen Ed. While it didn't require that much work on any given week, the exams require pretty intense studying, and the material is pretty esoteric. You have to memorize australopith brain sizes and discovery locations. Most of the class focuses on minute evolutionary details; the last couple weeks show how evolution relates to modern day phenomena, like various diseases and the apparent distinction of race. THAT part is fascinating, but the rest of it? Not really relevant for a humanities concentrator just trying to fulfill the SLS requirement.
ONLY and I mean ONLY enroll in this class if you are prepared to memorize, amongst the main body of the class, dates and figures. Do not take if you want a class you can breeze through. You need to enjoy learning about australopiths, homo erectus, hunter-gatherers etc. because the 1.5 hour lectures are unbelievably easy to sleep through. And you cannot just watch the lecture videos because they do not release them until a day or so before the midterm. I really thought I would enjoy this class but I ended up despising it with a passion.
This class is cool! Prof. Lieberman is a very good lecturer and the labs are a lot of fun.
While the class is a great introduction to many crucial aspects of evolutionary science, it takes on a lot of material for a gen ed or elective course.  The exams require a lot of study time. Lecture is pretty enjoyable though, besides the immense amount of material that's covered.
There are some interesting points about the relevance of evolution to our modern day lives and bodies, but unless you are a science person this class will be mind-numbingly boring. Probably 2/3 of the information you will "learn" and be expected to know is slight differences in the sizes of various bones in various species and in the food they may or may not have eaten.
Lieberman is a good teacher, but unless you really like fossil hominins, this would not be that interesting for you.
there is a huge focus on early human evolution, and only focus on modern issues in light of this evolution in the last lecture or two
Very interesting and well-taught course but near photographic memory is required.
You learn a lot of interesting materials about humans evolved to have the body we have today. However, the class is very dense with materials and the exams are unnecessarily difficult. Really prepare well for them if you want to do well.
This class requires a LOT of memorization.  When you go into the midterm be sure to memorize the dates, locations, and brain sizes of all those species you will have learned.  Know your life history chart!
The course is interesting, but is harshly graded.
You have to memorize a lot of numbers and facts for the exams. Otherwise, the course is great.
You learn some fascinating material from a really engaged and wonderful professor.  Downsides: it's hard to study for the tests and they are difficult.  This is not an easy gen ed, but I absolutely loved everything I learned and I think a lot more people should take it. I think it's totally worth it.
The topic is very interesting but the lectures can drag and the grading is kind of rough.  But Prof. Lieberman is SO great!
I thought that this class had a really interesting look at the way our bodies work, particularly in regards to the evolution of our locomotion.  Lieberman is a really good lecturer and you'll learn a lot of material that's relevant to our daily lives.
The subject matter is interesting, but it's also a pretty difficult gen-ed since the course covers an enormous amount of detailed information you likely have not encountered before. Nevertheless, if you're interested in why humans evolved into the way that we are, it's a good survey/introduction to human evolution.
SLS 16 is an awesome class, and Professor Lieberman really makes it worthwhile. This is not the easiest gen-ed you will ever take (it's actually pretty rigorous), but you learn a lot! Lieberman's lectures are engaging and the labs for the course are fun (lots of looking at skulls!). That being said, the midterm and final were very tough, and count for a good portion of your grade, so you have to memorize all the details and really understand the concepts if you want to succeed. The teaching staff is always eager to help or answer questions, so take advantage of that! And go to Professor Lieberman's office hours--he's the coolest.
Take only if you are an HEB concentrator. This is a tough SLS gen ed and unfair to those who aren't concentrating in HEB. However, Lieberman is terribly smart and a great lecturer. A privelege to study under him.
The course covers some interesting material, and the workload is pretty light. However, I found the grading to be a little nitpicky at times, and also some of the questions are not very well formulated. Nonetheless, I think I ended up learning some interesting things by the end of the semester.
Ah, first midterm is about the first half of the course, final is about the second half. Its just a bunch of memorization. All the graduate students are really creepy/weird/eccentric. Make a point to see the fossils and things offered in class. It's really cool. Good luck!
It's really interesting material, and useful life knowledge, but section is very frustrating.The other problem is that they continually claim that they want you to understand concepts more than anything else, and then test you on extremely specific details for everything they've talked about.
The material is SO interesting, and Professor Lieberman is a pretty good lecturer! The labs are also really cool and interesting. If you're looking for an SLS course, this one isn't too difficult and the workload is very reasonable in my opinion !!!!!
You'll learn a lot!
This class offers a very interesting perspective on human evolution and modern society. Although some of the details can be difficult, as a whole, this course is very interesting and the broad themes are valuable.
Although the material may seem to be tedious at times (teeth, toes, pelvis, repeat) at the conclusion of the course I found that I had learned an incredible amount, and the course was really worth it.
Don't take this course unless you enhjoy science, are ready to memorize, and have a good background to work from. You also have to be ready to look for help elsewhere. Be prepared to sit through lectures that are entirely too long yet rushed so you miss the information that comes up on  a test that the staff truly refuses to prepare you for. Lectures seem even longer because the professor tries to be funny and is petty and biased in regards to his own research and stance on a material. Don't take this as a gend ed, there are easier ways of doing this and much mroe enjoyable ones.
This course is super interesting throughout, and especially when Prof. Lieberman starts getting into the nitty gritty of why humans are so unhealthy today (spoiler alert "we didn't evolve to be health")
I loved this class! Professor Lieberman is awesome, and the lectures super interesting! You need to be interested about human evolution to be able to enjoy this class, and exams require lots of memorization!!
I think this is an amazing class for satisfying the SLS gen ed requirement. As a non-life sciences concentrator, it took a lot of work and studying because many of the students in the class were HEB concentrators. However, it was well worth it; the class taught me a ton about evolution and health. I have become more health-conscious as a result.
good gen ed to take
This is such a great senior spring class. Totally enjoyable (I'm a history major, so I enjoyed studying human evolution) and very relevant to our lives today (in the latter half of the course). Eric Castillo is so helpful and so relaxed, he's amazing. The professor is a great lecturer. Definitely recommend if you need a fun, relaxing, and engaging class!
Take this class. I wish I had taken this class as a freshman. My undergraduate life would have been so different!
If you're interested in the subject, then by all means, take it. Students with no interest in it whatsoever will likely find the class a drag.
BEST SLS OUT THERE. If you plan to go into policy or politics, you owe it to our nation to take this class. Basically, our entire approach to health and healthcare would be transformed if every Congressman and Senator took SLS 16. This class is not about evolution -- it's about how evolution should affect healthcare today. It's one of the most interesting classes I've ever taken, and my friends/roommates not in the class literally ask me to recap what I learned in lecture every week. It's that relevant. Professor Lieberman and the TFs are all fantastic. TAKE IT
This class is f*cking sweet! Don't miss it. You'll learn so much about your body and how to be healthy as a result of taking this class
This class will change the way you see the modern world and your interaction with it forever! It is very manageable if you are not an HEB concentrator, but if you have taken at least sophomore tutorial, this class is so easy (but still very interesting!).
This is an absolutely amazing course. If you're not interested in evolution this will make you interested. If you are you will become even more interested. There may be some hard species names to memorize, but the course is very applicable to all subject areas including evolution, archaeology, paleontology, and public health
This course is a great introduction to themes of evolution and its impact of the world today. It isn't too difficult, and the topics you learn are very useful in the modern world.
It's a good course, but not the most mindblowing.
Incredible fun, incredible interesting, good dinner party talk, great group of teachers.
While the title is Human Evolution and Human Health it is primarily Human Evolution with a touch of Human Health.
This is a great SLS GenEd, especially if you have some interest in health, fitness, or nutrition. Sometimes the class seems tedious because a large portion of the class is spent learning about early hominins. However, once the memorization bit is over after the midterm, the rest of the lectures are very interesting. Prof. Lieberman is engaging and enthusiastic.
Make sure you are detail oriented when studying. At the same time be able to see the broad trends/big picture. You'll do fine. The teaching staff is great and you should go in with an open mind.
You have to look at and measure bones in lab...but the lectures are great and there's only two exams to study for! Great way to do the SLS requirement!!
This course contains important key messages that everyone should know about what it means to be human. Labs are great. The connection to specific health problems is relatively small and at the end. For those outside of HEB, it may be more details on fossils than you really want to know. For those in HEB, if you have heard all of the big ideas in other classes, it ends up only being memorizing really specific details about fossils.
I would definitely encourage this Gen Ed. Most biology classes are a lot of memorization, and this is no exception. However, you do have the opportunity to learn about interesting arguments, hypotheses, and possible causes for human evolution. Professor Lieberman is a really interesting and funny lecturer.
What you get out of actually taking the class instead of just reading the professor's book is1. seeing and playing with fossil specimens2. face time and questions with the very invested professor and tfs3. an sls requirementTake it if any of these interest you
This class is fantastic! Extremely interesting and relevant to your life in ever way. Lieberman is very enthusiastic and lectures are great. One of the few classes I was excited to go to. If you are concentrating in HEB take this class Sophomore year along with your tutorial. It basically does the research work for you and compliments it very well.
Absoulutely take SLS 16! It's a great class and Professor Lieberman is the man!
The class is easy and entertaining if you attend every lecture and take good notes. The labs are an easy way of getting section credit and go by quickly
It's interesting stuff, and it gives you a bunch of gen eds. So that's good. But there's easier ways to get gen eds, to be honest. The tests are pretty hard, and require some real commitment to studying. People say there's a lot of memorization, but it's really pretty reasonable. Lieberman is great. On the whole, probably worth taking if you're at all interested and want some auxillary gen eds, but not vice versa.
This is an absolutely fantastic course for anyone interested in human health. Professor Lieberman gives wonderful, engaging lectures and definitely makes it apparent why the course material is relevant and matters to how we live our lives today.
This was probably one of my favorite classes that Harvard. I spoke to other students in the class who were not HEB concentrators, and even they found it interesting. Lieberman is a very good lecturer, although many of the slides are dense. Katie was probably one of the greatest TFs I've had at Harvard.The exams were a bit tricky, but they were totally fair. They definitely changed it this year and stuck to bigger picture concepts, which made studying a little easier. Even if you are not HEB, take this class!
Although the coursework may be difficult at times it is a very fulfilling and entirely engaging class
This is a sweet class to take for a Human Evolution background. People think they know what human evolution means but this class makes you actually know why and how we evolved. The health part is only the last two weeks of class. The midterm and final are fair assessments but you do have to be prepared to spend a decent amount of time looking at and memorizing lecture slides.
Professor Lieberman is awesome, and the material is really really cool. If you have an interest in the subject, I highly recommend the course.
This class is awesome! The material is very interesting, and Professor Lieberman is able to tell the story of human evolution and health, from chimp-like LCA to Australopithecus to modern-day Homo sapiens, cohesively and in way that makes sense. You learn not only about fossils and ancient adaptations, but also about how our history affects our present health and environment; it's all very cool how it fits together.Labs are fun and the TFs are very nice, helpful, and passionate about the subject. As a bonus, I felt the course was very well-run, in that there was no confusion about grades, assignment expectations, labs, or exams.
Reading the book is not necessary, but a fun and easy way to reinforce your learning!
Good class, HEB students should take along with HEB 97: Sophomore Tutorial, lots of parallel between that two classes.
It's really easy and very interesting. I think the "hard science" aspect of this field is hard to translate into a college class (it seems like it's mostly fieldwork), so the labs are basically all measuring bones and coming to fairly obvious conclusions, so it's not hard in that sense. But the class itself and the ideas we're exposed to require a lot more analysis and thinking and it's really interesting in that sense.
This class isn't too challenging but teaches really interesting concepts, will help you understand why and how humans are the way they are (physically and in some ways behaviorally) and gives a fascinating perspective on modern health issues such as diabetes and obesity.
This course is very easy and very interesting- a great way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement. Professor Lieberman gives intriguing lectures that are well-organized and easy to follow. The workload is minimal: as long as you pay attention in lecture, you really don't have to do any of the reading. So the only regular assignment is the lab that you turn in each week, which is usually very simple and quick. The most challenging parts of the course are midterm and the final, which require a lot of memorization of sometimes obscure details. But even though the course requires minimal effort, you still come away from it feeling like you learned a lot, and have gained a whole new perspective on modern health issues and their connection to evolution. Definitely a worthwhile course to take!
If you are taking this class as a gen-ed, be prepared for the amount of material you are expected to know and know that you are taking this class with many HEB concentrators who are taking this to fulfill a concentration requirement.
I was honestly dreading this class for my concentration requirement and put it off to senior year. This is actually a GREAT senior spring class. Super chill. Time commitment really only lab which is 1.5 hours a week. I'll be honest and say I didn't really go to lecture, but the lecture slides are so detailed. If you don't go to class every week the best thing to do is still keep up with notes or you will be screwed when the midterm/final comes and you have 1100/2200 slides to reviewand I literally do mean 1100 and 2200 slides. Each lecture has 100 slides. But this class is still a great class. Really interesting. Really chill. Eric is a great TF. Take it.
I did not like this class. If you are a senior concentrator who had not taken it like me, you essentially have to take it, but it shouldn't be that way. There are so many great small seminar classes that cover this material if aggregated over 3-4 years. In fact, the category this class fills is obsolete. But again, you basically have to take it as an HEB concentrator. It's way more work than it should be, but lab is ok.
For HEB concentrators, I think that this is the better option to fulfill the anatomy requirement than the other alternative.  I definitely learned some very interesting things about how human evolution and health are related, but I also found myself having trouble keeping track of all the nitty gritty details, which we were tested on.  Dr. Lieberman is a great lecturer and explains things well, so also don't be afraid to take this course if you aren't HEB, although I would say something like SLS 20 might be a little easier if you're just looking to fulfill the requirement.
The material is awesome and the lectures are cool.  People do extremely well so don't expect any sort of curve.  It's not the easiest SLS but its a very cool class.
it is a lot of tedious memorization
It is an awesome class. Take it. As someone who really liked science in HS but then didn't get to take many classes in college it was just the right amount of learning about real scientific concepts and labs while not assuming you know anything.
This class is a lot of material, only take it if you have to.
This is a very interesting class with a passionate teaching team.  For the most part, fair assignments, though be prepared to study a lot for exams.  Useful material that everyone should know.
For any HEB'ers, this class is pretty damn painless.  It's a lot of material, but you probably have covered a lot of it already in other classes.  As for an SLS gen ed class, I think you'd be happier elsewhere.  It's not super interesting until the very end of the class.
This is a great course for Life Sciences concentrators, those interested in evolution and health, or those that just want to learn about our evolutionary origins.
This is a requirement for HEB concentrators, but otherwise, I wouldn't recommend it. The course covers a ton of material, and it can be hard to sit through the hour and half lectures. Lieberman's a fun lecturer and is engaging, but the material is pretty dense sometimes. Exams require you to memorize a lot of details (that won't ever be relevant to you again in life). Again, great course for an HEB lecturer, but don't take it for a Science of Living Systems gen-ed.
It's a lot of material but it's incredibly interesting.
This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard. Professor Lieberman is a great instructor, and has a great teaching style. He also comes with great stories to share. The course is clearly the byproduct of lots of listening to students about what the best way to teach something is and that has shown. I learned a ton of information that I feel is relevant to my everyday life, and I feel empowered by the choices I can now make with this new knowledge.I really think this is one of the best courses I have taken. Yes, I have a few gripes about it here and there. For example, I think that they make you memorize a few things for the exams which is a little unnecessary, but for the most part the exams are conceptual and fair. Overall, I learned a great deal, and this class was definitely worth it.
For HEB concentrators this class will be doable. Do not take this if you are looking for an SLS gen ED. It requires lots of memorization. When Lieberman says "general" themes will appear on the exam, he actually means details. Lectures are tedious, and, at 120+ slides are never finished even in a 90 minute lecture. Professor Lieberman was able to summarize the entire course and what he taught in his last 90 minute lecture. That being said, he includes a lot of repetitive slides in his lectures and hammers in concepts like natural selection. He also tends to talk in circles.
Really interesting subject matter, great professor, lectures can get a little boring and expectations for the midterm and final are a little unclear--you have to know a lot of minute details that aren't made clear. Good way to fulfill SLS though
Great class and teaching staff. Exams are very detail oriented and demand a lot of studying.
Everyone needs to learn about current health problems like obesity and cardiovascular disease in the context of evolution - I took a lot away from the class that will affect my own lifestyle. Early material is tough, a lot of memorization; later material is the interesting stuffLabs are fairly straightforward, exams are fairLieberman is a great lecturer
This course is the best course I have taken that manages to integrate biology, evolution, and APPLY it to modern day life. The material is fascinating, I feel like I came away with a greater knowledge about human history and a better understanding of disease in today's world. The assignments are fulfilling and lectures are fun to go to because Dr. Lieberman is passionate and enthusiastic about the material, which shows in his teaching. I would absolutely recommend this course, even if you are not an HEB or other science major, because the material is interesting and accessible to everyone.
This class is a very hard gened.  There is A LOT of material covered very quickly but it is all interesting and the teaching staff is very nice and willing to help!
I really enjoyed the lectures and thought it gave a great overview of human evolution and evolutionary medicine.  I'd recommend over-preparing for the midterm and final because, although they will assure you that they are interested in the big picture and not the minutiae, some very obscure trivia will appear on the test to separate those who really know it well.
The lectures are really long and full of material, but you really just need to focus on the big picture. Lieberman's lectures can be somewhat "preachy" so be prepared to be lectured on your eating and exercise habits (if they don't match his!). Pretty repetitive and oversimplified for HEB concentrators, but doable. Exams are worth a large percentage of your grade so don't blow them off!
Although this is a fabulous course that I highly recommend, it is much easier if you have some background in evolution/HEB. I would take the course even if this is your first exposure to the material, just expect it not to be a throwaway class.
It is incredibly interesting. I learned a lot about why we are the way that we are and how we got there.
Don't take the class if you need to fulfill a GenEd.  The material gets really interesting at the end of the year but is pretty boring for the first half of the semester.
This is a very dry and boring course unless you are specifically interested in memorizing information about fossils, dates species of hominins and genetic evidence of their existence. The labs in particular are very painful although mostly short.
Lieberman is snarky at times, but on the whole a very good lecturer and very esteemed faculty member. Also, very helpful to take if you have any interest in the authenticity of evolution as opposed to creationism.
If you're looking for a quick and painless Gen-Ed, then this course is not for you. However, if you want to put in work and learn about the implications evolution has on our health today, then I recommend it! Although Prof. Lieberman insists that overarching themes are what we are to learn (and later be tested on), it is these details that matter quite a bit for the midterm and final. That being said, there's definitely lots of memorization to be done!
The later portions of the class that focus on evolutionary medicine, and how culture has shaped the selection of homo sapiens is fascinating, but the vast majority of the course is focused on very pedantic detail.
Don't take this class unless you have to. It is boring and you have to learn a ton of boring details that you forget as soon as you take the midterm.
Lieberman is a boss, and this class it really entertaining.  It can be a little stressful because he covers a lot, but if you pay attention to the major themes you should be fine!
Take this course! aside from being very interesting and infromational about our history as humans on earth, it also is very important to understanding how our history/evolution contributes to our health now a days. Very interesting!
This is my favorite class I've taken at Harvard. The content, professor and TFs are top notch. Take this class.
There is definitely some nitty gritty, but it provides a really great overview of human evolution. Great for HEB-ers who haven't had that basic "what actually happened" class, especially in light of most of the courses in the department that are highly specific (i.e. Primate Social Behavior, Hormones and Behavior, etc.) Dr. Lieberman is a phenomenal lecturer who loves to talk about this material.
Not a bad class but the staff makes the course seem deceptively easy. It's a lot of memorization so if you're not into knowing the dates, brain sizes, and locations of fossil hominins walk away now. Lieberman is a great guy though, you should get to know him.
Despite what they tell you, they are VERY DETAIL ORIENTED.
This class is great!  The first half is a pretty heavy on memorization, but once you have a good foundation of the major steps throughout human evolution, it really is a cool thing to how those steps have a major impact on our current lives.  Bear in mind that this class satisfies an HEB requirement, so most of the class are HEB concentrators, but you really don't need any background to make this a great class to take.
It's a fun class and good to take for a gen-ed.
It is what it is.  Prof Lieberman is quite funny and has great insights.  Soooooo much memorization for the exams, which made it really tedious to study.  Kind of odd final, but otherwise fine.
This was a good Gen-Ed.  I feel like I learned a lot that's relevant to stuff in the news and modern life.  There is a lot of memorization for the tests, but the labs are relaxed and not difficult.
It is probably one of the less painful ways to complete the HEB evolution requirement.  I would caution non HEB concentrators from taking this class.  Almost everyone in the class is an HEB concentrator so it can feel as times as this class is not really a gen-ed.
This class is an excellent way to kill a GenEd requirement while actually learning useful and interesting information.
Great course that teaches you how to apply concepts in human evolutionary biology to the modern world. However, very difficult for people not concentrating in the life sciences. Definitely not an easy A gen ed.
Need to memorize a lot of facts but not too much work other than that and the second half of the course is really interesting
Great class to take to fulfill a science gen-ed or for an elective! Very accessible for non-STEM concentrators and extremely interesting because of the applications to everyday life and health. Professor Lieberman is very enthusiastic and the teaching staff cares about you understanding the material. All of the assignments are pretty straight-forward and there isn't a ton of busy work.
This class is extremely interesting! I highly recommend if you have any interest in evolution. It's more than just talking about how we evolved as humans from apes but also so relevant to diseases, medicine, and more. I would say that if you took LS2, it will allow you to understand the biology behind many of the diseases discussed but it is not necessary. Highly recommend this course.
Amazing class with subpar labs
The lab component is actually really fun. If you want to learn more about human health, take this class.
Lieberman is a very engaging lecturer and provides some interesting arguments and a lot of helpful facts that may be relevant to your health.
I loved this course! Lectures and labs are interesting and engaging.
Cool material, low stress for most of the semester (other than exams). Grading can be a little harsh and nit-picky.
interesting material but be prepared to spend some time before the exams memorizing little details about apes.
This is a really interesting class! Professor Lieberman is a great lecturer, and is really friendly, too. I would highly recommend trying to discuss his work on a Harvard on the Move Sunday morning run. However, labs could be improved, and the midterm and final exams are both graded very hard and the expectations for them are very vague.
Easy, interesting class that's relevant to everyone. Section can be a bit dull but Lieberman is a great lecturer.
You don't have to agree with everything Professor Lieberman says to appreciate the value of looking at modern afflictions like diabetes, heart disease, and cancer through an evolutionary lens. Lieberman's lectures are engaging (though much of the material is contained in his book), and the lab component of the course is fairly painlesscomparing the morphologies of different species in a hands-on setting is actually pretty useful. Definitely not a bad way to satisfy the SLS requirement, but also a viable option as a pure elective.
If you have a strong background in biology, you may find this course on the less-challenging side. That being said, you definitely DON'T need a background in biology to be successful in this class. The workload is very reasonable other than around midterm and final exam time. Take this course! I enjoyed it and found the material interesting!
It's hard, not really a gen ed that is open to the public but more of a HEB requirement and for people who are willing to put in some work
This is a very interesting class with material that could be useful to you for the rest of your life. It paints an evolutionary story to explain the current health conditions of humans and offers ways to improve your health. More useful than most Gen Eds. The exams are a little bit too difficult, but the rest of the class isn't overly complicated.
This is a great class. The labs and exams are a lot of busy work but there is a lot of room for you to do good. Dan Lieberman is a great lecturer this class really helped me see the world from a different perspective.
This is a great class! I would definitely recommend it for someone thinking about biology/HEB but not sure if they want to do it. The course is interactive and very reasonable on the exams.
This class is tons of fun! It's interesting, engaging, Professor Lieberman is great, and you learn a lot with minimal time commitment. However, do not underestimate the midterm--it takes more time than you would think, so practice structuring arguments in a timely fashion (think big picture + evidence when studying).
Fascinating course, but even if you're passionate about the subject it's not necessarily an easy A because the exams are difficult to do well on. TFs themselves admitted that it required a 'graduate-student level' answer to score full points on the essays, which were the bulk of the exam grades. Given that the midterm + final were 60% of the final grade together, there is a weird reluctance from the course staff to organize the material towards the exams. For some reason the TFs are vehemently opposed to releasing grading schemes that might tell you what they're actually looking for. Review sessions would be more helpful, but would require more effort from teaching staff, if they were prepared with a structured overview of the class topics that would be great. Exams in this class are disproportionately stressful compared to the enjoyable rest of the semester because of the determined vagueness from the teaching staff.
This class will be more rewarding if you're interested in human evolutionary history. If you're just interested in health the first two thirds of class won't match your interests.
If you're taking SLS16 because of the HEB requirement, especially if you've already taken LS2 or other more advanced classes, you'll likely find a lot of this class pretty basic. If you're taking it as a Gen Ed, you might be overwhelmed by the amount of information thrown at you. However, a key thing to keep in mind is that you do NOT need to know the scientific details. This class is about big themes and ideas, and you will not be tested on the specific details. Dan tries to make this as clear as possible, so don't get bogged down in the lectures. Labs are fun and very chill, the material is interesting, and you'll learn a lot about how humans have evolved and what health problems we're now facing. It can sometimes be a bit of a "Dan Lieberman show" as a lot of the information he chooses to present is the stuff he personally supports, not necessarily stuff that is agreed upon entirely by the scientific community. But very low workload during the semester, tests are a little more difficult but not too bad (focus on writing strong scientific arguments), and the info is cool.
Gives a great background in human evolution
This course is a lot of fun. Although it says it's a gen-ed (and kind of is) you will definitely benefit from having a personal interest in human evolution and health. You learn a lot of information, and lectures sometimes seem like a lot of notes. What you actually need to know about the course is the general thematic elements. Exams are created and graded very fairly.
This is NOT a class for someone just trying to fulfill a Gen Ed. Focuses more on the nitty-gritty of evolution than on the medical aspects advertised in the class's first meeting.  You will be tested on a LOT of details that are not emphasized in class.
This class has some awesome material and great labs. You learn lots of cool stuff, but it can be overwhelming if you are not an HEB concentrator.
Great class and Professor Lieberman is amazing!
Professor Lieberman is a wonderful professor who teaches engaging, thoughtful, and content-full lectures. Lectures are a little long but really comprehensive. Labs never lasted the full two hours and were totally manageable, although they sometimes felt a bit disconnected from the rest of the course. Exams were hard, and hard to study for because they contained a ton of information and were very integrative with long essay questions. But the workload otherwise was very manageable (I also found that the textbook readings weren't necessary, although they may have been helpful.) I think that the evolutionary lens on health and medicine is not only interesting but important, and definitely not discussed enough. It's also great to finally have a better understanding of human evolution, since it describes where humans came from. I had a love-hate relationship with this course and some misgivings, but I definitely learned a lot - if you're interested in evolution, consider taking this, especially for the interactions with Professor Lieberman.
If you're a junior or senior who has taken LS1b, HEB 97, and LS2, you will alternate between being bored and struggling to keep up with all of the details. If you are intending for this to be the only science class you take in college, be prepared for a lot of memorizing. I would recommend this class most to sophomores who have just declared HEB; this is a good enough way to knock out your evolution requirement, but you should take it at the same time as HEB 97 and not long after taking LS2.
I would make sure that you're ready for a good amount of memorization and work in preparation for exams. However, this class is very good for understanding evolutionary medicine and how the health problems of today began and should be dealt with.
I think this is a course for HEB concentrators even though it is offered as a GenEd.
This class is extremely interesting and informative. It offers the evolutionary perspective on human health, which is not often talked about. Professor Lieberman is really nice and a great teacher who is very enthusiastic. He also nicely incorporates things he is particularly interested in (like barefoot running!) completely relevantly. The class doesn't require much work except around midterm time. Labs are only 2 hours and the assignments are very straightforward. Not too stressful but very interesting!
SLS 16 is a really interesting class, and I was never bored in lecture. However, my grade suffered because 1) I'm bad at memorizing pure numbers 2) I was a freshman interested in HEB also taking the course alongside HEB upperclassmen and 3) it's definitely hard to take SLS 16 with other typical freshman pre-med classes such as LS1b and PS1...and then Expos. 10/10 would not recommend this. Three lab classes=death.
Overall a good course, but there's a fair amount of memorization required when it comes to information on various hominins, so be aware of that if rote memorization is a weak point.
If you're interested in learning about evolution, health, or disease, this is a great class. The lectures are interesting and engaging, and although the first half of the course is more detail-oriented and can be dry (telling the story of human evolution through the different stages of ancestors), the second half and its emphasis on how an evolutionary perspective sheds light on health and disease is fascinating. Professor Lieberman is engaging and interesting, and knows so much. Talking to him and asking random questions during office hours is an added benefit of taking the course.
Excellent course if you're interested in human evolutionary history. The instructors do a great job at making the topics relevant to human health issues. Fair warning though, this course is very challenging if you don't have a background in HEB, and you really do need to memorize all those dates, sizes, etc.
Take this class.
Great way to do SLS requirement and great requirement for HEB concentrators.
Lieberman is a professor not to miss! He's funny, engaging, accessible, and a leader in his field. Evolutionary medicine is an amazing topic with real world potential, and this class is a stand-out. It also has a very light workload with a big payoff.
This is an interesting and illuminating class that you should definitely take no matter your interests. It will give you a new way of thinking about your health.
Course information is very interesting but assessments are difficult.
They grade you absurdly hard, but I think this is valuable information to understand, and is an example of the gen ed program succeeding.
This is a great course that I recommend to anyone. It has made me more aware of where the human species has come from and what impact that has on our daily lives. Very interesting
This is probably not the easiest SLS Gen Ed out there.
If you are at all interested in the topic of human evolution and human health, you will enjoy this course.
There's a lot of archaeological and paleontological ground covered to get there, but Prof. Lieberman creates a real evolutionary narrative that informs modern public health issues. It's a light and fun way to fulfill your SLS requirement (but if you want something more generally useful, SLS20 is your game).
Very interesting course. Not too much work. Awesome professor.
Fair warning to non-HEB concentrators, this class is full of HEB people who have a strong background in the material and are taking it for a concentration requirement. I think having so many concentrators defeats the purpose of the gen ed/makes it harder for non-HEB people. That said, the material is great, you will learn a lot, and the health component is super applicable to our lives today. Also the TFs are a great resource. Heads up, you really do need to memorize all those numbers for the midterm. Don't let Lieberman saying it's about the big picture fool you.
The content is incredibly interesting and you will greatly enjoy being taught by Professor Lieberman, but it is a lot of work and a lot of information to know.
There is a lot of memorization involved, but it's a great course.
This class is outstanding for anyone who is not an expert in this field. Literally, anyone. Take it and you will love it.
Every year, people still take this class thinking it is about human health, but only like the last 10% of the class covers this. I personally liked the class because I'm an HEB concentrator, but so many non-concentrators struggled and disliked the little details that as I concentrator I enjoyed. I wouldn't take this as a non-concentrator, but as a concentrator, it's not that difficult, does have a lot of memorization, but overall not too difficult class (especially as an upperclassmen concentrator).
Lieberman is a cool dude and the subject is pretty interesting, but only gets super duper interesting during the second half. The first half is super detail oriented (i.e. learning the brain size of dozens of species, etc.) but the second half is more integrative and related the subject to a worldly scale.
Potentially the most interesting and enjoyable SLS Gen Ed you could hope to take. Professor Lieberman is amazing -- funny, personable, down to earth, engaging, and patient. It's actually fun to attend lecture and listen to him gush nerdily and humorously about human evolution. For anyone who has even a remote interest in the subject matter, this would be the perfect course. Labs are painless, though the midterm certainly isn't. Do not skimp on studying for that one, you'll regret it.
Overall, I greatly enjoyed this course. I found the topics discussed fascinating, and I think I really did gain a better view of the world, and also learned how to be healthier. The first approximately two thirds of the course is much more focused on evolution than health, and this is the part that I think could definitely get boring to some. However, the final part of the course is more focused on recent changes (agricultural and industrial revolution), then putting it all together to discuss modern health. This is the part that I feel is especially interesting and is important for everyone to learn about. Even though the first part of the course can be sort of dry, you're not expected to know ridiculous amounts of detail. There's a 90 min lab/section almost every week, which typically helps to understand the material a bit more, but the lab activities (usually working with fossils and making various measurements) can get repetitive. But the exams are very fair; the final exam even gave us 8 "long" questions in advance, so we could outline them, and 4 of them were on the final exam (along with some short questions we had never seen before). Professor Lieberman is a wonderful professor, and is interest in the subjects is contagious. He does a great job of making this a gen ed course that I think many people will enjoy and benefit from. It's probably not the easiest gen ed course to do well in, as there is a great deal of material. However, the work load is minimal; just one straightforward lab assignment almost every week. You really just need to understand the lecture and the course book (which align extremely well). I think watching lectures is fairly important thoroughly understanding all the material. You probably could get it from just reading the course book, since there's basically nothing in lecture that's not in the course book, but you'd have to read it several times probably. Luckily the lectures are videotaped.
Interesting, but unfortunately surprisingly unreasonable in its tests! You think you understand the material and then the exams are very unfair.
It is a wonderful introduction to the world of human evolutionary biology because it is both engaging and applicable.
It is a very interesting course conceptually, but be aware that you will be asked to know things a HEB concentrator would have to know, such as very specific evolutionary data.
I loved this course during the first half of the semester: if anyone can make zygomatic arches and early hominin fossil discoveries sound fascinating, it's Professor Lieberman. He's funny, engaging, and filled with enthusiasm about his subject; he will answer questions or meet with students anytime, and will personally show you some of the bones or fossils he's worked with. The midterm did not give students enough time and was graded harshly, and the class average on it was around 67% (not one student got a 90% or above on it). I was left with little or no idea about how I was doing in the course, how grading would work, or what the final would look like, and my enthusiasm quickly devolved after that.If the grading becomes clear and the exams are improved, I think this is still a great course that can teach one a lot about evolutionary theory, 'what it means to be human', and how to approach healthy living. Take advantage of the teaching staff's office hours and do not take the exams lightly.
I really enjoyed this class and think anyone with an interest in health AND evolution will too!
It is definitely possible to do well in this class if you're not HEB, but be ready to put in a lot of work (mostly with regards to studying for exams). If you're looking for an easy gen ed with low workload, this probably isn't it. That said, Lieberman is amazing and lectures are never boring.
The exams are a bit harder than you may expect--be prepared to memorize lots of information. It's worth it though!! This class is amazing and teaches you so much about human health and evolution in general. Take it! And if you're a sophomore HEB concentrator, take this with HEB 97 because they're reinforce each other and they teach the same info during the same weeks coincidentally sometimes.
Speaking as an HEB student, this course, while advertised as a Gen Ed, brushes over/presumes a lot of basic HEB knowledge, making it difficult for non-HEB students. Lecture content also seems very biased, with the professor's opinions and theories seemingly taken as fact with opposing theories not discussed or brushed over.
This is a really cool class with great material. Exams are a little challenging though.
This class is really interesting but requires a great amount of memorizing for the midterms and finals.
