If you are a humanities concentrator and you are looking for a decent SLS to get out of the way, this is NOT the course to take.
Very helpful class if you want to learn the basics of human biology and public health. Great class for seniors
This is an interesting anatomy/physiology course. Not the most exciting class, but if you like a public health perspective, it is a nice way to get in an SLS.
The course provides some interesting and useful insights into the human body and does not require more work than any other Core/Gen Ed.
A very worthwhile class if you have little training in biology and would like to learn about the human body/common knowledge that all should know. Might be a little challenge when medical terms are being thrown around as though you've breathed them for the past 20 years of your life, but take advantage of the resources available (textbook + TF), and you'll be glad to have learned so much by the end
take it!! great course to learn about human body! very easy and relaxed
This class is a painless way to fulfill a GenEd. The professors will throw a lot of material at you (This is a physiology course after all), but rest assured that you're not required to know a lot of details for the exams. I think sections are pretty interesting too since you get to ask questions about cool things you care about.
This is a great physiology course for students who want to gain an understanding of the human body without taking an extremely intense pre-med class. Be prepared for a lot of emphasis on public health.
If you work reasonably hard, you'll do really well. The faculty is terribly approachable. The sections are amazing. The psets are interesting and the labs are actually fun!
It is really interesting and laid back. You will learn a lot but not be overwhelmed by minute details. The teaching staff is really nice and interesting. The things you learn will be relevant to your life and the work is not very strenuous. The labs are fun, the topic sections are really awesome, the work is not busy work and it is generally an enjoyable experience.
This was an awesome class- definitely take it!
Really fun, very easy, especially if you had any science background in high school! Awesome class because you learn the material because you're interested, not because you're forced to.
It's interesting, well-organized, and doesn't require much work at all.
This class is ridiculously easy. The flipside is you will not learn much unless you are very self-motivated.  Good senior spring class for ocial science/humanities types.
Professor Brain is great and the material is very relevant. This is a great General Ed. class.
The labs and p-sets are easy and fun, but the exams can be graded surprisingly hard. A good gen-ed for humanities students.
This class is absolutely amazing--the professors and TFs really care about making sure you learn, and the section topic leaders go out of their way to help.  The labs are amazing and low pressure, and the faculty is almost over-qualified to teach undergraduates.  I really enjoyed writing the research paper at the end; we had so much help, and the experience was very personal.  I HIGHLY recommend this class, especially if you just want to know and be able to talk about the important issues in public health and medicine today.
The course teaches you very important things in a fairly painless way.  More importantly than anything though, the course staff truly cares about your success, which makes the course that much more enjoyable.
It's awesome. Take it.
There isn't a ton of work, and the guest lecturers for section aren't tested so you can just sit back and enjoy the material.
This is a great and painless class! The public health components of the course are really interesting! Definitely take it if it fits into your schedule!!!!
Very well-taught class with very interesting material
If you like biology, this class will be too easy for you. If you don't like biology, you won't like the subject matter, but you won't struggle with it. It's one of those in-between classes.
It's a pretty easy way to satisfy the Science B (or SLS) requirement. The material is interesting, useful, and very relevant to life in general! It's not quite a science class, but a public health class in which you learn about some science. I found this focus on public health a bit frustrating and detracting from the science, though other might feel differently. For exams, focus primarily on lecture notes and lecture slide! Don't bother buying the textbook. You won't ever need it.
you probably will not learn all that much, but it's incredibly easy
This class is great! The information is relevant and interesting. You will never fall asleep in lecture or section. Basically, it is similar to AP Bio with a public health twist. Joe Brain is a great lecturer and always makes lectures captivating. The professors are eager to help students. The assignments are challenging, but not overly time-consuming.
Good introduction to the human anatomy with some integration of public health concerns, but its a typical gen ed - you can't teach a really great class to a room full of people with such differing backgrounds; some people are bored senseless, some people have to try in order to master the material, and the some students just don't really care.  However, if you need an SLS, this is a good one to take.
Too bad professor Brain is retiring because this was a great class. Not too difficult, very convenient as lectures were video-recorded, and I learned a lot in a fun way.
It seems like as long as you went to lectures (or watched the videos) and did your assignments, you'd do fine.
This course (although no one will tell you until it's too late to drop it) is full of pre-meds taking the class as a joke elective. If you are not pre-med, DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE. If you are pre-med, go ahead but I mean why would you waste your time like that...anyway, spare yourself. There are (maybe) less painful ways to fulfill the SLS GenEd than this course. The material is far too complicated if you're not in the sciences already.
This is a great class.  It is my understanding that Professor Brain will no longer be teaching next year (too bad he isn't a neurologist), but I believe the co-professor will take responsibility next year.  She was also great, and I would give it a try if you want to complete a low key science requirement.
I think this is a great class that gives you a good overview of biology and anatomy, but also the applications of that knowledge. The labs are really fun and interesting! In general, it's great for those who don't have a strong science/biology background; however, there are definite advantages to those that do.
Great way to fulfill SLS gen ed. Fun and helpful for everyday life.
Easy. Learned a lot of really relevant biology. Tests are pretty easy.
The course is an amazong overview of human physiology. Unlike other anatomy/physiology course out there, I think this one emphasizes more on the more practical aspects of human physiology and has a public health component. I learned a great deal in a short period of time and I can proudly say that I now know how the human organism works. Joe, Nancy and Stephanie are amazing lecturers. It was a pleasure listening to them speaking about these matters.
You definitely learn all those things that you were always curious about.
Great class - labs are a little pointless but overall a gem.
Great course to supplement an interest in health, anatomy, and physiology. Low stress and high reward. The teaching staff are very supportive and the class gives a great foundation for important topics.
This is a wonderful class! It's easy, the course instructors are awesome and kind (unfortunately, Joe Brain is leaving, but Nancy Long Sieber and the other professors are good too!). It's a great sampling of all the body systems and also has public health components. The course is: lectures on Monday and Wednesday, 2-hour section once a week (one hour is to review lecture material, the other is for a specific topic -- mine was on sleep, for example), problem sets only every few weeks, and only two 2-hour labs, which were fun and easy.
This was an enjoyable SLS gen ed. It helps coming into the class with some previous science background but its not necessary. Its easy to do well in the class as long as you just keep on top of the material. The second half of the course throws a lot at you, so be prepared at the end during finals studying.  Overall, a painless way to do the SLS gen ed.
human biology course, with a focus on public health. Labs and section can be a nuisance, but weren't difficult.
Sections were a waste of time, but interesting material.  Good way to fulfill SLS requirement.
The class teaches you a lot of material that is relevant to life.
This is a great way to knock off sls. Prof Brain is an excellent lecturer, there is little work, good material, interesting labs, overall just solid.
Everything you look for in a perfect gen-ed: stress-free, applicable to real life, and fun.
this class is fairly easy but if you don't go to lecture then you'll have to really cram before the tests. The 2 hour sections aren't bad (don't be intimidated) and the labs are super easy and interesting. Nothing in this class is too hard, it just occasionally requires some effort. The sleep watches are awesome.
The class is interesting and I learned a lot of information, even as someone with a biology background. Labs were really fun and interesting. The workload was low.
I loved learning about health and myself! One of the best gen eds I've taken. Make sure you're interested though since I know people who really didn't like the material in the class. The course staff, however, is undeniably one of the best.
This was the best science class I took at Harvard! I loved section especially because there was so much good food provided during section :D
The information provided was interesting and useful, especially as a pre-med.  The class is extremely boring, though.
Great class. Especially if you've already studied the human body in high school, this will be a very pleasant review. The lecturers and lectures are engaging, the labs are fun and interesting, the psets are easy, interesting, and fairly graded. The sections are divided by topic and taught by specialists in their field. Basically the perfect gened.
Make sure to get an early start on your final paper. Everything else is very straightforward.
It's not too hard and not a lot of work, but can get boring because a lot of the material you probably learned already. But perioidically something really cool comes up that you may not have heard before, but you have to sit through the boring stuff to pick up on these things.
I took this class to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement and was a little disappointed. I didn't feel like it was challenging enough and I think there were many missed opportunities to learn more. The labs are super cool and enjoyable and the teaching staff is so kind and helpful.
brain is superbly familiar with teaching!
Especially if you are not getting your degree in a hard science this class is a good way to learn about important public health issues and information one should know to live healthier and longer.
Its a pretty straightforward course and I think the topic sections are great. You get to learn indepth about one issue in the topic section. I think the lectures are a little dry so watch out for that. Overall, though you learn a great deal of important science concepts and public health concepts-all the material is definitely very useful.
Great course, really interesting lectures.  Problem Sets are fair.  Labs are fun.  Term paper not so much, but it seems important.
Not a big fan of this class. Lectures were dreadfully boring. Professor Brain was the only good thing about them but he's done teaching this course. Other two ladies, including the one that is taking over, made me fall asleep. Problem Sets are a joke. Exam was extremely difficult. Combination of review/section is helpful and interesting but completely draining. Two hours is too long for a section. If you're a pre-med, this class will be a joke for you. For everyone else unfamiliar with biology, don't take it.
This class is incredibly lightweight - I spent ~15 hours in total doing all of the work assigned throughout the semester. It's fun, but you won't learn a lot. Do take it, though, if you are looking for a lightweight class.
It was more of a commitment than I would have liked. 2 hours of section a week in addition to 2 hours of lecture a week. Lectures were interesting, but to a point. If you're like me, you'll be annoyed when they cover in depth systems of the body and then spend less time on more interesting practical matters like public health/ policy. As a non-science concentrator, it was hard to learn technical names for things and be expected to know body systems.
This is a great course!
Take this class for a good SLS gen ed... But be wary, there is a lot more to it than what the syllabus says. You basically need to attend all lectures in order to understand things. And what they teach you in lecture is only just the beginning... They don't test you on the physiology but rather the worldly affects... Plus 2 hour sections and three 2 hour labs and psets and a research paper. It gets to be a lot... Just be warned.
Great course.
This class was very interesting and a great overview of the human body, but at the end of the semester I feel that I didn't get the chance to go into very much depth.
It'd be a nice senior spring class without all the premeds in the class.
take it if you like biology
This class is a good introduction to the human body and all its complexity, and the lab assignments are fun and engaging.
Surprisingly, there are a lot of premeds that take this class.
this class will give you a good base of knowledge about the human body, but is harder than it looks!
The subject matter of the course is great, and it's a relatively low work load! However, it is a gen ed, and with that comes a bunch of logistical bologna that can be irritating. In light of that, I would still recommend it!
Very light gen ed. You learn a lot. I loved the public health aspect of the class (applying biological knowledge to solve societal problems). The paper lets you explore a problem of your interest.
Even if you're not a science person, take this class!!! One of the best classes I took at Harvard, the material is really thorough for those that are not science people, and the professors are incredible lecturers. Also, I came out of this class having learned so much about health, the state of health around the world, and how our body works. Definitely useful knowledge, and such a great class! Take it!
Great class. Just the right blend of physiology with public health. Take it if you want an understanding of the human body, how diseases work, and how policy can be implemented to deal with public health problems.
This is a super easy gened, but it's a very boring class. The class staff is darling, but the material is just presented in a pretty boring fashion.
This is a GREAT science Gened to take. Although some of the lectures might sound intimidating, often with a lot of bio and chem jargon, you will NOT need to know all of those details for the exams, which are extremely reasonable and only test basic concepts. This is a great introduction to the human organism, and what you learn is actually useful to daily life.
This course is very especially, especially if you're from a biology/life sciences background. A lot of the material will be review. The topic sections and section leaders are really interesting and make this class worthwhile if nothing else. The lectures are very boring though, and completely stopped going after the midterm.
Really, REALLY interesting class! The teaching staff is great, and they relate the hard science to the current and useful very well!
An interesting course for your general education requirement.
Great gen-ed, essentially AP biology through a public health lens.  Nice way of applying biological concepts to larger social problems.  Teaching is excellent and coursework is reasonable.
Really manageable way to learn a lot about how the human body works - I hadn't taken biology since 7th grade, so I really loved understanding the nervous system, cardiovascular system, reproductive system. Very practical, and accessible to people without science backgrounds.
This course was a great way to fulfill the SLS gen ed. I gained a lot of useful knowledge about the way the body works and was allowed to pursue something of interest to me in the topic section.
This is an easy class for people who have taken lots of science classes already. Humanities concentrators be warned, this class is filled with pre-meds who have already gone through this material several times in much more detail so they may ruin the curve for a class you thought was going to be a breeze.
great class!
If you need a science course, take this class. If you don't need a science course, still take this class. The TFs are accessible and will go above and beyond the call of duty to really listen to what YOU need and to make sure that you succeed in the course. Professor Brain genuinely cares about how you are doing in the course and will stop and talk to his students before and after he lectures. Professor Shore's lectures were always so well articulated and so easily understood. I think EVERYONE would benefit from understanding the human body, disease, and public health and this course is the one to take if you believe the same-- especially if you are trying to escape those pre-med classes but still enjoy biology and public health. This class is also an awesome way to fulfill your SLS17 credit.
Great physiology course with a taste of public health
This is a tough class for people who didn't take bio in high school or have forgotten the bio they learned in high school.  Most of the students who take this class have either taken other bio classes at Harvard or took AP Bio in high school.  That being said, the course staff are great and very accessible.  The topic sections are interesting, and there is little work to do for the class.
You learn so much about the human body in one course, it's incredible.  I'm a Gov major and just took this to fulfill SLS requirement, but I found the course absolutely fascinating!
This is a great course! For the amount of time you have in a semester, you learn a fascinating amount of material with out having to kill yourself. It is definitely an easy to manageable course load and the lectures are pretty engaging actually. Dr. Brain is the man.
An alright course, but you can get by easily without learning too much.
don't study too much in detail about the physiology. think about the main ideas.
really cool way to fill sls
This is an extremely interesting and applicable class, however, does require a substantial amount of time and work.
Dude this class is awesome. Prof Brain is the most adorable, sweetest man and gives hilarious lectures. This class may seem scary at first, with all these pre-meds and 2 hour sections, but it's the easiest thing ever. FInal and Midterm both took under 30 minutes, lecture is optional, section gives you free food, tons of resources to study from, and you learn stuff that you actually should probably know for life
There are a ton of premed students taking this class (WHY??) and they seem to already know everything, so you, a humanities concentrator, are left sitting over there wondering what is going on. The midterm was hard. The p-sets - expect a 90/100 regardless of whether you spent 20 minutes or 2 hours on it. There's a "quota" for how many 100s they give out and when you ask what you could have done better, they don't know either! Otherwise, the section leader is very helpful and Jenny is super nice, but the overall experience is frustrating and stressful.
Really interesting class, and not that hard, but definitely require studying time (since it's physiology, and there are people in this class who know almost everything already given their background, so the curve is to your disadvantage if you are looking for A).
This is a good opportunity to learn about the horrible illnesses that result from an interuption of the body's homeostasis.
Study hard for the midterm!
There is some work that goes along with it, but it is a very good, through course where if you do all the work given to you, you will do well in the class.
It is a fun way to learn about your own body, and the labs are amazing.
The professors are absolutely wonderful. They love engaging with their students and really take the time to explain different topics. I LOVED the labs! This class is a wonderful integration of anatomy and public health
Best teaching staff ever. Material is easy.
The lecture portion with Shore was always fun engaging and easy to keep up with. When Seiber is lecturing she seems unsure of herself and is constantly training of and mumbling making it hard to understand and hear her. She also loads the slides with words and spends about 3 seconds on them making it so you cannot read them or catch any of the information. It is hard to keep up when she is lecturing but thankfully everything is recorded so you can go back and slow it down
For a person looking for an interesting, somewhat easy Science GenEd, I would definitely recommend this one. The material is interesting and aside from the Psets there isn't a lot of other work to do. However, if this course is being co-taught by Nancy and Stephanie, be aware that Nancy is not an effective lecturer. She mumbles a lot, and goes SO FAST!! Stephanie is much slower, clearer and I ended up really absorbing the material that she taught.
The material is pretty dry, however it is a fairly easy gen ed if you are willing to put in the time to memorize the concepts.
This course will teach you quite a bit of valuable information, but it will require more from you than other gen ed classes.
Loved this class as a pre-med. Finally got to learn anatomy while keeping it context of the world.
This is a great and informative class.
The class is interesting, but assignments are sometimes overly logistically complicated or unnecessary. One of the lecturers is very clear and helpful, but the other is sometimes hard to follow.
Interesting class.
This course is not too difficult, and the professors are very helpful/accessible. The main thing I didn't like about the course was that it was boring. Section seemed unnecessary, and nobody liked being there. I did enjoy doing research for the term paper at the end. The midterm had some sneaky questions on it, which I didn't like. Take this course if you want a pretty easy, if sometimes boring, gen ed.
This class is a flaming pile of garbage. There is no reason to take it: SLS 19 is easier, and SLS 20 is much more fun, meaning that whatever variable (enjoyment/level of difficulty) you optimize for, this class should be left out.I don't think I've ever taken a class that was so terrible from top to bottom. The two Professors collectively share absolutely no charisma or computer skills (for example, the Canvas naming structure was consistently infuriating: instead of naming a lecture "Cancer.pptx", for instance, we had "Version1-Cancer-2017-May-FirstEdition-Lecture-Slides-494719-Shore.pptx". It was nearly impossible to navigate the Canvas site in an efficient way). My 6-year old cousin made a powerpoint on boa-constrictors for his kindergarten class last week. His slides were more aesthetically pleasing and better put together (less typos, for sure) than the lecture slides for this course, which consisted of google images shoddily copied and pasted in and Powerpoint's basic default template. I nearly fell out of my chair when one of the Professors switched her slide background to blue (so bold).Of course, aesthetics are far less important than course content; SLS 17 failed miserably on this front as well, though. I learned about 10 times as much in my rural public high school's physiology class, and I'm from a place where a cattle ranch is the main attraction in the town center. The lectures consistently failed to produce any sort of intriguing or concise narrative. In a similar way to how Econ 10 is terrified of calculus and thus many of the explanations feel like magic 'hand-waving', this class is scared of doing any 'real science', so we are consistently stuck in some sort of confusing twilight zone. I heard far too many times "that's just how it is" in response to an insightful question from a student. Ultimately, my learning process from the class was memorizing what a couple of hormones do and a basic cookbook of physiological responses, and then regurgitating it on the final. Naturally, 'regurgitation' is not a word that comes to mind when you describe a healthy, wholesome learning process. Apparently this was also supposed to be a class on 'public health', although I honestly feel like I learned nothing on this front (whoa, it's important to educate people on the harmful effects of smoking? I didn't know that!).There was no central 'source' of information (the lecture slides were awful, and I was told to avoid the book) and truly no course staff member that I felt comfortable and confident asking questions of. The TFs for this class were not nearly qualified enough to lead a section of bright, inquisitive Harvard students. The team was led by Feiby, a person who, it seems, was entirely committed to making sure we learned nothing all semester. Her section was laughably bad: we would spend about 40 minutes talking about 'logistics', and then she would do her best to unravel what we had been learning for the semester by discussing the material in the most confusing way possible (before nearly always letting us go late). Labs and review sessions were abysmal; I would write more but I have a character limit.The only good part about this class was that the teaching staff did seem genuinely nice, and actually interested in helping students learn. Honestly, though, that makes it more of a tragedy that they did such an awful job. Ultimately, someone needs to remind Shore and Sieber that they are incredibly lucky to be awarded the opportunity to give lectures about something they care about to some of the brightest students in the world. At the end of the day, this is a Harvard course: that means it should be an AMAZING course, especially because physiology is a pretty cool subject. I suggest making an effort to take advantage of this opportunity, or stepping aside and handing the reins to someone who won't waste thousands of hours of Harvard students' time.
there are slightly better ways to take out an SLS requirement
Interesting, useful material but a lot of busy work and often poor course design
It's an interesting class that presents material about physiology (which applies to everyone) in an accessible way.
This course is a gem. Interesting with low workload.
Definitely- a great class to enhance understanding of physiology and public health.
Interesting course and a good way to learn more about personal and public health
If you've taken LS2 or something like it, this class will pretty much be a breeze, but some of the public health angles cover pretty interesting and relevant topics. P-sets are easy, although it can take a while to find current statistics for some of the questions.
This course was a nightmare. I took it because the Q evaluations said it was a great class, stress-free,etc, but it was the total opposite. Lectures were so disorganized and difficult to follow, review sessions were equally as disorganized and generally a waste of time, and no matter how hard you study the exams will cover things you've never heard/learned before in your life. It's disappointing too because the material has the potential to be interesting, but lectures were just unbearable. That being said, assignments and labs are very doable and my TF was wonderful, but honestly if you're not a science person and are looking to complete an SLS gen ed painlessly, this is not the way to do it.
It's a pretty easy class. You can look up a lot of questions.
This class is not as easy as the Q guide scores from the previous year say. If you are not familiar with science/biology/human physiology, you may find this course pretty challenging like I did. There are easier ways to fulfill this Gen Ed I think. The midterm was very rushed - we only had 50 minutes to an hour and it was not curved or graded super leniently. Problem Sets are graded check minus/check/check plus, but they still take a while to complete. Also, the course has both a 3 hour final exam AND a 5 page final term paper, which is kind of a pain.
A great way to learn about health from the personal and public perspective. Very interesting class with a manageable work load!
It's an easy SLS, just be prepared for a fair amount of work, but the grading is really lax. Also no one in the class will really want to be there.
For those who have less extensive science backgrounds, this course provides an eclectic mix of information on human physiology at a pace that will retain your interest throughout the semester--assuming you're interested in human physiology in the first place. However, it is so poorly organised it's hardly worth taking. If the instructors do not promise a total overhaul of the structure of the materials, the website, and the consistency between TFs, do not take this course.
Don't take this class. Yes, it's easy, but everyone (including the teaching staff) treats it as a joke, so no one is invested or engaged enough in the class for it to really be meaningful or educational in any way. Made me question the value of the Gen Ed system and my Harvard education.
The section component of this course had nothing to do with the material learned in lecture, which was frustrating because you couldn't better learn the material outside of lecture. The first part of the course was decent and the material was not as hard. The second part of the course got very technically (biology wise) especially for a Gen-Ed. Exams are decent, although they are very applied. Lectures can be dry. The P-Set components made no sense and if you don't get 7 check pluses, then the P-sets are worthless.
The grading is incredibly arbitrary, like every easy gen-ed. Somebody needs to get A-s in these courses, and you better hope it's not you. Take a class that's actually attempting to be legitimate instead, put in the extra 2 or 4 hours a week, and guarantee you'll get an A instead of taking an "easy" class that really just means your grade will be determined pseudo-randomly because the class is so big and nobody really cares that much.
This class  is a really easy gen ed. I was dreading the sls requirement and this one is very doable for non-math/science people. The main thing is to pay attention to deadlines when they roll around -- they're so far and few between that the deadlines can be easy to miss.
Only take it if there are less people next time or the section component has changed.
I definitely think that this is one of the better SLS options. It wasn't a walk in the park, but the work wasn't too bad.
Unless you are pre-med or in the sciences or have the time, skip this course. Do not be fooled by shopping week.
This course is more personal health intensive. It focuses more on human anatomy and biology rather than public health.
Please just take this. Very manageable and easy to fit into any schedule. Maybe gets a little weird towards the end with the term paper due a day before the final, but this is a good class.
The class has a super manageable course load and is pretty interesting! Not a lot of work from week to week. Sections are annoying and useless, and assignments can be pretty tedious.
It is very easy pass/fail.
You won't learn much, spend your Harvard education in a more engaging course
I would recommend this course if you are really interested in physiology. This class only touches a little bit on public health issues and does not have a nice balance of the two. The problem sets can also be a little challenging as well.
I took this class needing a SLS GenEd, but I don't know if it was the best option. Lectures were not super engaging, and you'd probably be better off just reviewing the lecture slides outside of class. Section was also terribly led and felt like a waste of time most weeks.
This class is definitely interesting and engaging and can provide you with a valuable background in public health and physiology. If you've already studied anatomy/physiology/public health, then you probably won't have a hard time (which is unfortunate, because the class can then become an "easy A" and you won't get much out of it). The lectures are pretty similar to the ppt slides. You are required to buy a textbook (but you can honestly get away without referencing the textbook/doing the required readings).
Boring unless you're very interested in how diseases and health problems work in the body, and the body processes associated with them. Low workload but hard tests due to how vague and confusing they are
This is a fairly easy gen ed, but be prepared to memorize a lot of information and put in some work.
Some of the course material was interesting, but much of the class revolved around memorizing and regurgitating minute details from the lectures or textbook. Exams were really difficult, even with a cheat sheet. Sections were generally not helpful, and the class was more disorganized than expected. The PSets were fine, sometimes enjoyable. The final paper was one redeeming aspect of the course, and I felt like I learned much more applicable/relevant information from researching for the final paper than from other parts of the course. A GenEd that was much harder and more stressful than it really needed to be.
On a positive note, this course will teach you a lot of interesting and useful stuff about the human body and will probably convince you to be more health-conscious. However, if you weren't interested in physiology and microbiology in high school, I would recommend that you find a better way to fulfill your science gen ed requirement. The work isn't super hard, but you will likely find lecture quite boring. Plus, most people in the course aren't interested or engaged at all, so section is rough.
Ridiculously easy SLS gen ed. Go to lecture though it is easy to just skip and fall behind and have a terrible night watching them on two times speed before the exams
Relaxed class with interesting findings about human physiology
Do not take this class unless you have a serious interest in learning human physiology. Although it is a general education course, I feel as though we were required to know relatively in-depth information about a wide range of topics. Also, because there is a lot information presented during lecture, studying for the exams can be rather difficult; it's hard to truly discern what exactly may appear on the test. Overall, I did not have a very positive experience with this course, but I can imagine that someone who is interested in learning more about the human body may appreciate the course. If that is you, by all means consider taking the course. But if you are simply looking for a SLS general education course, I would strongly encourage you to consider other options.
Although this class is often billed as a gen ed for non-science concentrators, it was very enjoyable to me, a pre-med. Most pre-med requirements focus in on very specific metabolic processes, or ways to analyze and collect data for certain types of research, but this class takes a different approach. It was actually the first class I have taken at Harvard that felt like a pre-med class, in that it looked at how the body works at the level of organ-systems. I learned quite a bit myself, because for someone who wants to be a doctor, before this class I could recite the steps of a GWAS or the mechanism for polyketide synthesis, but I couldn't tell you how a heart attack occurs, or what the risk factors for how stress impacts the body. Taking this class has taught me a lot about those processes and many more - and gave me what felt like my first real taste of thinking like a physician.
DO NOT TAKE THIS. It is really hard for a gen-ed science class. You are required to know a ton of information about how the body works are the cellular levels and it is very complicated. The lectures are super boring and the exams are really hard. Do not take this if you're not a science person.
This is a good gen ed to take if you need your SLS. it's not too hard and its decently interesting.
Not too hard and covers interesting topics. Lectures aren't the most informative but problem sets are helpful for really understanding the material.
Limited workload, helpful introduction to human physiology.
The two lecturers are so sweet and great teachers all around. There are various components that go into your grade, but each part takes very little time to accomplish. Psets are due roughly every other week and took about 2-3 hours to complete. The final essay was short and allowed us to tackle any issue that we found interesting. Lastly, the midterm and finals were both very fair. While they did require a bit of preparation, being able to take in a sheet of notes takes out a lot of the burden. The biggest downside was the section component. Sections were poorly run and material taught in them were not exciting in the slightest.
I really wouldn't recommend this class, but I also know the struggle of trying to fulfill science gen-eds. So it's hard to say. This class is horribly disorganized and you're really required to either come in with a good deal of biology background from high school or basically teach yourself everything. Section is a joke, and the lectures are all over the place, and generally move too quickly. Midterm and final are no joke, too. Our class average was a B.
work load is pretty light, material is hard to grasp at first
Do. not. take. this. class.
The class is straightforward, the material is interesting stuff relevant to your health, and its not too time consuming (but will require some work).
take SLS 19 instead
This class will teach you a lot about both the individual human body and how to approach these issues from the public perspective. A lot of the material is very technical, but if you put in the effort it should not be difficult. In an all it's a reasonable way to knock out a gen-ed.
Great class with a very manageable workload. Highly recommend for SLS requirement or just an easier class to supplement your concentration requirements
Work hard for the midterms/final. Grading is semi-arbitrary on the midterm. The rest of the course was interesting and pretty useful. Staff does well being accessible and open.
It's premed, not public health :( the syllabus misrepresents the content, and the tests are really different than the content taught. All that's a shame, because it's really interesting stuff. Probably should avoid if you would be unhappy with getting a lower grade than usual in one class.
Great class. Lots of different components, but they are all fairly straightforward. Not much in this class will really trick you. You do have to watch or go to lecture or read the book. Though the exams and assignments are not very very challenging, there's a lot of material in this class, so keeping up with it is key to doing well on those exams and assignments. If you're looking to actually learn something in a gen-ed that won't kill you, take this class.
Go to office hours. The professors and TF team are very helpful. They will help you understand what's going on. Start studying early and writing your paper early so you can go to them with questions. Rewatch the lectures instead of reading the book. This and doing the PSETs will help you on the exams. Make your own study guides.
Take this class over SLS 19
A great Gen-Ed to take if you're looking for a class that is accessible to non-science folk yet delves deeply into the material so as to give your tuition the bang for its buck. Prepare to cover lots of material but overall, the class content is consistently interesting and the workload (some p-sets, exams, and a short term paper) is manageable. Don't get the textbook! It's expensive and you will never need it. Not even once!
You know why you're taking it.
The course is a great run through some important physiological topics, and it includes a lot of need-to-know information on how the body works. Would recommend even if you're not a science concentrator because the lectures are interesting and the material is very important!
take it if you are organized and a quick learner
Definitely one of the better SLS gen-eds to take. You will have to deal with both a final paper and a final exam, but the final exam is not cumulative (aka it will only deal with things you learned after spring break) and the research paper isn't TOO difficult.
Good course if you want to know how your body works.
Easy, but there's a lot of busywork. It really sneaks up on you.
The material is interesting for the most part and its a pretty good way to fulfill SLS, but the course structure is confusing, and there is a decent amount of work, even though the work itself isn't hard.
This class is designed to be doable, and I daresay easy. Just stay on top of the lectures and readings, and ask questions when you have them (the earlier the better). Stephanie and Nancy are responsive to emails and willing to help.
Extremely easy way to fulfill the SLS GenEd requirement. The quality of the actual class is definitely a function of how good your TF is.
The lectures are very interesting and the course load is super manageable!
eh.  it works for an SLS requirement but wasn't my favorite.  Not as hard as some other classes because a lot of the work was graded check/check+.
Great class. Interesting and painless way to fulfill a Gen Ed. Memorable lab opportunities (ex: dissections) and very reasonable workload. Subject material is often highly relevant to your personal health. Teaching staff is dedicated to making sure that you have a positive experience.
This is a good course, but just realize that most students will not be engaged. The teaching staff tries really hard, but it's difficult because so few students seem to actually want to be there.
I highly recommend this class to anyone who wants to fulfill their SLS requirement in an enjoyable and interesting way. There is not a ton of work, with 4 relatively painless p-sets and no lab reports, and the work that is required helps you think about what you're learning in a way that prepares you for the final project and midterm/final. It never feels like busy work. You'll learn a lot and will actually think about solutions to global health concerns.
Even if you have little to no previous background with the material this course will walk you through it all. The labs are very low key but instructive- loved them. Stephanie in particular was an engaging lecturer and the entire team was more than willing to meet outside of class and explain things in more detail. I was deciding between this class and Global Nutrition as my SLS gen ed and I am so grateful I chose this one!
Good class that covers interesting material.  Lectures are generally interesting and assessments are generally fair.  I appreciated the period course-correction that took place.  For example, after realizing that the grading on the first Problem Set was not so standardized, the course staff decided to change the grading to grading based on completion, with bonus for extra good answers, which I thought was very productive.  Also, allowing us a note page for the exams was really appreciated and made the class less stressful.  Some parts of the class could use better organization (for example, the answers to the problem sets were never actually posted, even though we were told they would be).  That being said, overall, it is a fun and interesting class that provides a nice overview of human physiology and isn't too challenging.
Great Gened!!
