The material honestly brings life-changing perspectives to life and nature. It's an easy course but that also means it's tough to crack the curve.
Interesting material - Prof. Losos was a delight to talk to. But, lectures can get boring.
It is a really fun class that isn't too time consuming, a great GenEd.
Exams are much harder than you think they would be.
Evolution is possibly the most interesting and mind-blowing concept of the whole scientific world. The class is extremely well organized and crafted (lecture notes, videos, etc.) Even if the tests were hard at times, there is absolutely no reason for which anyone should not take this class.
Great low impact course that is also very interesting.
I would suggest the course to anyone who wants to be able to evaluate scientific claims more critically, offer factual arguments for the existence of evolution in a debate, or pick up fun facts about animals.
This is definitely one of the best SLS classes out there, it's an underrated one.  Not a lot of work, really interesting subject, and great lectures and section.  You'll actually learn a lot and won't have to work hard for it.
Non-scientists with some interest in biological questions, even if for a sociological or philosophical purpose, should find this course interesting. Students that are very concerned with academic seriousness, may find this course silly at times, but the underlying substance of the course is undeniably serious.
Easy bio gened which doesn't require too much memorization, and with fun essays instead of problem sets. Don't expect to learn a large amount of technical science though, just the broad ideas of evolution.
Looking for a fun, easy, and enlightening class to fulfill your Life Sci Gen Ed requirement? Take this class. Losos is great and truly loves his field. He is also wonderfully accommodating, posting slides, lecture notes, and lecture videos online for the modern student.
This is the well-taught, comprehensive and entertaining introduction to evolutionary biology that you've been looking for! Anyone interested in evolution - and you should be - should take this class.
This is definitely a course designed for non-bio people. I found all the material very accessible and interesting. Professor Losos is so committed to his field and his enthusiasm is truly infectious; his passion for what he teaches made me want to love it, to. Also, TF Martha Munoz made section a really enjoyable experience--she is truly passionate about her work and communicates that wonderfully.
While a very interesting lecture-based course with dynamic section-based discussions, the only reservations I have with respect to recommending this class is the practically draconian and perhaps more glaringly inconsistent grading styles of the staff.
If you are looking for a relatively painless SLS core that also touches on fairly interesting material, this is a good bet. The work is minimal, the tests are straightforward, and Losos is a compelling lecturer.
Professor Losos is a great lecturer. Every day I looked forward to coming to lecture, even though the class was videotaped. The topics are fascinating and the TF's are great. You should definitely take this course if you need to satisfy your gen ed requirement for SLS. It's not too much work and a lot of fun.
One of the best classes you can take for Gen Ed. The lectures are fun and engaging and Professor Losos is always entertaining and enthusiastic about his topics. Word of warning though, watch out for the midterms as the wording can sometimes be awkward and you can lose a lot of points if you don't read the questions REALLY carefully.
Great class!  It is super interesting all the way through and gives you a good introduction (and actually dives pretty deep) into evolution.  Professor Losos is friendly and a good lecturer.  He makes his lectures interesting by telling you about a lot of strange creatures.  Not super work-intensive, there are three short essays and readings each week but the readings are really interesting and not from a textbook!  Section was fun and we got to visit MCZ, see their preserved lizard collection AND play with real lizards.  Loved this class.  It actually made me interested in biology after a terrible high school experience.
With a few improvements, this class could be excellent. Evolution is super interesting. Animals are cool. Low-energy lectures, unfortunately, are neither cool nor interesting. But if you're looking for minimal work and  relevant material, this is a good fit.
Great lectures. Get Martha as your TF. But be prepared to be disappointed at how uninteresting and meaningless the exams are.
If you are looking to fulfill the Science of Living Systems requirement, this course is one you should consider. It's pretty manageable, and the subject matter is rather interesting.
