This class is a fun way to gain a longer-term perspective on botany, ecology, and evolution! I really enjoyed Professor Knoll's lectures and stories, combined with a small class environment where we all got to know each other a bit and could discuss the material, as well as hands-on labs with lots of cool fossils.
It is jam-packed with interesting information. I would recommend it!
This class is really well-taught, and its small size is very conducive to active learning. The material feels fresh and relevant because the lectures have a good narrative structure and contain many references to current research.
You'll walk away with a greater body of knowledge. It is a very intellectually enriching course.
It is an interesting class that isn't too much work. I would definitely recommend it, especially to give a paleobiology perspective to anyone in OEB.
This course is a comprehensive survey of the plant fossil record, and thus the deep history of the most ecologically important multicellular organisms on the planet. Students who complete the course will be able to read the paleobotanical literature and to initiate their own research projects.
If you like to learn more about earth history and the fossil record, this class give a great introduction into the evolution of plants and their fossil record. It really gives a different evolution history because plants are very different from animals. So it's interesting to see the important players of earth history, who are often eclipsed by the dinosaurs.
To do well in this class, you'll have to spend a lot of time covering the material. Go to lecture every day, because the book is super dense, and Andy's lectures frame all the material in a much more manageable way.
A good introduction to a slightly obscure topic.
If you want an in-depth look into large-scale evolutionary processes, this course is an excellent guide, especially if you are interested in plants. If you are interested in the evolution of the biosphere in general, this is the place to look, as photosynthetic organisms were pivotal in shaping  the climate in a way suitable for "higher" organisms. The value of the course goes beyond just thinking about "plants", though, because it places evolutionary concepts such as convergence into context.
