Even if you know it all, the lectures will be a riot.
This was a fabulous, fabulous class
take this class, even if you're not a science concentrator, it's fun!
The teaching staff is unbelievably friendly and knowledgeable. I think they knew all of our names, and said goodbye to all of us individually when we left the final exam. The even told us to come visit them in their offices/labs if we had any more questions! Profs Berry and Hoekstra were model professors--some of the best professors I've had at Harvard.
It's a great way to inform yourself on a theory which is widely accepted, but not always as widely and fully understood. It's very pertinent to modern day science, and there's the added benefit of being able to walk away saying that you've read "On the Origin of Species" in its entirety.
take it if you are interested in the subject.  not otherwise.  not a gut.
Worth taking for what you learn.
Good intro into evolutionary biology
Dr. Berry is a treat; the material is interesting
Beware the atrocity of grading. Otherwise, this is an amazing introduction to an amazing subject. It introduces you to things that are fascinating and that uniquely refine and enrich how you see and understand the world. I frequently will talk to my friends about things I learn in this class, from the minor details like the intermediate steps of cetacean evolution to more complex models relating to phylogeny, or the arguments in _Origin_, because the ideas are so exciting.
Don't be afraid to ask questions if you don't know. It's often likely that others didn't catch that topic or understand that explanation as well.
The class was a lot of fun -- both the professors were engaging and incredibly knowledgable, and it's a great starting point for evolutionary biology studies.
If you're a bit smarter at bio than I am, I highly recommend this course, just because it's really interesting material and Hopi and Andrew are so amazing and fun.
it is very interesting, bt reqires a lot of work and attention.
Take it only if you haven't already taken OEB courses (it's mostly material that's covered in other courses, though not explicitly), if you're interested in the subject matter, or if you're just starting out in the OEB concentration.
Go to lecture! They're fun.
a lot of fun, the best parts of evolution
Great class. No bio background necessary, interesting material, enthusiastic professors, and light workload. Can be taken by science majors and non-science majors alike. Highly recommended.
very fun
Awesome professors
Andrew Berry is great and you definitely learn a lot in the class.
It was one of the best classes I have taken.
I would recommend that all biology majors take this course, especially during their sophomore years. The information presented is very useful for future biology classes and research (I say this having taken the course during my senior year...it would have been useful to know this information before beginning my thesis). Also, the duo of Andrew Berry and Hopi Hoekstra is unbeatable.
I think OEB 53 is a course that all biology concentrators should take--it gives a great overview of evolution.
This is a great class.  You will find yourself learning (and retaining) a lot while also enjoying yourself immensely.  Highly recommend.
It is a fun and interesting course.
This class has great lectures taught by charismatic professors.  Interesting, and not too difficult.
One of the most interesting and best taught classes you can take at Harvard. The grading can be frustrating but it's worth it.
Andrew Berry is the most engaging and fun lecturer ever...
TAKE THIS CLASS. Let me tell you about myself. Before I took this class, I was dreading taking Science B. All other subjects I enjoyed, but biology--I was convinced biology was just for people who couldn't handle the rigour of chemistry or physics and that there was nothing really much in it that I, at least, wanted to know about.  This class has completely and totally proved me wrong. I was missing a whole way of seeing the world and the life around me. I had been ignoring so much! I became hooked--not in the sense that I've been converted to a biologist, which I haven't, but in that I understand what it is that biologists find beautiful, and that, I think, has enriched my life to some degree. Every time I saw a video in class, or learned a cool example of evolution from lecture or section or at the museum, I would go tell it excitedly to my friends, like some kid who had a great day at school. It was probably the best class I took all year--certainly the one in which I learned the most. But, why should *you* take this class specifically? Because it's interesting and engaging and well-taught. Because Andrew Berry is a hoot, and Hopi just as awesome. Because learning about evolution is important, because it's everywhere, because it makes the world make sense. Because reading Darwin is good for your soul. [That latter claim would find some strong opponents, but I don't think they ever really read Darwin; if they did, they would know how much he perceives in the world, how much he thinks about it,   how many details he has observed in which he has found his elegant argument supported again and again.] Take the class--you won't regret it.
From this class, I've realized that evolutionary biology is currently a really exciting field to do research in, and a nice combination of pretty description and cool examples (the legacy of the naturalist's approach to biology and studying real systems that exist in diverse ways in the world) and increasingly quantitative methods brought to bear on the profusion of genetic data we have recently gained access to. This class does a good job of exposing students to the basics of both aspects, weird and interesting evidence from nature and the attempt at formulating semi-general laws from this evidence.
A relatively painless science class.
The Professors in this class make lecture an enjoyable experience.  Outside of class, both are personable and humorous.
It's a great class
You'll look forward to lecture for this OEB 53. You should take it.
Watching Hopi and Andrew lay it out on the table is entertaining as well as valuable in that you see more sides to the debate. One otherwise might not have known it was a debate.
Some of the best professors at Harvard but still very difficult and didn't correctly assess the material.
It's a good course if you're looking for an introduction to evolutionary biology. Andrew and Hopi are such a good team as instructors. Reading Darwin can get really difficult and tedious.
It's extremely interesting, lectures are informative and very entertaining, and it's taught by two very intelligent and wonderful professors.
One of my favorite classes at Harvard!
The class is pretty manageable, but don't forget to do the Darwin chapters. As dumb as it is sometimes to read through the whole chapter (because repetitiveness is one of Darwin's specialties) they'll frequently test you on some pretty random stuff in the exams from these chapters that don't really help you understand the concepts much.
This class is an incredibly insightful journey into evolution. Although the lectures have a light-hearted, comical atmosphere, they are packed with pertinent information. If you give this course the attention that it deserves, you will be rewarded by the multitudes of fascinating things that you learn. It is impossible to leave this course without a passion for the methods and discoveries of evolutionary biology.
Great course. Andrew Berry gives interesting and humorous lectures. The material is interesting and you get to read the entire Origin of Species.
great and dedicated teaching staff coupled with a great course structure/interesting material made the course very enjoyable.
Too much reading and busywork for senior spring, but I would have really liked it if I was a sophomore.  The lectures were amazing, it made me look forward to going to class.
Go to lecture and go to section!  Despite what Hopi or Andrew may say at the beginning, take notes, don't just sit there.I would recommend this class to anyone.  But come with an open mind, don't see it as a Science B or whatever because then you're wasting a seat in the class.
Very interesting material useful to both concentrators and non-concentrators alike. If you are studying any sort of biology, this is a great class to take. And if you're looking for an elective that's very doable, it's nice for that as well.The professors really breathe life into the material and lecture is surprisingly enjoyable. Only three problem sets over the entire semester and each one only takes about one night. The weekly Darwin guides require you to do some reading, but you'll be able to tell people you read The Origin of Species when it's all said and done. Midterms were very reasonable and tested fairly. The final was fine, too, but make sure you give yourself adequate time to study. There's a final paper in this class as well, so you want to make sure you plan accordingly.
Don't let Andrew Berry's greatness mask the fact that Professor Hoekstra is also awesome.
The instructors are amazing. The TFs are fantastic. You'll actually learn something.
This class was definitely the most fun of the classes I took this semester; partly because the workload is fairly low and the material engaging, but I think mostly because of the strength and enthusiasm of the two lecturers. They really make an effort to get to know you, and the classes are full of jokes and interesting videos. It's a great introductory OEB class that I'm glad I took.
the course material isn't always interesting but the professors make the course worthwhile
Fun class. Lectures are great!
Awesome class. If you're interested in OEB and looking for a class to try it out. I highly recommend this. It's not too esoteric and you will do fine without a super strong science background. Regardless if you are a science concentrator I also recommend it. The professors are amazing and they will literally be the funnest lectures you've ever had at Harvard, promise.
take ls1b first!
The class is fun and interesting.  One thing that is strange (about this class and OEB midlevels more generally) is the tremendous overlap in material with LS1b, OEB 10, and other OEB midlevels.
Do the practice exams so you know what to study for the exams!  GO TO LECTURE!  They are some of the most amusing lectures you will see at Harvard, filled with sex, creationism bogus, and british accents.
Take this course for some awesome Berry-Hoekstra teaching and to learn all you want to know about evolution.
The only reason I would fail to recommend this course to someone is if they had a huge aversion to scientific subject matter.  Even then, the class is interesting and approachable and I feel like provides information that is applicable to many different areas of study.
TAKE THIS CLASS. The material is interesting. The lectures are fun. And Andrew Berry and Hopi Hoekstra are two of the best professors around.  It's not very hard or time intensive but you still end up learning a ton.
This is one of the best classes at Harvard. The material is fascinating but Hopi and Andrew could make anything fascinating. The team of TF they have chosen were also fantastic and dedicated to helping students along the way. Actually reading the origin of the species cover-to-cover is certainly worth it too.
most amusing lectures you will ever attend for a science class!
Great professors. Evolution wasnt' my thing, but this class has made me appreciate it and understood how much Darwin is/was the man! Recommend to any science concentrator or to non-science concentrator that want a cool class that really examines the role of evolution in the past and the present.
Very interesting subject material--it sort of made me an atheist though because the arguments for evolution are so convincing.  Study the lecture slides, they are the heart of this course. Textbook didn't help much or the assigned papers. You can also get away without really reading Darwin--just read the annotations and you'll be fine.
Every OEB/HEB student should be required to take this class!
Do not pass this up. It's fantastic! Professor Berry and Professor Hoekstra are dynamic lecturers who are truly passionate about their subjects (even if their passions are Drosophila...). Very well structured - it follows the outline of the Origin of Species which is an awesome book you read throughout the course. The class is not too difficult. It is a fun biology course which teaches you stuff you really should know.
Worth it for the hilarious biology-related quips you'll remember from lecture!
This class is taught by two really awesome professors and the material is really interesting, but I wouldn't recommend taking it if you've already taken OEB 57.
This is the most fun science class you will ever take. Both professors are super friendly, funny, and genuinely enthusiastic both about the material and about teaching. They play evolution-themed music as people are arriving at lecture. They take you on a ballin tour of the MCZ. This class is basically the shiznit.
The professors are great for this course. However, make sure you have an interest in the subject material, as it can be very tedious at times.
One of the best at Harvard.  Totally doable (though not without a smack in the face on the first exam) for the interested non-science person.  I took it without LS1b after taking Janet Browne's Darwinian Revolution course because I got caught by the evo bug and it was really fun to learn the science.  Andrew and Hopi are FANTASTIC lecturers and willing to go the extra mile to meet with you in office hours.  TFs are equally excited to teach the material.
Go to class! Profs. Berry and Hoekstra are the best.
This class is a great (and fun) introduction to evolutionary biology. The teachers present some of the most important aspects of the field while still highlighting today's debates and uncertainties. It's a joy to sit through class.
This class was awesome, both Hopi and Andrew were great lecturers and the course material was presented in a way so it was always interesting. The Darwin reading can be a lot given the little amount of time we spent on it in section but it always comes up on the tests so its definitely worth doing.
Taking this class will really make you want to concentrate in OEB (which you definitely should!).
This class is a great introduction to evolution and natural history, and touches on topics spanning speciation, fossils, molecular genetics, and sexual selection. Andrew and Hopi are great lecturers, and the lectures themselves were interesting and often included fun videos (like of slugs mating and birds making nests). I found the class really manageable in terms of workload-- it was my 5th course this semester. I definitely recommend it!
Dr. Berry is a great professor, with a broad sense of humor and a British accent who just makes learning *fun*. And he's also willing to talk outside of class whenever; he loves teaching and still knows a hell of a lot about the science behind it; he's the best of both worlds (his wife is an extremely famous evolutionary bio research professor!) Dr. Hoekstra is like him, but younger and American, and they make a great team.
The material is interesting, the lectures are awesome, and you will learn a lot of the history of biology.
Perfect way for non-OEB concentrators to experience a class with Andrew and Hopi!
A great course - awesome instructors, interesting material (if you're into OEB), and just fun in general.
LOVED THIS CLASS!!! ANDREW BERRY!!!! HOPI HOEKSTRA!!!!!
This class is amazing. I would recommend it whole-heartedly. The professors are really fun and are great people to know.
The professors are fantastic, and this will give you a great background for any future classes in HEB/OEB. I think it would also make a great Core class for those motivated to learn some really interesting science.
Everyone thinks they understand what evolution means, but there's a lot more to it than what you learn in high school. This class is important to your understanding of the world. It's detailed science, but it's a lot of fun.
OEB 53 is very well taught by a combination of one of the most outgoing professors here at Harvard, and the sweetest/nicest professor I've ever encountered/heard of. The concepts are explained very well, and lecture is generally engaging. I think one thing to consider, however, is that if you aren't so great at genetics or OEB, it will be a major struggle.
SO MUCH FUN.
This class is great! The professors are awesome, the subject matter is really interesting. You do need to be on top of the material because the exams can be quite detail oriented, but there's really no reason not to take this class.
This class will give you a really great overview of evolutionary biology-- it is interesting and not a lot of work.
Professors really care about teaching, and it's almost worth taking just to get to know Dr. Berry and Dr. Hoekstra.
Andrew is the man and Hopi is simply a sweetheart. The class is really interesting and isn't that hard. Overall really enjoyable and clearly taught by people who really like the material. If you are looking for a fun science class I strongly suggest it (even if you aren't a science person and never took LS1B just email Dr. Berry and you'll be set). If you are a science person it should be fun and a breeze. TAKE IT! I mean one of your professors called the Cambrian Explosion "An orgy of evolutionary creativity."
The lectures are very entertaining, and relatively educational. It's easy and fun.
This class is really only for people who love evolution and the history of evolution.
Professors are extremely passionate, humorous, and engaging, and because of the nature of the subject material, you'll leave the class having a better understanding of your place in the universe (which is not a small claim). Also, the class has field trips: We went to see a musical, and I touched a dinosaur bone!
This class is awesome-- lectures are fun, and you learn a lot. The professors really make an effort to learn everyone's names and definitely care about teaching the class and making it enjoyable.
Amazing lecturers! This class is like stand up comedy mated with education.
One of the best courses at Harvard! Great lectures, very reasonable workload, the exams are easy to prepare for. Take it!
This class is AWESOME. Take it if you are interested in biology even the slightest bit. Hopi and Andrew are amazing lecturers - I have never been so engaged in such a big lecture class before. And the material is really fun - evolutionary biology is very down-to-earth and the concepts are easy to grasp because they're so apparent in the life around us.
It's Andrew Berry, go grab a warm flat beer with him at the pub.
Overall, a strong class with excellent lecturers. Beware that there is a lot of reading throughout the semester (mitigated by the fact that there were only three problem sets). Andrew and Hopi provide an engaging overview of evolution and evolutionary biology, so if you're interested in those topics, I would definitely take this course. If you're looking to actually learn something from a Science GenEd/core, this is the class for you!
it's the best class ever. you should definitely take it. not too much work, and so interesting!
Take this class, whether its for a concentration requirement or a science core. Andrew and Hopi are great lecturers and take care to get to know all of their students, which makes the class a very fun atmosphere.
Take this course simultaneously with LS1b! When you get to the pop. gen. part, it will be a breeze because you already learned it in OEB 53. There were quite a few other areas of overlap as well.
You will do well as long as you can think logically
It's worth taking!
I took this class as a spring semester senior as an elective and am so happy that I chose to take it!  The teaching is incredible, the workload is VERY manageable (but don't blow it off - you need to know DETAILS for the exams), and the material is incredibly interesting.  I definitely wish I would have taken it sooner so that I would have been exposed to the awesomeness of the OEB department earlier, but it was a wonderful way to round out my college education.
Great professors.
Andrew Berry is the bomb.
Both Professor Berry and Professor Hoekstra are excellent lecturers. I also enjoyed the fact that the course tracked On the Origin of Species as we read it.
The course is a detailed exploration of evolution, more so than a core or historical course on evolution.  Because of that, I would highly recommend it to every biologist, and how could I not? You get great professors, good reading material and by the end of the semester you learn everything you need to defend evolution and more.
Awesome class. Take it as early in your college career as possible, it is an excellent foundational class.
Best class I've taken so far.
This is a really great class with two fantastic professors.  You will obtain a thorough knowledge of evolutionary biology from two of the most entertaining professors on campus.  Together, they are a dynamic duo.  While section is a little dry, the lectures are definitely worth it.  I don't plan on pursuing OEB at the moment, but I would recommend this class to everyone, even non-science concentrators!
Be prepared to read a lot of Darwin. It's important stuff, but it's dry. It would be worth it to have read the whole thing in the context of a class where you can discuss the ideas. Also, Andrew Berry and Hopi Hoekstra make the class SO worth it. Great class!
You will come out of this class feeling like you have learned remarkably little, even if you did everything the course required. This is a class where everything you're expected to know is covered in lecture. Which oddly isn't all that much. With a small amount of material, you're going to have to be totally sure you get everything right.
Take it early if you're going to take it.
This class is very well taught and enjoyable, although there is considerable overlap with (the interesting parts of) LS1b. You will gain a thorough understanding of and appreciation for evolutionary thinking.
This class is absolutely amazing.  The lectures are wonderful, the material is interesting, the professors are the best there are...I enthusiastically recommend this class for anyone who is even slightly interested in evolutionary biology.
You should take a course with Andrew Berry before graduation, and this is a solid one for sure. It's no where as easy as I thought it would be going it. This class requires solid work and dedication (there's a lot of material covered and Darwin readings are long), but the difficult exams really helped me consolidate learning. Mallet can be a hard to follow in terms of his main points but he's a sweet guy who really cares about your learning.
This class is AWESOME. Andrew Berry is an amazing professor, and the material is SO interesting. This is one of those classes where you learn crazy new things then go and tell your friends about it at dinner. It's a lot of work, but is absolutely worth it.
It's a very friendly course -- you'll definitely come away having learned things, even if a lot may be review depending on how much background you already have. I highly recommend this if you're just interested in learning more about broad concepts related to looking at biology from an evolutionary perspective.
Similar to LS1b. Interesting material, tough exams
This class is great!!  It is fun, relaxed, and informative.  It is not much work, but there is a final project, which I recommend starting relatively early.
The course is great and both Andrew Berry and Jim Mallet are wonderful lecturers.  I would just say take advantage of office hour; if you aren't having trouble comprehending material, then enjoy their personal company.  Also, the textbook was great supplementary reading.
Andrews lectures will be absolutely amazing.  You can't miss this class.
Dr. Berry's teaching is probably the biggest reason to take this course. Lectures are very lively. The material is interesting, although there was quite a bit of overlap with LS1b (which could be good or bad, depending on what you're looking for).
If you have any sort of interest in evolutionary biology, I absolutely recommend that you take this course. If you don't, take it anyway! Every single lecture was fascinating. The professors were infinitely engaging, knowledgeable, and friendly. The TFs were all wonderfully approachable. The three problem sets were relatively painless and prepared us well for the exams. The final paper had virtually no rules.  And we even took a behind-the-scenes field trip to Harvard's Museum of Natural History!
Dr. Berry is so much fun to listen to. The material is interesting if you like evolutionary biology and the workload is fairly light. Evan is a great tf too, so if you take the class try to get section with him! I feel like I have a broader view of biology now which will be useful going forward in OEB.
Don't sweat about the Darwin. The first few chapters are interesting, but if you slack off a little on the readings it's ok.
take the class, for Andrew Berry is an entertaining lecturer, and you get out of it what you give it, especially out of the paper. It is a little annoying to have a final paper in addition to a final exam, though.
Evolutionary biology is fascinating and everybody ought to take a class in the subject. The lectures and problem sets for this class were a little bit hit or miss. I was taking it as an elective, and as an alternative I would probably suggest OEB10. I really enjoyed having the opportunity to read the Origin of Species, though, and I liked the historical perspective of this class. It covered more advanced topics in population genetics than had been covered in OEB10 and included a great trip to the museum of zoology.
If you want to get a comprehensive overview of evolutionary biology, take this class. The material is engaging and interesting, and the professors are entertaining.
GREAT subject... Dr. Berry is incredibly interesting and engaging.  Dr. Mallet was hard to listen to
Lectures are interesting, and section is really awesome depending on your TF, but the problem sets and exams left a little to be desired.
Great class, always attend lecture as it is very  educational and engaging
So cool! If you have any sort of interest in evolutionary biology, you will love this class. Mallet is a good lecturer, and Berry is phenomenal. It's a bit tough to keep up with the textbook readings (but let's be real, who actually always does ALL of the readings...), but the work load is manageable. Tests are a little harder than you might expect, but the curve evens things out anyway.
The topics in this course are some of the most interesting I have learned about since arriving at Harvard. I realized by the time that I was studying for the final that I had honestly LEARNED concepts, rather than listened to them in lecture and then re-memorizing them. Prof. Mallet's lectures were a bit dry at times, but you can tell he really enjoys his work and wants you to learn. Likewise with Prof. Berry and his engaging lectures. Workload is doable, but no joke.
Andrew Berry is an excellent lecturer. The course has SO MUCH busy work, with many things due on the same days.
It can be entertaining, and the material is interesting.
Even as a senior biology concentrator, I learned things in this class. The topic is really interesting, and the professors and TFs are great. There is definitely work in this class but it's not too bad.
If you are an OEB major or like evolution this class is awesome!
The material in OEB 53 is incredibly interesting, and every scientifically literate person should have a thorough understanding of how evolution actually works.  That being said, the course requires a non-negligible amount of work (weekly Darwin readings, problem sets, two midterms, a research paper, and a final exam), which felt like more than I wanted for a senior spring elective.
Definitely a class worth taking.
I learned a lot from this class. Stay on top of the material and you'll be fine.
A relatively easy OEB midlevel. There is not that much work due week to week. I really appreciated the way exams were graded. Unlike some other biology courses I've taken, the graders didn't seem to care about exact wording of ideas. The TFs are amazing as well (duh...they are OEB).
Not too much work per week, but keep up on the work because there are only three problem sets which makes it difficult to study for exams if you fall behind.
This might be the best class you take at Harvard.
There is only ONE good reason for taking this class and in my opinion that reason is good enough: Dr. Berry is an excellent lecturer and it is a wonderful privilege to be his student. That being said, though, keep your expectations for OEB 53 in moderation when you enroll. This is not a bad class - in fact, I really enjoyed Dr. Berry's (and Dr. Mallet's) lectures and my experience in section has been by far one of the most pleasant ones I've had in a large science lecture course. Members of the teaching staff will probably introduce it as a "light" course due to the lack of weekly problem sets and the lack of a laboratory section - but don't underestimate OEB 53. It is NOT as easy as teaching staff will claim it is. Midterm exams are no fun and take into consideration the fact that A.) this class does not bear Gen. Ed. Credit for SLS and B.) you have to do BOTH a 10 page final paper AND a 3 hour final exam at the end: NO FUN! I hope this class will change so that it may be more enjoyable for future generations of OEB 53 - it is currently a "good" class (with a few stressful nuisances), but it could have been "EXCELLENT!" Shop the class - you will definitely enjoy the lectures, but pay VERY close attention to the syllabus. If you think you'll be able to manage some of the inconveniences, then go ahead and take it - but be aware of what you are getting into. If you like the lectures, but find that you are lazy or don't like the idea of a paper AND a final, then audit the course: Yes, it is THAT good and I know people who put this course on their bucket list of classes to take before graduating from Harvard! Oh, and one more thing. Many of my peers didn't like Professor Mallet's lectures as much - he does tend to be passionate about explaining some of the math behind Hardy-Weinberg or the population genetics simulator (which not everyone is able to follow along with), but don't listen to any negative things you may hear about him. Give him a chance - after receiving a few initial criticisms, I could see that Dr. Mallet made a serious effort to find common ground with his students and it really showed that he cared. If you ever struggle with Professor Mallet's lectures, don't be afraid to see him and let him know. Both he and the teaching staff will help clarify any material you may struggle with.
Andrew Berry is a boss. Take this class, it's a better version of LS1b
Take this class, especially if you're an oeb concentrator.
I sort of thought this course was going to be easier than it was. I took it as an elective and it ended up being more work and more challenging than I anticipated. It's definitely doable, especially for science concentrators... but just don't think it's a joke course. It's really cool that we read the origin.
Solid class. Professor Berry is fantastic. So is Professor Hoekstra.  Section is kinda boring and doesn't really add much to the course.  But the course overall is great.
OEB 53 does a great job of presenting evolutionary biology in a fascinating manner. I appreciated the conceptual approach to the material. Andrew Berry is a total bro-- friend material after the cours eis over. I would definitely recommend this course alongside other biology courses such as MCB 54 or Chem 27 because of the intersection of knowledge between such classes. That being said, I wish this course had more transparency with grades. I have quite literally no idea where I stand-- neither do my peers. That is the only down side.
Great lectures, but try to attend them as often as possible... you miss out of some pretty important example information if you don't
Wonderful class with some of the best, most entertaining lecturers at Harvard, and not a lot of work--definitely take this class if you're interested in evolution!
This class is a good class to take -- the lectures are excellent: informative and funny. Also, the TF's were very strong my year, and you get to read The Origin of Species, which everyone should read. One warning: Andrew Berry loves to talk about what an easy class this is but IT IS NOT A JOKE CLASS. No, it probably won't be your most difficult class at Harvard. That said, there are a high number of weekly assignments relative to other mid-level OEB courses, and the exams, while fair, are graded fairly stringently (I've had conversations with multiple students about this). Even if you feel as though you rocked an exam, you may be surprised at all the different places points are taken off.
Take this class not just for Andrew Berry (though he's certainly a selling point). The material itself, when it does finally sink in, can really change the way you think critically about biological issues and phenomena.
dr. berry was probably the most interesting and funny teacher I have had at harvard, and Dr. Hoekstra was really great also. Its a great class, take it!
The class is great! Both professors have a lot of enthusiasm and charisma, and the topics are really interesting.
This is a great class! The lectures are really interesting and if you are at all interested in evolution you will really enjoy it!
1. Andrew Berry and Hopi Hoekstra are an AWESOME team. They have great enthusiasm, are awesome at explaining concepts, are incredibly nice, and can make anything sound super cool and interesting. 2. The lectures do a great job of defining the scope of the course3. Do your Darwin reading4. Andrew Berry does great impersonations of various organisms (even the extinct ones)
This course will be more difficult if you did not take Life Sci 1B, but it is doable. Expect some more mathematical tasks in Population Genetics. All in all, Andrew and Hopi are wonderful and you will walk away with a much deeper knowledge of the important concepts and misconceptions of Evolution
This is a well-taught course, and teaches things that every biologist should learn.
Professors Berry and Hoekstra make the class a joy.  The diversity of assignments allows for improvement throughout the course, though the final paper (10 pages) was a little vague and more involved than expected.  Definitely doable without AP Bio/Life Sci 1 experience.
This class will give you a toolkit for understanding all other realms of biology, and make up for much of what you may have missed / was glossed over in LS1b. Lectures are a blast.
This is an absolutely phenomenal class. The professors are amazing, and make the material very engaging.
Andrew Berry is a great professor. Highly entertaining but efficient as well.
Lecture is entertaining and fun but the class is not as easy as Professor Berry makes it out to be - I would definitely recommend it but don't slack!
not an easy a, study a little bit each week, never skip a lecture!
Evolution is a big topic and underlies all fields of modern biology. It's incredibly hard to grasp but this course does a great job of fostering understanding of the concepts behind evolution.
This class is overall mediocre.  The lectures, the readings, the sections, the assignments reminded me of a high school science class.  The only thing that somewhat saved this class was that Andrew Berry's jokes were occasionally entertaining.
Definitely not a joke class, but worth it (great material and AMAZING professors).
make sure you study hard and study the details!
One of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard. The way this class is taught is very engaging, so it really draws the students' interest and facilitates learning. Great lecturers, excellent class.
This is a fun course with Andrew Berry and Hopi Hoekstra, with whom you must take a course if you are any kind of bio major (or have any passing interest in science!).  There was a ton of information (I think they should cut it down - class periods were too long anyway), but most of it is presented in fun and entertaining ways.  Section wasn't very painful, and the TFs are pretty great.  The only real work besides tests is a few psets and a big research paper at the end, but that can be on anything you want, so it can be fun.  Oh, and there's a field trip to the natural history museum!
The professors and section TFs are great!  Take this course even if you are remotely interested about evolutionary biology
This is by far one of the best courses at Harvard; the professors are great and the material is incredibly interesting because it fundamentally deals with how everything in the natural world is united. Be prepared to work though; there is a lot of material to cover.
Awesome course - professors are really engaging and are clearly excited to be there, which is really refreshing. They go out of their way to make connections with students and think about how to creatively present material. Take the course if you're at all interested in evolutionary bio! Great introductory course.
I loved this class! Both professors are incredible. The workload could have been lighter, but it wasn't unmanageable or unreasonable. It was very fun, and I highly recommend taking it!
Good and fun way to learn important concepts in evolutionary biology! Definitely a relaxed environment. Although my TF Chris was not that good a TF he was a nice person. Dr. Berry and Hopi are fantastic! Hopi gives the better, more informative lectures though.
Most of the information is interesting and the lectures are engaging.
A lot of people may initially want to take this class because it is one of the few ways to get exposure to Dr. Berry from outside the OEB department. While he is a very good professor, the class itself is definitely challenging. Only take it if you have a genuine interest in population-genetics-based evolutionary biology. If the prospect of reading and analyzing Origin of Species doesn't excite you, the rest of the course will be a slog as well. It's very useful for any biology concentrator, but don't just take it because of how much you enjoyed the shopping period lectures (as entertaining as they are).
If ls1b ever made you reconsider biology, oeb 53 will draw you back to biology
It's a really fun course with engaging lectures and interesting material! There is some reading that you should keep up on, but with 3 psets over the semester, the course doesn't ask for a lot. If you're interested, you will do fine.
Lectures are really great so don't miss them!
This is a fun and interesting class, but it does require some work.
interesting class with good professors and medium work load. manageable exams
This is some of the best material in biology, with the most holistic applications/consequences. However, I found the way in which the material is cover to be disorganized. We would spend one slide, or a graph, on a concept that proved really crucial to a section of the midterm or final.
Andrew Berry is amazing. However, the class is hard. But ANDREW BERRY
Dr. Berry rocks, but the class is so unorganized and we dont really have concrete terms/people give us conflicting answers
Do not take this course. The professors disagree on what to teach and do not give definitions for most key terms at any point but do expect you to know them for p-sets and exams. You cannot get help from any of the course staff on p-sets; they will not answer p-set questions. The TFs do not all study evolution and cannot answer all of your questions. It's the most frustrating course I've taken at Harvard.
PAY ALL THE ATTENTION TO ALL THE DETAILS. Also - lectures on their own are not sufficient!
Overall, this was a good class. Lectures were generally interesting (especially if Dr. Berry was teaching). I found the material to be cool, too. Exams could be frustrating (almost purely memorization, and there's a lot of material). A decent 50-level OEB class.
Good course and very useful for OEB concentrators. The course has a steady workload of problem sets, weekly Darwin responses, two exams, a final paper, and a final exam, but it is manageable if you stay on top of the material. Dr. Berry is a very engaging (not to mention incredibly knowledgable) lecturer, and you will definitely laugh during class. If you're an OEB concentrator, you should take this course early on because it gives you a good foundation/overview
Amazing course. Would highly reccomend to anyone who likes OEB like topics. Super approachable, even for non-science concentrators. If you're willing to put in the work you'll get so much out of it.
Course content is fascinating; you definitely learn a lot. However, be prepared for weekly "guides" on Origins of Species that you need to fill out, and there is also a final paper, in addition to the final exam.
This class has the potential to be an amazing course with great lectures. However, the problem sets and exams are problematic in causing students confusion in the accuracy of terms and importance of concepts.
Andrew berry (barry? I like "Berry" it reminds me of the fruit) is an amazing lecturer. Totally engaging, hilarious and smart. I'd take the class just to learn from him. Good ol' berry fruit.
A fine mid-level. Because lecture notes are sparse and a lot of section is given over to the Origin, you're probably best off seeking help in office hours.
The class is very unclear about what it wants from you in answers.
This is a great class! It covers a ton of material though--when it came time to study for exams, I was amazed by how much material there was to go through. The workload is fair and the exams are challenging but also fair. Definitely recommend!
The lecturers and TF's were very enthusiastic and passionate about the material, which made me more enthusiastic. This class made me understand biology and nature so much better, and helped me synthesize everything that I had previously learned in biology. I think every life science major should take this class.
This is a great opportunity to dive deep into the topic of evolution, which is usually only briefly touched on in other classes. You really gain a great understanding of how evolution and natural selection work, and you even get to read the Origin of Species. It was amazing to see how much Darwin was able to figure out without modern technologies, and, with 1-2 chapters each week, we were paced perfectly so that we could read Darwin's theories while learning about the same concepts in lecture. Prof. Berry and Prof. Mallet both do a great job of generating enthusiasm for the material, but sometimes so much is packed into a single lecture that they can feel disorganized and concepts can get confusing. There are only three psets, and they came so close to the midterms that sometime we only had a day or two in between when we got the pset back and when we had the exam, making it difficult to catch our mistakes in time. There's also a final paper and a final exam, which is a lot, but I really enjoyed choosing my own topic and exploring it in depth in the paper. Overall, it's a great class and an important topic (especially for OEB'ers), and with some improvements to the assignments, it could be an even better class in the future.
There is a lot of work required every week.  There is tons of reading (assuming you do it all, which I get the feeling most poeple don't).  There are 3 problem sets, 2 midterms, one 10 page paper, and a 3 hour final.  Each week you have readings from Darwin's Origin of Species with a worksheet.
Don't be fooled by the reading period lectures.  Professor Berry is very engaging but professor Mallet's lectures are confusing and boring.
Take notes in class because the lecture slides don't offer much afterwards. Go to office hours to get clarification on topics--both professors explain things really well when you ask them specific questions! Lastly, make sure you understand what the main examples are and can cite one or two examples because the exams always ask for 2-3 things that exemplify whatever they're asking about.
The class is very similar to LS1b/OEB10/other courses you've probably taken. Do it for the Berry, if nothing else; his lectures are wildly entertaining. Also, don't be concerned about all the digressions that take place in lecture. The p-sets really bring home the core concepts.
This course has been one of the most frustrating courses that I've taken in my time here. I was enthusiastic in enrolling in this course but was very disappointed at the fact that the grading is quite extreme and unreasonably, expecting very specific answers and having quite long exams (although it was nice that they took our feedback and made the second midterm a lot better). Andrew is a great, energetic professor but the class as a whole feels like LS1b except without Hopi. I thought I was extremely engaged with this subject matter but was disappointed that the class turned into memorization of a lot, a lot of concepts. Emily was a fantastic TF and she was great in helping us through the class but the class as a whole is quite difficult and, to be quite honest, not that great of a learning experience. I think that they are thinking of changing the time of the class next year to not be at 1pm (the energy level at this time was just pretty awful) so it might be good to shop it next year and see what sort of modifications they make.
Take this class with a friend.  I didn't really know anyone else in it, which made it hard for me to study and work on psets because I felt alone.  I work better in groups, but if you don't you will be fine.
The subject matter is awesome, if you're interested in biology and evolution, and yes Andrew Berry is obviously an awesome lecturer, but he's not the only lecturer and the workload for the class felt disproportionately large for the material covered. The other lecturer, Mallet, is interesting but a lot of times it was hard to understand him and he couldn't explain things very clearly. It's an interesting class and worth taking but don't expect it to be easy, be prepared for a moderate work load and a final exam AND a final paper.
Start early on your research paper, especially with research! It can be tricky to get to 8 sources especially if you have a fairly niche topic. Exams and psets were fair, and for psets especially, working in a group would probably help.
LS1b prereq is probably non-negotiable, they assume you already know a lot of stuff covered in it. The reading of On the Origin of Species is interesting, but you probably won't want to actually read all ~400 pages--skim skim skim
This course gets better and better as the semester goes on. Topics may be difficult to wrap your head around, but between psets, section, and review, by the time you reach the end of the course you realize how much you have learned and understand.
The course material is extremely interesting, but the assignments/exams are often very vague and cause you to lose points on concepts that you otherwise understand.
Start the final paper early.  When studying for tests focus on important terms, and then example problems of the different genetics and population genetics math.
This course is great if you are interested in Evolutionary Biology, or Darwin (you read the Origin of Species). If you are not very interested in these things, you will not find much of the course to be particularly enthralling.
This class is UNREAL. Dr. Berry's lectures are to die for. Prof. Mallet's are sometimes great, sometimes lukewarm, but still totally worth it. Fascinating material, amazing TF's, really the best science class I've taken here.
This is a good foundational course, well taught, has some nice themes that run throughout and a nice cohesion via reading the entirety of the Origin of the Species. Exams, assignments, etc. all very reasonable. Didn't have me jumping out of my seat, especially b/c a lot of the material was review of LS1b and I think they could have gone into a little more depth and a little less breadth.
Lectures are interesting if you like thinking about evolution. Class covers a lot of material, some of which is complex, but much of which is engaging and fun.
Dr. Berry is hilarious and an awesome lecturer, and Dr. Mallet is a little more subdued but a really nice guy and always willing to explain things again. Lectures are sometimes a little disorganized, but the material is interesting and I left the class with a real sense of accomplishment over how much I've learned which doesn't happen that often. Psets and midterms are hard but prepare you really well for the final, and lots of practice problems are available. I took this class without having taken the prerequisite and didn't feel at a disadvantage at all.
It is more work than you might think (section, psets, midterms, final paper, final exam, and reading the whole Origin of Species) but the subject matter is something that everyone should learn regardless of your concentration.  Plus the lectures (specifically Andrew Berry's) are fantastic!
There is no critical examination of the main tenets of evolutionary biology. They are assumed to be true and then evidences are reasoned around those core beliefs/tenets.
This course has a great reputation, most likely due to the teaching staff. Andrew's energetic passion for the material is perfectly balanced by Jim's calm intellect. However, this course can be very frustrating at times. Questions on exams and problem sets are vague and misleading, the lectures are often jumbled and incoherent, and while section is helpful at times, it didn't make a huge difference in understanding the material. Lots of assignments and lots of time will be spent outside of the classroom. Even though I am complaining, I learned a great deal! I just feel like their methods of assessment did not accurately represent what I had truly learned.
As an OEB concentrator, I think it's silly to not take a course in evolutionary biology, and this course does a good job of giving an overview in the subject. Definitely go to office hours for every problem set, as they tend to be graded pretty nitpick-ily. The week-to-week workload isn't bad at all, and the Origin of Species is surprisingly readable (don't bother to do the non-Origin readings).
Although I absolutely love evolutionary biology and the two professors, taking this class was not all I though it was going to be.  Often there is a disconnect between what is taught in lecture and what appears on the exams.  It was hard to know what you truly were supposed to know for the exam because there weren't great course materials.  That being said, Jim and Andrew are truly wonderful people, both exceptionally kind and willing to teach. I would say that you should take this class only if you are very interested in evolutionary biology but definitely not as a class you think will be easy or stress-free.  Also, it was very time-consuming at the end of the year because there was both a 10-page paper and a final exam scheduled only days apart from one another.
This course offers a comprehensive understanding of evolution. It is thorough and well structured. The material integrates historical anecdotes that bolster the scientific aspects.
If it's a concentration requirement def take it - probably the most painless one you'll find
Think "excited rock star studies zoology and becomes a lecturer." That's Dr Berry. And Dr Melissa (Dr, haha! we called her Melissa for the longest lol v sorry Mel) is chill, interesting and very knowledgeable about biology in general. Too bad she's going away :'( (but good luck!)
One of the best classes I've ever taken easily - you'll want to become an evolutionary biologist afterwards, even if you started out being interested in a different kind of bio!
Take this class, no exceptions. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
OEB53 is a great class, informative and highly entertaining! Dr. Berry is a force of nature himself, and definitely electrifies the room. His great experience with Alfred Russel Wallace and drosophila really showed through his teaching.
This is a great course. You learn about a lot of different topics explored in other courses, but get to think about the why behind the strict science you've learned so far in college.
Take Dr. Berry's class! Incredibly interesting material, wonderful professor and teaching staff. Lectures are very engaging. The exams actually test your knowledge of the material (as opposed to random minutia) which is surprisingly hard to come by at Harvard. Couldn't recommend any more. Probably one of the most fun and interesting courses I've taken while at Harvard!
Dr. Berry is an absolutely terrific lecturer- engaging, funny but most importantly clear about the concepts he is teaching. The course is well taught and well structured, and you'll learn lots of interesting evolutionary concepts through both lecture and section, which covers the key parts of Darwin's Origin (a must read for any biologist) and evolution-related scientific literature. It's also very chill in general, with a fun atmosphere; plus it's not too intensive in terms of psets. Highly recommended!
Relatively easy and very interesting course! Evolution is real.
This class is really fun, and the material is interesting.  However, if you're a biology student, you'll probably have already encountered a lot of the concepts, and you don't need to take this course, especially if you have a limited number of class spaces left.
A really good overview/ foundation of evo. biology. The broadness trades off with depth.
A much better way to fulfill your SLS requirement than most other intro courses that I have taken or heard about!!! Very fun and manageable, with not a lot of work or stress required.
Andrew Berry is fantastic. This class is amazing!
Great class. Go to lectures because some of the slides are too difficult to understand/ follow if you don't. So long as you go to class and do the assignments and reach our for help you should do well.
Professor Berry and Mallett were both great, highly personable and approachable, and made the materials we learned in class very interesting. Nonetheless, this class had the annoying structure of having lots of work at one time, then moments of nothing going on, much like the punctuated equilibria theory you will later learn if you take this class.
The problem that past years had with this course was that the material tried to cover a wide variety of topics and didn't get too in depth on any of them or made it difficult to put things together when it came time for the exams. This year the professors posted a lot of supplementary material summarizing the lectures that really helped me figure out the important points in time for exams and assignments, so I'd say the material was pretty accessible to me, and I really enjoyed the class.
Lots of work for the weekly 90-min section. Keep up with the material, and don't fall behind. Lectures are crucial to success in the class. Communication between class instructors are great and helpful.
Good for an OEB student to synthesize the concepts in the class but its pretty boring and its not easy.
It's a fun course, but I would only take it as a concentration requirement.
Be aware of your time when planning your schedule because this class will take up a lot of your time if you're interested in actually learning the material.
I'd say you should take this class. It's definitely more work and more difficult than any of the other mid-level OEB classes I've taken. That being said, it's not terrible with respect to either of those aspects, and it is a really useful class. It's a rigorous examination of a lot of different aspects of evolutionary biology, and it even changed the way I view a lot of important processes, including speciation. Overall, a really good class to take if you're a serious OEB-er, but if you're looking for a chill mid-level just for a requirement, maybe look elsewhere.
Great intermediate bio. evolution is cool
Very fun class, great teaching staff
