This is an excellent class to take if you think you may be interested in research and would like to find out what doing laboratory research is actually like.
If you're interested in the area of research, you will get more out of this class than you possibly could in a lecture style class.
Great foray into research.
The professors and mentors are all very helpful and this is a great way to get some firsthand lab experience.
Definitely a defining experience of my time at Harvard.
time commitment is high, so it would be wise to make sure you have ample time on weekdays to run the experiment. however, very rewarding to have an individual project to complete.
If you don't get into a project you love 100%, don't commit to the course.
Great chance to experience research first-hand
I really loved this class.  It depends a lot on who your mentor is, and being able to put in the work consistently helps a lot.  If you know you're going to be busy one week try to go into lab more before that.  And don't be afraid to ask questions!  Often you'll find it saves a lot of time and you learn even more in the process.
If you pick a project that seems very interesting to you this course can be extremely engaging, all of the faculty is very supportive, and the presentation and paper required of the course will help you sharpen both presenting and writing scientific data (both extremely important if you want to do research in the future).
This class is perfect if you want to experience unique research in a comfortable setting.
This class is very rewarding if you put in a lot of effort. You can learn a lot about one specific academic area and how research works, as well as get to know faculty and grad students in a more intimate setting.  It is a great class, and I recommend with enthusiasm!
Great class for someone looking to gain useful research experience (and for academic credit too).
This is a great class and exposure to research.  I enjoyed the experience.  But try to have a firm understanding of the question you're trying to answer before you begin the project.  That can give you a framework to think creatively and the impetus to work hard.
This course is extremely rewarding but it is also extremely demanding and unless you are willing to devote at least 20 hours a week to it, I would suggest that you deter away from it. It was the only class that almost gave me a breakdown... If you're not willing to cry while you are analyzing data, maing your presentation and writing your paper then deter away. With that said it is extremely rewarding and is one of my favorite classes and I enjoyed every minute of it, as hellish as it was.
This is an incredible course and provides you the opportunity to work one on one with a member of the OEB faculty in their research.  I learned so much and was able to completely integrate biological and engineering concepts into one project.  It requires a hefty time commitment (20 hrs/week) but is well worth it.  The symposium at the end is a lot of fun, I highly recommend this course!!! :)
If you're considering a research course, take this one! It's demanding enough that you will produce something you're proud of, but never overwhelming. It's a great opportunity to apply your knowledge to research and to get a feel for lab work.
This is probably the most amazing opportunity I've ever had at Harvard thus far. You can choose to either work with animals or humans--I choose to work on the cockatiel project (this is blowing my anonymity, but who cares?) I trained four birds for about 20 hours a week for 5 weeks, performed surgery to implant EKGs, and then collected data on their heart rate vs. speed when flying the wind tunnel. Seriously, where else can you do undergraduate surgery besides OEB 251? I also learned how to use Matlab and Acknowledge software. I got to use a high-speed, high-definition camera. Everything about this class was amazing. I encourage you to look at all of the project and see if one tickles your fancy! You will be given unbelievable opportunities and have a blast. This was one of the best experiences of my Harvard career.
This was one of the best experiences I had at Harvard, but you have to really enjoy biomechanics/anatomy and be dedicated to this classMake sure you put in a consistent effort throughout the semester (at least 15 hours every week) and set deadlines for yourself (keeping in mind that everything will take 3-4 times as long as you think it will).
Phenomenal course.  If you want to learn how to conduct research, this is the course for you.  There are no assignments due until the end of the course but make sure you are putting lots of work into the project along the way!  It's incredibly fulfilling and you will learn a great deal while having a lot of fun conducting research.
