Here is my quick summary. For a new course, this course was fantastic. However, Take this course only when it gets better and has a few years to evolve. Dave and Andy are great teachers and they are also great at their research and they develop such a personal bond with the students in the class, which makes it a very friendly learning environment. Definitely take it instead of the other big OEB classes. Dave and Andy need to work out a few things with the grading structure and also with the content of the course. If you are coming into this paleontology class to learn about dinosaurs then you are in for a disappointment. It is sadly very invertebrate heavy, and that is what the professors need to work on. They need to make it more encompassing of all types of paleontology, which includes, invertebrates, vertebrates and plants. Take OEB 150 instead if you want to really know about dinosaurs, that one is a vertebrate class. So give this class a few years. However, we need students like you to improve it too. Hence, We also need more OEB representation here. To OEB Students, take this class instead of OEB 53, YOU WILL HAVE A MUCH BETTER TIME! OEB 53 is not that great. Aside from the little nuances, this class is actually a LOT OF FUN. It is a great spring OEB Class. taking it with OEB 52 or OEB 51 would be ideal  so you get to see more of the stuff talked about in lecture. Currently it is mostly represented by EPS students, which is why we need more biologists here, after all, evolution is deeply rooted in Earth Science too. The chemistry between Dave and Andy is really cute as well :-)
Labs were amazing because Sarah the TF was amazing. Otherwise this class was rather boring. Take it because you're interested in the material and not because there's minimal workload.
If you are interested in how the world we live in came to be (and you should be!) then definitely take this class!! This class was an amazing history of how the Earth came to be. The lectures were compelling and lab was exciting and fun.
If you're OEB, there's no reason not to take this class. You might be a little overwhelmed by the rock stuff, but holding specimens from millions and billions of years ago is awesome. The workload is manageable, the professors are great and so knowledgeable in their fields, and section is fun if you team up (great for making new OEB and EPS friends!). This interdisciplinary approach is really the best way to study earth history if that's what you're interested in.
The material is fascinating but it's not communicated in a very clear way; the professors really care, but they have a hard time clearly articulating things--particularly when it comes to the chemistry and geology of the paleoenvironment. Field trip is okay.
Loved this class and the teaching staff! You come to understand how deeply the professors + Sarah (the TF) care about your understanding and about the material itself, as the class seems very driven by their expertise/research. Instead of looking for some easy gen-ed to round out your schedule, consider this class--it's very low workload except when you need to spend some time straightening out the geochemistry stuff, and it's such a good class. It's a very well-constructed class as well, as the lectures run together fairly well, the professors are very good about answering questions/being accessible, and labs let you handle the fossils you just talked about in lecture. Only drawbacks I'd say are that it's too invertebrate-focused and that some of the geochem stuff isn't presented in a very clear way.
Fantastic material. Profs. Knoll and Johnston and the TF Sarah are some of the nicest and most patient teachers I have ever had. Despite the seemingly overwhelming volume of information, if you go to class and stay on top of the labs you'll learn some of the most interesting stuff. The labs are tons of fun as well.
This class gave me a longer perspective on my planet, a deeper appreciation for the diversity of life on earth, and a bit more practice writing clearly and concisely about interesting science. It also was basically all the awesomeness I thought science was when I was 10. Dinosaurs! Asteroids! Bacteria! Take this class!
This course blew my mind.  I didn't think I was going to take this class.  Within five minutes of the first class I went to, I decided that I needed to take this course.  It was one of the best decisions I have made at Harvard.  I have learned an unbelievable amount and had a large amount of fun!  IMPORTANT NOTE:  You need to embrace this class, don't go into it half-hearted!
The material covered in this class was incredibly interesting. It taught us all about the history of the earth and how it has changed over time, and also showed us how much more there is to understand about it in the future. The lectures presented us with this material very effectively, and labs and assignments were structured very well to only deepen our engagement with the material.
This is a very fun class where you get to take a look at an incredibly relevant topics. The beginning of the semester is a bit tedious with long rock ID labs, but it picks up quickly, and you gain a lot of knowledge. The professors are truly experts in their field.
This is great for OEB concentrators because it provides a context for life on Earth! Also just very interesting in general for anyone.
Great professors (especially Andy!), though it is like many OEB classes a little disorganized. Labs are really fun, if a little long. TAKE THIS CLASS AS AN OEB MIDLEVEL you will not regret it
This is a fun course, but there is a lot of material covered in the second half compared with the first. Lectures are not recorded, so make sure to take good notes in class, especially because the online lecture slides do not always have many words. Getting to look at rocks and fossils in lab is fun, though you'll be going to your TF with a lot of questions during it because the questions are difficult to answer otherwise.
