This course provided a good introduction to the world of plant physiology research, open questions and methods of thinking through research problems.
This is an interesting upper-level course if you want to learn about a very narrow, specific topic. The only course material is primary research papers, so make sure you are comfortable analyzing those. Only one meeting a week may be deceptive because there is a lot of reading and critical thinking that you have to do outside of class, but no papers is really awesome for seniors writing theses!
This is a great course with lots of flexibility about what you cover and lots of interesting discussion.
I highly recommend this class not only for its interesting topics but even as in introduction into research and research readings.
It will make you think and you will learn something interesting about plants that you didn't know before. But maybe undergraduates would benefit more by taking a course that had more instruction and structure. Really, maybe undergraduates would benefit more from a Latvian history class than from this class. I think undergraduates will probably learn more in the Latvian history class than in this class. This class will just make you think and keep your plant wits sharp.
Professor Holbrook is an amazing botanist to take a class with. This seminar with her was fun and a great way to practice talking about papers.
Highly thought provoking, but requiring an extensive knowledge of plant anatomy, physiology and evolution.  Without a solid background in these subjects the course would still be very interesting, but might be difficult to follow on occasion.
A great chance to meet Andy and Missy once a week and discuss in a relaxed atmosphere some cool topics in plant phys and paleobotany. No assignments aside from the assigned readings.
I would tell future students that it is a very informative class if you are really interested in plant physiology.
Missy is full of knowledge and it is an honor to be able to learn from her in this seminar setting. If you have any interest in plant physiology, you have to take this course.
Be prepared to do a lot of heavy reading each week
