it's good to have an opportunity to get together and talk about biology, but please don't hesitate to use the blackboard.
Take advantage of Professor Wakeley's (and the other members of the class's) great knowledge of coalescent theory by asking plenty of questions.
Great in depth exploration of pop gen theory.
High level class that can sometimes be confusing, but if you want to learn more about pop gen, take it.
Very low commitment. Just read 1 paper per week and discuss. But you aren't required to speak, so if you don't know anything about the subject that week, you aren't required to contribute.
This class is very helpful for keeping up with current literature.
The course is a rarity as it is a philosophy course taught in a science department. I think it served its purpose well by deeply engaging scientists in fundamental questions about nature with all their subtleties and helped us reflect on the strength and limitations of science in answering these questions. It also made us aware of the pre-conceptions we as the observer bring into every situation. It was particularly nice to spend time discussing the nature of various concepts we tend to deal with in mathematical models everyday but usually don't ponder on the big picture significance of.
This is a good class to discuss books or papers on evolutionary biology/genetics with other grad students. John is good at identifying the points of greatest interest in a text.
If this version of Wakeley-seminar ever returns, take it.
This class is great for keeping up with the literature on population genetics!
This class is a nice way to discuss evolutionary genetics with your peers.
The discussion is good, but I hope we read something else next time.
You get as much out of the class as you put into it. Discussing the reading material in a small group of students will make the larger class discussion more meaningful.
This is a discussion based course focused each term on a different topic within population genetics.  This is a great way to hear about recent research and opinions in population genetics.
You will learn most from this course if you have some population genetics knowledge.
This class is an excellent way to participate in engaging scientific discussions. The readings are fantastic; the semester I took the class we read a textbook.
This course will help bring you up to date on some of the latest literature in population genetics. Bonus: commentary by really smart population geneticists.
take a course on population genetics first and go to this one later because it's all discussion
The class's focus seemed dauntingly narrow and required a much stronger background than I had in several areas, however simply being exposed to these topics was a good learning experience and one should not be frightened of entering a learning environment simply because they are lacking knowledge in that area
Take this class if it's offered. A relaxed and intimate setting to engage with difficult papers and discuss them with other students who have experience to contribute. I learned so much from this experience and it was a great opportunity to take a graduate seminar with incredible students. Prof. Wakeley is wonderful and the material is truly fascinating.
The papers are great. John leads an excellent discussion, and everyone comes to the table with their "A" game (i.e., having read the paper and ready to contribute). The mood is at once laid-back and professional. Lots of learning from lots of smart people who know more than you about lots of things!I'm not a researcher in ancient DNA, but it was interesting and worthwhile all the same.
This is a great way to meet other students who are interested in population genetics and evolutionary genomics. It's a relaxed environment, but if you put the time in to read the papers, you'll get a lot out of it.
