There is no better way to learn about speciation than from the mouths of the scientists who study it. This class will tech you more about speciation than you could learn from reading.
Class is a lively discussion, and you walk away with interesting ideas and more knowledge. What reason is there not to take it?
you will get out of the class what you put in- and don't be afraid to ask the speakers questions!
This is my favorite class I have taken at Harvvard.
An excellent way to take a critical look at the depth and breadth (and sometimes, the lack of breadth!) of modern speciation research. If you are looking for an engaging seminar on some of the most exciting research in evolutionary biology, look no further.
The class format--group discussion and skypping other speciationists--made for great discussions. If you want to know something about speciation, take this class!
The professor is awesome, you learn so much, and the workload isn't bad at all.
Excellent!  If you are interested in the process of speciation, you will have an opportunity to interact with peers of similar mind, as well as with the leading scientists in the field.
Hopi is amazing, graduate seminars are fantastic, but do have a strong interest in the topic of speciation otherwise it won't be worth your time and energy.Take this class or one like it if you have any interest in grad school in biology.
This course provides a good overview of the questions being asked and the methods implemented in recent genomic work on speciation.
This is a great way to learn about the current state of research on speciation, and you'll get to read a lot of interesting and cool papers. It's also a plus that you get to hear the "behind the scenes" stories on each projects from the authors. Great for grad students and very advanced undergrads.
This is a wonderful course that provides a thorough overview of speciation. Professor Mallet is a great instructor who is very knowledgeable of the subject and incredibly well-connected in the field. If you're interested in the topic of speciation, and you enjoy reading scientific articles, this class offers a unique opportunity to explore the subject by speaking to leading experts/researchers in the field.
Great overview of the latest research on a long standing question with a genuinely expert and genuinely nice instructor
Readings are engaging and a diverse group of students bring good discussion to the class. Definitely shop to see if the conversation style and level is right for you.
This is a fantastic course if you are interested in cool happenings in genomics and want to participate in open discussions about recent papers. The class is mostly graduate students, but undergrads can catch up and contribute to the discussion too! On most weeks, we Skyped with the author for one of the papers and spoke directly about the paper, about methods, about future directions in the field, their career trajectories or doing science in general. Those conversations were great and a major reason for taking/liking this course. Prof. Mallet does a good job communicating enthusiasm about the papers and asking open, interesting questions to discuss as a class. Holly the TF was very helpful to understand the concepts before class and to guide discussion. Overall, a great seminar class if you're interested in discussing cool papers in genomics and evolution.
Amazing course with a really interesting model of seminar style discussions with the chance to talk to leading authors in the field. Every week brought up new and exciting topics and the discussions were always incredibly engaging.
One of the highlights of my time at Harvard.OEB 230 is an incredible seminar where you have fascinating discussions with really knowledgeable grad students; hear the perspective of Professor Mallet, a giant in his field; and get to skype each week with a world expert on a specific topic. The video chats were absolutely amazing: I was blown away by researchers' willingness to set aside an hour to chat with students, by their level of expertise, and by their openness about their research and experiences.Some biology knowledge is important. You need to understand genetics. That being said, you can definitely google your way through topics, or go to office hours to clarify points before class. Because the class covers so many topics, you're not going to be an expert in all of them, so you have to be able to google and research concepts you don't understand.Workload is a minimum (a few papers each week, and a one-page response paper to check that you've done the readings) - the main focus is on participating in class, which was one of my most rewarding experiences at Harvard.
Very interesting, sometimes complex, material. Very well taught, with skype sessions with the researchers who wrote the papers for the class. Most papers were very good. Short presentations at the beginning of each class were helpful. Not a heavy workload. I felt that the class was well worth taking even though it is outside of my research interests.
