YOU GO TO COSTA RICA. EVERYTHING ELSE IS SECONDARY.
The course is a lot of fun!  The professors are incredibly knowledgeable and share what they know about herps in the most entertaining way possible.  The labs are a treat every week; the specimens included in a given week's lab may surpass the importance of some museum's entire herp collection.  And... there's a free trip to Costa Rica!  This well-kept OEB secret will not be well-kept for much longer....
The Costa Rica trip is amazing! This class is a lot of fun, especially in labs where you get a more hands-on experience with the reptiles and amphibians.
This class is one of the best OEB courses I've taken. The teaching staff is great and the trip to Costa Rica was unforgettable.
This is a wonderful course that provides a fascinating overview of reptiles and amphibians. (Words of wisdom: don't call them "herps" to your friends... they won't understand.) The spring break trip is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, and the professors are engaging lecturers at the top of their fields. The labs can get a bit long at times, but they're pretty cool. The final project also takes more time than it'll first appear, but to compensate there's no final.
Awesome class, great professors, amazing material! Take it if you are even remotely interested in reptiles and amphibians - and the field trip to Costa Rica is great!
If you like reptiles and amphibians then this class will be paradise for you.  The Costa Rica trip is wonderful.  There is a lot of subtle skeletal anatomy, though, so don't take it just for the trip.
THEY GO TO COSTA RICA!
This class is great. The teaching staff is well versed and interested in the material. There's no homework outside of labs. The tests are manageable, and the final project is fun. They also take you to Costa Rica for a week if you play your cards right.
This class has great lectures, fascinating labs and a spectacular field trip. Take it!
The field trip is amazing, your classmates are fantastic, and the professors are really great.
This class is amazing!  You will trek through the rainforests of Costa Rica with fearless instructors, Jim Hanken and Jonathan Losos (fondly known as J.Lo).  The grad students will wrestle crocodiles and you'll catch lizards with a stick and some dental floss.  Take this class even if you are not OEB!  It's amazing.
Great class with two of the best professors at Harvard.  The material is fascinating although an interested in reptiles and amphibians is suggested.  Beware of the TF.  He is arrogant, small minded, and enjoys showing off his knowledge and experience, even if that means making you feel like an idiot in front of the whole class.
This class is great. The field trip was definitely a highlight of my year and all the instructors are top notch. This class was truly a joy to go to and I got a lot out of it.
it is highly valuable for an understanding of biodeversity
This class was a lot of fun, especially lab and the field trips.
It was really fun.  The professors are great.  It's a wonderful opportunity to meet professors who really care, are friendly, funny, knowledgable, etc.  Really interesting subject material.  It's a great way to use and learn more about and from teh collections.  I also made a lot of good friends in the class.  The field trip is an amazing way to get a feel for being hte field, get to travel, learn a lot, see a lot, it was also a ton of fun.  It was one of my favorite courses at Harvard.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Professors Hanken and Losos are absolutely amazing, as is Dave (currently the only TF); members of the local herpetological community come and sit in on the class, as well as members of the OEB department here, and we have had some of the top experts in the field lecture for the class (including Jim and Jonathan!). The class is low-key but extremely informative and very very interesting -- exactly the way every class should be. It was seriously awesome, and anybody with any interest whatsoever should definitely take it!
It is amazing.
It is the best class that I have taken at Harvard.
This course was amazing.  The material you learn is fabulous, you get to go to Costa Rica, and meet some really cool professors in the process.  It's a very good learning environment, the lectures are engaging and interesting, and the labs are too.  This is the only class that you'll be taking when you get a chance to meet all kinds of awesome reptiles and amphibians up close!
This course is AMAZING.
Jim Hanken likes to be called Uncle Jimmy (but only once you've earned his respect).It's an awesome class and the professors are deeply engaged with the students and the material.
This is a very fun class, and both Prof. Hanken and Prof. Losos are great teachers. Its very enjoyable and interesting and you get to bond with your class mates a lot, especially during the spring break trip. I'd definitely recommend the class.
Very interesting!
Field trip is fun, but must like reptiles and/or amphibians.
It's a great class!  Just make sure you don't tell people you're doing herps with your friends...they don't understand.
This class is perhaps one of the best offered at Harvard. Professors Jim Hanken and Jonathan Losos are not to be passed up.
It is my favorite class thus far, the field trip is fun (though goes back to a high school type social situation - not the best), and the professors and TFs are really, really great.
LOVED THIS CLASS. One of the highlights of my college career. The professors are awesome, the material is so much fun, the labs consist of playing with turtles, and the spring break field trip is absolutely incredible!
Take the course, even if you're a not an OEB concentrator! This was hands down one of my best classes in my four years at Harvard -- I had so much fun and learned an incredible amount. Also, you get to go to Costa Rica, which is awesome.
There aren't daily readings or assignments, but there are 2 midterms, 2 lab practicals, and a final paper/project, so you are kept busy.  The field trip rocks. The profs are SUPER cool. Basically everyone should take this class.
Incredible class. Comprehensive look at reptiles and amphibians from expert professors. Get to know your classmates and labs and field trips will be a lot of fun. Labs are great too, the MCZ has a vast collection of specimens that reenforce the material. Its one of the few classes where you can play with snakes after lab.
Awesome course if you're into animal science!!
Enjoy the trip while it lasts and have fun in the labs. It goes extremely quickly...
Such a great class! Easily my favorite class at Harvard ever, and this comes from someone who hasn't been thrilled here. It's not an easy class, especially since the final grade consists of mostly just tests and a final project, but the material is extremely interesting if you like herps. Also, everyone should go on the field trip. Professors Hanken and Losos are great professors and you get to know them, and your classmates, so much better on the trip.
By far the greatest class I have taken at Harvard.
Incredible class, especially for non-OEB majors with a love for reptiles.
Take this class! The professors are lots of fun and give clear and engaging lectures. Also, you will gain access to the incredible collections of the Museum of Comparative Zoology in the weekly labs. Finally, the trip is a lot of fun and not as much nonstop work as OEB 51's field trip (which is also great, but brings you back to school totally exhausted). This class requires little work, but be forewarned that that a ton of work comes at the end of the semester -- a final, a lab practical, and a paper/project.
Not going on the Costa Rica trip really ended up alienating me from the group. Try and make it to that if you possibly can!
I recommend this class with enthusiasm even to non-majors.  The lectures were the highlight of my week and the trip was the highlight of my year.
TAKE THIS CLASS. I took it on a whim, and it was one of the best decisions I've made at Harvard. Costa Rica was AMAZING, and it's one of the few courses I've taken where I felt like I really got to know the other students and the professors really well. Seriously, even if you're not super enthusiastic about herpetology, you can still learn a lot of really cool things and have a fun time!
Even if this class didn't take you to Costa Rica, I'd recommend it with enthusiasm.  You learn all about reptiles and amphibians and their strange/cool/unique habits and lifestyles.  It's like the nature channel except with a herp focus and you get credit.  TAKE THIS CLASS.
Take this class. If you want to have a great understanding for reptiles and amphibians, this course builds the base knowledge necessary to get there.
Four midterms may be harsh, but there are no assignments other than that during the semester. You will get to learn a lot about herps, and you will become an expert scientist at herps after this course.
Prof.Losos is a fantastic teacher, though Prof.Hanken is more funny and approachable. Either way, they are both fantastic men who share the knowledge in a field dear to them to all of you, which is why it is taught so well. I'd say, be interested in learning about herps, because it can be boring. I loved the snakes and crocs section and the reptiles portion was fantastic but I Absolutely found the amphibian section to be beyond boring, so make sure you really love learning about reptile and amhibian biology because if you do, then this course is amazing and fantastic, if you don't like herps so much, then maybe you should try finding another course because it will be intense, and you will become a herp nerd by the end. I enjoyed it and loved it but as i tell all people interested in OEB, OEB classes can have very cult like followings where you have to find your own niche (evolution again), i loved the herp niche so it worked for me, but if you think you are a bird person or a fish person, then follow that inner calling. because OEB classes are known for the nerd factor or the idea that when you come out, you are a master of that topic, so if you want to master herps, then take this course.
This is one of my favorite courses offered at Harvard.  It allows for one of the few opportunities to get to know professors and teaching fellows, as well as the other students through the spring break trip.  It was just so much fun.  I wasn't overtly interested in herpetology at the beginning, but by the end I was considering switching my senior thesis topic to pursue something in herpetology!
you learn a lot of great basics within OEB (phylogenetic trees, taxonomy stuff, anatomy stuff, evolution/adaptation stuff) which can be a bit repetitive as an OEB senior, but herps themselves are awesome and you still learn a ton of new material so it's awesome.Take it if you can go on the field trip! if not, it's still a great class, but it will change the dynamic.
Losos and Hanken are some of the most engaging lecturers I have learned from. The field trip was wonderful, but honestly, the class would have been 100% worth taking even without the field trip just to listen to Losos and Hanken talk about reptiles and amphibians (and poke a bit of fun at each other, too). The material is fascinating if you're at all interested in herps, and if you're not, then you will be. Exams can be challenging and concept based, but the projects are fun.
This is a great class! The professors are incredible - so interesting and fun. The trip is INCREDIBLE, but don't take it just for that. It will only be amazing if you actually care about reptiles and amphibians. The TFs were also great. Not too difficult, but we definitely learned a lot. My favorite class at Harvard! Take this class!
The spring break trip is amazing!!  The class itself is also extremely interesting if you're into herpetology at all.  Both profs are incredible.  Lab can sometimes be a little tedious.
Didn't get to go on the costa rica trip unfortunately, but even if you don't make the cut it's still an extremely worthwhile course. Both professors are very enthusiastic and passionate about what they're teaching, and their enthusiasm rubs off on everyone in the class. Reptiles and amphibians are awesome and really fun to learn about!!
This is easily one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard, the spring break trip is a great addition.
This class is the best!! Definitely take it if you can. The field trip is the best week I've had at Harvard and you should absolutely try to take this class if you can. I learned so much about reptiles and amphibians, the teaching staff was phenomenal, and the class was so fun! Such a great class.
Take itttttt.....
If you love OEB then you MUST take this course. The professors are amazing. The TFs are amazing. The material is amazing. The only thing that wasn't amazing was not being able to go on the trip. You feel slightly excluded afterwards.
This is one of the best classes offered at Harvard. The professors are amazing people who are at the same time accessible and chill, but also great at disseminating information and making sure that you are learning from the class.  The field trip was also the experience of a lifetime.
This class is amazing. The professors are amazing. The TFs are amazing. The trip is amazing. You will learn a lot, and you'll have fun doing it.
This class is amazing. The only scary part is that most of your grade is determined by exams and lab practicals. There is a final term paper/project but if you pick something that really interests you (which should be easy if you take the class), it's the best. COSTA RICA YES. Though this year they only had space for OEB concentrators because the enrollment was so high.
That Costa Rica trip though - seriously an incredible experience (so much fun, and so much learning too!)  Herps forever!  Though do take this not just for the trip but because you do have at least an inkling of interest in reptiles and amphibians.  The professors and teaching staff are the most incredible people willing to go the extra  mile for you.  BEST CLASS EVER!
Be prepared to work hard outside of class to get the knowledge you want out of the class! Jonathan and Jim are great lecturers, and the class is very fun.
Extremely ARROGANT professors. They think they know it all. Especially Losos. He also randomly disappears and you can't reach him. If you email him, he gives you one word responses after 2 weeks. Exams are pretty fair. Lab is fun. lecture can be boring but the material is pretty interesting. TOO much arrogance in the class.
It's fun. You learn about animals.
Take this class!  All of the teaching staff is knowledgable and willing to help with anything.  Labs were fun, not only do you get to look at specimens from Harvard's very own collections, but you also get to watch documentaries in class.
Very Good Class. Rigorous and information-dense but not a class where you will be worrying about your grade if you pay attention. Professors and TFs all very happy get more in depth with you and guide you through a new field.
This class is great if you want to know more about reptiles and amphibians. As someone who knew very little going in, I feel like I can now speak at length about topics pertaining to reptiles and amphibians. The field trip is a unique experience, and the group I went with was very enthusiastic about learning and exploring. We all became very close after the trip.
This is a fantastic course. Of course the field trip is absolutely amazing (outrageously fun, educational but not too much, and all-expenses paid--what more could you want from a school-funded spring break trip??), but I also really enjoyed the course itself. Professors Losos and Hanken are both very personable and wonderful--I was sick and missed the beginning of the trip but they both worked really hard to help me rebook my flights and organized transportation for me to join the group a few days late.They also both give good lectures, although the first half (Losos') tend to be a bit more confusing and could be organized better. Lab started out a little mediocre, but they implemented a bunch of the suggestions we had for them halfway through and it improved. I met some incredible classmates through this class and you definitely will too!!!!! TAKE HERPS, HERPS FOR LIFE.
This class might as well be called "cool facts about frogs and things". It was always interesting, Jonathan and Jim's lectures were super engaging, and the lab component was actually fun and fairly easy. This is my only class that I wouldn't not fall asleep in ever.
Well, the field trip is as cool as reputed (not a wild party atmosphere though). It's also cooler than I thought it would be to work with the museum specimens for the lab (like frogs and lizards preserved in alcohol and skeletons). (Remember to consider the time the lab takes up when selecting courses). It can be a lot of material to remember for the exams. Professors and TFs are cool.
This class was undoubtedly a highlight of this academic year. I would definitely recommend it to anyone interested in a challenging zoology class, but I also hope that the students most excited about herps don't get crowded out by the allure of the field trip.
This is a great class. Professor Losos and Professor Hanken are two experts in the field who are incredibly passionate about what they teach. They are both extraordinary lecturers and teachersand it is a true honor to have been able to sit in on their lectures and learn from them about what they know best. They are both also great people. However, having said this, I also should mention that, despite the generally low workload of the class (except for studying for the four exams and writing the final paper), the course treats weirdly challenging material. The topics are not conceptually hard, but they do require stellar memorization skillsyou must know a lot of random facts about herpetology. Yet, the Costa Rica trip is a wonderful experience, from what I've heard. The labs are also fun and our two TFs this year were really great. This is a really good course and I would recommend it, but do know that exams require a lot of memorization.
This class is a really great introduction to biology and ecology, but it still has a lab component so it's not for the faint of heart
This was my favorite course of Harvard, mostly because of how close I got with both my peers and the teaching staff. The trip to Costa Rica was amazing, allowing me to get to know everyone, learn a ton and see some really cool herps (and other organisms).
Absolutely amazing course that really fed my passion for the material.  I learned an unbelievable amount from this course and really loved it!  The spring break trip is also fantastic, but is not a reason to take the course because we spent the whole time working on the course material.  If you take the course because you like the material (like I did) then there is absolutely nothing better than the spring break trip because you are constantly surrounded by your passion.  My only caution is that it is A LOT of work and the assessments are very congested and poorly timed.  It very much felt like a regurgitation-centered class.
Do not graduate Harvard without taking this course. I walked into the course thinking it'd be pretty neat to learn about reptiles and amphibians and nail a free trip to Costa Rica but oh my goodness....I walked out of this course with new ways of looking at the world, a brain full of fun facts to tell at parties, and too many close friends to count. Truly a gem.
Amazing class! One of the best I've taken in four years at Harvard. Professors Losos and Hanken are incredible, and the field trip to Costa Rica was one of the highlights of my academic career. Couldn't recommend enough!
This class is more than a class.  It becomes a community.  It is both fun and informative.
The field trip is the best part by far! Seeing organisms in their natural habitats was incredible, and it was great to get to know everyone in the class. The lectures can be boring at times. Exams cover a lot of material.
Herps is an amazing class. It's pretty much the best class I've taken at Harvard. The field trip to Costa Rica is the best of the three out-of-America field trips you can take over Spring break, and you'll learn so much on it. Not only that, the course is also fascinating for the rest of the semester. I mean, obviously don't take this course if you don't think you like animals, but if you have any interest in nature and natural history, take this class.
Absolutely perfect senior spring class!! The first half of the class drags a little with phylogeny and some of the labs are tedious, but stick it out until spring break because it is completely worth it. Professors Hanken and Losos are fantastic (get to know them!!) and really try to make it a fun learning environment. Take this class if you can!!
