Start your final paper early.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!!! If you graduate without taking this class, you have really missed out. Marvelous lecturer, very interesting topics, and a continued sense of wonder and curiosity upon leaving every class. From platypus sex chromosomes to microchimerism in humans and everything in between-- prepare to be awed! Note that David holds section entitled The Fundamental Interconnectedness of All Things where you can come to class and ask ANY QUESTION. And he was able to answer and provoke interesting discussion EVERY TIME.
This course is a great look at some very specific evolutionary phenomena. It is not just live birth though, Prof. Haig is extremely knowledgeable and lectures on parental-offspring conflict, genetic conflict, altruism, pregnancy, and much more. The title is a little deceiving at first and doesn't represent the spectrum of the course. Also, you will walk away feeling like you've learned a lot about the animal kingdom, but also the evolutionary themes that drive conflict.
I have already told many people to take this class, it's basically a series of interesting topics to think about (and new ways to think about them) and fun facts.
Professor Haig is so incredibly knowledgeable and a fantastic, enthusiastic lecturer. The "FIAT" sessions on Fridays, during which you can ask him any questions you want, are so much fun, and you can learn a lot about a surprisingly wide variety of topics!
If you thought you knew anything about how life works, this class will teach you that you probably don't but you should definitely take it for that reason.
This is a fantastic course.  It integrates Cool Animal Facts with biological theory, and professor Haig riffs on his own conjectures and hypotheses frequently.  All you've got to do is be engaged in with the lectures, and act serious about the term paper, which is a cool chance to come up with your own ideas and hypotheses about viviparity, conflict, and adaptation.
David is an awesome lecturer, and has so much to share! If you just go along for the ride, instead of questioning how everything is connected, you'll really enjoy this class.
Take it!  Haig is amazing and it is a low workload.  The final paper might seem long, but there is so much flexibility that it's a lot of fun.
The workload is just one 10-page paper about basically whatever relevant topic interests you. Loved that. And then the final exam is 40% of your grade and you have no idea which of the various random topics from lecture will show up on it. Take this if you wanna hear about some really interesting things and then have no idea how to study the material. But still take it because it's cool.
This is an awesome class! The tests were really short, but Professor Haig knows and covers so much in the semester. It's really interesting material, but it isn't too much.
Straightforward. Interesting material.
This is an good course if you need to fulfill an OEB requirement and you need a break from psetting.
One of my favorite courses at Harvard. So interesting and engaging. Absolutely take this class if you're at all interested in biology; it makes you think about biology from a completely different perspective than any other biology class I've taken. Not a huge workload, just fascinating material and plenty of leeway to explore your own interesting topics in a term paper. Highly recommend.
David Haig is an amazing person to get to know and listen to.  Having the opportunity to learn about viviparity in a wide variety of animals is really awesome.  Add the fact that you get to learn about viviparity with David Haig, and it makes it an awesome experience.  It's a pretty chill class, and it depends on how engaged the students are (the more questions, the better).
If you go through OEB without taking a class with David Haig, you're missing out.
It's a great introduction to a lot of interesting facts and phenomenon that occur in vertebrate viviparity. Genomic imprinting and maternal-offspring conflict are incredibly cool, and learning random facts about tons of animals is really fun as well.
Prof. Haig is wonderful and knows so much about so many different things.  Take this class-- it is amazing to have the opportunity to learn from him!
I don't think I've ever learned so much in one class. Every lecture was full of amazing (and sometimes shocking!) facts about vertebrate reproduction and parenting behavior. The structure of this class is a bit different from others, since there is no formal section but instead a "Fundamental Interconnectedness of All Things" (FIAT) session on Fridays in which Professor Haig answered any questions that had come up over the course of the week. There are also very few assignments--only an in class midterm, term paper, and final. The exams were very fair, and the term paper was a great opportunity to explore a topic from the class in more depth. Really, anyone who enjoys learning cool animal (including human) facts would love this class!
Class was a pleasure to attend.  The lectures were engaging and readings interesting. I highly recommend this class to not only people interested in evolutionary biology, but also those who are interested in game theory.
The lectures in this class are super cool. Very little work, definitely worth taking!
TAKE. THIS. COURSE.extremely interesting content, extremely interesting course instructor, great format of the course.
Professor Haig is the most amazing repository of information -- if anything, take this class to get the chance to ask him questions and receive answers that run the gamut from anthropology to the classics to evolutionary biology. Also, the lectures are really engaging and there is a good balance of cool OEB-esque factoids and hardcore evolutionary genetics.
A glimpse inside Professor Haig's brain. Amazing! Has a broad scope and covers some fascinating animals. Introduces theories regarding genetic imprinting as applied to parent-offspring conflict.
Pr. Haig is a brilliant lecturer. Don't let his easygoing nature lead you to underestimate his incredible knowledge on vertebrate reproduction. This is a great course and I'd highly recommend it to anyone interested in evolutionary biology.
This is an interesting course that essentially studies how genomic imprinting and evolutionary factors play a role in many of the behaviors seen in vertebrates.
This class is fantastic! Very interesting, covers a wide range of topics and offers flexibility for students to explore their own interests. Highly recommended!
This class is probably the chillest class I've ever taken.  Two straightforward lectures a week, given in blue comic sans font and equipped with lots of fun pictures, and then a FIAT section on fridays.  I forget what FIAT stands for, but basically you ask whatever biology-related question pops into your head, and you're not responsible for this material on exams or anything.  This class lacks structure, which isn't a complaint, but a fact that you should be aware of before deciding to take it.  No textbooks, a few fun readings that aren't tested on, and basically non-cumulative lectures.  Dr. Haig created a relaxed environment that really facilitated enthusiastic learning.  The only complaint I had was that about 80% of my grade was decided in the span of reading period and finals period (40% for a paper, 40% for an exam) so I basically have no idea what I have in the course even as I'm writing this review right now.  Overall FANTASTIC course though that I would definitely recommend taking if you have any interest in the topic.
If you love learning cool interesting things about animals this is the class for you!
This class is unique in that it provides an avenue for discussion of topics of interest to the students, not just the professor. Any and all ideas and speculations can be debated. The class is an excellent forum in which to present new ideas and consider broad theoretical topics.
This class is not overly difficult except for the length of the term paper - don't leave it until the last minute!  What you get out of the class is what you put in.
Wonderful lecture-based class that covers a broad range of viviparity-related issues from all walks of organisms.
fun class
This is a wonderful class to learn a lot, interact with an incredibly interesting professor, and not have to do a ton of work.
This is a "gem" class, a rare, easy-to-miss (because it mostly known only to concentrators) course that you could never find at any other university. The reason I came to Harvard was precisely to take classes like this-- small, interactive, and with perhaps the most brilliant professor in his field.
This is a fun and fairly light class with just the amount of happy bio enthusiasm that you expect in OEB.
Print out the slides and bring them, it will help you focus.
This class is amazing for those interested in OEB in general. A wide variety of topics are covered, not just those directly related to viviparity. It is also an amazing chance to hear about Professor Haig's theory of imprinting directly from him!
This class is quite easy, but it gives you a springboard to learn about a lot of neat topics in biology, if you have any interest in them.
You should absolutely take this class. It has very little work and fascinating material. What work you do makes sense: you read papers on topics related to class, you write a paper on a fascinating topic of your choice, and you take two exams. "FIAT sessions" are excellent opportunities to ask any questions about things that you found confusing, but more usually to just ask David Haig about anything, from the evolution of menstruation to monogamy in humans. Be warned; the final is harder than the midterm, so study for that.
Great class, very interesting but need to keep up with the material.  If you are interested, you will find it great
This class is full of happy bio enthusiasm! Professor Haig presents a conceptually different approach to looking at biological phenomena: the "gene's-eye view." It's really illuminating, and many of the case studies are wacky, hilarious, and/or unbelievable. Come for the fascinating stories, stay for the extensive overview of vertebrate phylogeny and behavior.
Although the course is called vertebrate viviparity, you learn so much more than just vertebrate viviparity and all of it is super interesting. This course is definitely a "hidden gem" in the OEB department. Professor Haig is also wonderful and very knowledgeable on a wide range of topics.
Professor Haig is so knowledgeable, you can literally ask him any question about biology and he'll know the answer. The lectures are interesting and engaging and it is a fun class overall. The workload is quite manageable.
This is really a Harvard-only experience where you get to take a class and converse with a world-renowned professor. He even sets aside one day a week where the class is invited to ask him any question they can think of. If you are at all interested in biology, I highly recommend this class!
Very interesting and low work-load course. Definitely take if you are interested in reproduction, epigenetics, and/or evolutionary biology in general.
Professor Haig and the FIAT sessions definitely make this class worth it. The readings are engaging and the material is very unique for a biology course since it is largely theoretical. However, once you adopt the "gene's eye-view" of looking at things, everything becomes very accessible. Take this class!
This course covers some extremely fascinating topics in biology. For this reason it's best suited for individuals with a strong interest in the field. However, the class is almost worth taking just for Professor Haig whose breadth of knowledge and insight made for a fantastic semester.
Dr. Haig is an entertaining and informative lecturer. The material covered was always interesting and I enjoyed doing the research paper.
It's a great opportunity to connect with a brilliant professor and explore most topics even tangentially related to vertebrate reproduction.  Haig's theories on conflict are really fascinating and influential and it's really fun to discuss them with him.
This class is tons of fun and not too much work!
As David Haig announced on the first day of class, this course is not for students who need a lot of structure. It is a really interesting course for those students with an intellectual curiosity in evolutionary biology and who are motivated to work well independently and make the most of the resources available to them (ie Professor Haig and his wealth of knowledge).
Mostly painless, so long as you do well on paper and tests.
It's a great class taught by one of the greatest professors at Harvard. No one interested in Biology should miss the opportunity of taking this class.
This is a fun class with a great professor, which covers lots of really interesting subject material. I really enjoyed the class!
Someone who is ok with the lack of structure and likes to talk about the subject material.
This class was incredible, and one of the best I took at Harvard. It's not incredibly well organized, but that's not the point. This class will be a chill and fascinating way to learn about many different groups of plants and animals, and to find connections in evolutionary motivations for various behaviors and physiological processes. It will make you think about evolution differently. Haig has some of the coolest ideas I have ever encountered in any class, and you will come out of this course more interested in biology and animal behavior than ever before.
David Haig is an excellent lecturer. His lectures are effective and his presentation of the material and problems is engaging. The way that he questions problems inspires inquisitiveness. Take this course!!!
This is such a gem of a class, especially for senior IB concentrators. David Haig is an amazing professor, he clearly cares so much about the subject matter. It's interactive, and a VERY manageable workload. I would very highly recommend it!
Any opportunity to listen to a lecture from David Haig is an incredible mind-opening experience.
The most difficult part of this class was making it at 9 am every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. The tests were not too difficult. However the class is much more end of the semester heavy.
This class is...cool. It's definitely different from anything else I've taken, and it's somewhat challenging in having such a different structure--it's kind of like a one-sided section all the time. Professor Haig is an incredible professor who cares a lot about his students, and I would recommend getting to know him outside of the context of lecture--take him out to Classroom To Table, have a discussion with him about his work, he's fascinating and incredibly kind. Coming out of this class, I feel like I have a whole new appreciation for the evolutionary interactions between organisms and within organisms that I didn't before; honestly, I found this more helpful for thinking about evolutionary processes than any other class I've taken through the department.
Amazing course! Professor Haig is great and knows so much and the material is really interesting. It's a very low stress class- there's one midterm, final exam, and term paper. Highly recommend!
This is a fantastic way to learn a lot about the animal world. Lectures are fast-paced and dynamic; it's hard not to get swept away by them. As a course, it is also worthwhile (for instance, you write a long research paper), but you should be aware that there's not much feedback given. Sitting here, I only know 10% of my grade -- that's a bit different from the way that most OEB courses work.
It is a fun class and discussion is very much encouraged. I would highly recommend
OEB114 was an amazing class! We covered very interesting material, the workload was very manageable, and our professor and TF were very supportive.
This class is very relaxed in that is has no weekly homework or section component. You're grade is almost entirely determined by the final paper and exam. You will learn a lot of interesting/somewhat random facts about animals and reproduction.
It's a great class to take your senior spring and learn some cool bio stuff without the annoying stress of excessive assignments
It is interesting, but unorganized. You have to be interested enough in the topics to be able to put up with the lack of organization. There is also a 15 page term paper.
The lectures and materials are very interesting.  But, all of the grade is determined in reading period/final period which is frustrating.
Professor Haig is a wonderful lecturer who is more open to students than others; take advantage of that.
Go to class - it's well worth it!
I loved this class and would recommend it to anyone who enjoys evolutionary biology or human physiology.
Despite the somewhat obscure name of the class, this class is more broad than you might think and is definitely recommended to anyone interested in learning about unique and integrative perspectives on a variety of phenomena in biology.
Very interesting subject matter and great lectures!
Viviparity is an engaging course. However, be warned that the final paper is no easy task.
This class is very interesting and relaxed; however, the final paper and final exam make it fairly stressful in the end and leave you a sense of having an almost completely undetermined grade in the course overall as finals period begins.
FIAT sessions are an amazing opportunity to probe and be impressed by the knowledge and thought process of a professor.
This was a great course! Don't be intimidated if it appears to be a higher level class.
This class is a real pleasure to go to! It's always interesting and exciting, and surprisingly relevant to other areas of biology. I wholeheartedly endorse it!
Take this class! It is so much fun, so interesting, and always exciting!
