If you have any interest in OEB, take this class. But make sure you like OEB first.
Gonzalo is great fun, and Cassandra is quite a character.
Great class!  Interesting material, awesome professors, and animals!  Lots of spineless animals!  Plus, an unbelievable field trip to Panama over Spring Break.  Who wouldn't want to take this class?  It was awesome!  I recommend doing the lab handouts every week, rather than waiting to do them all at once at the end.  They aren't going to get any easier, and doing them all at once is stressful.  I also recommend studying the material gradually rather than cramming, because there's just too much information to learn it all in one night.
Zing. What a win.
This is the best class you will ever take at Harvard.
If you're interested in living things, take this class!  Once you get to know everyone, it's a lot like having a party that counts for concentration credit.  Awesome!
This is one of the few courses I've taken where I got to know the other students and faculty really well. Though I had some issues with the organization and syllabus of the course, these were definitely outweighed by real immersion in what it means to be an invertebrate biologist.
Amazing field experience, worth it alone for the field experience. Also, the professors are awesome.
This class is very popular and sought-after largely because of the field trip.  However, even a week snorkeling in Panama may not make up for all the time spent talking about worms and obscure larval forms if you do not really like invertebrates.  That said, this class is a really terrific opportunity for any student interested in the biology of these amazing animals.
Gonzalo will insist that you don't need to worry about sunscreen or malaria pills.  Don't listen to him.
The professors are really, really attractive people. They are also very good lecturers and just generally great teachers. TAKE THIS CLASS
Amazing animals (you get to see how worms regrow their heads), unparalleled teaching staff, and amazing opportunities to engage with hands-on research in the field, this course is a MUST for any and everyone interested in organismic biology or embryology.  If you are looking for the perfect course of fun, interesting work, and great teachers, this is it.
It is an amazing course! I highly recommend it if you are interested in biodiversity and learning more about all the different kinds of animals out there. You will encounter things you have more than likely never heard of before. The class is not easy in the sense that there is a lot to learn but it is all very interesting material and the professors are incredible! The field trip is not a vacation, you do a lot of work, but also learn sooo much and get to bond with your class and the professors and TFs. I highly, highly recommend it.
Obviously, this class is amazing for its unique field trip, but be warned - this is not an easy course. There is a lot of memorization, and even the field trip, as fabulous as the location and your classmates are, consists of 8 hours in lab and about 4 hours in the water every day. This is very work heavy. However, feel free to ask the professors and TF for any help because they are very approachable to willing to explain whatever you're interested in. Practically speaking, try to review the material you learn every week, because it is a lot of information to process right before the exams. And do the labs early! They are very long and take some time to finish.
This class was one the best academic experiences I have ever had. I really enjoyed waking up to go to this 10 o'clock class, which is early on Harvard time, each week. I learned SO much and the trip and lab made that learning experience that much more powerful. Learning everything about ctenophores in class, then seeing them in lab, and then seeing and catching them in the wild was just such a great progression and powerful learning tool. It was just fun. And when something is fun, its so much more enjoyable. This class taught me so much, while giving me great memories and new friends.
This class will actually change the way you think about biodiversity and biology.  It also changed my life, since the field trip provided me with some excellent life reflection time.  I made great friends and I became insanely obsessed with embryos, what more could you want from a class?  Definitely take it, and don't be intimidated by the plethora of phylogenies and the mass amounts of information, you'll be fine.
Take it. Who doesn't want to learn about awesome animals and get a free trip to Panama to see more awesome animals?
I would take this class if it were just 3 hours of vicious beatings per week and the trip to Panama.  It would still be worth it.
This class is a lot of fun (the field trip and labs are amazing!) but also a lot of work. When it comes to exams, be prepared to study as hard as a medical student for an intensive anatomy class, because that is effectively what you are in -- just for all phyla other than craniata.
AMAZING.
This class is the best. Cassandra and Gonzalo are amazingly knowledgeable and enthusiastic about the material. Ben is the coolest TF ever, and always eager to help answer a tough question during labs. Lectures are long but engaging. Best of all was the trip to Bocas: not only a fun way to meet your classmates and get some sun, but an incredible learning experience seeing the invertebrate diversity of the marine world in action. Finally, don't be fooled and wait until the week of an exam to study the material: review every lecture as you go along.
Despite some roughness around the edges in the current format, this class still is one of the most incredible experiences of my Harvard Career/Life. The teaching was great and the knowledge I obtained was vast.
you'll learn more than you ever thought there was to know about animals - and you'll also know that it's only the very tip of the iceberg! a caveat: there is a substantial amount of embryology, and it gets a little annoying towards the end when it takes up more and more of the course (certainly more than is advertised) and when we have to learn specifics of embryology beyond what informs the phylogenetics and animal characteristics. there was altogether too much drosophila embryology, especially given that we were specifically NOT covering insects in the course, and drosophila doesn't even behave as a typical dipteran in development.
This class was wonderful! If you like invertebrates at all I promise you won't regret taking it! The field trip was one of the most amazing times of my life and I was amazed at how much fun I had and how much I learned!
Take it if you want to know a lot about invertebrate phyla that you have never heard before. It will help you in understanding the patterns of animal diversity and the "tree of life".Keep in mind that prof. Giribet represents a very particular school of phylogenetics and thus some of his statements on methodology or results may be controversial.
Amazing.
This class is fun. The material is pretty interesting, I liked learned about lots of bizarre critters. During the semester there isn't too much work. The fieldtrip is absolutely amazing. Study before the exams though, they're hard. Also the labs are long and tedious. But the lectures are entertaining and the professors are very good.
this course is very memorable.
This is a fantastic course with an amazing teaching staff who are enthusiastic and knowledgeable on the course materials.
Really great class in so many ways.  Interesting material for people interested in biology.  Panama is an amazing spring break.
This has been my favorite class at Harvard so far. I don't say this lightly. What more can you ask for? --engaging, friendly, and knowledgeable professors; a close-knit and collaborative dynamic with classmates; a TF who's sharp as a tack; fair exams; a spring break field trip that was out-of-this-world (snorkeling in the Caribbean!!!); and a deep and comprehensive understanding of the invertebrate phyla. If invertebrates aren't your thing, though, be warned, because you WILL talk a lot about invertebrates.  If you're also squeamish about touching dead things or live animals, definitely not for you. I started talking about how cute flatworms were all the time. We played with live leeches.  We held dead crabs. We handled tarantulas. We caught live sea urchins. We cut open sea cucumbers. We looked at mollusks under the microscope. I didn't know how I would respond to learning about these things, but it turned out I loved it. Give it a try, and you won't regret it. It was totally worth the lottery. Don't let that turn you away from what could be an amazing experience.
Each lecture requires time to master all the material covered, and it is always easier to review the material as the course proceeds than to wait until a few weeks before the midterm. Be sure to keep up with the labs, and to keep track of what was actually completed during each lab.
Don't be afraid of asking questions in class, especially in the beginning, because by after the field trip everyone will be really comfortable with each other anyway so why not start early.
I would recommend this class very strongly, but with the caveat that you will have to work very hard.  Don't take it unless you have an interest in the course material.
TAKE THIS CLASS! And don't let the pre-requisites stop you from trying to enroll. Obviously you would need some type of background in the Life Sciences, but the OEB 10 and OEB 53 pre-requisite is not that strict since there ARE other ways to obtain the background needed for taking this class. Field trip to Panama aside, this class is truly AWESOME. Even if there was no field trip, I probably would have enrolled in this class anyway since I found the topic to be truly fascinating. Plus the laboratory component consists of working with ACTUAL live animals that are exotic, cool, and fascinating, ranging from Ctenophores (Comb Jellies) to Millipedes. If you are even thinking of taking this class, just shop it! and if you REALLY want to take it, perhaps talking to the teaching staff might help a little... but keep in mind that the enrollment is capped and seniors may be given preference. Not an OEB concentrator? Not a problem! OEB is only my secondary field (I am a non-science concentrator) and I know other students taking this class who came from other concentrations (i.e. Neurobiology) who were granted the opportunity and privilege of taking this class. Just have some prior background in the life sciences, be ready to explain why you are so interested - and passionate - in taking invertebrate zoology and go to every class during Shopping Week. Good luck!
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. Gonzalo is phenomenal, and really creates enthusiasm for the material. Going on the trip to Panama is not only an amazing experience and really fun, but it also was extremely helpful in developing my understand of invertebrate phyla and their lifestyles.
Great class and the field trip is excellent.  Be prepared to work though - the exams are quite difficult and it is easy to let material slip by
Even with a very real interest in invertebrate biology, I was unable to do well in this class: it's a lot of material!
Field trip is the best part of the class, but the class is very difficult.  There's a ton of information to memorize, so good luck. It's a bit overwhelming, but the field component makes up for all of it.
This course was incredible.  It was by far the best I've taken at Harvard.  As a non-science concentrator I was very nervous going in, but I learned more and loved it more than I could've ever expected.  If you have an interest in marine invertebrates, try your hardest to take this course!
This class is (so far) the best class I've taken at Harvard. The organisms you learn about are all absolutely fascinating, especially the ones that you may have never heard of before (shout out to chaetognaths, they da best). Lab gives you the opportunity to really examine them in a pretty relaxed atmosphere. Obviously, the Panama trip is extraordinary. That said, the class is a fair bit of work, and you should be ready to really get to know A LOT about A LOT of different organisms. As a plus, your drawing skillz will get a lot better.
This class is so much fun! The labs are really interesting and they go by quickly, I can't believe how much I learned from the field trip
This class is fantastic and a lot of fun. Be sure you are ready for a lot of memorization on the exams and a lot of detailed information on invertebrates.
The class covers a great deal of material over the breadth of invertebrate biology. Sometimes it's hard to cover it all, so you have to stay up on all the material or study a whole lot for the midterm and final. Other than that, they bring in many interesting animals to play with in lab each week, and the trip to Panama was obviously fantastic!
Great professors, awesome TF, Panama field trip - it's as awesome as you think.  Everyone always says the class turns you into an invertebrate nerd, and initially I didn't believe it, but it's really true.  Once you know what a tardigrade is, there's no turning back.
This class was absolutely amazing, maybe the best class experience I have had at Harvard. It is incredibly interesting, I built good relationships with the professors, Ben is thebomb.com (that needs to be capitalized to accurately describe his awesomeness) and the class isn't suffocatingly difficult.  And then there is the trip to Panama.  The trip was amazing because we saw amazing animals, got to know everyone on our trip, and built a much more solid relationship with the TF's and professors.  I also got to know my classmates so much better and that made the overall class experience post Panama amazing!
This class will be worth it only if you actually love invertebrates. The trip to Panama is great, but it does not justify the course. You will find this class boring and burdensome if you only take it for the trip.
It's mind-blowing.  If OEB 51 is a "cult", then consider me an unswerving proselytizer.
This class is unreal. It's just... unreal. I can't believe it actually happened. Did I really take a course that was outstandingly interesting, was extremely well taught by two professors who are experts in their field and care deeply about their students, and that took me on a free trip to Panama? Did I really play Mafia with everyone in the class and the whole teaching staff? Did I make a ton of friends while snorkling in the Caribbean? Well... yes I did. And it was amazing.
This class is fantastic!  The professors are wonderful, the TF is wonderful, you get to see so many awesome animals -- it's all-round a great class.  However, keep in mind that you do have to sit through hour-and-a-half-long lectures on invertebrates, and if that sounds like it will be boring to you, then you probably shouldn't take this class.  If you're excited about animals and think it sounds fantastic to cut up flatworms and see how they regenerate heads, or to stare at the tube feet of sea urchins, or to watch tiny cnidarians feed on shrimp under a microscope, or to open an egg case and look at the larvae developing inside -- this class is for you.
Take this class! It provides a foundation of knowledge that will make everything else you study make so much more sense. Inverts are amazing and have taught us much of what we know about life.
Lots of information...
If you have an interest in invertebrates, absolutely take this course! It is fascinating and fun. Do not take it just to get a trip to Panama, because you really have to be engaged with the material and want to learn it to do well. The course has no busy work, which is AWESOME and rare in a mid-level. That being said, a LOT rides on the exams, which are challenging so study hard!Both professors are excellent lecturers; the course is fast-paced and you have to be on your A-game. That being said, I got the most out of this course of any at Harvard, and it really made me feeling like a legitimate biologist.
Fantastic material! Enthusiastic, knowledgeable, extremely accessible professors and TFs!  Add on an incredible field experience in Panama and I really can't say enough good about this course!
nothing compares to field experience
I recommend this class, but not without prior careful thought. I have never taken an OEB class and this class was taught in a way that I was not used to at all. As an HDRB concentrator, I was really used to application based problems on exams. This class is very heavy on memorization if you are not an OEB concentrator and have not taken classes which familiarize you with the material. You will have to study really darn hard to be able to internalize the thought and materials. If you don't you will do horrible on the tests. With that said, the class will familiarize you with 98% of the animal kingdom and you will come out knowing a lot more about the animals around you. The class is over all good. The trip to Panama will get you really into the material. I was literally dreaming of invertebrates! You will live, eat and breath invertebrates in the class, especially during the trip. With that said, though the trip is fun, DO NOT take the class just for the trip. You will hate yourself for that. There is a lot to learn and you will get what you put into the class - especially the labs.
OEB 51 is an amazing course and experience. Invertebrates make up the vast majority of animal species on Earth, so if you don't take an invertebrates class, you are really missing out on the huge variety of forms that animals come in. You will definitely discover some weird creatures you had never heard of before. That being said, this is not an easy course, and like most OEB classes, it involves a lot of memorization. You will be expected to know important traits of almost all of the animal phyla. It is doable if you put in the work. Of course, the spring break trip to Panama is amazing, as long as you understand that you will spend most of the week in the ocean snorkeling and collecting invertebrates, or in lab examining them. Some students were expecting more of a spring break party atmosphere, and I think these students were a little disappointed (not that there isn't also time for fun on the trip). Most students who go on the trip, however, will tell you that there are few things as fun as the adrenaline rush you get when you finally spot a nudibranch on the ocean floor.
This class is amazing! GG and Tauana are both so incredibly knowledgable. The exams are tricky, but they are fair because we only have to answer like 75/100 points. The trip was so wonderful. Our class bonded quickly and it's going to be sad to graduate and not see any of my classmates, GG or Tauana all the time. OEB 51 is great! Put in the time to do well on the exams and I could not imagine a better class.
take time with the material! there are a lot of details and a lot of groups that seem similar, but they have distinctions
Get ready to nerd out or get out.
This class is amazing definitely take it even if you aren't interested in invertebrates. You will learn to love them. The trip is obviously amazing! The only work is the exams. No work normally during the week on a regular basis. You have to memorize and study a lot for the exams though.
INCREDIBLE CLASS. You will learn so much about the diversity of animal life, the field trip is obviously amazing, the teaching staff is brilliant, if you are an OEB concentrator do not miss your chance to take this course. (Don't be intimidated by the memorization factor, it's on par with other mid level oeb classes)
Perfect senior spring course!!!  The trip to Panama is beautiful and life changing. If you have the chance, take the course when Professor Extavour is co-teaching, as she adds a great balance to the course.
Panama trip is deeply formative. You'll learn so much about animals you didn't even know existed.
Do not take this class just to go to Panama-- the material is too specific and in depth on bizarre invertebrate phyla to take it without solid interest in the subject. That said, the teaching is amazing, professors are incredibly supportive, and the trip, while involving a lot of lab work, was ridiculously fun. Consider taking it in 2016 rather than 2015 because Cassandra Extavour will be away in Spring 2015, and she is a great professor and person to know.
Gonzalo and Cassandra and Chris are a wonderful team. This class, with its intimate course size, field trip to Panama, and hands-on labs, taught me more than I learned in the vast majority of the other classes I have taken at Harvard. It is hands-down one of the best courses offered at Harvard and is taught by some of the most thoughtful, engaged, and brilliant OEB professors I know. Feel honored if given the opportunity to take it!
The class was fairly interesting overall, and there is a lot of material. I thought the embryology component of the class was a bit tougher, and it felt sometimes like two classes were being crammed into one, and the depth on the animals suffered a bit because of it. The field trip was absolutely incredible for helping to solidify the teachings from the course, learn a lot new, and to have fun. The lab for class always seemed to try to pack a lot of information into a short amount of time, so that could be stressful too. Gonzalo and Cassandra were both terrific.
This certainly is THE best course I have taken at Harvard. The professors and the TF are all amazing and very enthusiastic. Two professors teaching this course are world famous experts in their field, but at the time, deeply care about their students. I wont even bother talking about the field trip. It was simply a life-changing experience. However, be serious. If the field trip to Panama over the spring break is the main reason that you want to take this course, you should NOT take it. You will have to spend a good amount of time observing various invertebrates and making lots of illustrations for your own lab notebook. The exams are often challenging, as you have to inevitably memorize a lot of information. But if you are interested in invertebrates at all, you MUST take it.
An amazing course; while there is a field trip, the information covered in this class is substantial and fairly in depth.
Absolutely amazing, one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard, don't hesitate to take it if you have the opportunity! The field course is life-changing, and the professors care so much about students and the course as a whole. Prior passion for invertebrates not necessary, it's infectious. Only warning is that you should study the material as you go along because the exams will be challenging.
This class is so amazing because it reveals the world of invertebrates, but it is so much work to memorize all of the tiny details about each phylum. The passion for the subject is contagious, but it takes a lot of effort to memorize the details for the exams.
One of the best classes I've taken so far at Harvard! Everything is so worth it. The fieldtrip is AWESOME, with a GREAT group of people that you get to know very well. There is a huge amount of information about invertebrates that you'll learn, so I would recommend against taking this class just for the field trip, unless you're interested in learning about velvet worms, tardigrades, or the larva of sea urchins, etc. This class has truly transformed my life, not only in the way that I view scientific research in conjunction with field work, but also in how I view seafoods, Spongebob, Finding nemo, etc.
Cassandra and Gonzalo made this class an amazing experience. They have very different teaching styles, but both sets of lectures are incredibly informative, entertaining, and accessible. There is a short lab report every week, but it does not involve too much time outside of section. Take this class if you are interested in animal evolution--it has completely changed the way I think about life on Earth.
Absolutely loved this course! Super interesting, great professors, great field trip - if you're interested in zoology, I'd recommend taking it for sure. 10/10.
This class was one of my favorites at Harvard. It might as well be titled "Cool Animal Facts and Embryology" for a couple reasons: you will learn so many cool facts about invertebrate animals, and you should be prepared to learn a lot of embyrology (which is a third or more of the class). The field trip to Panama was incredible and allowed you to explore any animal that you collected from the sea in any way you want. There were no assignments on the field trip.
Awesome class, awesome field trip. Good luck on the lottery - they definitely take more upperclassmen IB concentrators, but it helps to talk to them. Cassandra studies embryology, so the class is half about embryology in different phyla, like gastrulation. Gonzalo is really in the thick of things in rearranging the animal phylogeny, so it's cool to see the debates play out in real time as he keeps the most updated consensus. Obviously, there's a lot of memorization, at least when studying for exams. You really get to do a lot in Panama, snorkeling every day and collecting specimens for ID and further lab study like dissection and spawning experiments. This course is about learning all animal phyla, their characteristics, and their relationships.
Class is great! Not an easy A, but definately very interesting and the field trip makes it well worth it.
This class was absolutely amazing. Panama was hugely enjoyable, but even apart from that I learned a huge amount and it was an honor and delight to get to know the instructors.
Having a strong biology background is highly recommended. While the spring break trip was an incredible experience, do not take this class if that's the only part of it that you're interested in! Be ready to consume a large amount of information and learn a lot, but also have to work for it.
This is an incredible class. Cassandra and Tauana are amazing and besides knowing everything about invertebrates, are so inspiring to learn from. Take this class if you can!!!
It is a wonderful course, great survey of what constitutes the majority of animal life.  Arguably the best experience was the spring break trip to Panama--everyone snorkeled, collected marine life, then got to do experiments on the animals each day.  I took it when it was solely taught by Professor Extavour, and she is very engaging and accessible outside of class.
This course was a terrific experience. Cassandra and Tauana are both wonderful people and having a chance to get to know them was a real pleasure. The field trip to Panama was absolutely memorable. I would definitely recommend taking the class -- just make sure you have a real interest in invertebrates, because you will be learning A LOT about them!
This class is a unique experience to gain hands-on field experience during Spring Break and to get to know your classmates and instructors! Lab is also a great way to work with the animals you study. However, beware that the exams are tricky and there's a lot of information being tested so start organizing your notes and try to clarify material before studying. Also, the midterm came after Spring break so there was a ton of material that was tested which made it hard to digest. Get to know Prof Extavour though, she tries to reach out and is very supportive when she's not busy with other things.
Fun and you learn a lot but don't slack because the tests are hard.
One huge highlight to this class is the trip to Panama - it was one of the best experiences of my time at Harvard. You get to know the professor and TF so well, and engage with the material in a way that you can't appreciate by just attending lab. The class is small and you get to know your classmates well. The material is very interesting and you logically study all of the invertebrate metazoans according to phylum, though sometimes it's difficult to know what is relevant in each lecture. When it comes to the exams - which are very harshly graded - know as much detail as possible because you will be expected to memorize it!
It depends on who is teaching the class at a given time, but the field trip component makes this course really fun. A lot of the lectures focused on embryology rather than the ecology of the species, but if that's what you're into this class is for you!
Take it if you are genuinely interested! It is a small class and you get to know one another well in Bocas. If everyone is excited about invertebrate biology, it makes a fun and easy study group.
The teachers are super cool and them + the field trip make it totally worth it. Tests get tricky but you will learn a ton. I knew hardly anything about inverts going in and now I feel like a know an unreasonably large amount about them.
If you are interested in invertebrates, animal development, or biodiversity, you absolutely must take this class -- you will learn countless details about many strange animal species. In the three-hour weekly lab and the spring break trip to Panama, you will also spend a lot of time collecting, examining, and dissecting invertebrates. The professor and TF really care about your learning and you as a person.That said, if you are not interested in invertebrates, I wouldn't recommend that you take this course for the free trip to Panama alone. Spring break was fun, but it was hard work: we would be in lab or on a boat from early morning to late evening, every day. And memorizing the huge amount of information for the two exams is also a very time-consuming task!
It's not super work intensive, and most of the work you do is actually interesting and helpful. Cassandra is awesome and you should take any opportunity you can to know you. I'm sure the same is true of Gonzalo when he teaches the course too. The field trip is great, the organisms you study are super cool and important and abundant little guys, and in general this class is well put together and a lot of fun
