OEB54 is a GEM within the OEB department; small size, great professors, and interesting material!
Take this class!!  Its AWESOME  I always looked forwards to lectures.  The material is fascinating, and really important for all biologists to know.  Both professors really care about their students and are extremely enthusiastic about the subject they teach-- their excitement about fungi carried over to everyone.  The small class size was a plus-- OEB54 felt more like a gathering of friends than a class.
I would recommend it to people who get excited about natural history
Could be a great science B core for the math-averse.
Take it!
by far the best class I have taken at Harvard. focus is on learning not on getting good grades. material incredibly interesting and professors very knowledgable and incredibly friendly and approachable
This class transforms the way you look at the world. Although you may have heard of fungi or even know a bit about them, this course opens your eyes to the world of knowledge that is known about fungi and the universe of knowledge we have yet to attain.
This course was a ton of fun, really interesting material, and there were several field trips. Despite having taking many OEB classes before, it really made me think about biology in a different way. The professors are both really knowledgeable and they were also excited to teach us and tried to get to know us on a more personal level.
This class is fantastic. It is well balanced, giving you sufficient time to learn both in and outside of the class room. The assignments are varied, allowing different types of students to show up academically throughout the semester. And the material is just so fascinating. Just the other day I was speaking to another OEB student and they didn't even realize Fungi were not part of plants. As a people we know so little about this group of organisms, so the opportunity to learn so much is something you shouldn't miss out on. I also switched into the course, and didn't regret it at all, not one day.
This course is a great introduction to the field of mycology. It is a survey course, so do not expect to go into a single topic in depth, but you really emerge with a very good broad understanding of the kingdom fungi and how it impacts all of our daily lives. This is harder than it sounds, given the vast amount of literature in the field, but the professors do a very good job condensing everything into a manageable chunk of really interesting knowledge.
Fungi are great, and this class is great. It's an area of biology/life that's often overlooked, but really important!
This class is fun and interesting, and you get to learn about a whole large and diverse new world of fungi that is not often taught in intro science classes.
Unless this class improves its structure (mostly with assignments) you are going to be lost. Make sure you are really interested in fungus or really, really want to know about it before you take it.
Professors were both amazing. Absolutely take this class, especially if you like fungi! The field trips were awesome, labs were fun, the information made me think about the way I view both the natural world and human relationships with fungi. I also got a pet slime mold from my TF, which crawled out of its petri dish onto my desk and fruited before I could name it. It was still a spectacular pet.
enthusiastic teaching, field trips, integrated with modern science, environmental issues, learn something interesting every lecture
Fungi can do anything and be anywhere. Be warned, however, that the field of mycology (fungi) is an absolute mess (in my opinion). Mycology today, I feel is struggling with how to integrate hundreds of years of (potentially wrong) fungal research with modern tools and understandings. In my opinion, the field has really only experienced a renaissance in the last 20-30 years and that our knowledge of fungi is rapidly changing and evolving. Anne and Don are great. They're really knowledgeable and very enthusiastic about the material. That being said, I honestly feel that they only dedicate a fraction of their time and effort to this class as my pre-med professors dedicate to their courses. Anne and Don encourage students to ask questions during lecture, but I feel that they're not very empathetic to the possibility that students might be VERY confused by concepts such as the difference between conidia & mitospores and haustoria & arbuscules. I felt that they could have even been a little more empathetic when it came to even very simple fungal topics, such as fungal anatomy and growth.
Even if you're not really into fungi, this class is a fairly painless way to fulfill a requirement. Learning the individual life cycles of different fungal groups can get a bit repetitive, but the broader ecological concepts that Anne lectures about are very interesting. The professors are very helpful and approachable, but feedback is somewhat lacking.
The professors are fun and interesting, and the field trips are amazing!
Lots of fun! The class starts out somewhat slowly but becomes awesome near the middle/end of the semester.
This class is full of new information. You will learn so much about fungi, which are fascinating. The professors and the TF are very passionate about the class, almost all of the field trips are fun, and it is not very much work at all. Keep up with the reading! It pops up on the exam (and is interesting anyway).
This class has such amazing material that I couldn't tell myself not to take it. The flipside to this is that the exams are not as easily understood as one would hope. I know there were some questions on the exam that almost no one completely understood. Don't take it thinking you'll get an easy A because you probably won't. Do take it because it's something you'll never be able to take after this unless you go to on to do graduate work in the area.
Fungi are the forgotten kingdom, even among biologists. This course offers a great broad introduction, and the teaching staff are so enthusiastic about getting students to appreciate fungi. Show any interest in any particular aspect of fungi, and they'll immediately take you under their wing. The field trips are fun, the workload isn't much at all, and you'll make some good friends in the class. Whether you're interested in genetics, ecology, or applications for humans, this class is a great intro to an indispensable group of model organisms and ecological players.
fungi are cool
Your world will expand unbelievably fast as you go from thinking of fungi as mold and mushrooms to realizing that fungi is EVERYWHERE and is a part of EVERYTHING and is still largely a mystery to science.  Learning about fungi is a magical experience.
OEB 54 is fun, interesting, and fairly easy - highly recommended if you are interested in the biology of fungi.
If you're at all curious about the fascinating realm of fungi take this class. If you haven't really considered the fungi before, take this class. Either way your eyes will be opened to a bizarre and highly important realm of organisms.
This course is for students interested even slightly in fungi, but will not be an appropriate choice for students who have no interest in the material. The course is taught well and it has great professors.
Great course!  It is fun and you learn so much!
Biology of fungi was so much fun!  You really do gain a much greater appreciation for this oft-overlooked kingdom of organisms, and it is well worth your time to find out just how amazing they are.
This class is very fun and should be taken!  It was the best decision of my four years at Harvard.  It made me wish I was an OEB concentrator... too late.
The experience you will get from this class is fantastic! The instructors and the TA are extremely nice to work with and very easy to get hold of to answer all your questions. The lectures are very organized and informative with all kinds of knowledge related with fungi: physiology, biology, genetics,just to name a few. I love the field trips, they are awesome!
Take it.  Fungi are awesome (some are coenocytic!  some are septate!  yay!)!
Wonderfully taught, interesting material, but tedious memorization at times. If you hate fungi, don't take it.
Don's delivery can be a touch dry, but pay close attention, because the things he says are really interesting.
This class was one of the best I've taken at Harvard - the teachers are very nice, the field trips are lots of fun, and the material is interesting. Take it - as a concentration requirement, core, or even as an elective.
The study of fungi is fascinating and this class gives a really great overview of what is involved in the field of mycology. Sometimes the class can feel a little bit disorganized and the material can just feel hard to get a grasp on, but this is partly because of the disorder in the field of mycology in general. The labs gave a really great basis for understanding how to look at fungi under the microscope. Overall the class is a lot of fun and you learn a lot and there is very little work during the semester, just readings and a few projects at the end.
I mean, this is about fungi. You will get wowed but never too sure if that's what you want.
I think the fall is a better time, because there are more fungi outside, but it was still a very good class. People came in with no interest in fungi and left understanding the field of mycology very well, and also left knowing where there could be more research which is particularly exciting.
Take this class! Even if you know nothing about fungi it will open your eyes to a whole new world of diversity.
Dr. Pfister is an excellent speaker and has a sort of subtle humor that keeps the mood of the courses light. Lab sections are interesting and pair very well with the lecture material. The workload is extremely reasonable, and fungi are so different and universally present that this course is a must for every biology student.
I didn't expect to take this course, but I loved it during shopping week and am glad I stayed with it. Material is sophisticated enough but not too difficult, and fungi, it turns out, are WAY COOL. I ended up talking my friends' ears off with cool stories about spore-launching mechanisms (look up "Buller's drop") and fungal life histories (have you heard of Cordyceps or endomycorrhizae?). Not too much out-of-class work, although doing all the reading will definitely enhance your experience. Recommended with enthusiasm.
