great course
Lectures are not exciting, at all.  A lot of the material is interesting (if you are in to oceanography), but it doesn't spend much (any) time talking about today's relevant problems.
This class has no graded assignments before the midterm/final, so it is very important to seek help from the TF and ask about what materials students are expected to learn.  Make sure to keep up with the readings and do the study questions even though they aren't checked, because you really get out of this class what you put into it.
This class is very interesting, but not extremely easy. Doing all the reading required is sometimes not enough, this class may require a little more work than expected.
Really interesting class - but be prepared for lots of information and pretty difficult topics.
Learned things about the ocean I had never thought about before.
A wonderful way to learn about mechanical and biological processes that drive ocean forces. Be sure to be prepared and stay up to date with the material.
Jim was a great lecturer- there are not many classes for which it is so easy to stay "tuned in" and have multiple "aha" moments of discovery and comprehension.
Loved this class! Really interesting material, definitely have to go to lecture and pay attention.
Very Very dull lectures, though an interesting man to have a conversation with outside of class, McCarthy is about as engaging as it gets in class. Really disappointing, this topic has so much potential.  Very wary to recommend to others.
A wonderful introduction to the biology of oceans! Also ties in to environmental issues, which is always interesting. Professor is engaging, extremely knowledgeable, and makes the 1.5 hour lectures completely bearable. We saw a lot of cool samples in the classroom, like old oceanography tomes and plankton filters and gorgeous photos. The field trip was great, except if you get seasick BRING DRAMAMINE YOU WILL PUKE EVERYWHERE. Definitely recommend, even as a non-OEB concentrator (I'm EPS)
The course is great. McCarthy is an amazing professor. He has so much experience with this material and is just really good and explaining everything. He's also very nice and easy to talk to. The material for the class is really interesting and relevant to a lot of the climate issues that are going to be critical in the coming decades.
I wholeheartedly recommend this class. I learned a lot every day. Reading the book helps, but it can't match how engaging Professor McCarthy's lectures are. The course covers a great range of topics and it is cool to thoroughly approach ocean problems from a combined chemical, physical, and biological perspective.
This course is extremely interesting. If you are at all interested in the ocean or biological oceanography then you should take this class. Even if you already know a lot of the material it is worth it to take this class because Professor McCarthy has a lot of experience and tells really interesting stories.
OEB 118 is a good way to learn about topics in ocean science.  It is also relatively laid back; if you pay attention in class and section, you will learn a lot.  It's also great to get to interact so closely with Professor McCarthy, who is a leader in his field and is knowledgable about many things.
Lectures are at times dry, and evaluation is dependant only on a midterm and a take-home, but the material is interesting and Professor McCarthy is a very bright and engaging instructor.
Definitely worth taking! Very little stress when it comes to assignments, and there is a great deal of important information learned over the course of the semester.
Overall a fantastic course. I would absolutely recommend it to anybody interested in oceans and science. I have almost no background in the subject, but it's been great and Professor McCarthy is very available and is a very enthusiastic professor--you can tell he loves the subject and really wants to be there teaching us. Go to his office hours! Workload is minimal, and it doesn't take much time outside of class to do the readings.
Oceanography is where physics, chemistry, and biology come together in a beautiful, cohesive picture. McCarthy is the MAN and the class strikes a good balance between material and workload.
