You get out of this class what you put in. The problem sets are graded on completion, so one truly has to take initiative to make full use of the class' potential.
Fantastic class! Genetics is a tool kit, and learning it can only benefit you. The material is very comprehensive and challenging/interesting and often represents the forefront of knowledge (studies published the same year). Prof. Hartl and Prof. Hopkins are incredibly knowledgable and generate a wonderful, inclusive, and honestly very enjoyable learning atmosphere. They also tell great stories. Take this class, assuming you want to learn genetics!
OEB 50 is a problem-solving class. You will get word-problems that use genetics terms. (One great example from a pset: "What happens when a genome of ABCD has a BC deletion?" Answer: "AD". Answering the question has nothing to do with genetics, just with common sense.)The psets are disjointed from the class material, and commonly rely on outside information.You can learn a lot in this class from the great readings and from talking to Professor Hartl, one of the most preeminent geneticists in the world, but you can also get by in the class just by using common sense on the psets and exams.
Only take this if you are excited about genetics! Period.
OEB 50 is an excellent course. I took it as a senior to organize my knowledge about genetics and really really enjoyed the time I spent with the professors, the TFs and with a very motivated set of students. Both professors are excited about the material and able to clearly communicate subtle concepts as well as very friendly and accessible outside of class. The material is interesting and deep and you are encouraged to explore beyond the course but by no means have to do so. The grading scheme is forgiving and largely based on problem sets so you can make sure you do well by working a little every week; the overall effect is that you will learn a lot but in a very relaxed, low stakes way. I highly recommend this course to anyone interested in genetics, whether they are new to the field or already know quite a bit.
This class has an amazing teaching methodology! If you are considering taking this class, you should. The topics are incredible, and your grade is really based on the psets.
This class is fantastic!!!  Even if you aren't an OEB concentrator, if you are interested in genetics, you should definitely take it!!!
Take this class if you really want to walk out feeling like you can tackle complex problems in genetics. I had no prior background and did horribly in genetics in LS1a and I learned a tremendous amount in this class. Be prepared to ask a lot of questions about the psets, though - the problems are workable, but purposely challenging.
Incredible class that is a little different from many other biology classes at Harvard (in a good way). It is not too heavy in workload, so it is a fun class.
The professors really care and have structured the class so that you can learn difficult material without a lot of pressure.
This is a great option for a mid-level OEB class. It's designed to be a problem-solving class, so the first class is very much indicative of the whole semester. At the same time, the teaching staff is really  dedicated to teaching you, rather than screwing you over, so it's a really enjoyable class.
OEB50 is an amazing course that enables you to gain a broad amount of knowledge in genetics and genomics and apply that knowledge in problem based assignments.
Dan and Robin are a dynamic duo for this course! They teach the course in a "blackboard" style which makes learning these principles both intuitive and fun. The class is a good survey of a lot of topics in genetics but also goes relatively in depth to those concepts. Highly recommend taking this!
GENETICS! WHy do platypus have ten sex chromosomes? What happens to a baby if a mother gets stressed out? What makes you different if you share the womb with a twin brother vs twin sister? How is crispr used to edit the genomes of mosquitoes? What is the problem (or lack thereof) with GMOs? Dan Hartl and Robin Hopkins will you in this engaging series of lectures, complete with much problem solving and discussion to make you feel involved and interested. If these two teach it again, DEFINITELY take it-- they are absolutely brilliant and wonderfully engaging lecturers. My TA, Brent, was incredible as well- he put in a lot of time to make the material very understandable for us.
It's a great interesting course.
Wonderful course, great subject matter. Professor Bomblies and Professor Hartl are fantastic.
Interest/passion for genetics is a MUST. Do NOT just take this to fill a requirement.
The professors mentioned this towards the end of the class, but only take this course if you're really interested in genetics (esp if you have a choice in taking it). With enough effort, the course isn't actually that difficult, but lecture and section can occasionally be confusing and all-over the place. In a somewhat weird way, I thought Ben and Holly were better at explaining specific problems in one on one settings as opposed to during section or office hours before an exam. Problem sets also require you to look at them a few days in advance to be able to actually find the concepts needed and do them in advance. The practice problems were also probably helpful and I should have done more of them before lecture
If you are interested in genetics and genomics, especially after taking LS1b, then this course will give you a lot of great information on the topic.  It is not a stressful course when it comes to workload, which allows students to engage with and grasp the material (which is pretty difficult).
Taking this course was not a painful experience, but I can't say that it inspired or changed me significantly. Some of the genetics problem-solving is sort of fun, and the professors are extremely kind and passionate, but the lectures are pretty tough to sit through. Students who are extremely interested in/passionate about genetics who think they can stay engaged in the material should definitely take this course, but if that doesn't apply to you, you will end up totally checking out during lecture and gain very little from the experience.
It is a really interesting the class and the professors only want you to succeed and learn something about genetics and genomics.
take this class. Great way to fill a midlevel. Also no final!
OEB50 is a must-take class for students wishing to pursue fields in genetics. It is an amazing introduction and in-depth overview of key mechanisms and concepts in genetics. The class is taught in a small, lecture style; professor Hartl's and professor Bomblies' old-school chalk-talk type of lectures is refreshing and makes lessons more interactive and accessible to all students. You definitely need a good background in basic molecular biology and statistics
You need ls1b to understand anything they are talking about. This was not a repeat of ls1b in any way shape or form like older Q guides indicate. On another note, the professors are super nice and understanding.
This class is fantastic if you do it the right way. What I mean by this is don't expect much if anything out of section: it's disorganized and irrelevant. What you need to do is be willing to show up to every lecture, ask questions, and make time to meet with the professors. Professor Bomblies was the sole reason I understood this class, and understood it very well. The material is difficult but super rewarding, you just have to be willing to work for it and go to the right places (ie the professors) for help and guidance. I'm glad I took the course for sure, but just know that going in. It is NOT a repeat of LS1b.
The material in this course is difficult, but the teaching staff is really wonderful and the Professors make the class seem like a personalized experience.  You not only get lectures, but you get conversations on current implications, discussions over the epistemology of genetics, and hands-on learning with models.  I feel like I have a very good grasp of genetics afar taking this course, although I came in with no background.  I'd definitely recommend it if you are just interested in genetics.
This course is designed for students with an interest in genetics. The problem sets and exams are fairly straightforward. The lectures are interesting and both the professors and TF's were very helpful. This is definitely one of the best OEB midlevel courses!!
the teaching staff is not very in tune with itself, and it's difficult to get answers to many questions.
Extremely self driven course. Need to either be one-on-one in office hours or miraculously good at deciphering the textbook. Kirsten, Pierre, and Jen were very helpful.
This course is good if you are self-motivated and willing to reach out for help. Utilize the lecture notes as a roadmap of what to focus on. The teaching staff is a great resource so utilize them.
Doing the optional assignments will really help you study for exams. It's in your best interest to not fall behind on the readings
Make sure to use the problem sets as a chance to gauge your understanding.
This class is very fascinating, especially if you are interested in quantitative genetics. We learned about many interesting genetic systems.
This class is slightly repetitive of LS1b, so if you have taken that and don't have a huge interest in genetics, I wouldn't recommend this class, but if you really like genetics then take it! You learn some really interesting genetic phenomena that are pretty cool.
This is a great course of anyone looking to learn more about genetics. A broad range of topics are covered. The teaching staff is incredibly supportive and want you to succeed. OEB 50 was among the best science course experiences I have had in my four years (as a pre-med and non-science concentrator). The problem sets are not graded, but provide a great opportunity to practice and get to know to know the faculty. Exams are fair. I would highly recommend OEB 50 for anyone looking for an interesting and manageable bio course.
Low time commitment, good if you are interested in the course material, lectures are often disorganized and confusing, problem sets are optional so unless you are great at keeping up with optional work (I know I'm not), expect to do a lot of work before the midterm and final but very little during the semester.
Like most OEB classes, this one is interesting, pretty easy, and fairly disorganized.  The professors are really knowledgeable and totally accessible, but the organization of the class really leaves something to be desired.
This course was wonderful if you like genetics. I really liked both Professor Bomblies and Hartl, and I feel like the course was taught in a manageable and laid-back fashion. Neither the midterm or final were particularly hard.
this course is not a good course to take if you have already taken ls1b. You should spend your time elsewehere. However, if you haven't taken LS1b this course is great (the only problem is that most people who would be interested in the coourse are required to take ls1b). Also, very disorganized. but the professors are brilliant and it is crazy that you get to just ask them questions for an hour and a half.
Dan and Kirsten are two of the kindest people I have met, and they are excellent instructors as well! They take the time explain the concepts, and if for some reason they make a mistake or are unclear in their explanation, they are very willing to backtrack, correct themselves, explain more slowly, and do whatever it takes to make sure you understand what is being taught. Plus, genetics is really cool, and taking this class teaches you just how cool it is.
Not an easy or simple course whatsoever
Professors Bomblies and Hartl are fantastic. It's a strong introductory genetics course. Utilize the TF's and be certain to do the psets as the semester advances!
Don't be afraid to participate in this class! Even in lecture.
Be prepared to learn how to do the problems yourself. If you can do that you can do OK
Fun, you'll learn a lot about genetics in a low-stress way.
This class felt like a repeat of LS1b. If you feel that you mastered the LS1b material, then don't take this course, because much of it overlaps. There were barely two or three lectures where I felt like I learned something new.
I think that you def. need LS1b and its kind of assumed you understand a lot of past genetics. I think it has a few kinks. The questions are very confusing to understand most of the time. Just make sure that you know how to do every problem! I think the profs and Jenn are the main reason to take this class.
I really enjoyed this class! Learned a lot in lecture and section so did not need to do much outside work. If you are interested in genetics at all you will like this course!
a bit dry and confusing
Great class. Tough material but if you put in the work, it is worth it.
SUCH a great course. Covers over some LS1b stuff but just goes into more depth on other topics. I really loved the professors and the environment was a healthy self-study atmosphere that I just loved.
It's an intro class, focused on highlights of the field rather than on forcing you to master something. It's handy if you're considering going into biology, and a lot more fun than most intro bio classes.
Material is interesting, but you don't have a good gauge on how you're doing in the class (essentially just a midterm an final).  Good OEB mid-level course, significantly different from LS1b (which I thought it would be very similar to)
The material in this class is interesting and well taught.  The teaching staff wants to help you do well and they do everything they can to make this class an enjoyable experience.
Material is interesting but the class itself is very disorganized. Lecture focuses too much on material that isn't very useful/testable which makes section just a time to cram in every practice problem possible. You can definitely get by zoning out of half of lecture but if you miss one of the few minutes where they make a crucial point you're screwed. Class requires a lot of self-study.Also, both professors and my section leader made a ton of mistakes throughout the semester that by the latter half, you'd have to question literally a third of what they were doing.
This is a very good course and one that you will appreciate having taken when it is over. You learn a ton of super interesting material and the professors treat you more like colleagues and less like students. The teaching staff really makes the course because it is abundantly clear that they both love teaching the material and love seeing others understand that material. They give lots of options for reviewing and helping you if you aren't doing as well as you would like. I won't lie-- the course was not easy for me at all, especially because the only things you are actually graded on are word-problem type genetics examples, and I am terrible at probability and that sort of thing. So if you're thinking this is a concept-based course like I did that is incorrect. You may find section frustrating but it will benefit you to go. You should definitely check this course out because the lectures are really great and the professor really care, and if you choose to take it you will learn a lot.
This class is great! The professors are really nice and eager to help, section goes over exam-type problems, there is minimal work. It does help a lot to have taken other classes with sections on genetics in them. I had taken LS1b, OEB 53, and OEB 10 and this class was pretty easy after all of those, and more enjoyable. Take it! It's fun and I really did learn a lot.
It's a good class but make sure you check with everyone about deadlines because they'll tell you different things.
If you want to learn the fundaments of Genetics and genomics, this course is straightforward and small.
This was a new course but it was a great way to learn genetics more in depth and at a much lower stress level than LS1b.  You have to be able to do a lot of self-directed learning, as the problems were not graded, so this class is recommended for people interested in genetics and driven to learn more.  What you put in is what you get out.
This class is amazing. This was my favorite class this semester. Dan and Kirsten are AMAZING professors who love the subject matter and really care about their students. If you are scared to take this class because you didn't like LifeSci 1b, please know that this class has an entirely different teaching style from LS 1b! There are no in-class quizzes, there are problems but they are not due for a grade, and the exam is very fair. Dan is an incredible teacher when he is teaching a small class. This class will make you love genetics and erase the bad memories you had of LS 1b. TAKE THIS CLASS!
A great introduction to genetics.
This is a great, fun course that will give you an overview of the field of genetics and its applications. Even if you don't have any biology background you will be completely fine, and still benefit tremendously from the course.
This course provides students with a broad summary of the field of genetics in a small classroom environment.
This is a great class if you're actually interested in genetics. It is very self-driven, so if you're not interested in the topics it might be easy to fall behind. That said, the teaching staff is wonderful and a joy to learn from.
The class was a wonderful alternative to LS1b. I'm not sure what requirements this class fulfills, but if you have an interest in genetics and genomics and want to learn all the fundamentals, this class is a wonderfully low-stress way to do it. The exams are extremely fair, and weekly problems are not turned in for a grade. Professor Hartl and Professor Bomblies are both great -- really, a great choice for someone with an interest in basic genetics (even someone without too much extra time in their schedule).
If you have any interest whatsoever in genetics, you should definitely take this course. It's a great opportunity to learn about the many aspects of genetics and genomics in a low-stress setting, with professors truly committed to helping you learn, without any interest in springing surprises on students come exam time.
Very good for an interesting, broad introduction into the field of genetics, with somewhat of an evolutionary focus.
