This is quite an excellent class. David Haig is an amazing thinker, you will learn so much from him! The course basically consists of going and talking with him about plants (or other random biology topics) for two hours a week (and more if you want!).
If you're interested in having fascinating conversations with a great biologist, this class is for you!
I would tell them that this course has a light workload, and is very interesting.
This is a great opportunity to sit and chat about science with David and Ned.  You get to see how they think.
Generous teachers and reasonable workload. You do need to have an interest in the material and be prepared, though!
If you are at all interested in plants and the alternation of generations, you will find this class extremely interesting.  The two professors are one of the best parts of the class.  Ned and David are some of the most intelligent, humorous, and friendly professors I've had here at Harvard, and they alone are a reason you might want to take this class
I loved this course! Professor Haig is my favorite professor at Harvard - his genetic conflict work (and just knowledge base in general) is out of this world amazing. I didn't know Professor Friedman before this course, but grew to love him and his teaching style as well. Phenomenal course. Emphasis on learning the material rather than tedious assignments. Learned a ton. Strongly recommend for people interested in botany. I was not interested in botany but very interested in genetic conflict and loved this course. Definitely recommend as an upper level elective! Two of the best OEB professors here, no question!
Really fun chance to yak with the experts about weird plants and weird theory. What biology should be.
It's very natural history focused and requires a willingness to get nitty gritty.
I would tell students that the course is highly specific, and that they should either have a specific desire to learn that topic, or a general desire to hear David and Ned nerd out (which is very fun).
