This is a challenging, but extremely rewarding course. It's been one of my favorite courses at Harvard and in the OEB department. It requires a pretty constant stream of study because there are weekly quizzes and it's important to keep referring back to material from the beginning since the course builds on itself. It's a lot of information, but completely doable if you keep up with the material each week and don't get behind (which I think requires both a high level of interest in the material and a certain level of maturity). This is a great course if you enjoy hands-on-learning because the lab is all about actually studying the physical fossils and evidence of evolution that you are told about in lecture. Overall, a great course and I recommend it with enthusiasm to those interested in evolution and paleontology. Also there's a fossil digging field trip over Spring Break.
Do you love vertebrates? Do you love fossils? Take this class! Also getting to see some really cool fossils from the MCZ collection and then getting to go look for fossils in the field is a can't miss opportunity. But also be prepared to work hard and study because covering even a fraction of vertebrate evolution is a lot to learn.
This is an amazing class! The material is super interesting and Professor Pierce does a great job condensing the evolution from stem vertebrates all the way to mammals! It is a lot of work, but totally worth it.
This class requires way too much--1 mid term exam, weekly quizzes, two final papers with an extended peer review progress, and two final exams. As an undergrad, I've never faced this workload before. This is really a class meant for graduate students. By the end of the course, you will have to have the entire vertebrate phylogeny memorized, along with 5-10 characteristics for every sister lineage/clade/node you can think of. You also have to trace the progression of evolutionary hypotheses and current day findings...It's so much more work than you can imagine, especially because this is a cumulative class. You have to remember everything from extinct fish, amphibians, dinosaurs, birds, mammals, reptiles...AND their anatomical changes (like particular changes in skull configurations, for example) for each individual node. Do not take this class unless you have loads of time on your hands.
the course requires a signficant amount of memorization and study time, but presents a good review of vertebrate paleontology and of major vertebrate clades through time.
WOW this class was cool. Genuinely, I had such a great time--you get to learn about fantastic diversity in the vertebrate lineage, and it really makes you think more broadly about the diversity we currently have. For example, did you know there were three or four waves of megafauna diversity BEFORE the dinosaurs? Anyway, this class is definitely a tough one--don't take it if you already have a challenging workload ahead of you for the semester. But if you have any interest in playing around with cool fossils (or digging them up on the field trip!) and understanding how to put our modern biodiversity in historical context, please take this class--you won't regret it.
