interesting and fun, good field trips
Go to lecture.  Everything you need to know for the midterm and final is covered in lecture.
A somewhat vague class, although the lectures are generally neat, and some topics are very interesting like competition, predation and speciation.
This is not meant to be a scary course. The instructor and TFs are all very approachable and knowledgeable. You will gain a general knowledge of ecological systems and the ways in which they are measured, tracked, and evaluated. You will also get a chance to go on outdoor field trips!! Don't take the course if you have no sincere interest in ecology; it's not good as a random time-slot filler, nor is it painless for the non-expert.
I recommend this to anyone who is interested in ecology and conservation.
I took it only for the requirement.  I refused to take it one year ago, when i had sensed that an activist tone and an overly mathematical treatment of biology would both be distasteful.  This year, i lucked out getting Bossert, who luckily provided enough historical context for me to make a good paper (for another course) out of the class material.  I can't imagine that others would appreciate the class for this reason, though, and i got the sense that many take it only because it is a requirement.  To future students: forget the reading, and don't worry too much about exam difficulty, either.  Take this early in your college career; it will seem pedestrian later.
Especially if Professor Bossert is "taken out of retirement" again to teach, you are unlikely to have such a fun time learning Ecology anywhere else!
It was great this year, but a different professor's teaching it next year, and I hear he's not so good...
Try to get the professors to clarify expectations and format of tests.
It is an interesting, useful, well taught, fun class.  My favorite science class so far.
Be ready to do a lot of math, and live by the lecture slides. Make sure to take notes on and ACTUALLY know equations, since if you fall behind you're doomed.
Do not take this course unless you have to because it is structure so poorly that it really makes you quite miserable about learning concepts that should not be so random and frustrating.
It's fun, but rather 'loose'. Didn't feel as if I walked away with much knowledge of ecology. Sadly.
Very disorganized, unclear what is expected on tests.
fascinating material, great topic!
The class is great. You learn a lot about a lot of different topics.
The course is well-taught and the teachers are interesting and friendly. Also, there are enjoyable field trips.
Very informative, not as easy as it may appear.
Very interesting material with great TF's and an approachable professor.
It is hard work and really requires you to keep up, but it is interesting and possible to do well in the class.
I would say that this course is a good introduction, to ecology which is a useful subject to know, but that if you want to take a biology course for fun, there are many more favorable options.
to fulfill requirement.
Only take it if you're truly interested in ecology.  It's painful otherwise, as the ESPP students can attest.
The fields trips were some of the most fun I've had at Harvard.
pretty interesting
study for tests
Only take this course if you have a genuine interest
The material is fun and interesting, but there is a TON of it to learn for the final exam--just a warning. The teaching staff is unbeatable though.
Great lecturer and sections.  May not be as rigorous as some want.
A lot of fun, very interesting
if you like biology, this is a fantastic introduction. the atmosphere of the material and teaching staff is exciting and refreshing.
Beware that the syllabus may be incredibly misleading. The assignments are difficult and very time consuming.
Interesting subject and lectures overall, but feedback is not always great.
This was a good class with interesting information. It felt more quantitative than the other mid-level OEB classes I've taken so make sure you do sufficient practice problems to ensure your understanding of the material.
This is a great class, but has a lot of work.  If you put the right amount of effort and time into it, you will learn a lot.
I enjoyed it but it should be strictly to satisfy a requirement or for people who already know they enjoy the content and want to learn more.
This course has a good deal of work, but the material is very interesting and the teachers are very effective and helpful.
Don't take this class "just because ecology is interesting". The class is a lot of work. It can be rewarding at times (since you do learn a lot about doing research and collecting data with the field trip & field trip write ups), but it also gets overwhelming since there are so many random concepts to memorize.  Also there's a lot of math in this class for being an OEB class, so don't take this if you're not up for using equations/ memorizing formals, and drawing graphs.
Great class; don't be scared off by the mathematics. I looked at the Q guides last year and only saw "math, math, math AHHH." But I took it anyway (I'm not that strong in math) and really enjoyed and understood it. The class draws a lot of ESPP concentrators but also draws in OEB people too. Field trips are fun and the TFs are more laid-back than you think.
study hard
The class is interesting but there are a lot of assignments that feel like busy work. There are problem sets, weekly section readings, mandatory weekly discussion posts, field trip write ups, and section presentations (3).
Expect Math, it is not particularly difficult, but don't let it surprise you.  You will learn a lot, but you have to put time into it.
The course material is interesting - but there is far too much work for the class than there should have been. Expect little help from the entire class staff - even if you go to office hours. Be prepared to understand and work on the material entirely on your own.
I felt like the class could have been better if it had been run differently. There wasn't a lot of information about the guidelines/concrete expectations/past examples for the write-up assignments and the problem sets were much more quantitative than anything we did in lecture or section. It was also frustrating to have to post section comments on Sundays if section was later in the week. There was also very little information (almost none) about grading for any component of this class.
I would not take it if you don't have to unless you're really interested.  You learn a lot but be ready to work
I thought it was a pretty good course.  It'll be fun, you'll learn some ecology, and work really hard at the end.
The professor is great, and the course provides a very great overview of ecological research and understanding. You should be comfortable with the math involved because it is surprising how much math skills are needed for this course. Overall, an excellent course.
It is a lot a lot of work.  Some of the concepts I am glad I know, but there is just a lot of material that unless you are going into ecology you probably won't use again.  And understand math, or be prepared to be really frustrated.
I was really excited to take an ecology course, but I was a bit disappointed by this course. The content was not as interesting as I hoped, and I feel like I did not learn that much from OEB 55 as I did from my other classes. There is a very low time commitment which was nice.
It's a really good class, but it's a fair amount of work.
Class is great! Assignments are all wonderful.  The exams are really tricky though!
The material for this class is fascinating, and the faculty are very approachable. That said, grading may be harsh on exams and papers, and the class lacks some of the structure of other Harvard classes. The exams have relatively few questions, so questions may be a bit of a hit or miss, making one's grade lower than one would expect.
My favorite class but also the hardest. Very interesting material and the professor's a great lecturer, but it's a lot of work.
If you're interested in the subject material, take this class. Otherwise, it is not as easy as it seems. Moorcroft is a good professor, but the field trips (and their writeups) will be the bane of your existence.
The course material was really interesting, and taught in a somewhat theoretical way, which I approve of. However, we had do too many things, like discussion boards, labs, section, readings, etc. Also, the labs were kind of contrived, as our data sets were way too small to make any meaningful conclusions.
Hard, and Professor Moorcroft is not exactly the warmest and most engaging professor you'll ever meet.  Field trips are fun though, and much of the material is interesting.  I didn't enjoy all the math.
This class demands a decent amount from its students. A lot of material is covered (sometimes not very well), but discussions in sections are useful in connecting ideas when the professor fails to do so in class. The material is extremely interesting and relevant. There is math, but not a lot of it is needed.
Some parts of this class were great and others were a little annoying and not helpful in understanding the material. Take it if you are genuinely interested in ecology or have to take it for ESPP.  Know that you will NOT get any leeway if you are a senior thesis writer. The Prof. actually scheduled the midterm two days before theses in his OWN DEPARTMENT were due.  The ESPP theses were also due that same week. HORRIBLE planning on his part and he refused to try to make any accommodations (in a very rude way as well) even though there were quite a few seniors in the class.
This course can be challenging at times but is a really interesting introduction to ecology. Definitely one of the better ESPP required courses and also worth taking for anyone with a general interest in the subject.
It is well organized and you really learn both the math and the theory.
You learn a lot, the field trips are great and the mathematical models are a bit challenging at first.
I wouldn't recommend taking this course senior spring, but otherwise I learned a lot and thoroughly enjoyed the class. Be prepared to do a lot of work for it.
It's a lot of work, which is not reflected in the syllabus.
It is challenging and sometimes difficult conceptually
only take if you have to
Overzealous preceptor, frustrating assignments, extra work specifically for section. And weekend field trips during the busiest weeks of the year- the end of April.  All around mess.
Well-designed class. Challenging but not overwhelming.
This class is a lot of fun and you'll learn a lot. Don't whine about how much work there is. It's really not that much.
the course was interesting, but not fascinating.  I was hoping to talk more about ecosystems, but you end up doing a lot more math than you would expect.
The final exam is very comprehensive and tricky.
It's really a great class. The Professor, staff, and even the students are all super easy going and great to talk to. The class is very interesting if you like this kind of material. Field trips are very fun. =)
This is a "lifestyle class." It has a lot of work and tries to set how you complete the work by many deadlines and hours throughout the semester.
This class will help you better understand the intersection between biology and the physical world.  Professor Moorcroft makes the material engaging, and the teaching fellows are incredible.  Overall, the course is not too much work outside of class.
There was a tremendous emphasis on mathematical models. I understand that this is important, but I feel that I would have taken more away from the course had there been more time spent on specific areas of the world that are being affected by changes in ecology.
Only take for a concentration requirement. If you want to try OEB, look into some of the more fun and specified courses rather than something broad like this.
Professor Moorcroft is not a teacher. He merely reads text off of slides. There is a lot of information to cover and a good deal of math. While this course is not much work, the work that is required often takes a long time because you are unsure of what you actually need to know. That being said, the content of the course is interesting--focusing more on small population dynamics than global ecology. Take this course if you have to. There are other courses out there that will teach you about ecology but in a way that is engaging.
There is work, but it's not too much. I didn't feel I needed to read the textbook, though it's important to go to lecture to get all the concepts!
Be prepared to immerse yourself in detail, as this is a course about detail.
Problem sets are very challenging and should be started well in advance
The material is pretty basic but it really builds up over the semester so stay on top of it and try to go to lecture so you don't have to learn it all right at the end.
If you like ecology, this is your class. The lectures material are gone over efficiently and clearly. Most of the material you can't find on your own.
This course does a few things well (great field trips, awesome material/pictures) and many things less than well (unclear lectures, long, plodding assignments that feel arbitrary).
This is a very useful course to learn the basics of ecology and applying it to the wider context. The readings are meant to encourage you to learn about scientific papers etc., but can sometimes feel unrelated or pretty similar to the last one.
Take this class if you really care about ecology, about climate, and about species diversity. The lectures are very interesting and the work is reasonable.
Great course! Take it if you're interested in ecology. Workload is also very reasonable.
This class is a well-oiled machine.  It works, it's been working for a long time, and it's nice to take a course that is well structured.  Unless you're interested in the material, you'll find it fairly boring.
The course is interesting and does a good job of covering the main ecological themes. However, the material contains several mathematical models that take some time to get used to. This may be a concern for the mid-term.
This is a great introduction to ecology and really helps you bring together a variety of topics and understand the interconnectivity between them.
This class is a really good one to take if you're considering being a field biologist. It'll teach you some essential skills and, more importantly, it will give you a good idea of whether ecology is for you or not. It is definitely a challenge, though. I'm an OEB kid through and through and I still struggled at times with this class. Conclusion: take the class if you're really interested and have the time to take a class that will be a challenge.
This is a great class if you want to learn about general ecology! Lectures are mostly interesting, psets are not bad, and the field trips are fun. It's much easier with a strong math background.
This is a great introduction to ecology; the teaching staff is really friendly and engaging, and most of the coursework is fun.  The end of the semester really ramps up with group work, field trips, field write ups, problem sets and the final, but it's still manageable if you plan well.
This course is really disorganized. There is a lot of material and too many assignments. A lot of the work unforunately feels like busywork. The material is interesting and Prof. Moorcraft is a great lecturer, but it makes it tough to understand the overarching theme of the course. The grading in the course is difficult and the work towards the end of the class really seems endless. Not the best midlevel OEB class out there.
This course was amazing!  The material is fascinating and is taught fantastically.  The Professor and TFs really make sure you understand and connect with the material and a large emphasis is placed into whether or not you understand and can connect with the concepts rather than just memorize them.  Take advantage of the skills the paper-writing can provide!  Overall, a great course and would totally recommend!
It took me a while to enjoy this course, but I really loved it after I bonded with the teaching staff and my peers.  The field trips were fun, but the reports were not.
I really enjoyed this course! It provides a balanced introduction to a variety of ecological problems and theory. The field trips are fun! Unless they change it, I felt that the final didn't test the most interesting and important topics that we learned in the course.
This class is not what I imagined an ecology class would be. We didn't sit around and talk about trees. Instead, it was a LOT of math. I ended up really liking how the class was centered on theory and feel like it gave me a great idea of what the discipline of ecology is all about, but I would caution people signing up that they need to be ready to think about equations and graphs, not just interactions  between organisms.
Be sure to keep track of the overall framework/breakdown of the course: it makes retainment that much easier.
This class was definitely the best OEB class I took during my undergrad. There is a clear progression in the course, depth and breadth is achieved, and it is very apparent a lot of work goes into lectures, section, the field trips and assignments. The field trips and associated reports were actually a really useful introduction to conducting research. The class pushes students to think about ecosystems from so many angles, and that's what a biology class should do.
I enjoyed this course! I think it was pretty well taught. The papers/field trip reports kind of got to me at the end, especially as I was a bit uncomfortable working with the data. The course's material involves various mathematical models and also many concepts. I think a good depth/engagement is given by the papers we read, in lecture, and in the papers we are asked to write.
Take it, this is an effective way to learn extremely important material.
Do not take this course! The assignments are bad, sections are boring, especially if you already have some background knowledge. The lecture content is very interesting but is poorly presented.
This course provided a really good overview of ecology, from physiological adaptations of organisms to issues concerning biodiversity and conservation. Lectures were good overall (some more exciting than others), and we always went into interesting examples of ways to apply mathematical models and theories to ecology. That being said, you really don't use a lot of complicated math, though more math experience never hurts. I took Math 19a before so found most of the math to be review, but I'm guessing these applications were new to a lot of people. Section was really well-run and was a combination of lecture review and reading scientific papers to dive deeper into the topics that we learned about. We also went on two field trips, which were really fun, and we got to use data that we collected to write up mini scientific papers. Overall, it seems like a good mid-level OEB course (although most people are ESPP concentrators and more interested in the policy side of things).
Moorcroft is one of the few teaching-competent profs in the department, and will give you a good overview of the field.
It is a lot of assignments and more work than it needs to be to learn the concepts.
This class provides a practical and useful introduction to ecology. I really liked taking a course with students who shared my interest in the subject--it was refreshing after going through LS1 and OEB10 with so many pre-med students trying to fulfill a requirement (not that I have anything against pre-meds)
You need to be really interested in the material to enjoy this class.
Unless this course gets redesigned with a new teaching staff (i.e. new professor and preceptor), I do not recommend taking it. While the content matter is fascinating, the course is not designed in a student-learning-focused way. Rather, it is designed to be taught and graded, and the current teachers do not seem very interested in students' exploration. It does not feel respectful to students as thinkers. I specifically do not recommend this to OEB concentrators-- it does not stand up to the quality of other OEB classes.
lots of memorization, but also more math than other OEB classes. memorize material incrementally, don't try to cram
This class covers some pretty interesting and relevant topics. It's not a painful course, but does have a decent amount of work. It's not something I would have taken as an elective but it also wasn't a bad requirement. It can sometimes feel quite disorganized, but the teaching staff is quite willing to help if you reach out.
Start all field trip write ups early.  Talk to the TFs about the material often, not just before the tests.  A lot of material builds up at the end of the semester, so study for the final exam early.
Pretty difficult course for a non-OEB concentrator but Collin is accessible and helpful, a lot of memorizing. Definitely would recommend taking OEB10 first, but the math prerequisite is not necessary!
This course is a little hit or miss. The midterm is always more difficult (longer) than you think it is, and it's worth a lot. The end of the course is extremely work-heavy (our second field trip write-up was optional but was due the night before the exam, making studying and doing the write-up together impossible).
A great, engaging course for anyone interested in ecology.
This class is a great synthesis of a lot of other concepts you've been taught in biology.  It is probably helpful to have a background in math (specifically, Math 19A helped me), but not necessary.  The field trips are excellent in that they allow you to see the applications of what you're learning in the field.
While Collin Johnson was teaching this class, it was AMAZING and I HIGHLY RECOMMEND this class (disclaimer: it's normally not taught by Collin, so I can only speak for the class while he's teaching). If you're interested in this subject, it's an incredibly comprehensive overview of the topics within ecology, and I'd venture to say that it can get those who aren't originally interested in ecology invested in the topic - it's quite friendly for people haven't taken OEB classes before, but might want to get started! The workload is really reasonable, and it includes a variety of different assignments (psets, field trip write-ups, research paper, in-class activities), which keeps the class really interesting, since you're always interacting with the course material in several ways. Just a heads up that the work a slightly more back-loaded. I had Mark Cornwall as a TF, and he was also a great resource of feedback - not sure I can say the same for the other TF though.
Good class and awesome field trips, but we had Collin teach the class instead of Moorcroft so I'm not sure how Moorcroft's teaching style will affect the lectures. Still a good class though so definitely take it if you need oeb classes for your concentration!
Some of the assignments are rough, but the material covered is really important to most OEB courses. Collin is a great lecturer, and I am glad I took this course in the end.
very useful course in terms of applying concepts to real fieldwork, but not easy, and not very well paced. Work is erratic - not much until the end of the semester.
The course staff makes this class fun and accessibly, but the homework assignments are often overly confusing or vague. The concepts are very interesting, but be prepared for a lot of math/ modeling work going into it.
If you have this class with Collin, you are in for a treat! Also, I barely cracked open the textbook, I would say it is enough to go to a library and read it on reserve as needed, rather than purchasing it.
Try to stay personally engaged in this class. Work that is submitted is very rare, especially in the beginning of the course, so it is easy to unknowingly fall behind in the material. There is a lot of work to do at the very end of the class, and I hope in the future they spread it out more. Don't be too intimidated by the math, and Collin is really friendly and great at explaining things, so don't be afraid to seek out help. You can tell that this class does impact you because you'll start to see things in your every day world that you didn't notice before and start to question things in nature more.
This is a really great class! It's probably my favorite OEB class that I've taken. Don't be dissuaded by the time commitment of the field trips, although be aware that as the class is currently structured it is definitely end-heavy.
This was a really fantastic class with a teaching staff that really seemed to care about the progress of all of the students. The field trips were a lot of fun and were really the highlight of the class. My one critique would be that assignments weren't spaced out well: the end of the semester required much more work than the first half, and it would have been nice to spread out some of the assignments a bit more.
Great class as long as you're interested in the material and well-prepared for it. If you don't have any interest in ecology, you're not going to enjoy it, though.
The course material is interesting, but the grading is inconsistent and frustrating. Professor Moorcroft's lectures are fairly interesting, but the weekly sections drag and are not particularly helpful. Field trips (2 during the semester) are actually a lot of fun but also a big time commitment. Definitely not an easy course, but worthwhile if you are really interested in ecology.
This class is a lot of work for an OEB midlevel. It is also stressful because almost all of the work is packed into the last few weeks of classes.
You learn a lot but expect to work really hard, definitely not an easy class, probably wouldnt recommend unless you need to take it for your concentration, high expectations and decent workload, assignments are fair but grading is harsh
This class is a lot of work with not much reward. The material is very interesting and cool, but its a lot of work. You also HAVE to take math 1B and a statistics course before hand. You MUST.
This class discusses many important topics that all OEB'ers should be exposed to. However, it may be uncomfortably difficult if you haven't had/it's been a while since you've had stat and calculus. I recommend with reservations.
The course gives a good overview on ecology with a mixture of quantitative and quantitative aspects.
A very well-organized course. Conceptually it is not difficult, but the breadth of material covered is wide, and many concepts are completely disjoint. Expect to put in a decent amount of time to get a good grade.
