Its a wonderful course with a great teaching staff!
A ton of information is presented very quickly, most of which you will not be able to retain. It's only manageable because they provide extensive guidance as to what to study for on the final.
Professor Jenkins was an outstanding professor, whose ability to rattle off an extremely informative lecture while maintaining a casual and entertaining lecture style is unparalleled by any other professor in my time at Harvard. He simply has to be experienced. The labs are easy, although you have to rely a lot on the TFs to get answers to problems which weren't addressed in class (which can be frustrating), but this is more than made up for by the fact that every week has 3 full tables of skeletons and rare fossils to examine, in addition to dissections, live animals, and prepared embryos to examine under microscopes, which makes this class feel incredibly hands on and relevant even at the introductory level. The "development" half of this class was added this year, and it shows - Professor Abzhanov's lectures were much less focused and lacked much of the polish Jenkin's had, in addition to being delivered much more woodenly - basically read from the power point slides. This half of the course still is fascinating however, and I hope in future years they are able to improve this half, because it complements the course well. I took this course as an elective (I'm a Gov concentrator) and fully enjoyed it, and recommend it to anyone who simply has an interest in this field of study.
It's a really fun class with good material, even if you aren't an OEB person.
If you find vertebrate evolution intrinsically interesting, go for it and you'll get something useful out of the class. If you don't find it intrinsically interesting, I don't think this class is likely to change your opinion.
Interesting class, but an overwhelming amount of information.  Prof Jenkins is, of course, the man.
It's going to be really difficult. The grad students will definitely do better because they've seen a lot of it before and they can devote a different amount of time to the coursework. Labs are pretty difficult as well, and quite long. Luckily the final exam is incredibly fair and really equalizes the course as a whole, despite the rest of it being somewhat crammed.If they have the News & Views project in the future, make sure you get a group that will be motivated to contribute to the assignment.Obviously these professors are so amazing it's difficult to look at this class and not do it, but it's still very trying.
An AMAZING class, by far one of my favorites at Harvard. Farish Jenkins and Arhat Abzhanov make a great duo, and Farish's lectures are unforgettable. Take this class while you can!!
One of the best classes I have ever taken but be ready for lots of material.
Lectures are great, topic is interesting, lab is tough but there's lots of help. Also be sure to know a bit about anatomy walking in.
It is an entertaining and rich course, but you will only retain a substantial amount of the material if you invest a lot of time studying outside of class.
Prof Jenkins can take the most conservative creationists and turn them into supporters of evolution. Even if you are not an  oeb major, this class is such an amazing elective. And you get to touch dinosaur fossils. Do not let Prof Jenkins awesomeness obscure the fact that Prof Abhzaov is also one amazing dude.
Professor Jenkins and the rest of the teaching crew and great! Although if you haven't learned any basic anatomy, it might be difficult keeping up with the terminology.
This is an exceptionally challenging class; that being said it is also an incredibly rewarding and enjoyable one. Both of the professors are great and are clearly passionate about what they do; try to constantly stay on top of the material.
This course will give you an excellent overview of the major themes in vertebrate evolution and development.
This class was everything I wanted it to be and more. Farish is an incredible instructor, the best I've had at Harvard, and you can tell that the teaching staff really cares about how the students perform in the class. It was very fair, and I learned an incredible amount.
Some lectures are dense, and there's a LOT of information to filter through, although study aids were provided at the end and were very helpful in this process when it was time for finals.  Farish's grand stories are perfectly complemented by Arkhat's answers to troubling questions about the "magic" of evolution.  Incredible hands-on labs make full use of Harvard's awesome collections of fossils and specimens!  If you're interested in evolution or fossils, take this class for sure!
This class covers a lot of material at a very fast pace, but all of it is extremely interesting. Lectures will always hold your attention because the professors are great story tellers. Most of the time, it doesn't even feel like you're sitting through lecture because the material is so engaging. Assignments are so low key and the work load is manageable. The labs are UNREAL. The TFs do a great job pulling the best specimen to look at. Many lab days, I would stay late just to get a better look at the wealth of specimens in front of me. Truly a must-take, especially if you are a concentrator (and even if you're not!).
Take it. Prof. Jenkins is the best thing that will ever happen to you.
Amazing course. I absolutely loved it. Lecture was always exciting, labs were fun and the course has a very light workload.
This is a really interesting class but you can feel overwhelmed by the amount of material covered. However, the professors make the assignments painless and you don't actually need to memorize all the material.
