The subject material was interesting (although this is definitely very much a physiology course), and Missy is a fantastic professor. However, since this was the first year it was offered, the structure definitely needs some workthe only 3 assignments in the entire class were due the last 2 weeks. The lectures were also rather disorganized. That being said, the assignments that we did have and the care Missy took to make sure we understood everything left me with a solid understanding of the subject.
Great course if you're interested in this material. Very interesting to see some of the experiments that go on in plants and climate.
Should have some plant background/general interest in plants
Prof Holbrook is a a phenomenal resource and her excitement for plant physiology is contagious, yet this course leaves a lot to be desired. This course really lacked structure. There were no set topics, so lectures were flexible, often running over into multiple sessions. It was often hard to follow lectures because background information was skipped, and most lectures jumped right into unintelligible equations and circular discussion without any focus or direction. I wound up teaching myself the material outside of class. It wasn't until a problem set was assigned at the end of the semester that I was really forced to learn the material and make sense of what we were supposed to be learning all along. The final exam was an hour long individual oral exam. It was actually a fun experience and made me realize just how much I had learned. I would recommend this course, with reservations. If you have no interest in plants, you will be sitting there lost, and leaving with two additions at the end of every class: frustration and a headache. If you have any interest in plants, you should take this course-Prof Holbrook is great person and you will learn a lot, or at least feel more comfortable with plant physiology lingo!
This is an interesting class. Learning from Missy is pretty awesome, because she's a legend in her field. I mean, we did oral exams for our final assignment and we literally sat for an hour answering questions asked by the person who came up with the theories that answer those questions. The course is really quite unstructured and random right now, though, and as far as work goes very back-heavy, with literally no effort required for the first nine weeks of the semester and then a presentation, (long) problem set, and oral exam all at the end. Work wise, definitely recommended. Material-wise...if you have an interest in how plants work, from a mechanical perspective, take this. If you have any question about whether you'd be interested in that, DON'T take this course. It really is a plant physiology class with a minor focus on how climate affects that, not a class in which you're really going to focus on climate change and its global effect on plants. Good class overall, and I came out of it with a much better sense of how plants work.
This was a very interesting class. At first, I was intimidated since more than half the class was graduate students. However, members of the class grew quite tight, and I am now good friends with many other students from OEB 120. The material covered was very interesting, but a bit confusing at times. However, Professor Holbrook is very willing to take extra time to explain a difficult concept. 

The course was a bit disorganized and expectations were not clearly defined at all times. There was very little work in the course except at the end, when we had a final project, a take-home assignment, and a final exam within the span of a week and a half. Speaking of the exam, it was an individual ORAL final exam! This was an awesome way to conclude this class that really assured that I had learned and understood the material!
I would recommend taking this class if you are interested in plant physiology and self-directed in learning the material. This semester, there were no assignments due until the last 2 weeks of class, so there is a danger of falling behind and getting lost because you are not actively interacting with the course material on a weekly basis (like in weekly problem set classes).  There was not as much of an emphasis on the climate change component of the class as on plant physiology. That being said, Prof. Holbrook is a leader in the field and incredibly knowledgable. The project component is a rigorous and fun way to explore a question/aspect that sparks your interest, and having an oral final is an interesting experience
Take this class if you are strongly interested in plants and physiology. Lectures are fairly disorganized but topics are interesting and assignments allow you to explore areas that interest you the most.
It is a good way to learn a lot about plant physiology and can help you add context to any research you do with plants.
