A good class to sharpen your intuitions about evolution and genetic data.
Basically, this course is for students who want to work on theoretical genetics.
It's a great class, you'll learn a lot, and the math is kept fairly do-able throughout.
This course is a must for anyone interested in population genetics or mathematical biology. It's refreshingly laid back and you'll get a great understanding of coalescent models of ancestral processes. John is the real deal; he's a rockstar in the field, is passionate about what he does, and genuinely cares about his students.
It is a difficult but really interesting course, that I highly recommend for anyone interested in population genetics.
Take it. Professor Wakeley is great, and the material is really interesting.
A great course that combines mathematics and statistics in biology.  Coalescent theory is a very interesting concept within evolutionary biology that does not get enough (or any even) exposure in other biology courses.  John is a great professor and really tries to make the course stress free and interesting.  Peter is a great TF who always gives feedback on assignments and is readily available for help.
Take the course if you want a good, solid introductory understanding of Coalescent Theory!  John and Peter are both very helpful and willing to discussions even beyond the standard course material.
The course is geared mostly towards theory, with very little interface with empirical/computational work.
This class is really fun. Professor Wakeley framed everything in a rather applied context, showed us how the theory applied to thousand genomes data, mussels, drosophila experiments, etc. And it was really nice to step back for a bit and ask, "but what could have created this scenario?"
John Wakeley is a great lecturer, and this course is a good introduction to a fascinating field. After a semester, I'm convinced of the power of coalescent theory to model fundamental concepts in evolution.
If you are interested in the field of population genetics or generally using genetic data to draw evolutionary inferences, coalescent theory is essential knowledge, and this course provides a solid introduction to the subject and its applications
This is a great course that prepares you with important knowledge in population genetics. Even if you do not focus on theoretical work, understanding the assumptions and limitations of these methods is of great use for your future research on evolutionary biology.
If you are interested in population genetics, this is an essential class.  With clear lectures and short but useful problem sets, it's a very efficient way to learn the material and develop your population genetics intuition.  The goal of publishing the class project is a nice motivation.
Coalescent Theory is cool, but it's more studying itself than the real world.
This course requires a lot of dedication and work but is very worthwhile. You will receive from the course as much as you put in. There is a good deal of independent learning that goes on outside class.
Great introduction to coalescent theory! Make sure you are interested in coalescent theory as theory though, because the focus of the class is relatively narrow.  The project component was nice, but could have been more organized.
Be prepared for a difficult yet rewarding course, if you put in the amount of time necessary to understand the material.
Coalescent Theory is a relatively laid-back class that provides a thorough introduction to theoretical population genetics, You'll use a lot of statistics/math and programming to analyze the ancestry of genes under various situations like migration and selection. It's a good course for advanced undergraduates or graduate students who are interested in theoretical population genetics and want to try it out. You'll get a lot more out of the class if you have a background in probability theory, evolutionary biology and genetics, and computer programming, though they aren't strictly necessary.
This class is a nice primer to coalescent theory and the basics of writing coalescent simulations to ask question motivated by population genetics. You will get to derive several basic results which will help in developing a strong intuition for many concepts in population genetics. You all get exposed to some of the current research and limitations in the field.
Coalescent theory and population genetics in general provide a useful framework for thinking about problems in evolutionary biology, and this course provides a great introduction to some of its key theories and concepts, together with some open problems.  The course content is mostly analytical and theoretical, as opposed to focusing on interpretation of large datasets (i.e. bioinformatics), but the concepts are still useful for thinking about genomic data.  Professor Wakeley is very clear, helpful, and dedicated.  A background in probability theory is essential.
The course is interesting, but make sure that you have stat110 or equivalent before taking it or some of the stuff may not make any sense.
