If you are interested in mammals and their incredible diversity, this is the course for you! Labs will be very in depth, and you will be required to remember very specific information about their anatomical structure and how certain features evolved.
This was my favorite class of the semester. The exams require some memorization, but they're very fair and cover material that we discussed in depth. The labs involved a lot of skeletal and dental anatomy, but they teach you all that, and you get to handle THE COOLEST specimens. Losos is great and really generates enthusiasm despite being a herpetologist. As this was the first semester it was offered, the organization of lectures/guest lectures/labs was confusing, but Losos is aware of that and is working to fix it for the next iteration of the course.
This class is excellent! Professor Losos has done an excellent job of putting this class together, and the information is so interesting, that it is not hard to learn at all. I found that I came out of the class knowing so much, without having to do too much work because it was just so fascinating. Also take this if you love cute mammal videos.
It was awesome and you get to watch David Attenborough
Prof. Losos is the man. Fantastic lecturer, provides constructive criticism on assignments, and makes students of all backgrounds feel included and welcome
You'll love Professor Losos (because who doesn't?) and his interesting lectures. Lab will be super fun because you get to handle skeletons of every sort of mammal you can imagine. However, you may find that the assessments and practicals are a major source of stress. It's quite hard to identify bones and answer lecture questions in the right way. Also, lab is interesting because of your discussion with the TFs, but getting quizzed on the function of particular structures takes some of the fun away from lab.
I learned so much in this class! The diversity can be overwhelming, but it was so fun learning some themes in mammalian evolution. The lab portion is sweet. They present fantastic specimens and the TFs are probably the best I've ever had.
If you are at all interested in mammals this is a fantastic course.  Prof Losos is very enthusiastic about the material (despite his background in herpetology) and the rest of the teaching staff is extremely knowledgeable.  This course goes through all the major groups of mammals so anything you're interested in will probably be covered at some point.  The final term paper gives you a chance to explore just about any topic you want.
This is the best class I've ever taken at Harvard.  If you love animals and biology you NEED to take this course.
Amazing class, great professor and teaching class, but be willing to learn a lot of material.
I absolutely loved this class - learned so many interesting things about mammals, and had some incredible experiences with the whale-watching trip, zoo visit, and lab experiences, in which you get a unique hands-on experience with the collections.
Everything is amazing. The field trips were phenomenal (especially the whale watching!!), one gets to see the most fascinating skeletons, and Dr. Losos can somehow keep a whole class interested for an entire 1.5 hour lecture. I am incredibly happy they brought the course back and I'm sure it will be very successful in future.
Lectures are interesting and engaging, but labs can be slightly dry. The lab practicals are very detailed. Be prepared for the end of the semester, when you have one midterm immediately before reading period, and a lab practical and final project due at the end of reading period.
This is a good course and mammals are awesome.
Prof Losos is amazing! This is a fun and interesting class to take. There isn't much reading and you get to watch lots of cool videos. Take really good notes because the lecture slides are mainly pictures, and pay attention in lab!
This class if fantastic, likely one of my favorite yet at Harvard. It does have its problems, but likely just because it is the first year the course is taught and will hopefully get worked out.
Mammals are so cool! Professor Losos and the tfs bring a lot of excitement and knowledge to the class. The field trips and guest lectures also do a fantastic job taking the course out into the real world.
The only homework is watching David Attenborough documentaries, the labs involve working with skeletons of exotic animals from around the world, and the lectures are interesting and fun-- it's a great class! You also get to go on a whale watch,which is amazing.
Mammalogy has not been offered at Harvard in such a long time, so I was really excited when this course came along! Professor Losos is an amazing teacher. He is incredibly enthusiastic about the material (even though he admits he is not a mammalogist) and presents it in a super fun and friendly format. There was a 3 hour lab each week, each focusing on a different group of mammals (bats, carnivores, etc.) and also on a more general topic, like diet or a certain skeletal structure. The one thing that was a bit difficult for everyone was that most of the assignments were piled on at the end of the course, but I'm sure that will be changed in the future, and the zoo and whale watching field trips more than made up for it! If you are enthusiastic about mammals, or animals in general, you can't miss this course!
Anyone with an interest in mammals should take this course. The class takes unique advantage of Harvard's incredible (and under-appreciated) MCZ collection, and has been my favorite OEB course so far on campus. Some of the lecture material was a bit disorganized, but if you follow along while making your own notes, the lab sections will help everything fall into place.
The lectures and labs are both interesting and fun. The assignments had less than ideal spacing between them but I would still take this class if you're interested in mammals and like learning about material published on BBC Earth. Losos could not be more nice or caring, and the TF's are incredibly supportive.
