The professor makes this class worth it.
Having the opportunity to take a class taught by Jenkins is reason alone to take this class.
Have fun and get to know Farish - he's a pretty cool guy.
The workload is light, the lectures are great, and the labs are fun!
Take this class. It has almost no weekly work other than enjoying listening to Prof. Jenkins' amazing lectures.
Farish Jenkins is a true gem, everything a harvard professor should be.  don't miss out.  You'll learn an incredible amount of interesting information in this course and feel like a more educated person for it.
no one should miss out on having Farish as a professor
The course is very fun, incredibly well-taught, and a delight to participate in. I would only warn future students that there is a lot of material covered each day, so keeping up with lecture notes and readings is important.
Farish's lectures are amazing and he's caring and a fascinating person to get to know.  The labs are a lot of fun.  Start on the fossil project early because it will take time.  Read the lecture notes as you get them because reading them all during reading period is very time consuming.  They're only 10 double spaced pages each and keeping track of the material as you go along keeps you from getting lost in terms of where in vertebrate diversity you are.
This is a fantastic course. Do not miss the opportunity to learn from and get to know Dr. Jenkins. You will not regret it.
Amazing class with one of the best professors at Harvard.
Professor Jenkins is one of the most knowledgeable professors at Harvard and teaches extremely well.
Farish is a great lecturer and well-organized, the labs are wonderful.
If you have a free space in your four years, make sure you take this class--one of the underappreciated gems of Harvard.
You'd be a fool not to take this class. It's dead useful, always interesting (yes, even the molar lecture, but less so) and there's never a dull moment. Anyone serious about evolution should take this class. It the most comprehensive course I've ever taken.
It is a really fun course that changes your perspective on biological life, past and present.
Best teacher I've had at Harvard.
Farish Jenkins is one of the best professors at Harvard!
This class is difficult, but well worth it. The material covered is interesting and presented well both in lectures and section. Dr. Jenkins is certainly one of the best professors I have had at Harvard.
This is a great, fun class which is really interesting and the professor is a great lecturer
Take this class.  It was incredible.  It was eye-opening, funny, fast-paced, and intellectually engaging.
I already rant to my friends, family, room-mates, aquaintences, associates and to strangers about the many wonderful things I learned in this course. I would tell future students that this is the course to take if they want to sit down and have their minds blown for an hour and a half every Monday and Wednesday, while obtaining important knowledge about evolutionary history.
Farish is the man
farish is one of the best professors you will have at harvard
This is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard, and anyone interested in animals or evolution should take it. It will change the way you look at the world.
If you can take the class with Professor Jenkins, do it. It's a lot of material and it might get easy to get bogged down in detail when you're studying for the final, but where else would you get the chance to have fossils shown to you by one of most premier experts in the field? Professor Jenkins is extremely passionate about the material and probably one of the most engaging lecturers at Harvard, and he really wants to share that knowledge to undergrads.
It's amazing! You need to take it.
An excellent class. Professor Jenkins is amazing and you learn so much. If you do not have time to invest in this class, do not take it; it involves a lot of learning/memorization! Ultimately though its very rewarding.
This is a great class with a wonderful teacher. Take it if you have a serious interest in the subject area and are willing to commit a moderate amount of time to it.
If you want an interesting class that requires very little work, this is the class to take.
This class is AMAZING! Take it if you can.
This is your chance to study in a small class with a world authority. Farish Jenkins is not just important - he discovered things you read about when you had your dinosaur phase at the age of 5. Prof. Jenkins is unbelievable in his ability to expose fascinating features of animal life and never fails to do so in a captivating manner. Prof. Jenkins blends experience in multiple areas of zoology and takes his students on a truly remarkable journey. You will genuinely feel inspired leaving the class.
A great amount of knowledge and information can be gained in one semester.
Take this course!
I would recommend this class to anyone with an interest in anatomy, evolution, biology, or who just wants to take an OEB class - this is the one to take! Professor Jenkins is one of the best professors I've had, and I left each lecture feeling better informed about evolutionary events that I'd always wondered about.
TAKE THIS CLASS.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.  It was interesting, interactive, and Professor Jenkins is an incredible lecturer.  I am so glad that I shopped it and decided to take it.  I learned so much, and despite it being challenging for me, I really enjoyed it.
It was a great class with an amazing professor, and really gives a good overview into how paleontology is done and the evolutionary timescale of things.
This class is amazing and Professor Jenkins is amazing as well! It's a lot of material, but all very interesting and the course is run such that you learn a lot without feeling like you're struggling very often.
It is easy to not do any work for the semester and then kick it into high gear for the final and final project. You might find it easier to spread the studying out over the entire semester instead.  There is a lot of information but it should be clear what is being asked of you. Lots of details but lots of fun and Farish is an amazing professor.
A lot of material is covered each lecture, and the lectures move quite quickly so you will likely find you are not absorbing much during lecture. HOWEVER, the course is incredibly fair and so is the final exam, so it's really nothing to worry about. Also, extensive review packets are distributed after each lecture which are incredibly helpful.
Absolutely amazing! Dr. Jenkins provides an extreme breadth of material on evolution, development, and functional anatomy and is able to deliver it with a amazing enthusiasm and grace that is unparalleled.
This is a fantastic class!  Should be taken by everyone, regardless of background or concentration.
This class has a well-deserved reputation for being awesome.
The course work is really easy and the subject is really interesting, but the fossil project can be really hard because if you have no background, like I did, it's really challenging to find something intelligent to say and write this paper. otherwise, the class has a light workload.
Unequivocably the best course I have taken at Harvard.
This course was one of the best I've taken at Harvard. It provides a wonderful, comprehensive overview of vertebrate evolution, and I feel like I understand and know so much more about evolution than before the course. Professor Jenkins is an excellent lecturer! The lectures can sometimes be a little fast-paced and overwhelming, but don't fear! You're given lecture summaries for every lecture, and copies of all the slides. In addition, the teaching staff will specify closer to the final what information is needed; they all acknowledge that the sheer amount of material would be too great to expect everyone to know everything, and you're given the essay topics and about half of the multiple choice on the final ahead of time.There is no midterm, but there is a final paper, which you will work in groups of three to produce one paper. The topic sounded intimidating - you're supposed to analyze a fossil and write a five-page scientific paper on it - but I found that I really enjoyed the process. You're given access to the MCZ vertebrate collection, and it was fascinating to formulate our own hypothesis and talk to the teaching staff throughout. The papers are also reviewed by the teaching staff, so you get a chance to make it better! Similarly, the labs may seem overwhelming at first - I was certainly intimidated by the first lab! You're pretty much expected to dive right in with a number of fossils. However, the labs turned out to be pretty fun - it was wonderful to be able to interactively explore with the fossils, and everyone helps each other and collaborates in the labs.Overall, this course has been one of my best experiences at Harvard, and I would highly recommend anyone interested in the material to take it! Although you do have to keep up with the material, the wonderful lectures and the chance to explore the fossil collection make it all worthwhile!
Please take this class, even if you're not particularly interested in vertebrate evolution. It's a great survey of vertebrate diversity, and Professor Jenkins is such a gem of a lecturer and teacher. You get the feeling that everyone in this class really cares about you a lot. The labs are challenging, but the TFs are very helpful in helping you answer questions.
It would be difficult for me to imagine a better class here at Harvard, particularly in the sciences.
Tons of material, but amazing course. Even if you don't get in on the first day. Still come to class and enough people will drop that Farish will let you in.
Professor Jenkins is possibly the best instructor you can find at Harvard. It will be the most enjoyable 3 hour lectures a week you will find
Prepare to be amazed!
For those interested in biology, or not scared away by some sciencey terms, this course is fascinating! As Professor Jenkins says in the beginning, the way you experience museums will be forever changed. It's fun to learn about how much diversity is in Earth's history.
It is a heck of a fun class and you really do get a broad foundation of knowledge about the diversity of all vertebrates.
It's a class that you have immerse yourself in to get the most out of it.
Excellent class if you have a demonstrable interest in the subject matter.
One of the very best courses that I have taken at Harvard. Professor Jenkins is amazing and makes sure that the class is enjoyable and interesting. I cannot recommend it highly enough.
Highly entertaining lectures with tons of material. Have fun but be prepared to work or you will get overwhelmed during finals.
If you like animals and want to understand them (and life in general), TAKE THIS CLASS!!!
This course solidified my appreciation for evolution. Every step of vertebrate evolution through natural selection occurred because of chance mutation. It really helped me understand our origins as Homo sapiens and see the beauty of nature's design. Truly, this is a wonderful class with an incredible professor. I would recommend this class for anyone even remotely interested in vertebrate zoology, anatomy, natural history, or Farish Jenkins himself.
Best class you will take at Harvard!
Do not wait until reading week to start reviewing the course material. There is a lot of information.
This class is one of the best I've had at Harvard. Professor Jenkins is incredibly knowledgeable and he also really cares about his students. There's very little work during the semester, but I recommend studying along the way since it's a lot of information and detail to be learned just at the end. I would have liked a bit more feedback, since most of your grade comes from the end of the semester, but for both the fossil project and final exam it is made very clear what is expected of you.
By far the best science class offered at the university (not just the college). Lottery no matter what, take it if you're lucky enough to get in.
This was one of my favorite OEB classes at Harvard--Farish is a wonderful professor who really cares about his students, and it's a great experience to get to sit there and hear about vertebrate evolution from one of the real experts in the field. It's also not very demanding in terms of out-of-class work.
The course is a must-take for any Harvard student who is seriously passionate about anatomy and natural history and who wishes to learn it from a true master.  Students are fortunate to have an excellent professor who is knowledgeable, prepared, courteous, caring, and extremely entertaining without fail!
There is a LOT of material, but don't be scared. In the end, it's manageable.
Take it and it will change your life
Awesome course! Expect to have a lot of latin names thrown at you.
Professor Jenkins is an old school paleontologist, who once publicly endorsed the shoot-poachers-upon-sight tactics of the Tanzanian nature reserve military, something for which i cannot forgive him.
