It's a great class with great lectures by very good professors. The sections are great forums to discuss current environmental papers and topics, and the TFs and professors are very accessible. although we don't get much feedback on the grade, I don't think people in the class care that much about it though.
You get to finally understand the science behind climate change!  I thought I understood some of the science, but turns out I knew like a fraction of what I should really know.  The material is super interesting, and taught by really amazing professors.  Paul and Jim are really amazing, super knowledgeable, and really seem to care that you understand the material.  The field trip to Harvard Forest was also really fun and super educational--GO, even though it'll probably be in Reading Period.  When you're confused about basic concepts, consult books on environmental ecology / oceanography.  And/or go to office hours.  The course staff are all very nice people. :)  The courseload is very manageable, though the material is not trivial and I would not recommend cramming for it the night before as the tests can be picky.  BUT it's totally worth it and you'll learn a ton!  It's definitely one of my favorite classes at Harvard.
I found this course to be extremely interesting and a great survey for anyone interested in the effects of climate change. The material was difficult and in-depth, but with a totally reasonable workload. I would certainly recommend it for anyone interested in the topic of global change.
Take it if you already have a pretty developed understanding of the subject matter. Perhaps look elsewhere if you're interested in the topic but don't have the necessary preparation.
Must clearly be interested in the subject matter.
Take it. Great professors. Great topics. You will have a much better perspective on climate change after taking it. Also, graph reading is integral to the course...get ready!
I aspire to someday be even a tenth as baller as Jim McCarthy.Also, because of time constraints and nature of the material the class really doesn't speak much to solutions to all these serious perturbations of the earth's natural systems, so be warned that a lot of the lectures leave you feeling pretty queasy if you, you know, care about nature of the future of humanity.
This class is phenomenal, fun, interesting, great professors!
This class is good attempt, but the disorganization of makes it ultimately one not worth taking.
This class has good subject material and knowledgeable professors, even if it is presented in a depressing tone. Although there are few assignments (with the exception of section discussions), the exams are of utmost importance (2 exams=80% of grade).
You should really take this class. Professors McCarthy and Moorcroft know what they're talking about and make sure that you do, too. The weekly workload is very minor, but you should remain on top of lectures, papers given to read, etc. for the exams as they can be very specific, and you have to have a comprehensive knowledge of the material.
This course is very fun and interesting. It will provide you with a wide perspective on how ecological systems work, and how humans are influencing them. The pedagogical structure gives you a lot of learning value for the time investment.
Unless you really need to, I wouldn't take this class. The material is interesting but presented so dispassionately that it makes it difficult to engage with the class, the professors, and the content.
Take this class! It is wonderful. You will be engaged, not have to write down a thing, look around at the end of the lecture and realized you learned a whole lot in 90 minutes.
This course provides a great look at anthropogenic climate change and its effects on both terrestrial and marine ecosystems and related processes.  A good course for those interested in OEB/EPS/ESPP or similar fields, or for anyone with some background in science that wants to be knowledgeable about climate change and where things now stand.
This class will change the way you think about humanity's impact on the Earth. I considered myself fairly well informed about climate change and land use changes, but this course showed me how complicated and extensive those interactions really are.
This class is pretty difficult because there are very few assignments (just a midterm and a final which are together worth 80% of your grade).  However, the professors are wonderful and if you're interested in the content, you'll get something out of it.
