One of the best professors I've had at Harvard, and really fascinating course material.
It was absolutely amazing. I learned the most interesting, random stuff.
lots of fun and very interesting.
This is a great class to introduce them to OEB, and has a great lecturer. They'll be able to take away a lot from the course.
If you like biology and the ocean, then this is a perfect class. And you don't need to study biology here to understand the material.
The best course in biology! The atmosphere of the classroom is unforgettable and the reading could be done in a jiffy. The whole course is made in a style of a conversation between fellow biologists--students and the professor.
Great course, definitely worth taking!
This is a really fun, easy and painless course to take where you actually do learn a lot of interesting things. The class runs like a National Geographic lecture series and so it is really cool to listen to Professor Girguis speak, especially since he is so enthusiastic. It can be a bit disorganized at times and if you have no idea about anything related to the deep sea, while it won't be hard grade-wise, some concepts will make less sense and you'll need to use google liberally.
This is a fun and relatively easy course on deep sea biology. The material is pretty interesting if you are at all interested, and lectures are great. You get to do a final poster, which is much better than a final paper.
Take this class if you have a genuine interest in the deep sea, not if you're simply looking for a class with a light workload. Prof. Girguis gives engaging lectures and you will get out of the class what you choose to put into it. There is a very manageable assignment due every week and the midterm is take-home, but essentially requires that you write a 12 page research paper. Start it early. For the final, you will create a scientific poster on a topic that interests you.
Take this course! Professor Girguis is one of the coolest professors at Harvard and is very receptive and helpful outside of class. The class was very laid-back and really carried the mentality of "the more you put into it, the more you'll get out." After you take this class, you'll be surprised how important and relevant deep sea biology is to your life and to other fields of studies you may be also interested in. Highly recommend this class!
The lectures are very fun and interesting but the weekly paper sessions can be a bit boring and only somewhat useful for non-bio majors.  The take-home midterm is also very time consuming (it is essentially 4 research papers put together) and is a large part of your grade but is the only hard element of the class.
This class is fantastic- such a refreshing alternative to other science classes. The lectures are always interesting- Pete is such a wonderful and funny professor. The onus is on engaging with the science, and the discussion sections really demand this of you. You will be expected to read 2 scientific papers each week and to discuss them in great detail. Workload is very manageable and never a chore- even the long take-home midterm seemed useful.
This class was a nice 4th class taken with three fairly difficult classes. Other than the week of the take-home midterm (START THIS EARLY. IT WILL TAKE DAYS), the class wasn't too much work--just the readings (which took a bit longer in the weeks you presented), and the poster was a fun final project. I really enjoyed it, even if the discussion sections weren't always the most thought-provoking things.
This is a really neat class with a workload that is manageable.
This class is very interesting and the Professor and TFs are great. There is not a lot of work throughout the semester until the midterm and final, which are a lot of work.
This class is amazing hell yeah!!!!
Please take this class! The workload is mostly light; Prof. G. and Roxy and Melissa are amazing; and the course is just so dang interesting! The midterm is a lot of work, but don't stress--just make sure you get all of the info they ask for, and you'll do fine. They really aren't trying to destroy anyone, they just want people to enjoy taking the class and learn something from it.
A fun course taught by a good group of people, but most of the learning is self-driven.
I enjoyed the lectures in this class, the sections, and the final poster presentations (don't be scared by that component- it's not bad).  I learned the most information by the independent work I did researching for the take-home midterm, which took an extreme amount of time but asked fair questions and was graded fairly.
This course is an excellent upper-division OEB course. Although there are some lectures, it is mostly a discussion course -- when I first realized this I was disappointed, but the discussions turned out to be awesome. They were at an impressively high level: like a group of researchers talking, not a bunch of random undergrads. As an OEB concentrator I found this course intellectually rich and stimulating; but I also think it's super accessible to people in other concentrations. Pete is so respectful and accommodating.
Cool course. It has its ups and downs in terms of material, and the midterm takes a ridiculous amount of time ("it isn't that bad" - they said!). Take it if you're interested in deep sea biology, but not because it's a filler course.
This is an awesome subject and an awesome class!
Very time intensive midterm with a misleading example question on the website. Final project was interesting. Weekly readings were often difficult to dissect and discussions were boring as a result. If you know some about deep sea biology prior to considering this class then I would not recommend it.
The class is great overall. The weekly discussions of scientific papers are a great chance to interact with the current research and to challenge your own ability to critique and analyze research papers. the midterm is HARD!!! It takes a LONG time to write and research, so do NOT put it off. Possibly the most frustrating, long midterm I have ever written. However, you will learn a lot. The final poster project is a blast! Professor Girguis is great. I do highly recommend it if you are at all interested in the deep sea! Background knowledge unnecessary, although some understanding of genetics is a plus.
This course is what you make of it. If you do the readings and try to understand them, you'll be prepared for what is expected of you when the midterm comes up. This course is heavy on referencing the literature, so it's a great course to take if you're wondering about doing a science thesis.
Some parts are really great but some of the class is so dull that it might not be worth it.
It's a ton of fun, and very informative
The material is awesome and the lectures are great.  Allow plenty of time for the midterm.  In general you can get away without doing a lot of the reading, but it's one of those courses where you get out what you put in, and can scale your involvement in it accordingly.
If you have an interest in the deep sea then take this class. If you do take this class just stay on top of the readings for section each week. Those are the most important component of the course
Only take it if they reform the bizarre discussion/section thing!
Much harder than advertised.
First check to see if the class format has been changed. If they continue to take up half of the classes with student presentations I wouldn't recommend it. If they seriously change the format of the class I might recommend it because the subject matter is very interesting.
Great class taught by an expert in the field. Girguis is an excellent lecturer. However, he only teaches about half of the time. Half the classes are student paper presentations/group discussions, which are less engaging than lectures.
This class teaches you a lot about science in general and you will discover an entire ecosystem in the deep ocean that you did not realize existed before. It is not too difficult and the lectures are entertaining.
Great course for concentrators and non-concentrators alike. Covers interesting material efficiently.
The topics were extremely interesting and the classes were very fun. The professor is very good at lecturing.
I loved this class and decided to take it after I couldn't stop telling my roommates about how cool hydrothermal vents were. If you like biology and want to know more about the deep sea, check out this class. It's fascinating and you won't regret it. Where else will you get to actually look at specimens and talk with your professor and TFs in a casual setting? It was wonderful.
Great and relaxed class to explore a different part of the world, esp if you're into marine bio!
This was an interesting course, but some the midterm took me a long time and was unexpectedly difficult. Not too much workload and lectures were interesting though.
This class is a very good elective. It isn't too difficult, but it is still challenging and interesting.
It's little work and a very interesting topic.
Kind of a waste of time.
Its a lot of fun, pretty easy, and I enjoyed it.
Only take this course if you are interested in deep sea biology.
If you are interested in marine biology or strange life systems, this is an excellent class.  I learned a ton each lecture.
This class is very low key with a lot of fun material and a great professor. However, feedback is very minimal so it is difficult to gauge how well you are doing.
While this class can occasionally be a bit dull, the topics that you cover and explore in lecture and through the papers in section are fascinating.
Pete is awesome, knows a ton, is very friendly, and is very interesting.
if you have any interest in the topic, please take this class
This class is one of my favorite biology classes I've taken. The lectures are fun and interactive, with really fascinating information. Assignments are a bit more in depth but it's totally worth it, and you get to learn from one of the top scientists in the field which is pretty sweet.
This course is one of the very few that I have taken at Harvard that I feel is entirely devoted to teaching for the sake of knowledge.  Throughout the course, I constantly engaged with the material and sought to push it further, not only because it was fascinating, but also because it was presented as information worth learning, not just facts that should be memorized for the sake of a good grade.  I never felt that grades were the end goal of the course and this drew me in further and really fed my passion.  This course did an amazing job at presenting us the material and asking us to then push it further and generate something new.  I learned, not only from lectures, but also from the assignments and from section.  The assignments really asked us to actively push the material further and by pursuing it, I grew immensely.  The sections were also fantastic as they let us delve into the more technical scientific underpinnings of the lectures.  I entered this course expecting it to be fantastic and still somehow managed to underestimate it.  It was brilliantly constructed.
I cannot recommend this course enough, it is so much fun. It will give you a completely new way to think about the ocean, and how it relates to so many other  moving parts in our society, like public policy or foreign relations or even the computer chips in your cell phone. Very, very good.
make sure you reliably fill out the web-postings. prepare for sporadic episodes of a lot of work.
This class is half lecture over deep sea biology and half discussion over primary literature in deep sea biology.
This class was the best I've taken at Harvard so far. I loved the lectures and the discussion section was always interesting. The TF's are awesome and the atmosphere of the class is laid-back and just great. Definitely take this class. You won't regret it :)
a bit difficult if you know nothing prior, and though the work during the week is minimal, the take homes are doozies
This class was like watching the Discovery channel every day, and if you are interested in the material, you should definitely take the class.  The workload each week is relatively light if you are a science concentrator already, but be wary that the effort required for the midterm and final take home exams is extremely disproportionately high compared to the workload from week to week.
Great class.  interesting mostly (but boring at times), no in-class midterm or final, very little work (4 sentences per week).  However, the concepts and discussion are at a very high level of biology, so if you're not great with it you will get lost.  its kind of a reward for people who have spent a huge amount of time studying biology in their lives: its easy and interesting, but the professors realize everyone understands basic and intermediate principles well, so they feel busy work is unnecessary and you are basically there just to learn and not work as a result.
The class is very fun and the topic is very interesting. It has the WOW factor. Consider the class as an elective. For the midterm and the final exam you have to be willing to put in significant work, and should be well acquainted with doing your own research into a field and finding references (that's CRUCIAL)
very interesting course; one of the best Harvard offers in marine biology. I enjoyed the section component of the course, which consists of weekly discussion of a couple science research papers - make sure you come prepared to contribute to these. The midterm and final take a lot of time (both take home) but if you know how to find relevant scientific papers, they are very manageable.
Solid class with a low workload and interesting material. Just pay attention in lecture and you'll be fine.Be aware that the final exam, even though it's a take-home, will eat up several days of your time at minimum. Plan accordingly.
Love this course! Take it for an extraordinary adventure into the deep sea!
The class is super interesting if you like marine biology. If you're taking it because you think it will be easy, ie it only has a take home midterm and final, don't. Those exams took more time than studying for three normal exams would have.
This is a really interesting class with not too much work. The take home midterm and final are fairly straightforward. However, there is also a group discussion once a week which is not helpful.
The midterm and the final, which comprise the majority of your grade, are absolutely LUDRICOUS. These tests are unlike anything I have ever encountered. Each question is actually 5 questions jammed into one sentence and you are required to find four outside sources to answer each one. Taking these tests provided some of the most stressful hours of my entire college experience.
Incredibly easy--basically no homework, and a take-home midterm and final (which did take forever, though). Should have been the most amazing, interesting material ever but ended up being really boring. I was disappointed. Definitely go on the field trip though!!
It's an amazing class with amazing instructors if you're interested in the material.  Watch out for the take-home midterm and final because they are long.  Also, pay attention in lectures and discussions as they will help you in the take-homes.  Plus, you should pay attention anyway because it's interesting stuff.
Some of the material is really interesting, but some of it was dry and boring too. Also, the exams were graded really generously, but took a huge amount of time and effort to complete.
Great, until the midterm and final
