Fun, relaxed atmosphere.
Great teacher, managable but interesting coursework.
Great class where you read important literature of microbial evolution and perform class projects that are both helpful and interesting.  Enjoyed Prof. Marx's lectures and then review of papers read before class.
Prof. Marx focuses a bit too heavily on the theoretical sides of evolutionary theory and a bit too little on the coolness of the microbes themselves.  Still, his lectures are clear and the subject is interesting.Nigel (the TF) did a great job, especially being available to help with the projects.
Great discussion of scientific topics, approachable and helpful professor
An outstanding and fun survey of topics in evolution.  The emphasis is on microorganisms, but many of the things discussed are generalizable to all evolving systems  microorganisms just happen to be the best-understood because they have short generation times.  The Avida project is fun and gives you the opportunity to truly explore a novel question, not just retread worn ground (this was an initial concern of mine).  Yet the course is organized enough and the expectations realistic enough that the project will not become all-consuming unless you want it to be (another concern of mine).
This is a great course for studying how evolutionary questions can be applied, using microbes.
They outnumber us, learn about them.
If you have any interest at all in microbiology or laboratory evolution (for biotech, bioengineering, or otherwise), then you should take this class. It will cover material in detail that is relevant, but not touched on enough in other biochemistry coursework.
This class is super interesting and a slightly lighter workload than other classes I have taken (as long as you have the necessary background), however I learned a lot, and it's a fantastic introduction to microbial genetics and evolution if you don't know a lot about microbial biology.
Professor Marx does an excellent job moving though the material and facilitating the discussion.
This is an excellent course! Professor Marx lectures clearly and leads discussion very well. You will get a thorough survey of topics in microbial evolution at a high level. You will learn how to read papers and extract the important information, as well as how to evaluate research methods and findings with a critical eye. The two major projects in the course are enjoyable and well-designed. The exams and everyday assignments are very doable, and there is a great atmosphere of cooperation during lectures. Great course overall.
This class has some very interesting projects, especially using a computerized evolution program, and will teach a lot about genetics, biology, and evolutionary mechanisms.
The course covers a lot of material and a diversity of topics; all of it is really well-presented.  I understood why each topic was interesting and important, and how it fit with everything else we had discussed.
This course is a great survey of a lot of interesting topics across molecular evolution, population genetics, and microbiology.  The professor and TF are fantastic, and the Avida assignment is a really great experience.  The class has a good balance of specific results from papers and the more general context of concepts in evolution.
This is a great introduction to microbial evolution and genetics; however if looking for advanced treatment of the topics, this may not be for you.
You'll learn some good biology.
A nice overview of what we know about evolution, with an emphasis on experiments with microorganisms.
I think microbes and evolution are both absolutely fascinating, and Chris Marx does an excellent job of teaching the subject with a very friendly, reasonable attitude. He's open to student feedback, and is fair about deadlines, assignments, etc.
The course is a great way to immerse yourself in microbiology, genetics, and evolution.  For me, it served as a "boot camp" to get up to speed after spending several years away from these topics.  The professor and TF were both fantastic, extremely approachable, and willing to help.
Marx is incredibly enthusiastic about the topic, and very interested in getting his students to be just as excited.
Interesting material and cool professor, but prepare to be overshadowed by grad students / eager MIT kids.
Stay involved in class discussions and ask questions if you have them, otherwise it can be easy to get lost in the material.
If you want to learn about the evolutionary pressure acting on microbes and the dynamics of their response via paper reading, Chris' experimental insight and computer programming, this is the class for you.
This class introduces microbial evolution concepts in an intuitive and understandable manner.
Only if you are really interested in the topics and are good at reading formal scientific papers.
hard, but very rewarding.
Great course for those who are interested.
A great introduction to modern biology research in microbial evolution.
Chris is a wonderful instructor.  Assignments and readings are well-chosen.
Prof. Marx is awesome, the projects are really cool, and the material is fascinating if you like microbes and/or evolution.
An enjoyable class in which you will learn a lot about evolution.
This class is great for getting a broad yet detailed understanding of both classic and current research in microbial evolution.
This class may not seem fun at first due to all the hard to understand papers, but looking back you'll see that all the stuff you learned was worth the hassel.
Great class! If you like evolutionary systems in general you'll find this class really interesting. The professor is very engaging and the phylogenetics and Avida assignments are a lot of fun (though the second one may take a bit too long to complete).
Chris Marx keeps the lectures very exciting, and the style is engaging. For those who are not in the field, it may feel hard in the beginning until you get used to critically evaluating the papers, but by the mid or end of the course, you will be able to understand concepts and critically evaluate papers. It was a great experience and I recommend this course.
This is a deeply interesting, accessible, and rewarding class with an awesome professor, relaxed class environment, and very manageable workload.  I would highly recommend OEB 192 for anyone interested in pursuing research in microbiology or even just curious about the field.
Take this class if you are looking for a fun way to solidify your knowledge of evolutionary biology basics, and be challenged to think for yourself about the detailed mechanisms of evolution.
