If you are interested in pursuing a career in scientific research or are starting graduate school, this course will help you learn the fundamentals of writing a research grant and can be submitted at the end of the semester. Often students receive grants after taking this course!
This course will help the grant you're writing and your writing in general immensely.
Those of us in OEB are required to apply for a fellowship in our first year. Taking this class ensures that you start thinking about the application early and have plenty of time to get organized. You learn specific tips for the GRFP, read a number of previous applications, and have your essays critiqued by the class every week. It definitely made my application stronger than if I had written it on my own.
This class is absolutely worth your time and will help you manage your time well. You'll be ready to submit your grant if you put effort in as you go along during this class.
This course does an excellent job of keeping you on track for applying for a fellowship/grant with a November deadline, helping you to think critically about your writing and to grow as a writer, and creating a competitive fellowship application packet. My application was much stronger than it would have been without this course, and I feel confident in my ability to apply the techniques I learned in this course to future grand/fellowship applications, job applications, and science writing in general. The tone of this course was very positive, and I was given a lot of constructive comments. I enjoyed going to class, and I would strongly recommend it to anyone applying for a fellowship or grant!
Just take it. It will make your proposal significantly better.
If you are planning on applying for one of the graduate student fellowships, you should take this course.
Take advantage of this class! This class walks you through the grant writing process from topic development to final submission. Not only do you get valuable feedback (multiple times) from your peers, but it keeps you on a timeline. Any student, regardless of class year, would greatly benefit from this class. It is not only for the NSF GRFP either. Stacey is happy to work with you if you are submitting for something else (ex: Ford Foundation).
If you are submitting an application for an NSF or Ford fellowship you would be silly to not take this class
We are lucky to have this course, if you are writing a grant, you'd be crazy not to take this.  You get tons of personal attention on your writing from multiple people.
Your proposal will become much better throughout the course.
This course is awesome. You write a research grant application, get more feedback than you can wish for, and in the meanwhile you learn a lot of things, by reading and reviewing the others' applications, about writing styles, interesting (and sometimes less interesting) research topics, ... There's also National Science Foundation panelists that come and give great advices. Last but not least, there's the general coursework that is very useful in writing future grant applications, writing papers, and giving interesting ideas for outreach possibilities. (I was only introduced by the concept of "outreach" in this course.)
This class is very helpful for preparing a GRFP or DDIG application. You get tons of helpful feedback on your writing, and it gives you a sense of how accessible and detailed it needs to be.
This is a great course to have as a first year graduate student (or senior undergraduate) for understanding how to write for grants. This class also seems useful to take if you are also applying for dissertation improvement grants.
