You should be far along with your initial writing to get the most out of this class
This course is incredibly useful
Provides an encouraging environment for feedback on developing a paper
Clear writing and clear thinking form a positive cycle. This class definitely gave me the tools to clear up the writing. In turn, it also made me think more clearly about the science behind the writing. take this class and save our future generations from reading excruciating difficult to understand papers!
You will get to review, learn, and discuss many papers and be prepare to rewrite again and again of your own paper.
This course exceeded my expectations, both for teaching me how to be a better science writer and for improving the manuscript that I brought to the class. Definitely worth taking if you plan to ever publish papers, submit grants, or communicate science.
To get the most out of this class, have a first draft and all the results ready.
This was the most useful course I took as a grad student. I highly recommend it to everyone who is starting to write up their thesis.
The benefits of this class:-forces you to get a draft of a paper done-provides you with an interesting framework with which to evaluate your writing-allows you to practice good writing techniques. After all the key to good writing is revision, which this course requires!
If you're serious about writing up your work for publication soon, this is the class for you!  I managed to put an entire manuscript together and obtain feedback on my writing.  Along the way, I was able to further understand, present, and refine my story.  Without the course, I would not have started writing even after the holidays.
You'll get out of this class what you put into it. Best taken with a more or less complete dataset and at least a pretty solid idea of the story you're going to tell with it.
Having deadlines for drafts of your manuscript is extremely motivating. Hearing the opinions of other students is very helpful, and having a professor available to give feedback during the beginning stages of the writing process was great!
Even if you think you're an awesome writer, you can always get better, you're probably overestimating your abilities, and it never hurts to have externally imposed deadlines that you wouldn't otherwise have.
This class can improve your writing. Even if you have previously published an article, this course will help you look at your writing from different viewpoints and focus on writing style and structure.
