Wonderful course if you've ever wanted to identify a plant--be prepared to work hard though.
While this course was the most intensive biology class I have taken at Harvard (you learn over 120 families of plants and spend a lot of time in lab and making trees and flash cards on your own time), it was also the most fun and rewarding. I went from knowing very little about plants to being confident that if I were to travel to any part of the world, I would know something of the plant diversity there. It is great for anyone even the slightest bit interested in plants; Chuck's passion and enthusiasm will turn that slight inclination into a full blown fascination. It really is a gem of a class (my favorite at school so far) because of its engaging faculty and small size, which made it highly interactive.
The class is fantastic and you'll learn a lot, but exams can be frustratingly difficult because of the sheer volume of material. This was the most straight memorization I've had to do in a class in college, so even though I was interested in the material, I wasn't necessarily prepared for the way of thinking this class required.
If you like plants, take this course.  If you want to be able to konw about 90% of the green stuff you are seeing all the time, take this course.
Professor Davis is awesome and you'll learn a lot about plants, which I loved even though I didn't go in with an initial burning enthusiasm for plants (I just liked the small class size).
It's really cool to walk around campus and be able to identify plants and understand how they're all related to each other evolutionarily.
There is a lot of memorization and a lot of work, but the class is worth it! Make sure you have some easier classes in your schedule if you are planning on taking this one.
You will leave this class marveling at just how much you have learned in one semester.  I would compare it to LS2 in that you have learned practical, concrete knowledge that will be applicable to your life even if you do not pursue a career studying plants, if only because you will always be surrounded by them.  One of my favorite classes I have take at school.
If you are interested in learning about the world's plants take this course! There's nothing else like it at Harvard. You'll learn a lot of fascinating things about a group of organisms that is very often under appreciated. The professor is so enthusiastic, you get to you learn a lot and see a lot of cool specimens, and by the end of it you can walk down the street and be able to identify a good majority of the plants around you. It's heavily phylogenetic, though, so just like an anatomy class or something it does involve A LOT of memorization. Keeping up with the material is super important so you aren't cramming an impossible amount of stuff the night before an exam. Also, if you are not interested in this subject at all I can see how the class would just be tedious and no fun, but I think it's a safe assumption that most OEB concentrators would enjoy it.
This class is awesome! Take it if you want to learn about the plants you see everyday and more exotic ones that will inspire you to travel. The Professor is fantastic and really enthusiastic brining the course to life and the TF is really helpful and prepares fantastic and delicious labs. There is quite a bit of memorisation of plants but it is worth it to really be able to recongnise and appreciate all the plant diversity.
Study a little everyday. An absolute must.
Your plant-identification skills will improve exponentially. Also, flash cards are your friends. The slide, handouts, and textbook don't always agree so I would just try to focus on the general consensus among the three sources of information.
Only take this if you can afford to spend 5-10 hours of week studying the material throughout the semester.
This class is so fun! Teaching is great. It definitely requires a lot of work, but its worth it.
I think students taking this course really need to have the motivation and time to sit down and memorize all the hundreds of family characteristics.
It's a lot of work to learn all the plants, but definitely worth it.
