it's a little wacky, but really interesting and SO fun if it stays small - i feel like i really understand the major concept of evolutionary developmental biology and also am pretty familiar with specific examples.  if you want a class on development, i would take mcmahon's, but this class is very cool if you want a non-mcb52ish approach to learning bio.  which i did.
This is a good class and Professor Abzhanov is amazingly smart and has a lot to teach you, but you should be really interested in evo-devo, enough that you might actually study things before right before exams, because you'll be confused on things that you'll want to have time to ask Professor Abzhanov about. Also, take lots of good notes (a laptop helps so you can search for terms later that he might have said only once, because he'll expect you to know them) because your notes will be the best resource you have -- no lecture videos, the lecture slides can sometimes be unclear (also lots of typos), and the book is suggested reading rather than required.
I'd say take it in a few years, when it's not new anymore. Some kinks need to be worked out.
This course was extremely disorganized and unnecessarily difficult. It's scope is way too large and the important information is not highlighted.
During the last lecture of the course, Professor Abzhanov presented a Monod quote: "The curious thing about evolution is that everybody thinks he understands it." If you are interested in trying to make sense of evolution, to start to realize how much there is to discover about the way in which evolution has worked over time, this is certainly a course for you. This course teaches you how to see an individual as a life history, and how this life history has really played a role in shaping what we know today as evolution. In some ways, I left this course knowing much less than I knew going in. That was because this course really opened my eyes to a world of molecular signaling that I never really knew existed (at least no where near the extent that I know now).
