It is a fun class in which u can discuss with a group of passionate people and come up with lots of interesting ideas
The class is well taught and organized and covers fascinating topics. I think the papers could have been better chosen, but I really enjoyed the discussions and found the class to be very stimulating.
You will find you have read much more paper than these on the requirement list.
It is very difficult to understand what the assignments and goals of the class are. However, if you just sit back and learn from the other students in the class, you will still enrich your knowledge of the subject.
It's a great class! Take it!
A lot of discussion and participation is required.
This course covers very narrow range of topics and so should be taken by students have a speicifc interest in neurobiology
It is great an opportunity to improve your knowledge and critical thinking in the field of neurobiology.
Very good, informal course. You can learn a lot.
This is a great course if you already have a good handle on lab techniques.  In order to participate in discussion and discourse, this is necessary.
Interesting topics. Not too challenging. Clear lectures.
Take this class! Even though I did not take MCB 80, I learned a ton from this course.
This was a great class with a wonderful and knowledgeable professor and TF, light workload, and interesting material.  Highly recommend if you're interested in the subject.
It's a good paper-reading based class. How much you learn from the course is also based a lot on how much you take the time to understand the paper. It was nice to have a theme each week and a paper centered around the theme, and I know that each paper was a good glimpse into an entire field of research.  For my presentation, I also read a lot of background material into the field and learned a lot about the field. I had never really thought too much about what the neurogenetics field of research is like, but I feel more well-versed in reading related papers in the future. Each session isn't too long, so take the time to do the discussion questions for homework well so that you can understand the background material (that Professor Zhang presents) and the paper presentation.
I loved this class!! If you are looking for an advanced neurobiology class to balance your busy schedule, this is the class for you! Each week is so interesting and you talk about some really intriguing topics. I would highly recommend taking this class!
It may take more time than you think to work through the papers, but the class is ultimately very rewarding.
Take this class if you are interested in neuro but may not necessarily understand genetics to the fullest. The professor will explain all of the genetic mechanisms so it won't be too difficult. Try to read the papers multiple times if possible.
A really good introduction to the field! Be careful because you may become very interested in the topics!
It's fun, but you learn a lot.
This is a great course if you are interested in nerugenomics and you will learn a lot. The readings are concise enough that you can do them all and thoroughly read them for discussion. Be sure to start early on the presentation! You'll be going over the entire paper, motivations for the work, and still need to levy sound criticisms on the peer-reviewed work. As a result, you really want to take the time to make sure you have a polished and well researched final presentation.
Very relaxed course, awesome professor, and a nice way of exposing yourself to a collection of different topics regarding neurobiology
Absolutely amazing class. Yun is an incredible professor and Jingyi is great. Both very accessible outside of class. Couldn't recommend it more enthusiastically
Great class. Stress free and really interesting.
This course comprises required weekly meetings, for which students must prepare ahead of time by reading a paper and answering some questions, and then in which the professor presents some background for half the class, and assigned students present the paper for the other half. Students must each prepare one presentation for the semester. The teacher and TF are very kind, and the workload is not overwhelming and quite flexible, though attendance is required at each class meeting. How much you learn will be up to you, however; it is possible that you could still stay ignorant of a lot of the methods used to understand the papers in depth, etc.
This is a wonderful course that will inform you about the broad area of neurogenetics through the discussion of several very well curated papers. The more enthusiastic you are about discussing the papers, the more you will get out of the class.
A great, relaxed class for learning about how genetic factors may influence behavior. Its a lot more traditional genetic technique focused (like crosses), especially at the beginning, that I anticipated, so it wasn't the gung ho neurobiology focused class that I hope it would be, but it was still a very enjoyable class. Would definitely recommend for people who like the paper reading/discussion class format
The course is really easy and straightforward but you still leave having learned a lot. If you want a laid-back introduction to neurogenetics, this is a great course to take.
This course allowed me to discuss incredible neurogenetics literature in a relaxed and supportive environment. The teaching staff worked hard to ensure that every student had the opportunity to develop their understanding of the material.
This is a great seminar that focuses mainly on behavioral neuroscience.  It offers an opportunity to analyze papers deeply, since the reading is fairly light but a very comprehensive understanding of each is expected.
This is a great class and introduces you to a wide array of developments in the field. I learned quite a bit but the workload was light.
if you have serious neuro and technical experience, take it
This class is amazing. You will learn a lot without having to do a mountain of work. Come to class having read the paper and with your opinion formed and you will actually have a really great hour and a half. The class is fun, and the professor and the TF are nice, approachable and extremely knowledgeable. I wish I could have taken classes like this all throughout my time here.
This course is tremendously helpful for learning genetics techniques applicable to research. I found this class really fulfilling, but be aware that you will get out of this course what you put into it.
A great class to expand your knowledge in the world of research surrounding neurogenetics
This is a really informative, exciting class. Because of the well-designed, low-intensity workload, it's easy to add this class to an otherwise overly full course load.
This is an easy class, but it is a genuinely nice primer to the field. I'm new to neuroscience, and I'm new to genetics, so this class was really perfect for me.
Chill, super low workload. Interesting articles.
Class is 2 hours/week and based off of student presentations and discussion. Each week we read and cover one scientific paper. Weekly homework is answering 3-5 questions on the reading. You present with a partner once. No midterm or final!
