Well-taught, interesting, and a reasonable workload. Take it.
Bence and Tim are great teachers, and really care about how they teach the material. They've hand selected papers well to give you a good idea of how each part of the motor control field has developed, and where it stands right now. The grading is fair, and they are always happy to chat about questions, final paper ideas, etc.
This is a great course! You will learn a lot about how the motor system works but the emphasis is on having original ideas rather than learning facts. You will get out of it what you put into it.
OEB 105 was among my favorite courses at Harvard. Not only are the lectures clear and informative, but the course staff go out of their way to provide a supportive learning environment. Although the lectures themselves are very thorough, be sure to read the background readings for even greater insight into each lecture's topics.
Highly recommend this class to those who want to learn more about how the brain works. The topic of motor control is really cool. Bence teaches it at a systems/circuit level, and you're asked to think about what kind of circuit would bring about the effects you learn about when the motor system works as normal or when there's a problem. You'll learn as much as the effort you put into the class.
You get out what you put into this class. Prof. Olveczky is super knowledgeable and enthusiastic about motor control. The readings do not take long to read but can take a while to understand well. If you're not particularly interested in motor control, the course might begin to drag. However, I enjoyed the class.
Enjoy it! This is a great course! It is refreshing to take a class not based solely on memorization, but that instead presents the main concepts in a challenging but tangible manner.
Great lecture and interesting discussions. You learn a lot and will have fun.
Based on how interesting, valuable in terms of how much you take away from it, and how fun this course is, it is definitely one of the better courses I have ever taken.
Awesome class, highly recommended.
It's a very interesting and worthwhile class.  I highly recommend it!
Bence is a good teacher, and also entertaining. The course gives you a great overview of the research in motor control, so if you have an interest in this stuff you should definitely take this.
Good medium-difficulty concentration elective
Great class - but watch out for the midterm. Petition not to have one if possible.
motor function is an important part of an animal's behavior that we might not necessarily think of as being most of what we "do"... pretty interesting circuits are studied
