Really sorry it won't be offered for a few years -- you missed out.
TAKE THIS CLASS! This class was everything a class should be! Learning was fun and felt intuitive because it was so well organized! The professor and TFs were kind and caring! and the material is so interesting! Honestly, the best class I've taken here at Harvard!
It's a great class!  I learned so much and it was fun! I never new how cool fish are!
No other class like it at Harvard.  ONLY 9 PEOPLE IN THE CLASS.  Tons of one-on-one time with one of the best professors at Harvard who is a world authority on fish and biomechanics.  Take this course!  You will not be disappointed!!!
Hands down, the best class I've taken at Harvard.
Awesome class.  Be prepared to be fishily blown away.
This class is glorious; prepare to be fascinated
A wonderful way to incorporate your love of organismic biology with the aquatic world! The class is amazingly taught, the lectures are on point and very well explained, and the fish adaptions learned will blow your socks off!
GREAT class. definitely don't miss any lectures or labs. aquarium field trip!
Although Liem is leaving, I would recommend this class because it is light and smooth after a rough day, like chocolate mousse.
The class is wonderful. Part of the reason it has been so wonderful was lecturer Karel Liem, who will no longer be teaching it. Even without him, though, the class is great, and the other lecturer, George Lauder, is also fantastic.
Guest lectures were slightly boring.
It's a great class and a great topic with great professors. However, subsequent courses will be different as Prof Liem will no longer be teaching it.
you're gonna love it
This class was very low key, not too time consuming, fun, and very well organized.  If you are not interested in fish, though, do not take it. If you love fish, you absolutely need to take it.
Fun professors who introduce you to the essentials of fish biology; very doable workload with great rewards in terms of knowledge.
Karel was awesome!
It's a fun and easy class with very excitable professors and TFs.
Professors Liem and Lauder are great lecturers and the course material is facinating.
Very informative; broad but not superficial
amazing course with excellent professors
One of the best classes at Harvard. I would recommend this class to everyone, even non-science concentrators.
Professor Liem is the best.
This class is really a must if you have any interest in marine biology.
Make sure you like fish...
When studying for the test, compare notes with others, and make sure you have everything because not everything you'll be tested on is in the packets.  But the class is a lot of fun and is interesting.
This is a fun and interesting course, and I enjoyed it even more than I expected to. Fishes are fascinating for a variety of reasons, and I think that many students would enjoy this course even if they don't consider themselves "fish people." Furthermore, Dr. Lauder is an incredible professor, and I highly recommend taking one of his courses.
As a non OEB concentrator who is genuinely interested in fish, I really enjoyed this course, but if I were taking it for a grade I would have been upset.
Take it if you're a huge biology nerd. I suspect that many of you are.
This class is so much fun--you learn a lot, and it's not difficult at all. Just pay attention in lecture (GO TO LECTURE), make outlines for exams, enjoy the labs, read for the quizzes, and you're bound to get a good grade. Prof. Lauder is awesome, and the TFs (if they stay the same) are also really helpful and laid back. You get to go to the Boston Aquarium for free; you learn a lot of facts about fish (which you learn to love and annoy all of your friends with); you get to dissect fish and see tons of super cool fish. Basically this class is really fun, pretty easy, and teaches you a lot--definitely take it!
Fun class!  Focuses a lot on specific biological systems of fish, like circulation, respiration, locomotion, etc, and also on fish diversity and phylogeny.
Be prepared to learn a lot of phylogeny, but you also learn a lot of cool things about fish. Midterms and final are very much manageable, but the quizzes were often brutal.
Amazing class, but its serious.
Great and fun class. Careful with those quizzes (make sure you do the readings!) though.
Best, best, best class
This class is fabulous. Take it but don't tell your friends so it can go back to being a small class.
The course is a great way to learn about fish, but it also reaches beyond fish to teach universal physiological concepts.
Prof. Lauder is the BEST!!!
I learned a ton.  Quizzes can be painful though.
A fun, broad introduction to fishes. Professor Lauder is awesome! This year the course wasn't really as technical as most upper-level OEB classes, but may be in the future if they start limiting enrollment.
Good course to take when you have a heavy load
This was a classic upper level OEB class with a few midterms and great labs, but the larger class size and poorly administered and planned quizzes made it frustrating at times.
LOVED THIS CLASS! Definitely take it!
This class is fantastic. If you want something nice to balance out your schedule take this class even if you don't know anything about fish. Professor Lauder is a rockstar lecturer - aside from being very clear and engaging, he shows awesome (relevant) movies of fish feeding and locomotion and draws pictures on the board that help you to understand everything so much more than if it was just a powerpoint. I never understood how cool fish were until I took this class!
Take this class whether you're OEB or not!
If you're interested in learning about patterns of evolution and the history of life, this class is definitely one to take, as we discussed this a lot and fish are an important group of animals to study when learning about the history of life on earth. The subject matter is fascinating, the professor is funny and accessible, and the workload is very manageable. I would recommend it!
if this class is capped, definitely take  it.  if he lets anyone in again, maybe think twice.
If you are truly interested in fish, then you have to take this course.
this is a rewarding class, labs are a lot of fun; it is completely based on memorization, so just make sure you have the time to do so
This class is my favorite course I have ever taken at Harvard. I am a gov concentrator, with no prior experience in biology, and this course would have convinced me to change to OEB if I had enough time left! Professor Lauder is brilliant, engaging, and very kind, and he and the teaching staff really want the students to succeed and learn about fishes. Every lesson had some new fact that left me walking away thinking, "Wow! That's awesome!" This is a wonderful class for OEB concentrators and non-concentrators alike, and I would highly, highly, highly recommend taking it if you're at all interested in fishes. The labs are a lot of fun, with dissections and a lot of interaction with preserved specimens. The exams are very manageable, and although they do require some studying (especially of phylogenies!) they are a great learning tool. The articles are great, and the trip to the aquarium was a blast. I'm so glad I got to interact with the TFs and Professor Lauder in this class. Take it!
Great course, Professor Lauder is very enthusiastic and fishes are awesome. Very manageable workload and great material is you are at all interested in fishes.
This is a fantastic class. If you're interested in bio but have never had a particular enthusiasm for fish, Prof. Lauder will give you that enthusiasm. Lauder is a fantastic instructor and is really enthusiastic, clear, and kind. He takes the time to walk through the more complicated concepts on the board in a way that makes things so much more clear. Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful. Not a single complaint.
Great class!! Do it!!
This class is really great. It gives you an amazingly detailed understanding of fishes, and their evolutionary history and anatomy. The class was really fun. It is almost as if you are learning about aliens, because there is so much to learn about them.
I wasn't that enthused about fishes before this course but now I'm a big fan! A lot of it has to do with Prof. Lauder's perpetual enthusiasm and cheer--he was literally never negative and really enjoys teaching. Some of the concepts on biomechanics, physiology, and physics were a bit to in depth if you don't have experience with those topics, but luckily they don't demand much detail on the exams. The workload was manageable but they made the quizzes too hard for the first half of the course. After that kink was worked out, smooth sailing. Labs were interesting and educational, we got to dissect our own fish, tour the MCZ collection and even go to the aquarium and try our hand at collecting fish in the Charles. Really enjoyed this class!
With some memorization and genuine interest on your part, this could easily be your favorite class.
Professor Lauder is awesome and very friendly. A few lectures are dry, but for the most part it is very interesting and engaging. Lab's are also great. The one tricky part about the course were the reading quizzes, which seemed unnecessarily difficult.
This course teaches you a lot about fishes, and Professor Lauder is great, as are the labs. That said, the course is not structured like other upper level OEB courses, to the class' detriment. There were weekly quizzes which were quite difficult, two midterms, and an exam during finals period, rather than earlier. Also, the class is definitely more focused on morphology than behavior, so make sure you're interested in that.
OEB 130 has been my favorite class so far at Harvard. Readings are fascinating, lectures are a treat, and labs let you look at specimens of the fish you have studied and examine their anatomy. If you have any interest at all in fish or in biology in general, find a way to take this class. Lauder's enthusiasm for fish is contagious, and he gives great lectures. He'll usually bring in some specimens for examination halfway through lecture, and almost always includes videos and images of the species being described. The workload for this course is very low, although exams really expect you to have the material down, so be prepared for a lot of memorization if you want to do well. You'll learn about fish with extra jaws that come out of their throat, fish with bioluminescent headlights, fish that can change sex on a whim, fish that can fly for hundreds of meters, and why sharks and tuna are so physiologically impressive. Take this class!
If you like fish or the ocean in any context, take this class! It's really fun.
Make sure that you stay on top of the reading and ask questions during lecture. The material all builds on top of each other so make sure that you attend each lecture and take copious notes.
This is a great course that covers the natural history of fish, mostly on an organismic level.  George Lauder is a fantastic professor who truly loves this group of animals and encourages this interest in his students.  He is an engaging lecturer and a kind person who seems to be very responsive to student feedback.  This may not be the most rigorous course offered by OEB, but certainly an enjoyable one.
Great course, smooth labs, do the readings. They're short, why not?
I loved this class. Even if you're just a little bit interested in fish, take it! It's not too much time or workload and Prof. Lauder and the teaching staff are great. Labs are awesome!
Such an amazing class!! Take it!  The lectures are great and the teaching staff is better!
This class is very well taught and the work load is very manageable! Professor Lauder is an extremely enthusiastic and entertaining lecturer.
George Lauder is great! Really passionate about the material and super adorable.
This course is fantastic. You will learn a tremendous amount about fish, and the course staff is wonderful.
This class is such a gem! Professor Lauder is awesome and a ton of fun, and the class is very low workload. The labs are awesome and you really get to see a lot. If you want a really fun way to learn about a group of animals that are really awesome and totally fascinating, definitely take this class. It's a perfect supplement to an otherwise difficult schedule, as it is nothing but fun and is not going to stress you out at all.
TAKE. THIS. CLASS. If you have any interest in natural history or old-school naturalism, there's absolutely no replacement for a rigorous examination of a group of organisms. And, out of the ones I've taken, this might be the best. Professor Lauder is a fantastic lecturer, a friendly professor, and just generally great. One of the best classes I've ever taken (although make sure to keep up with the phylogenies), and a must-take.
TAKE THIS CLASS. if it is being offered, take it. if it's not, take it the year after. or take time off to make sure you're still around when it's being offered again. this class reminded me why I love OEB classes and staff-- the material was so interesting, and presented in a way that made you obsessed with fish even if you had 0 interest or even were sort of freaked out by them (my personal first impression) before taking the class. The class is also just so well organized and very engaging, so you'll never want to miss a lecture or activity. If you have any interest in biology, or just want a chill and interesting class, take it!
Awesome class!!! Even though the lectures were 1 1/2 hours, I was never bored and always wanted to know what Prof. Lauder was talking about. Not too much work, but you learn a lot. Memorize the phylogeny!
This was the best biology course (non summer study abroad) that I've taken at Harvard. This was the best class in general that I've taken at Harvard. I would seriously recommend this class to anyone in any concentration. It is incredibly interesting, fun, and not too challenging that you feel like you are drowning in your course load. The professor is absolutely incredible. Absolutely everything about fish is amazing to him, and his enthusiasm is contagious. The TA's are both incredible. You will actually want to go to lab, and weeks that don't have lab are kind of a bummer. This class is a perfect balance of actually learning things with the professor realizing that students don't have hundreds of hours of extra time a week to do busy work. It is FUN and I would hands down take it again.
Take this class.  An Awesome look into fish, with awesome teachers
This is a great class - you'll learn about all of the amazing things in the fish world in a series of very interesting lectures from Prof. Lauder. The labs and tfs are great and really help you learn the material.
Professor Lauder is clearly super passionate about fish and makes everything about fish super exciting. He's also extremely supportive and understanding. He's honestly one of the best professors I've had. Take this class if you can.
This is a very light workload but you also learn a lot of cool things about fish! For example, anglerfish males are about 1/100th the size of the females. They latch onto the females' bodies and fuse their body to that of the female, basically becoming a sperm sack under the control of the female.It's much more fun to go to the aquarium or fish market after taking this class! Prof. Lauder and the teaching staff put a lot of effort into the class and are all very approachable.Make sure you practice drawing the phylogenies, diagrams of the fish body, and anything else that Prof. Lauder draws on the board. Also keep up with the readings, which is easy since there aren't very many.
This is a great class for anyone who is even remotely interested in fish or biology! Professor Lauder, Dylan, and Kelsey are all extremely knowledgeable and helpful, and the 1.5 hour lectures fly by because there is a break to view the specimens after one hour. To study for the midterms and exams make sure to go over the slides and take good notes! The sections and labs for this field trip are also great. Overall, if you're reading this right now, you should probably take this class.
I didn't know I thought fish were cool until I shopped and took this class. I even picked it over the bird class with their trip to Costa Rica and haven't regretted it once. I'm coming out of this class with so much more knowledge about the physiology, anatomy, and diversity of fishes. There are a lot of dissections and there's a lot of physiology, but it was still interesting even though I'm more behavior-oriented. Lab was super chill, and you grade is 75% exams and 25% lab participation/worksheets.
Definitely take it. Not too much work and it is really well organized. Makes you have an interest in fish even if you previously didn't have one.
