Prof Woollacott is incredibly knowledgable and approachable. Both he and Annie were very relaxed and fun, whilst still knowing way more about your topic of choice than you ever would. Really, really fun class.
A fantastic way to explore your individual interests in marine biology and share your excitement for these topics with others.
This class is really interesting! It allows you to explore topics in marine biology that interest you and to share what you find with others through the presentations. Plus, it is really cool to learn about all of the topics that interest your peers, and everyone is enthusiastic because the topics are your choice!
A great opportunity to learn from other students as well as one of the best professors at Harvard.
Allowing students to choose presentation and paper topics based on their academic interests was great for the students themselves and also interesting for other members of the class. Discussions in the small class were lively and thoughtful, everyone was so enthusiastic about the topic. The excellent professor and wonderful teaching fellow were a great team that taught us both in class and on our field trip.
If you are looking for a small, low-key, discussion-based class, this one is a great choice. The professor and teaching staff are phenomenal and you will really enjoy it!
Very relaxed seminar in general, but presentations do take some work.
Take this!! Such a great class. Loved going whale watching and meeting Jim toomey!!
Outstanding and highly recommended course!! Professor Woollacott was always accessible and even forwarded me articles relevant to my presentations. He consistently demonstrated a strong commitment to engaging students in the learning process.  Collin also is a wonderful and dedicated teacher.
Take this course if at all possible! You learn a lot and have the freedom to pursue what interests you in marine biology, regardless of your biology (or other) background. The presentations sound intimidating but they're actually not bad at all. In fact, we were often struggling to not go over 60 minutes. Pr. Woollacott is great and really encourages us to recognize how people and the marine environment interact. I wish that I had more classes like this at Harvard.
Great class- if you are interested in marine biology, love the ocean, definitely take this class.  You will get out as much as you put in, as you create your own presentations
This is a great class. You learn a lot from everyones presentations. Since you can pick your own topics, people tend to be very interested and invested in their topic. Overall, it is not too much work. That being said, you will end up spending quite a bit of time on your 2 hour long presentations.
This class renewed my lifelong love of marine biology. It made me regret not concentrating in biology. Don't take it if you don't want to feel lame for picking the wrong concentration.
Really fun to take as a senior for one last chance to really engage with and learn from your peers.
Excellent course - but be prepared to work hard on your presentations!
This is the best class that I have ever taken at Harvard. I was excited to show up every week and loved hearing my classmates presentations. Everyone was enthusiastic about the subject matter and I learned so much!! If you love the ocean, take this class!!
