This is an incredible class - definitely worth the early Friday morning for!
Its a very good exercise in writing reviews and learning about a breadth of topics around microbiology and evolution.
Fantastic course. Get to meet many interesting professor's from MSI.
A class telling you how amazing microbes are
It is a fun course
Take this course if you want a thorough exposure to many different subjects important to modern microbiology.
A good class to get to discuss current developments in microbiology.  Gives you a sense of where the field is going.
The format and content of this course appealed to a very wide range of students whose research intersects the microbial realm -- those in traditional biomedical disciplines, as well as those in more basic microbiology and the earth sciences, including oceanography. Without exception, every guest lecturer came to the course with a well-prepared, engaging presentation, and thought-provoking questions to stimulate discussion that week's assigned papers. I thought the workload of the course (not excessive) was perfect -- because only 2-3 papers were assigned each week, students really devoted the time necessary to read and understand them. If there had been additional weekly work, I fear this would not have happened. The distribution of disciplinary interests among the guest lecturers was very appropriate to the interests of the students. Particularly excellent were Roberto Kolter, Colleen Cavanaugh, and the first discussion that Mike Gilmore led on bacterial biomass. Perhaps the greatest strength of the course was that students got to see leading researchers present and lead thoughtful discussions on papers and science that was not their own. In the future, the lecturers should be again encouraged NOT to present their on work.
This is a great course to get exposure to the large variety of research going on in microbiology and meeting the people doing some of that research.
This class has the potential to be a very nice paper reading class- the course is well structured and brings in great professors. However, the discussion can be a little simplistic, and may not be appropriate for more advanced students.
I think this class is interesting and allows you to learn more about the microbial world!
This is a good survey course, but could be improved by expecting a greater degree of biology expertise.
Great intro course to microbiology; if you're an undergrad be prepared to interact with very vocal and knowledgeable graduate students.
This course is one of the most interesting and varied I have taken at Harvard. As an undergrad, the material presented in this course is challenging to understand, but rewarding to discuss. Microbial sciences are often neglected in introductory undergraduate courses, and this course introduced me to the diversity of microbial life as well as the manifold consequences they have for human health and the environment. This class is manageable for any undergraduates so long as you make an effort to read papers and understand basic concepts prior to discussion. Guest lectures and the MSI talks are highlights of this course, as well!
OEB 290 was a fantastic course! I loved the variety of topics and the fact that we got to learn from so many guest lecturers. There are a lot of graduate students, which can be intimidating, but it's pretty low-key and still easy to contribute. Not much work is expected of you, but the course is what you make of it -- you can still learn a lot about what is going on in the field of microbiology and how microbes are important to different aspects of life. The final assignment (to write an NIH grant proposal is practical and useful for the future. Prof. Gilmore is quite funny and knowledgeable and has a great lineup of speakers.
It's a really fun way to spend a Friday morning.
This was a good overview class but lacked focus and the quality varied week to week with the speakers. The large enrollment in the class this year made discussion nearly impossible.
Interesting course focused on microbes, generally. Painted with very broad strokes.
If you are interested in research in microbiology, this course provided both classic and current research topics.
Laid back course that allows for fun discussions about microbial literature. Not a good course to learn any specifics about the field, so only take it you want to explore some ideas without any obvious learning objectives.
If you have an interest in microbiology, this course offers a seminar style series of interesting lectures.
This course is a pretty good way to get an introduction to several different fields and topics in microbial sciences. Having a different professor and topic each week made for interesting readings and discussions.
The experience you have in this class is largely subjective, as it would vary depending on how talkative you were and what your research interests were.
Take it, it's one of the most interesting courses out there and won't overload you with work.
If you like microbes and want to learn about really cool research in a not-so-demanding setting, definitely take this course. However, you will only get out what you put in!
Great course. Good introduction and exposure to many different microbial fields.
If you're looking to a general introduction to problems and research across microbiology, this is a good course for you.If you're looking for a lightweight elective, this is also a good course for you.The classes were a bit hit or miss, but the majority were hits, so very worth it.High reward to effort ratio, with pretty low effort.
This is a fun course covering a lot of interesting material - and even more importantly, a lot of new perspectives for the non-microbiologist. Even as a structural biologist, I got a lot out of this course.
This is a great class to get a variety of perspectives in microbiology and talk to students with similar interests but diverse expertise. An enjoyable weekly forum to explore microbiology.
You get to learn about microbiology from many different people in the field, and thus your perspective will be broadened. It was especially good for me since I was considering joining a microbiology lab.
