The class is very effective as an introduction to practical modern systematics. We learn all the current software in use and get used to the idiosyncrasies of each. Not very work intensive, but start the problem sets early!
This class is interesting and useful. I recommend it highly if you intend to use phylogenetic techniques or want to learn more about them.
This is definitely a great introduction to Systematics to anyone with an interest in utilizing phylogenies in their research.
A difficult course, with very little feedback on how you're doing (only one final test is given).  Also, material learned is very specific, so unless your undergraduate thesis is going to involve a fair amount of phylogeny and systematics or you're fascinated by that subject, may not need this class.
In theory, this class was interesting.  In practice it was much more useful for graduate students who can apply the use of software to their own research.  Less useful for undergrads more interested in the theory.  Not that I am against a practical-based approach, but it could have been better integrated, less frustrating, and had less of a steep learning curve.
Very interesting introduction to a useful field. Mostly grad students, and geared towards learning methodologies particular to their work as well as the theory.
This class is not easy but it is very useful. It provides a lot of practical knowledge, including how to use software and techniques. Some of the concepts are difficult to understand, but that is just the nature of the material. It takes years for people to get a good grasp on systematics.
While it is good to have a background of the history of systematics, some of the material covered is not currently widely in practice. I would like to see more time spent on newer techniques and topics.
If you're doing research in systematics, you really should take this course. I've been working in systematics for years and still learned things, and I think I came out of this class with a better understanding of methods, and am better equipped to evaluate methods from other researchers. That being said, you learn a lot of things that don't seem relevant anymore to the field, and it isn't until the last few weeks that you learn about new, relevant methods, such as genomics-level analyses. If you just want to learn how to run programs, this class will be frustrating for you.
This course provides a balanced overview of all the main phylogenetics methods, their strengths and their limitations. It includes both conceptual and hands-on components. A very useful course for anyone involved or interested in evolutionary biology.
If you're not passionate about systematics, I would think twice about taking this class. It's very useful, but a bit dry and repetetive.
If a student is very interested in conducting systematics research, this class is a necessity. It teaches you the subtleties of the algorithms used in systematics that many researchers ignore or misunderstand, and it gives you the opportunity to analyze your own original data. However, if you are not planning to do research in this field, and don't have some special freaky love for twitchy computer programs, don't take this course.
I had been working with phylogenetic methods for several years before taking this course, and thought that I was at least moderately versed in the relevant techniques. This course both disabused me of that conceit and dramatically increased the rigor of my understanding. The format of the course is well thought out, the material organised, and the interplay between the two professors engaging and very useful to grasping the material. Not to be missed if you ever think you'll need to make a phylogenetic tree.
This class teaches you a lot about systematics, but it is a bit fragmented and the expectations for what you should know are not always clear.
This class covers very interesting but difficult material, but does not always check up along the way to make sure you are following it, so to truly understand the material takes a lot of personal initiative.
At the end I know more than I did at the beginning, but still don't feel like I understand some of the basics
excellent class to take if you are interested in using the materials learnt for your research/publication.
Be prepared to do a lot of independent learning if you take this course,  pace and check your learning along the way. Good for details on systematics but also requires research on the part of the student to fully understand.
Only take this course if you are very interested in Systematics and plan to do phylogenetic analyses for your research.  If  you are only mildly interested in Systematics, or there aren't any other courses offered that semester that apply to your research, DO NOT take this course.  The lab assignments take between 10 and 15 hours to do, and you will be beating your head against the wall trying to figure it out.  If I could do this semester again, I would not have taken this course and would have spent more time on my research.
This is a good class and it will teach you many important techniques and concepts used in phylogenetic analyses, however it requires a fair amount of effort to synthesize the material from the lectures and learn to use a variety of different types of computer programs.
