Really hard and not worth it.
This isn't really a course for "biologists". If you're looking for a high level stats class with some biology examples, this is a class for you. But I don't feel like I've come out of this class with a better ability to tackle statistics for biological research.
while the biological bent was interesting and relevant, it was a lot to muddle through before getting to useful information, and the same methods are taught in other statistics courses that are a lot less painful.
Students that take this class should either be grad students that are interested in a refresher/introduction to the methods that they will be needing for their own research, or if they have already got some background in statistics, and are in search of a good theory-based class that covers the key analytical techniques that biologists use. It's a great math class to avoid premeds.
Good course, and while I had some revelations, I'm not sure I learned very much.
Basically a mix of your basic 100, 101 or 104 stats with a little 110 thrown in, using biological examples.
If you are interested in theoretical statistics, this is a great course for you.  If you are interested in learning how to use to statistics to answer biological questions, it is not.  The course was difficult, and this difficulty was compounded by the fact that lectures were above most students heads and the book and homework was oversimplified.  Stay away until its many kinks have been worked out.
This class is an excellent choice if you already have some background in statistics and are interested in the theoretical underpinnings and the biological applications. I would not recommend it as an introductory statistics class.
must be very prepared for an upper level class in statistics.
Do all of the textbook readings and every practice problem you can get your hands on.  Far from really difficult, but easy to underestimate.
For anyone in the life sciences who needs or wants to learn statistics (and anyone doing research should learn statistics) this is a good way to learn the material you'll need to know with relevant examples and a great professor.
Not only is the content of this class relevant to any biologist, but the teacher is phenomenal
The class is difficult, but very manageable if you put in the time to go to lecture, office hours, and section. Ultimately, it is rewarding to feel like you finally understand the material.
No lecture recordings/posted notes, but the textbook is great, and most lectures have corresponding chapters in the syllabus, so it is doable without going to lecture.
This class introduces the mathematical concepts behind statistics and applications of statistics to biology. It also introduces R. However, I would not recommend it unless you are a very independent learner as there is very little work week to week and no practice problems provided, so you must take it upon your self to assess how well you understand concepts and find some way to prepare for the exams. For students looking to gain a basic understanding of statistics, I would recommend one of the other intro classes.
This class was odd. Can't really tell how I did. The final paper is also the most stressful paper I have written.
I strongly recommend this course to any grad students that want to gain/improve their statistical knowledge, especially if they are at the stage where they have data to analyze (and are maybe unsure of what to do with it). I left my undergrad statistics course without feeling that I really understood the reasoning behind everything we did, but this course made both theory and application quite explicit and I left feeling a lot more confident about my understanding of statistical analysis, regardless of whatever score I actually got.
This is the one class where success lies in extensively parsing through assigned chapters in the textbook, rather than lectures (they don't offer much, except that they point you toward what you should focus on in the textbook).  This is not a good class to take for students who haven't been exposed to statistics, or code, before; if this is you, then you will have to put in A LOT of extra work just to get by.
Sometimes the lecturers in this class take very simple topics and make them unnecessarily complicated. However, the tests are fair and both professors are really helpful and reasonable. Overall, this class gives a good introductory overview of many statistical topics, although some of them are occasionally tough to understand.
This course is not structured well, but it does really help with thinking about how to perform research.
This is the only statistics class I've taken, but I couldn't imagine a better way to learn it. You shouldn't expect it to be easy, but the professors in this course are clear about what you need to learn and they're there to help you if you're having trouble.
Fantastic intro to statistics for people planning to conduct research in a biological field. Rigorous without being too abstract, thoroughly covers important concepts and skills for analysis of biological datasets. Learning R is fun, easy and super useful. Pace is very reasonable and problem sets/exams are a breeze if you're not intimidated by a little calculus. Instructors are very committed and really know their stuff. I enjoyed this class a lot.
Read the textbook as well if you want to understand the materials completely.
A good broad overview of statistics and a good place to start, although some experience with statistics would go a long way.
If given the choice I would probably consider STAT 110 instead.
This class has potential, but currently is quite painful. There is little context given for statistical tests: how they were developed and why and when to use them. The problem sets and exams are hard and often cover material not learned in class or in the book, and there are lots of proofs and not enough practical information in lectures. Also, I would really like to see some instruction in R or other software in the future.
It is hard but needed for life science classes
I would recommend this course for students looking for a "bare-bones" statistics course that will introduce them to the theory of probability and statistical tests. However, it tries to cover a broad range of topics and does not have the time to go into any in depth. It is fast-paced and challenging for students with no previous statistics background. Although the class is titled "Statistics for Biology" it really does not include many biological applications.
Although the perk to this course is that the course goes over both the intro to probability theory taught in Stat 110 and the more applicable material taught in Stat 111, there is not enough depth in either subject and there is little support for students (as many of the students are graduate students). If you want to really learn how to do statistics (for biology or for any other subject), I would recommend taking Stat 110/111 or another more organized (but more basic) course, like Stat 104.
Recommend, but would warn of the time commitment needed to do the HW every week and to keep up with the material for the test.
If you do not have a very high aptitude for math and understanding concepts through equations alone, be prepared for the steep learning curve required to do well in this course.
Make sure you really understand calculus, or this course will be especially difficult, if not impossible. Also, I'd recommend working through the first 5-10 chapters of the textbook, even cursorily, before or at the onset of class.
you learn a great deal, probably more than in any other single-semester stats course at Harvard; however, the bad structure of the course would make me not recommend it to you unless there is evidence that it has been re-tooled. There is a fantastic course in there; Professor Wakeley is a great lecturer; but the course needs much more communication between the professor, TFs and students and a lot better organization.
Be prepared to be super frustrated, but it's probably worth it if you care at all about stats.
This course is more theoretical than advertised, but there are some useful concepts that one can get out of it.  Overall, I recommend it to any biologist, but students should know that it is a lot of work.
Focus more on the lectures then the book. It's a pretty useful course.
It was a really great class. One of the most practical and useful ones I have taken at Harvard. The professor is great, he really knows the material and very easy to talk to.
This class is the most rigorous and information introductory statistics course offered. However, I do not believe the greater knowledge and skill base acquired through this course is worth the far greater aggravation.
READ THE BOOK! GO TO OFFICE HOURS! If you want a hard-math take to stats, maybe take another course. This is more conceptual.
I would not recommend this course as a first course in statistics.  It might be better as a way to dive into statistical theory after the fundamentals have been established elsewhere.  The lectures were difficult to understand and did not integrate well with the textbook and homework assignments (at least from the perspective of a student who had not taken statistics before).  Overall, I do feel that I learned basic statistics from this course, but it was a long and bumpy road.
It's difficult and some things might be over your head if you're rusty on math/calc.  However, you will go from being completely ignorant about statistics to versed.
Be clear ahead of time about the purpose of this course. The purpose, as I gather, is to quickly familiarize students with the theoretical underpinning of statistics, particularly with a focus on biological applications. If you aren't comfortable with algebra and calculus, this course isn't recommended. I am glad I took it, but wish it were taught with the students' confusion more in mind.
