Do it! Even if you're not in OEB take this ad you will not regret it. They actually make plants INTERESTING and you'll see that plants are not boring like everyone keeps telling me.
It's a fun class in which you learn basic things in depth about plants that you've always wondered about.
I would tell students that this class is a fantastic way to fulfull a core requirement while learning a lot and having fun. I would also recommend this class as an elective.
I've already recommended this course with enthusiasm to my friends.  It's a lot of fun, interesting, and a great way to learn about plants and satisfy core/departmental credit and curiosity.
This is a great way to fulfill Science B core, however only take it if you like plants to begin with.
fun and applicable
People become OEB concentrators after taking this course. This is a course that students rave about. If you are willing to take a chance on a topic you may not have considered, you may never look at plants the same way again! P.S. Do yourself a favor and always go to the lectures. They are, surprise of surprises, genuinely helpful, especially when it comes to the problem sets.
The field trips are amazing, I highly recommend going on all of them!
The class is not only very interesting, but also a lot of fun.
This is a fantastic course - a great way to fulfill a core requirement, but also truly enjoyable for its own sake.
This was the best class I could have taken for a science B core. I wish I had taken it earlier. It might have changed my idea about concentration plans.
The class is good for both majors and non-majors. You learn a lot and have a good time.
This class was great. I learned in a friendly environment, and there were field trips!
This is a class that comes with no regrets! It is easy, interesting, you learn a ton, really do appreciate the plant world more, and is really truly fun!
BEST fieldtrips.
One of the best classes I've ever taken! The field trips and professors are sooooo fun!
One of the funnest classes you'll take. I was excited about it every morning when I went to class, and sad that it was over. Fieldtrips and snacks make it even better.
Very simple introduction to plants, a great way to fulfill the Sci B requirement
Great class with great professors who truly make a subject that sounds boring very exciting.
Only if interested in plants.
This class was fairly easy, but it was fascinating! Also, the professors are teaching this because they want to and are thus very enthusiastic, and the field trips are a lot of fun and very interesting.
Anybody interested in biology should take this class.  It is very enjoyable and not a source of anxiety.
Take it because not only do you get to learn about plants, but you get to eat them in class!
This class was more difficult (for me, a non-science person) than past students and the teachers made it seem. I found the material and the repeated evaluation of learning (two quizzes a week) to be difficult to keep up with. I took it as a Gen-Ed, and found myself wishing that I had taken a non-departmental course, as I cannot give full attention to four classes in one semester. That said, I did learn some interesting things about plants despite my best efforts to the contrary, and the field trips were mostly enjoyable. I guess I did not expect the study of plants to be so divorced from life practices with plants, because I care about plants more because of agriculture and other reasons having to do with people than for the development of algae and extremely small-scale stuff. Of couse they are not mutually exclusive, but I would have taken a Gen.Ed. if I could decide again.
I think students should only take this class if they know NOTHING about plants. Personally, I feel as though OEB 10 and OEB 54 gave me a very good plant foundation. That's not to say that I learned nothing from the class, but I think I had seen most of the material already. When I did see new material that interested me, I was frustrated to find that we had to move on to new topics so quickly. Some of these topics only had one lecture, but I wish I could have taken an entire course on some of them. In my opinion, the professors and TFs are not very interested in the students. In OEB 54 the professors made all of us feel that we could (and should) be a part of the next generation of great mycologists. The Professors and TFs in OEB 52 didn't seem to really care what we did with plants. I also wish that at least one of them had held regular office hours. In my opinion, just being "available" for an appointment is just a way to avoid interacting with students. I am more likely to see a professor or TF for office hours when I know when and where I can always meet them. Regular office hours help me plan to meet with professors and TFs. I feel that the professors and TFs in this class purposely chose to not hold regular office hours so that they could deter students from bothering them. I feel that they knew they were making it harder for me so that they wouldn't have to talk to students. I felt as though they figured that none of us really cared about plants anyway because we were probably only taking this class for gen ed credit.
Definitely take this class. The faculty is awesome and you get to go on really awesome field trips and experience the benefits of going to such a connected university.
This course gave me insights into the ways plants are intrinsically tied to ancient and modern human life. Current technological advances associated with agriculture, and plant development and physiology were covered, along with a broad overview of botanical terms and a taxonomical overview of the plant kingdom. Lots of fun, great field trips and great snacks!
I LOVE PLANTS. I'm not sure if everyone loves plants, but if you like them even a little bit this class is enjoyable. It was a 1.5 hour class this year, but there are SNACKS for when you start to get sleepy! You do need to look over the lecture slides/your notes for the weekly quizzes; pay attention to differences between groups of plants.
This is an amazing class- it is very well taught, the TF's are amazing, the lab is actually really fun, there are amazing field trips and snack in lecture every day!!
Take this class!  I had absolutely no background (or interest) in botany before this course, but had a great semester and cultivated an interest in plants.  The lectures are interesting and cover a wide variety of topics.  Did I mention there are also snacks provided at every lecture (that tie into the topic of the lecture) and field trips?  Weekly in-class and take-home quizzes (essentially problem sets) comprise the bulk of the work in this course.  Overall, not a ton of weekly work and you'll learn a lot and have some fun!
Great class. Great professors. If you like plants, this is a good class for you.
A fairly enjoyable class for someone who wants to fulfill the SLS gen ed requirement.  It's a nice choice if you don't want to take a fluffy "science for people who don't do science" class, but at the same time very low in time commitment if you can't afford too much effort for electives.  You should probably like plants if you take this, but you'd be surprised-- you might discover that they're more fascinating than you thought.
Take this class if you are considering OEB, the fieldtrips let you get to know OEB people (stay overnight at the forest, for sure) and you will see what the major is like. Very glad I took Botany, plus all your friends will think you are awesome when you say "i'm in botany" whilst they slave away at economics or what have you.
Excellent intro course for learning about plant biology.  Quizzes are fairly easy and there is a really light workload.  Labs are interesting.  Professors are great and generate enthusiasm. Field trips are fun. Easy course overall.
Only take this class if you are prepared to memorize a lot of terms and life cycles relating to plant biology.  Do not take this class as an easy core, and do not let yourself be lured into it if your only interest is in the snacks and field trips.  If you are sincerely interested in plant biology, this is a great class.  If not, it's probably a big mistake.
This class is great! Even if you think plants are boring, the professors will do their best to convince you otherwise. You will learn very interesting and useful things about this essential part of the planet's productivity (one that we cannot live without). You WILL get to know your professors and other students in the class, and there are snacks provided everyday, as well as fun field trips.
It's a really fun class and the instructors care about their students a lot. It's a good way to get the SLS gen ed done. Make sure, of course, that you're willing to spend a semester learning about plants, though, because not everyone in the class really was, and it's hard to stay engaged if you're not.
There are snacks every lecture.
This class is fun and very little work, but it teaches virtually nothing not covered in AP Bio's plants unit.
I didn't really know anything about plants until I took this class. Now I know a whole lot. Definitely recommended for those who want to know more about the world from a different perspective.
fantastic class - great for fulfilling a core
it might not help your gpa because they've started doing in-class quizzes
Make sure to attend all lectures, and review before each class in case there is an in-class quiz. These quizzes (in conjunction with your take-home quizzes) compromise 50% of your grade and are super important. Beyond that, just try to keep abreast of all the material because there is a lot. Besides that, though, the teaching staff is absolutely amazing, always there to help, and the field trips are so much fun. I particularly enjoyed the trip to the Harvard Forest where you get to stay overnight!
An intellectual treat. A bit of extra work, but well worth it in terms of knowledge gained.
Don't take the light workload lightly. Since quizzes are 50% of your grade make sure you put effort into them and study if necessary. With that said, the subject is really interesting (I like to think it is, whether or not you like plants) and the professors very enthusiastic and welcoming. The field trips are fun, and there's always food in both lecture and on the field trips! Make sure you've been taking good notes all semester because the take-home final will be torture to do and take forever to complete without them (maybe even with them too).
If you love plants and want to learn how they came to be....
This class was strictly for people with a love (or hidden love that was discovered over the course of the class) of plants. It is not necessary to do well, but it is necessary to enjoy the class. This class is all plants, all the time. But there are snacks at each lecture!
Don't expect a classical botany class-- this is plant biology, evolution and physiology rather than identification. It is a fantastic course and you should definitely take it!
The class is an excellent introduction to plant biology and diversity. The lectures are fun and engaging, there isn't very much work, and the field trips are an excellent way to get off campus and into the woods for nice weekend days. There's also a snack every lecture!
The field trips are great!
This class is amazing! You get to learn a lot about plants with possibly the most caring instructors at Harvard (professors and TFs included). The field trips are a blast, especially the Harvard Forest field trip. The course structure is very useful in that you continue to learn and review the material without having to cram the night before a midterm exam (unlike many other courses). Overall, I think that if you need to find a class that interests you, take this one.
This class is pretty good--you get to eat great food, go on fun field trips, and the teaching staff is really helpful. I just don't think that plants are that interesting. And be careful of the quizzes--they get really hard really quickly.
Make sure you like plants.  The class felt like a fast overview of many different types of plants, but also felt bogged down by minutiae in random areas, especially given the pop quizzes in class.
Amazing, fun, not too much time, plants shape our lives and surround us everyday! TAKE THIS CLASS!
This course is a great class, I highly recommend it if you are interested in spending time with plants (and some green algae). The field trips are awesome - try to go to all of them, if you can. Finally, snacks in class - how can you go wrong??
This was one of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard.
It's a good course, though do not take it as a core or gened. Only take it if you can devote a significant portion of your time to it.
This is a fun and low-stress class.  It's good for both science people and anybody looking to satisfy a Gen Ed requirement.  The teaching staff is great, and they will help you as much as possible.  You could put very little into this class, and you would get by, but it's definitely worth putting in a little time to really understand the material and take advantage of the course staff.
Just take it. It's the perfect blend of technical and fun fact--they give you a lot of information, but you don't actually have to regurgitate it back to them too often. It's a particularly great class if you're not a science person and just want to learn some really interesting stuff about botany and evolutionary biology.
We had snacks every lecture! It was a lot of fun and the field trips are amazing because it's so awesome to get to know the professors!
It's pretty much about plants which is interesting enough but yeah
People in the humanities: take this class
Great senior spring choice. This is one of those courses that will change the way you think about the natural world, but won't try to break your brain. Snacks every class, amazing lectures, interesting topics, fun field trips--what's not to love? Plants are much cooler than you think! Labs are exploratory, meaning that you'll spend much of it just drawing pictures of plant parts in your notebook.
OEB52 is a great course! It's very organized and the professors are all very enthusiastic and helpful. The work load is also very reasonable.
The labs are somewhat stressful, the lectures can get a bit boring especially if you aren't into plants, but the quizzes are a nice structural component to the course.
amazing course no matter your concentration
The material isn't particularly difficult as long as you actually make an effort to pay attention from start to finish. If you skip lecture or don't pay attention, you will more likely than not lose points on the in-class quizzes
OEB 52 is a comprehensive overview of plant development and evolution. It really helped me appreciate the diversity and importance of plants. The professors are all talented teachers who are also highly knowledgeable in botany. The field trips were fun and a great way to internalize the concepts we learned in class. I very much enjoyed OEB 52, and I would have strongly considered concentrating in OEB if I had taken this course earlier in my undergraduate studies. Be aware, however, that the course requires a significant time commitment to do well. The weekly in-class and take-home quizzes, labs, field trips, and project ended up taking a lot of time.
This class is great! All the professors are pretty great and they really want you to learn the material rather than just blindly memorize lots of things. You'll leave the class thinking plants are cool!
The professors are wonderful and incredibly passionate and knowledgeable about their fields. The field trips were wonderful as well. If you're interested in plants, this is a great class.
Don't take this class if you're not interested in plants.
Take this class! The fieldtrips are awesome.
It's a great class as long as you realize that it does require more effort than first appears.
The snacks and field trips are amazing. I love the course professors as well.
TAKE IT TAKE IT TAKE IT! This is a GEM class. I am not a science person at all and this was the best possible way to fill the SLS requirement. Easy, but I learned a lot of applicable and interesting things. Snacks every class. Fun field trips. Lab = cutting up and drawing plants. 3 great professors, all great lecturers. Take home quizzes and final. SO GOOD.
This class was a great introductory course into the biology of plants; it gives you a great oversight of plant biology, while still providing you with enough depth and details to really understand the material. It's also a lot of fun - and the fieldtrips were awesome!!!
Great class for someone who is not a science major but is still quite interested in biology.
This class is awesome, I absolutely loved it! Very low stress (no midterms, take-home final) and there are snacks provided for every class! The field trips are great too. No science background is needed as the instructors explain the biological concepts really well, although some previous biology knowledge will make the class easier. Don't take it if you're not at least a little bit interested in learning about plants though, or else you may find sitting through lectures and lab really boring.
Actually review the material! It seems more chill than it is.
GO TO LECTURE!!! It's the best way to understand the material and you get snacks!
While the subject of plant biology is of extreme interest, the professors were really the ones who made the class fantastic. I cannot explain how enthusiastic and charismatic each of the lessons were and you can really tell that the professors really loved the subject.
This class is great!  You should definitely take it.  An interest in plants might help, but even if you don't like plants when you enter the class, you'll definitely like them when you're done.  The professors are all great, the fieldtrips are awesome, and basically, this class is awesome.  And, in case you think I'm biased, I'm not even an OEB concentrator.  This class is just that awesome.
THIS CLASS IS AMAZING HELL YES
This was no doubt my favorite course this semester; this is coming from a non bio concentrator. When I read the Q guide evaluations I had high hopes going into this course. I read that there were snacks every day (which really actually facilitate the learning) and the teaching was amazing. Everything was true. I thought that plant biology was the most boring part of biology from when I took it in highschool but after this course everything has changed. You will see plants not as "things" anymore, but rather as organisms that actually are alive. I would say that this course really rekindled my love for biology, and would wholeheartedly recommend this course to everyone. It is simply amazing.
This is a fun way to fulfill a Gen-ed or OEB requirement. It requires little work outside of class and lab attendance but you still take a lot from the course.
solid intro to plants course
Great class. As a humanities concentrator, I though lectures got a little tedious and bogged down in extraneous terminology sometimes. But other than that great course. And there are snacks!
This is a great class for people that are both OEB concentrators and for non-science people
It's a surprising amount of time commitment to a class that shouldn't be too difficult overall. The instructors are extremely enthusiastic though, which is nice.
Best class I've taken at Harvard. Everyone needs to take this before they graduate. Snacks every lecture, the professors and teaching staff were enthusiastic and eager to answer questions, the labs were fun (the mangoes in the fruit lab were delicious), it's not a lot of work outside of class and lab, it satisfies a gen-ed, and  it's interesting material. All around fantastic class.
Awesome course!  One of the few interesting and in-depth science classes that has a workload comparable to non-science courses.  If you have any interest in biodiversity, agriculture, or simply a different type of Harvard science course, take this class!
The weekly pop quizzes are actually rather hard... and it takes real effort to keep up with the material so watch out. Definitely go to the sleep over field trip at the Harvard Forest. Coolest class related thing I did at Harvard. The dogs are awesome.
Excellent class involving many delicious snacks, a great group of people, wonderful field trips (especially if you're the kind of person who likes hiking and forests and such) and a very relaxed attitude. The material is also genuinely interesting if you are at all into plants. Lab is totally stress-free and involves a lot of drawing. I took this to fulfill gen-ed as a humanities major and I'm SO glad I did. Wonderful class!
Terrific class! Just pay attention in class, it'd be worth it.
What a great way to satisfy the SLS gen ed requirement! Professors are very nice and accessible, TFs equally so. And the class is totally accessible to non-science concentrators!
Sometimes it is hard to pay attention during a 1.5 hour lecture. You really have to be interested in plants.
Its a gen-ed, a concentration class, and they give snacks evrey lecture topped with amazing field trips and just really great material if you think you knew plants, think again. oeb 52 takes you through this world of biology that will keep you glued to your seats till the end of the semester
The material is fascinating, the workload is minimal, and the requisite background is negligible. Also, they give you snacks. Every class. And there are spiffy field trips. What are you waiting for?
If you like plants, this class is pretty good-- if you want an easy class (though I hope that there are better, more in-depth classes for plant-o-philes). If you aren't into learning lots of random cool facts about plants, this class will probably bore you.
This is a great senior spring class in that it is not as stressful with assignments or as high pressure due to the weekly quizzes which I really liked and appreciated about this course. It felt really geared toward non-concentrators and so went really slow at times, which was annoying for me as a senior concentrator. The teaching staff is super nice.
It seems easy because they give you food and they look down-to-earth, etc. However, beyond aesthetics this class is too difficult for non-concentrators. Don't take it.
go to lectures - they're super informative and everything you need for the quizzes and final exam is covered in them.
If you have any interest in plants, you will find something to like in this course.  It's not particularly difficult, as science classes go- I never even needed to open the textbook.  The professors and TFs were all very kind and knowledgeable.  The field trips are a lot of fun.  You get snacks!  If you're not interested in plants, you're going to find it dull.  But if you are, it's a fun and relaxed class that can teach you a lot if you put in the effort.
A great way to fulfill SLS if you're not science-y but want to take a class where you will actually learn science. Work outside of class is minimal, and the work that you do have is typically fun and/or creative. The field trips were so much fun; the instructors spoiled us with lots of lovely junk food. Seriously- take this course.
This class is super chill and a lot of fun. They give you snack! Every day! If you're the kind of person who finds it easy to grasp unfamiliar anatomical terms, you'll breeze through this class, and you should definitely take it. If you're not, you might have to work a little harder to make sense of it, but it definitely won't be a hard class. Minimal out-of-class work, short labs, simple final project. Do it.
This class was amazing!!! We learned so much about plants and gained a much greater appreciation for the natural world. Professor Holbrook and Professor Kramer are wonderful and the field trips were so much fun!
This is an amazing course for concentrators and non-concentrators alike. The teaching staff are tuned in to the needs of the students, and the material is presented very clearly. There are plenty of perks of being in this class (snacks, field trips), but even without those this course would be great.
Such a fun course, though at least at points, expect to spend a good amount of time studying to get a real grasp of the material. Take your time with the bi-weekly assignments. That is where you begin to master the material and doing just enough to earn the points will limit your learning outcome.
This is a great survey course of many different aspects of plant biology; don't expect to go too in depth into any particular topic. Also makes a great Gen Ed (not the reason I took it, but I can see why people did)
This class is such a gem in so many ways.  Elena and Missy are absolutely FANTASTIC people and professors, and you will learn so much while loving it all the while.  Workload isn't too bad, and even though there are weekly labs, they are much better than labs in other classes.
Make sure you read the book and pay attention in lecture.
Take it! Such a great way to do an SLS. Yes, there are snacks and field trips, but even beyond that, Missy and Elena are so accessible and excited about plants! They make you excited about them, too. Also, very little homework and very little reliance on the textbook. So you get to learn from class and not worry too much about reading outside of class.
It's a great class! You learn plant evolution and why some plants behave the way they are. Professors were really chill, and the snacks were a great way to wake up to a 10 am class.
It's a lot of fun, you learn a lot, it's taught during the best time of the year, because while you're studying flowering plants they start blooming all around you.
You're going to learn a lot of really cool stuff about plants. It's awesome.
The four hour lab is a lot. Other than that, it's a great class!
Fun class with  snacks at every lecture!
Not an easy gen ed, but a very rewarding one if you don't care about the grade. The lab is annoying but mandatory.
It is a terrific introduction to biology of plants (and, for me, to college biology in general). It really gets you thinking about the life that surrounds you.
Ask lots of questions! Both professors are very knowledgeable, and everyone will learn more if you ask about details of biology surveyed in lecture.
Great, chilled-out class with awesome professors and fun projects!
It's good for a gen-ed for non-bio people, but may be a little basic for bio concentrators, especially those that already took OEB 10.
As a non-science concentrator, I really enjoyed this departmental gen ed! It was a great intro to a new topic and a very fun and informative way to fulfill SLS. The labs were interesting and the field trips were great! Take this class!!!!
Great course. Light way to be introduced to plants and the assignments are not too exhausting.
Do not skip lecture, the class is lecture-based
It's a gorgeous class--my favorite of the semester. The bus rides for the mandatory field trips always made me feel sick, though, so be prepared for two Saturdays of suffering. Pretty + cool plant suffering, but suffering nonetheless.
Elena Kramer is amazing! Missy is also great! The class teaches you so much about the world around you. It also has some great perks, including food in class everyday, 2 field trips, and no midterm! I took it as an elective, but I think it's really the way to go if you're looking to fulfill SLS.
Lectures are great and lab can seem long but it's straightforward!
Professors Kramer and Holbrook are both phenomenal lecturers in their own different ways, and the TAs are competent and extremely kind. The lecture / in-class quiz / lab format can get very repetitive, but it's also reliable and all the lecture powerpoints are posted online for ease-of-review. The fieldtrips are great fun as well.
This is a great class. Take it for gen ed, take it for fun. You'll learn a lot and the material is all really interesting.
Lectures were really interesting and I feel as though I learned a ton. Labs could have been fun if they weren't so rushed...
This class was a really interesting way to fulfill SLS! I learned a lot and it was pretty painless.
Material is dry if you're not a plantophile but staff is incredible and class is super chill
This is a pretty chill GenEd that you learn a lot in.  There are snacks every lecture and it's not that demanding.  I'd definitely recommend it to anyone interested in the material.
Great course to give you an overview of the diversity of plant life on earth. I would add that the course material is not applied, and although there are a few lectures at the end having to do with agriculture and GMOs, the majority of the course is really delving into different families, species, and aspects of plant life. Both professors are very engaging and at the top of their field. Professors and TF's offer plenty of office hours if you are confused about course material. In addition, there are fun field trips to the Harvard Forest and Arboretum, as well as "didactic" snacks in every lecture.
As someone without much of a sciences background, I found this course really manageable and not too difficult, while not being a blowoff class; I still felt like I actually learned a lot. The field trips are really fun, and Elena and Missy are both wonderful and enthusiastic teachers. And Claire was a great TF!
OEB 52 has a well-deserved reputation as a standout among the generally dismal run of SLS offerings. I would estimate that more than two-thirds of the students this year took it for Gen Ed credit, and you don't need any biology background beyond high school. Attendance at lectures is expected and there are in-class quizzes every other lecture, but the professors basically bribe you with food to come to class. If you're willing to work slightly harder than is typical to take something more serious than a typical Gen Ed course, I highly recommend this. Definitely try to stay overnight on the Harvard Forest field trip; it was one of the highlights of my semester, and I got a free pancake breakfast cooked by my professors. Unless you make a habit of waking early, avoid 9am lab sections.
Fun course, I feel like I learned a lot about plants without doing a whole lot of work. (Granted, I started knowing next to nothing about plants...)
It's not too much work (great with orgo) and Prof. Kramer is wonderful. And there are snacks!
This course is full of wonderful staff, interesting labs, and is beginner friendly yet full of learning opportunities for students of all biology backgrounds.
This is a fun course! Very friendly/approachable professors, interesting material, and a great collaborative atmosphere.
If you've already taken OEB 10, then you should probably take a higher-level plants course. A lot of the material gets repetitive otherwise.
Really fantastic course. The staff is always available if there are questions. The quizzes, homework assignments, projects, and exams are fair. Lectures are clear, and the environment is great for asking questions. There are labs, and they really reinforce what was recently taught in class. Took this class to fulfill my SLS requirement and really enjoyed it. I especially enjoyed the field trips we took (try to stay overnight at Harvard Forest, it's really fun!) and the snacks in class.
It's a good way to fulfill a Gen Ed, but not my favorite OEB class. The field trips were a lot of fun, but the assignments can sometimes be tedious. I feel like we learned a lot about early diverging plants up through ferns, but the material after spring break seemed rushed, even though it all seemed pretty important. It is pretty neat knowing something about plants and plant structure, though!
Office hours are rather helpful. If you review for the weekly quizzes you will do well in the course
This is an enjoyable class, and I was grateful for the chance to go on the very relevant and interesting field trips, which was when I most cherished what I was learning.
Pay attention in the lectures. The field trips are also fun and should not deter you from taking this course! It's a great way to discover what Harvard has to offer at the Harvard Forest, Arboretum, and our own backyards.
Go to office hours for the take home assignments!
Try not to focus too much on the text book
Take it, if you have the time! Was a bit much with my thesis and a CS class, but just stay on top of the quizzes and psets and you'll be okay.
Elena is a great lecturer, and the labs will never take you more than two of the three hours allotted. Keep up to date for the in class quizzes, and have fun on the field trips!
Professor Kramer is a fantastic lecturer and the courses' labs and field trips are fun and helpful in making the course content clearer. However, some lectures can be confusing and unclear.
This is a great course and Professor Kramer is an outstanding teacher and lecturer. The lab component of the class is based on participation and engagement and usually involves drawing pictures of plants for a couple hours. There is a consistent amount of work in the class; the take homes, quizzes, and labs do demand time. Office hours are an awesome way to help clarify questions on the take homes and think through some ideas for your final project, which can be really fun and creative. In terms of course drawbacks, some of the take home questions were frustratingly worded and Prof. Rockwell was not the most engaging. On the whole it's a good way to fill SLS and learn and a great class on how crazy cool plants can be.
This class is great. creates a very laid back atmosphere, but you do learn a lot about plants. it enriches your understanding of the surrounding world, but does so in a less demanding manner compared to other classes at harvard.
This class is an interesting introduction to plants. Field trips are fun and assignments are useful, interesting and not excessive. Labs are focused on participation and interaction with the specimens, not number of questions answered, which is a nice difference to most other classes. Teaching was good, sometimes great.
Great professors, great snacks, not too difficult but not a blowoff either. Good for non-science kids as well as science kids interested in botany.
This is a really fun class that teaches you a lot about the plants we interact with every day. It's also a very low time commitment, which makes it a good, interesting class to take alongside heavier course loads.
I absolutely loved this class, and I have to be honest in saying I really wasn't expecting to.  I definitely use to think of someone who only liked human biology (specifically genetics), but that has changed.  I was sure I was going to be pre-med, but I'm not kidding at all in saying I wouldn't be surprised if I end up actually studying plants.  Also, this class is pretty easy, so it is a perfect balance to a hard class (like orgo).  And, Professor Kramer is so nice and really helpful--go to her office hours for help with the take-home assignments!  If that isn't enough, the field trips are really fun.  And you get snacks.  I could really go on forever...this class was by far the best I have taken at Harvard.
I really enjoyed this class. I found it a well organized, interesting overview of plant biology. For me, it seemed fairly easy (relative to other OEB 50-levels).  The assignments are spread out throughout the semester, which some people liked (me) and others didn't. Plus, there's food in every lecture :D
Really only take this if you have *some* interest in plants and don't mind in doing creative things to engage with the class. The way some of the assignments are graded is annoying and seemed arbitrary or not very thoughtful/consistent. The field trips, however, are fantastic. Definitely stay overnight on the Harvard Forest trip!
This class is an absolutely brilliant one. If you already know about plants, you're likely to learn a lot more; if you've never studied plants, then you'll learn a lot about this amazing group of organisms. The teaching staff is supremely well-organized and enthusiastic, give great lectures, and are generally respectful of their students' time. Seriously, if you're looking for a gen ed or a mid-level OEB class, take this. Or, if you want a fun elective, this is a great option as well.
This is an absolutely incredible class! I learned a lot and discovered a love for plants. There are a lot of terms that can be tough to keep straight, but the teaching staff makes the material accessible and fun. Also, the field trips are great.
if you want to be aware of the natural world, this is an amazing class to take! you'll walk around with so much more appreciation and interest in the plants around you.
This is the best-organized class I've ever met. Both professors are extremely competent and effective lecturers. The material is interesting, and this class will help you see the plants around you and marvel at them.
Oh my goodness this was the best class. I wasn't a plant man until I attended my first OEB 52 lecture. This was truly an enlightening experience. Jess is the best (hi Jess!), very engaging labs. Also, go on as many field trips as possible.
This is a fantastic class. The teaching staff are great, and there are a lot of really cool field trips. It's not too difficult - just weekly in class quizzes (5 questions) and a take-home due every 2 weeks. The final project is really fun, and the final exam was pretty easy. They also give you snacks every class. Also, this class really made me appreciate plants a lot more. I'll never look at a tree the same way again.
I thought I wasn't a plant person and would say that learning about plants was the most boring thing about biology but honestly after taking this class I feel like I have a better appreciation for plants and actually find them interesting to learn about. The professors were simply great and knowledgable and I enjoyed the snack breaks we would have in class. The lab component was honestly one of the best parts
Biology of Plants is a great time! Off the charts on both the fun and things learned axes :)
OEB 52 is an excellent introduction to the world of plants. The teaching staff is passionate, knowledgeable, and obsessed with all things plant, so it is definitely helpful to share some of this enthusiasm! The assignments are relatively straightforward, and while some of the labs are a little bit disorganized they allow you to dissect flowers and fruits and looks at some very neat algae and mosses under the microscope. The lectures are wonderful, and both professors (we had Elena Kramer and Missy Holbrook this year) are fantastic "plant people" who are full of anecdotes and interesting asides about the biology of plants. If you have always wanted to take a course on plants, want a fascinating SLS class, or are a little curious about that huge part of the tree of life that most of Harvard's biology classes do not cover, OEB 52 is a lovely way to learn about the myriad plants that surround us.
If you like plants and/or art, this is the class for you
There are no surprises! It accomplishes its purpose as a survey course of plants. Professors Holbrook and Kramer are engaging and field trips are great! Lectures are always fun and painless.
One of my favorite classes at the college, speaking as a graduating senior. Extremely well-organized and run; both Elena and Missy are passionate and knowledgable. Highly, highly recommended.
Keep up with the assignments, go to lecture (there are snacks!!), and definitely attend office hours. You won't use your textbook, so don't spend money on one.
It's just a dull subject matter and if you don't have a keen interest in plant biology you ought not take it.  With that said there is good instruction and fun field trips.
The teaching staff was incredibly accessible and passionate about the subject matter. Their enthusiasm made the course wonderful! If it is still a GenEd by the time this response is posted, it is a painless and fun way to knock off the SLS requirement.
This is a great class, the field trips are especially good. Very reasonable expectations, especially for non-science concentrators.
If you ever wondered about the world of plants, this is for you.  However, it does require you to study the material much more than an average gen ed
It's a really fun and laid back class! You learn a lot of cool things about plants to tell your friends- like a seed contains a grandmother, mother, and grandchild in one package!Heads up- the labs usually take most of the 3 hours and are every week.
This is an amazing class, definitely take it!
A cool Gen-ed. I didn't realize how much I learned until I started taking real notice of every flower I see.
This is a really lovely course.  Not too much of a time commitment.  Material was not particularly difficult, but interesting.  And the teaching staff is really amazing.  I would absolutely recommend this course.  It was a perfect gen ed, especially as a humanities concentrator trying to find manageable science gen eds.
I absolutely LOVED this class and would recommend it to everyone! It gave me such an appreciation for plants and made me so much more aware of the environment around me.  Elena and Missy are great teachers--knowledgeable, funny, enthusiastic. Although each lecture had lots of interesting details, only big-picture stuff was expected on the take-homes and exams, which were not painful at all. I also loved all the field trips!
It's a very well taught and well-planned course, but unless you find plant biology genuinely interesting, it will be difficult to get through.
Great course. Profs and TFs are all amazing. It's not a very difficult class, but you will learn a ton!
This course is fantastic -- the teaching staff is incredible. The information is a lot of fun. I am a humanities person and I loved this class. Many more Harvard classes should be like OEB52 -- the professors really care about their students and are super engaged. I would recommend this course with the utmost enthusiasm.
A fair bit of work, but your best bet to fulfill SLS gen ed requirement.
Great class, fantastic teaching staff, very interesting material
This is a great class. I have a new perspective when I walk outside now. I notice things about the plants around me that I never would have seen before. Going on the Harvard Forest field trip is a must, definitely stay over. They do a great job of making everything fun while teaching you really well. Plus they have snacks at lecture.
The content is accessible for folks who may not have taken an OEB course previously. That is good!
This class has a moderate workload--it is not a class that requires you to do any real critical thinking until the final project, but the assignments can sometimes be time consuming.  There are two required field trips, one of which gives you the option to stay overnight at the Harvard forest, which you should definitely do! If the first thing you think when you hear "plant" is "boring," then this class is probably not for you, but shop it and see.
This class is incredibly funthe filed trips are truly unique, and the content and get difficult but never overwhelming. Gave me a new appreciation for plants and is still by far one of my bio courses here.
This course isn't exactly like most other bio courses you may have taken. It is offered as a gen-ed, and is probably a little less rigorous than you may be used to. That said, it is a lot of fun and you certainly learn a lot about plants, especially from an evolutionary perspective.
