Gonzalo is great.  Do all the readings, pay close attention in lecture, discuss term paper ideas well before the assignment's due, and you'll be set.
That it would be an engaging introduction to a discipline not often taught explicitly. Also, that it is among other OEB courses, less demanding, and a good addition to a temper an otherwise extremely demanding semester.
it's a great intro to a field that most people may not have heard of but is so vital to any biological inquiry. don't take it expecting it to be easy - there isn't a lot of work, but it can get conceptually difficult if you don't have any prior experience. with some previous experience with phylogenetics and ecology, etc., though, it's not too hard to understand things. knowing some statistics makes the material a lot more meaningful to understand, too, but it's not necessary.
The class is interesting, but the field is new and some of the methods are complicated
This class pulls together systematics, evolutionary biology, and ecology together, and Professor Girabet is an extremely engaging and fun lecturer.
If this course is offered again with the lab component, and you're at all interested in incorporating biogeography into your own research, take it!
This was not an easy class, but its breadth made studying it well worthwhile. It's an interesting area of research, and I look forward to learning more in the future.
I would definitely recommend this class for anyone interested in biogeography, particularly of tropical organisms. In addition to general theoretical aspects, the study cases on Gondwanan and Southeastern Asian taxa are really helpful for those studying the history of organisms in those regions.
A wonderful integration of many topics, biogeography covers a little bit of everything. The course is designed and taught wonderfully and has been one of my favorites in my time at Harvard!
This class will introduce you to a wide variety of topics in biogeography and evolutionary biology more broadly. If you will be doing any biogeography work in your own research, definitely take it. The workload is never overwhelming, as long as you read the papers as you go throughout the semester and don't wait until the final to try and cram.
Sometimes the lectures can seem a bit unorganized or disjointed, but they are usually quite interesting. You will learn more about Opiliones (daddy long-legs) than you ever thought possible. There's almost no work over most of the semester.
If you are interested in any topic of biogeography (historical biogeography, endemism, conservation biology, etc.) or in the general process of macroevolution, you MUST take this course.
This course will expose you to the many applications of the relatively new field of biogeography. As this is a relatively new field in the sense that methods to empirically test biogeographical hypotheses are just beginning to be generated, this course can at times be frustrating because there is not a ton of structure as there might be in a more developed field. I was exposed to a lot of interesting ideas in this course, however, and will be using some of the programs for my future research.
It is a very good course for students who are interested in both Geology and evolutionary Biology.
It is a cool subject presented by a substantial expert, but it is not a particularly engaging course.
