Section was always really fun. The material of the course was really interesting which made discussion in section as or even more interesting.  I enjoyed the class!
This is a fantastic course and it will change how you think about research. I learned many research techniques and the class sparked my interest in doing genetics research. The midterm review was a tremendous learning opportunity and one of the most enriching assignment at Harvard thus far.
This was the most unorganized course I have taken in my 4 years at Harvard.  There was no communication between the professor and the students, nor were the professor and TF on the same page.  Communication regarding the midterm essay and final exam was nonexistent, making it extremely difficult to understand what was expected of the students.  The professor hardly came to class, giving about 8-10 lectures over the course of the entire semester and not even coming to the Wednesday class meetings.  Lectures rarely even filled up the 90 minute time slot.  The course was not up to the standards of the Harvard life sciences in term of providing a fulfilling educational experience.  Overall this was a very disappointing experience, especially compared to my across-the-board positive experiences in the life sciences at Harvard.  With that said, course work is negligible and it served its purpose for me of being an easy 4th class.
This class was very laid back in terms of structure, but I still learned a lot about behavioral genetics. During the first month of the course, we focused on the popular methods used in genetics research. We then had two weeks off to work on our midterm, which was a review paper on a topic of our choice. The rest of the course talked about really interesting topics, including the genetics of sleep, love/trust, and language. Professor Zhang is extremely knowledgeable about the literature, gives great lectures, and is always happy to answer questions. The final was also extremely fair (and open-book/notes).
In theory, this should be an interesting introductory class to big topics in behavioral genetics research, whose small setting should give room for discussion. I was excited to join a class with a very knowledgeable professor who was very willing to help. However, it turned out that many people in the class already had an extensive background in the field of genetics, so much of the knowledge was assumed to be known by everybody, so the class ended up not feeling introductory at all. Since many people already knew about these topics, they didn't seem very interested in engaging in class discussion (many of them just took it because it was an easy class for them).  This made the class less fun than it could otherwise have been. 
That said, the topics (including sleep, social behavior, love) are very interesting!  Kind of wished there was a greater emphasis on the different methods used in genetic research and what kind of questions each of them can answer.
Great class that really introduces you to the genetic component of many common behaviors without being overbearing.
This class is something of a hidden gem in the OEB department. It's surprisingly chill - only a 90 minute lecture, and a paper discussion section per week - but you get a lot more out of it than you'd think if you come prepared with questions and do the reading (it's literally 3-5 pages and some background material).
This class is very low workload (probably the least amount of time I've ever put into a biology class at Harvard). However, I wasn't particularly impressed with Professor Zhang's lectures, especially since it was often hard to understand her accent. The course material is certainly interesting, but it was often hard to understand the rather eclectic lectures.
Relatively low weekly workload, but put a lot of time and work into the midterm essay. It is seriously important to have a solid background in experimental techniques in genetics in order to clearly understand the lectures and papers.
great class, light workload!
This course has a lot of overlap with LS1b, but I believe it would be quite difficult to take this class without having first taken LS1b. This class is good for practice reading scientific papers - a valuable skill- but focuses on many old papers rather than new ones. Also, most of the focus is on flies and worms as opposed to humans.
If you like genetics and would like to learn more about the genetic basis of behavior through reading relevant papers, this is a fun, relaxed class that provides a great opportunity for you to explore that interest in a semi-structured way.
This class was amazing and I absolutely recommend it!  Don't be intimidated or shy at first, feel free to jump in with any and all questions!  Yun is incredibly receptive and truly cares about the material and about teaching.
This is an amazing course, but the expectations are very high.  It is imperative to have a thorough understanding of every details that you read in a paper.
The class manages to be both fun and interesting, not compromising in either category.
This class offers a unique opportunity to engage with difficult behavioral and genetic research topics in a small-group, encouraging environment
This is a good class. You learn a lot and get good instruction and attention from the professor. However, you should know that you can't half ass this class when it comes to the work (though the work itself isn't a lot)
It was a very interesting and engaging course. You really learn how to dissect and understand a journal article; be prepared to read the papers and understand the figures very carefully, however, since a lot is expected. Otherwise, the assignments and exams are very fair. If you'd like to learn more how to dissect and understand a journal article, and don't mind a lot of in-class participation, this is a good course.
This year the work included readings of a weekly paper with a few questions to answer, one paper presentation, a midterm paper and an open book final. The material was very interesting and Professor Zhang is very knowledgeable. There were only 5 of us in the class but it wasn't an uncomfortable setting - Professor Zhang encouraged open discussion about topics. This class was a welcomed change from intense seminars and lecture courses.
Fantastic class.  The papers, lectures, and discussions were all great.  The professor could be the slightest bit more engaging, but that's literally my only complaint.
An amazing course with small class size. If you are interested in the intersection of behavioral science and genetics, this is the course for you.
Great class with interesting material, a relaxed environment, and wonderful teaching staff.
Fun class, light courseload. You learn a lot of random interesting things.
It's not too difficult but it's not always as engaging as you would like. If there was more emphasis on the biology and not the experiments it could be so fascinating because the genetics of behavior is a super interesting topic!
This is a great course to learn more about genetics of behavior. The professor and TFs are there to really help you, and the small class makes it easier to ask questions. Overall great class!
Great course to learn abut behaviorial genetics at a very reasonable pace. You also get to learn cool things from section discussions
It's a good class, but be prepared to work! And study as you go - don't wait for the final exam, you'll regret it!
relatively low workload for a science class, and it's really interesting!
This was a good class!  There is really not too much work - one article to read per week, a midterm paper, a final exam, and one section presentation per student.  All the science is connected to real-world situations in the articles which makes it very interesting.
