This class will be valuable especially to someone very interested in the subject matter, but be prepared to take responsibility for your own learning experience, as it was not always easy to take notes in a classical fashion. Be prepared to spend more time preparing for in-class discussions than most non-seminar classes you have taken before.
Very engaging seminar/lecture course with extremely nice professors.
Great course with wonderful professors.  Learned a lot, but still a fairly easy class.  Professor Girguis makes learning complex material easy!My only complaint about this course is that it tries to cover (in my opinion) too much material in too little depth.  I would rather the course spend 2 lectures on each topic (2 days on respiration, 2 days on nervous system/muscles) or at least do this for the really big topics (like nervous system/muscles/locomotion, which was all covered in one lecture).  This would allow for a more serious/in depth treatment of each topic.
Section is really a unique experience - a great exchange between students who have strengths in different areas of science.
This is a laid back, fun and very interesting class with a wonderful professor who is clearly very excited about teaching.  It's so refreshing to take a class that covers fascinating material in a small, fun group, where no one is concerned about the curve!
Great professor, interesting material
This is a great class for tying theoretical, conceptual knowledge of how things work with some solid examples.
It is a relaxed and fun course, without the added pressure of problem sets. Professor Girguis is also friendly and fun, and loves interacting with undergraduates.
This is a class that is just so inherently interesting that it's hard to pass up.  The structure is ideal, too -- small class, no section, paper discussions in stead of problem sets.  The professor generates a lot of enthusiasm for the science.
Fun, interesting class. Good professors. Light workload.
Better class in theory than in actuality.
Easy but you learn a lot of interesting information
Fun fun class - great professors!
This class was fun and flexible.  You will want to have some background to contribute to discussions, but no specific knowledge is needed going in.
Fun and interesting.  Low-key.  Really friendly smart professors.
fun, low key, great professors
A good survey course in large topics of physiology.  Some disconnect between lectures and papers, but overall useful for understanding the big physiological questions.
Good for a broad survey of topics in physiology, but course lacks focus.
If the class follows the same format, specific expectations for the midterm are a bit opaque, and generally there's a bit of disorganization between instructors, but overall content is great.
Great course with full involvement of all professors who each bring a different perspective to the table.
One of the best classes I have taken thus far, hands down! With the small class size and Pete being an awesome professor, the class felt like a continuous conversation and I was never worried about grades. The class was tailored to our interests and allowed us to really explore things we cared about, especially in the final paper. The final paper was by no means easy - expect to read a lot of scientific papers! But it was definitely worthwhile.
