This class is mostly a history of plants and humans. The labs are great, but not all of the assignments have clear directions. Take this class if you like plants and enjoy taking ownership of your education or like to work independently.
This course wants to be so great--the subject matter is actually really interesting and the labs are for the most part fun and low pressure. But Prof. Pfister can be very frustrating. He's terrible at answering questions--he usually didn't answer them at all and told us to just google stuff, which is frustrating because then why bother to take the course, I can just google it all... Also it was at times very unclear what we needed to know for exams and we were often given conflicting answers. For example, when I asked the professor, I was told information from our student presentations were NOT going to be tested, but then that information explicitly showed up on the final. Overall, I would say that the course may be worth it, if you need the requirement or are really interested in the subject, but the class needs some improvement.
If you need a class to be carefully structured and meticulously organized, don't take this course. But if you're content to listen an array of facts and stories about the history and biology of plants and agriculture, have tasty food in lab every week, and finally learn whether a tomato is a fruit or vegetable (hint:both!), you have to take this class!
Professor Pfister is great and the material for the class is truly very interesting. However, the expectations for the class and assignments were not always clearly outlined. There's not much homework at all, so the class relies heavily on the final and midterm for the grade, which was kind of daunting. Lectures were not particularly interactive or engaging, but the lab sections were really fun and exciting.
Don't take the class until you know it's been improved. Prof. Pfister's lectures are dull and hard to pay attention to. Some parts of the class are fun (field trips to the greenhouse, the labs are super fun and easy), but everything else about the class is not well organized and really, really hard to do well in. If you care about this, do not take the class.
The lectures are pretty dull but the labs are great fun, and almost always have food.  The class is very little work for most of the time.  You do have to study for the exams, since they sometimes ask obscure questions, and definitely ask the TF what kinds of things will be on the tests.
This is a fun class which will give you lots of interesting things to talk about. Also they bribe you with good food.Make sure you put a lot of effort into the labs and make good drawings. Also be alert in lecture since Prof. Pfister gives a lot more information through what he says than what he puts on the slides.
Exams are subjectively graded, questions are often unfair, lecturer does not give engaging lectures, everything is usually unorganized - would not recommend
It's Pfister, so it's irreverent and quirky while also maintaining Harvard's traditional standards of quality and rigor. In terms of the grading. Watch out for the tests!
I came into this course with very high hopes. I certainly learned a lot, but I wish the course had gone into more detail on the role of plants and agriculture in a globalized world. It sometimes seemed like the course material hadn't been updated recently. That said, this is a good first introduction to plants and human affairs. This class will provide you material to investigate later on. Exams are hard to study for because there is so much testable material, and you can't possibly memorize everything, so it is sometimes a question of luck whether what you study merges with what the instructor's choose to test.
This is the BEST OEB class out there! Take it! Seriously an amazing course because you get to learn all about food from Pfister's calming voice over picture slides. The labs are so fun because you get to eat everything in the lab. BEST CLASS EVER!
I liked this course -- the material was interesting and labs were interactive and engaging. However, you can spend hours and hours studying for the midterm/quizzes/final and it probably won't matter; it was very difficult to know what would be considered important information from the course.
pfister and danny are awesome, worth taking the class just to get to know them. that being said, its a little hard to figure out the takeaways from lectures which made studying a bit confusing
Good professors and much fun
Quite possibly the best and most interesting class that I have taken at Harvard!
One of the most interesting classes i've taken at harvard
While I enjoy the overall course material, it seemed to suffer from a lack of student-teacher communication, a lack of organization and directive from the professors
Great fun, edible labs, interesting lectures
lets you know all about the background of two obsessions of college students: drugs and food. great course.
Most awesome class at Harvard
Totally awesome- interesting, applicable, useful and fun!
Awesome class, led by incredible professors.  Don't hesitate to take it.
I would say that it is a fun, easy way to satisfy an OEB requirement without doing a lot of work. It also has interesting trips and labs.
This is a fun class, but if you don't really like plants you are likely to be bored much of the time.
This course comes out of a very long course history, which is why the topics it covers seems strange in today's world.  It will make more sense once you learn about the history of Harvard's botany department and the class.
great class
This class is the best that Harvard has to offer.  It's one of the longest classes ever taught at Harvard, the professors are compelling and care greatly about the individual student, the TFs are knowledgable and fun, you enjoy going to class and section, the class makes fantastic use of the resources of the Herbarium and the Farlow collection.  It's so interesting to learn about previous professors for the course, who have advanced some of the most integral parts of economic botany.  GREAT COURSE, take this course!
The class is great...and you don't have to eat breakfast beforehand, because there are usually samples to eat in class.
Take it! Interesting material and lectures, low-key class. Davis knows his stuff and is a great lecturer. The TFs are very nice and knowledgeable and quirky.
Not that bad of an OEB mid level. The first 3 weeks or so are focused on plant bio, but after that is more of the human affairs. I came into the class having had a terrible time in high school with plant biology, but it wasn't that bad this time around. The practicals were usually very fair. There's a lot you can get tested on but they choose things that aren't too far out. The teaching staff really wants you to do well and they are a nice bunch.
Take this opportunity to learn about the food we eat more seriously than perhaps the course structure encourages. There is a lovely culture in the class, and I really enjoyed the lack of pressure, but make space to digest (literally and figuratively) the material of the course.
You get out of this class what you put in.
If you're interested in plants, with an anthropology component, definitely take this class. I loved learning about hallucinogenic plants and the professors are an absolute delight!
This is a really great class that definitely improves your understanding of plants and their importance to humans, especially if you have never studied plants in detail. I had never taken an entire class on plants, and didn't expect to finish the semester thinking this way, but this class certainly deepened my appreciation and interest in plants and made me realize just how important they really are to humans around the world. This class made me realize that studying plants in detail and why they have and continue to be so important to human society is key for any student of biology and perhaps even of history.
This course was an interesting way to learn about plants for someone who isn't extremely in plants.
Disclaimer- this is really a history class. By far the most interesting class I've taken at Harvard. It is also one of the longest offered courses at the College. It provides a unique perspective on how to view the world. The class is very interesting and the teaching staff if super friendly. This is the best class I've taken. I really enjoy history and the food industry and plants is something I found fascinating. Since it is essentially a history class, this class requires that you basically memorize the notes. There are a lot of facts.
This class is laid-back, fun and interesting. The lab component is great! Great way to fulfill concentration requirement.
This was a super interesting course great lectures, great labs, great professors. If you're at all interested in the history of human plant use and plant biology, I would definitely recommend this course.
OEB 59 is a WONDERFUL course!! It's one of the hidden gems of Harvard. Reading assignments and the final project are all on point; there's no superfluous work assigned ever. Labs are fun and low key, and lectures are really interesting. I was initially worried that it would be boring because plants are not exactly thought of as the most dynamic organisms out there, but that worry was completely unjustified. This is truly a fantastic class to take and I'm recommending it to all of my friends.
A fun, straightforward class. Relaxed & enjoyable teaching staff, snacks, and lots of food/ plant trivia to impress people with :)
This course provides a comprehensive look at plant-human interactions over time. I gained a more global perspective on plants, and learned many fun facts that frequently surprise my peers. (Did you know a pumpkin is a berry?) Totally cool, interesting, and worth taking. The lab portion was observational. This allowed for exploration of the areas that most interested you. Lab practicals and exams are more than doable, if you pay attention and study.
Great professors and friendly teaching staff. Not a huge work requirement. As a pre-med, it was refreshing to focus on the plant side of biology.
This course is wonderful. Both of the professors are so exciting to learn from, and the subject matter is really interesting.
Though a science course by title, this is a history course.  I read this on the Q guide last year and didn't believe it. Trust me, the midterm asked for dates and labeling maps, not about the actual plants.
It is on the easier side for science classes, and sometimes interesting, but overall I didn't think I got much out of it. Not the amazing class of lore.
Yes, the class is easy. Yes, you get to eat ice cream in the labs. And yes, the professors are nice, laid back people who know their stuff. However... after a semester in this class, I still felt like I was lacking something. OEB 59 doesn't go as deep into the topic as one would hope and for the casual botanist, that's perfectly fine.
the midterm is extremely detailed
mid term had nothing to do with science.
Engaging, accessible, enthusiastic teaching staff!  Interesting material and low work load (some plant morphology and memorization stuff, but also lots of applications of human uses that are really interesting)  Plus their labs involve food that you can eat yum.  Take this course!
If you really want a class on plant anatomy or mostly bio, you'll be slightly disappointed. If you want a class on the implications and anthropology of plants and people- you'll be sad there was a couple lectures on anatomy. Overall, not a bad class though.
This is an awesome science course. ab is very relaxed and no real assignments. Lectures are interesting and the final project is really interesting.
This course is a fun overview of how humans interact with plants. It feels very much like a gen ed, and I would have appreciated more detail- each lecture is a distinct idea and often topics are raced through. Labs are fun and the workload is minimal.
It's fun. They usually bring nice snacks to lab (themed with what you're studying.... expect to be munching on popcorn the day we study corn and other grains). Lectures are interesting, the professors are good, and the final project is really fun. Fairly easy course.
Make sure you master the material from the beginning of the class, it continues to be extremely important throughout the rest of the class.
This is an incredible course. It covers a great deal of botany and the history of agriculture and takes great labs and trips like Taza chocolate, fruit dissection, and ice cream tasting.
very interesting, you learn a lot, not too difficult
If you are a science major with varying interests looking for that one class that blends both science and humanities together in such a beautiful dance, then definitely take this class. If you hate plants, then do not take this class. Be careful, the midterm can kill you if you are nor prepared but the labs and the field trips are really fun. Just be on top of the material and make sure you know all the concepts in lecture and you will sail through
Incredibly interesting, fun content. exams are a bit knit-picky though.
This is a fun and mostly painless class that delves into plants as they relate to us humans. Labs are fun and full of delicious plant-related foods. My only complaint is that the exams can feel a bit arbitrary.
This class is really great and provides a unique view on the practical matters of plants that you are unlikely to see in any other Harvard course. It has a light course load so take it with your 3 other hard classes for a much-needed breather. You'll never look at a tomato the same way again! There's so much fascinating complexity in the crops we use every day that I'm sure most people don't even realize.
I feel as though the only way to do well in this class is to write down EVERYTHING mentioned in class. This class is a bit of history, botany, and anthropology.
This is a really fun course which can serve as a soft introduction to the concepts of plant morphology, phylogeny and ecology. The emphasis in the course is on learning, not problem sets, so you have time to enjoy it. You will know a lot more about plants by the end, and about the manners in which they are important commercially, culturally and ecologically.
This is a very interesting subject, but the lack of structure makes it difficult to stay on track and keep up with the material. The workload is light, but the midterm and the lab practicals are very challenging because they cover a very broad range of topics, and you are expected to know everything that was ever mentioned in lecture, lab, the textbook, or a supplemental reading.
The course is really interesting and well taught. The labs are a great learning experience and a good time.
A great OEB class for non-OEB concentrators-- fun, easy workload, and fascinating subject material.
go to lectures - they're great! the book and posted papers are additional information - only read them if you're interested in learning more about cool plants. get to know the professors and TF's. they know so much and are very friendly.
This is a fun and easy class.  Lectures are interesting and entertaining, and the class is pretty small so the professors and students ask questions and engage with each other more than in most lecture classes.  Lab is generally quite short and is more explorative than most labs.  This class is very little work, so it's good to balance a schedule with some tougher classes.
If the work load doesn't change I'd suggest really staying on top of the lecture materials throughout the semester, because if you don't then the exams will be too difficult.
It was great!  Whatever anyone says, a genuine interest in the subject matter really is a prerequisite.
Be prepared for lots of material and exams that aren't particularly tailored to the material you learn.
A good introduction to how many kinds of plants are used by humans in all different regions and time periods. Lectures were very interesting, but not always too related to material on the exams.
Fun, relatively easy class about a relevant topic. Everyone should know something about the history of plants and our dependence on them!
This class was interesting and fun, however i'm not sure how much I learned coming out of it.  The professors are wonderful though!
Pretty easy course, with very nice faculty.  You'll never look at plants the same way again!
lots of memorization but nothing to worry about. great class.
This class was super interesting and definitely applies to History of Science concentrators too. I enjoyed learning about the history of human usage of plants, from early domestication to the Mutiny on the Bounty and modern discoveries in anti-cancer treatments. The professors are delightful and engaging, often bearing plant-related goodies and fun holiday-themed lectures. The labs are not as long as you'd think and you always learn something cool. If you take the class seriously, attend lecture, lab, and do the readings, you can take a lot from this course. Warning, the exams can be kinda unfair, it seems like we got tested on stuff that was no where in the lecture, labs, or readings at all! Super frustrating if you've put a lot of effort in the class. I enjoyed the class though, have a much higher respect for plants and will never look at my plate of food or surroundings the same way.
It's a fun, painless class.  Do study for the exams as they are not easy, but the other components of the class make it fun.  The labs are usually very informative and have good food.  The only down side is that you might not learn as much as you would in a more intense class, but you can definitely get a lot out of the class if you're willing to put in more work than is required of you.
Great class, labs were fun.
Such a good course to take as an OEB concentrator or if you're just interested in the plants we use. Everyone should take it, and everyone should realize that the labs are some of the coolest ones you'll get at Harvard.Don't slack on the tests even though the class is pretty lenient throughout.
This class is awesome. It's a mix of biology and history/anthropology. I don't love plants, and this was a great way to learn about them in a fun way that wasn't just about form and function. The professors love the material and make it fun.
The class is generally fun, but not as rewarding and amazing as I expected it to be. You do get to eat ice cream and many types of food during the labs, which is a plus. But the lectures seem to be a bit disorganized, and the early midterm (7 lectures for first midterm, and 23 lectures total for the final) makes the course a bit inconvenient.
Get ready to be tested on material that is not covered in lecture or lab and to learn random facts about plants that are useless and uninteresting. It is unfortunate that one of the few botany classes at Harvard is so poorly structured. The only good part of the class were the TFs who were really helpful, approachable, and friendly. Get ready to bomb the final (studying your ass off won't help).
I LOVED this course. It was very interesting, and I learned a lot of fun facts. As much as I loved it though, I didn't really agree with the grading (mostly of the exams) of the course. Other than that, this class was amazing. I didn't think I was that into plants and didn't expect to enjoy it, but it was one of my favorite classes this semester!
It's very relevant to everyday life, and important for people who want to make informed choices about their consumption. It's not too hard, the lectures are very engaging and fun and there's food sometimes! Delicious apples! Labs have lots of food and are really interesting and fun. The project too can be fun if you pick a product you're interested in. The textbook's not necessary.
This class is a fun mix of biology and anthropology. The labs are short and have a lot of food to eat! The professors and teaching staff are friendly and helpful. Main warning: the final exam was difficult in that it did NOT reflect the review materials we'd been given. Some of the sections seemed completely random (and unfair).
I think the class doesn't quite delve deeply into any one particular topic and is instead a broad overview of a lot of different topics. Also, a lot of the class is spent talking about the history of plant use, which was unexpected. Exams are rather difficult.
This class is pretty easy with very little work, the labs are straightforward as well as fun. The final was surprisingly difficult however with some questions that were very specific.
This is a great, broad introduction to plants and issues surrounding how humans use them. Its a very low stress course with really friendly teaching staff from which you can learn a lot. Wonderful class!
Great class with a light workload and interesting labs/lectures.
There are a lot of small facts to remember, but it was a fun course to take overall.  Very interesting lectures and the labs were so much fun!
OEB 59 is amazing if you are looking for a fun science course, especially to get away from the pre-med crowd.
Great class, with super interesting material. You'll always have something to talk about over dinner!
Great class. Not a lot of work, not terribly difficult, but fun and interesting. Professors are very knowledgeable and friendly.
Labs are great!
The class provides a non-intensive overview of economic botany; no background is required or assumed, and it provides an intriguing view of how plants have impacted human affairs over time.
Fun class! Take it!
This class is a wonderful, stress-free way to learn all about human history with regards to all things plant.
The class is overall relatively painless. Unlike most science courses at this school, you are allowed to engage the material and learn a lot without having to get bogged down by time-consuming weekly problem sets. Make sure you care at least minimally about plants before taking the class, because it is after all about plants.Many people are attracted to the class by its low workload and seemingly easy material, but make sure you don't slack off. The textbook is helpful for clarifying important concepts but not very necessary. The real bread and butter is lecture and lab. The former is essential to getting some of the answers on the tests, so make sure you don't miss too many. The latter is actually really fun (one time we had fifteen cartons of different flavors of ice cream in lab!), but make sure you actually pay attention to what you are doing rather than try to finish and leave as early as possible. A lot of new concepts are introduced in lab that aren't covered too much in lecture, but they can be tested as well. The lab handouts usually outline everything you need to know.
This class is easy, interesting, and really fun! Just make sure you actually know the information for the midterm and final.
A fun fact class
This class is both a lot of fun and also gave me a body of knowledge that I am glad to have.
The class is great for those students pursuing research in plant biology or those hoping to obtain a better grasp of the history of civilizations and their interactions with plants.
FOR THE LOVE OF GOD STAY AWAY!
This is a super fun class, and it is really what you make of it - the teachers give you the choice to delve more deeply into any area of your choosing, or to skim along the material and not become too involved. It really is up to you, and it is that flexibility that makes the class so much more stimulating - the fact that you can learn for the sake of learning and not focus as much on a letter grade as some other classes (which take the fun out of learning).
Great introduction to plant biology!
T
fun, hands on, professors are great
The course is applicable for a lot of fields (it had history too!) and extremely interesting. It's also not too time consuming, which is great.
Awesome class. The final was kind of a shot in the dark, especially given the midterm, but otherwise very low-commitment.
This course is fun and provides you with extremely interesting and useful knowledge. Anyone wondering about the origin of the foods we eat, the medicines we use, or the materials we build our lives with should consider taking this course.
Take this during your senior year it  will make you smile.
Very very very very very very easy
Fascinating subject - you will learn all about how humans use plants, information that is useful on so many levels, academic and practical.  I've learned things that I can use practically - about nutrition, construction, cooking.
Interesting subject matter and painless, fun course! Highly recommended!! I loved the labs!
Chuck's the man.
It's a very easy class that is a lot of fun. I loved the field trip!
So much fun and painless, but only take if you're interested in plants and find them fascinating!
Get into it! When cool plants are mentioned in lecture go back to your room and read more about them. It's fascinating! This class has a great mix of science and history, so enjoy the adventure stories.
This class is awesome. It's super duper chill, with very little work from week to week, and Prof. Davis is just amazing. I mean, our last lecture was on cannabis because he wanted to end "on a high note." It's a very laid-back lecture style where you just learn some cool stuff about plants and how we use them. There are some cool guest lecturers (and some not-so-great ones), and the lab component of the class is super awesome--basically just an excuse to eat in class. The lab practicals require some paying attention in lab, and the exams this year were very strange and the averages were surprisingly low, but I can overlook it in favor of how much I enjoyed the course overall.
This is a fascinating class full of interesting ways in which humans use plants and plants help humans. You learn a lot about plant biology but it is all through the lens of plants that are useful to people, which makes the material less dry. Labs are a lot of fun and full of (often edible) plant specimens. The professor and TFs are very nice and really seem to be passionate about making the class an enjoyable and educational experience. It's also the oldest continually-taught course at Harvard, so there's that.
This is a great class for anyone remotely interested in plants, especially for those who want some exposure to plants but without super intense biology.  The material is relevant to the real world and the teaching staff is amazing.  Also we got to go on a tour of a chocolate factory for lab.
Course material is very interesting, the labs are SUPER fun and hands on (lots of things to taste and smell, etc!!), but the exams and lab practicals are difficult and comprehensive. make sure to study hard.
Incredible class!!!! Plants influence every aspect of all of our lives. You will be surprised how relevant this class is, and you will be sharing fun facts with your friends all semester. Work load is low, and you will learn so much. The lab is the best part of the course. A lot of snacks, low stress, and just picking TFs' brains about plants. Great learning environment, highly enjoyable, workload low. Take this class!
Take good notes to supplement the lecture slides for midterm and final.
This course is a lot of fun! It covers a lot of material, but the lectures are comprehensive and the labs are extremely fun!
fun class with low workload but you will learn a lot
Don't take it without talking to one of the students who has taken it before, the course description is not accurate
This class is a lot of fun!  You learn a lot of cool facts and history about plants and their uses, and the labs are great (and tasty!).  It doesn't take a lot of time outside of class, especially if you have a good memory.  But definitely go to class, and take notes on all of the examples that are talked about in detail.  It is these examples (with names) that are tested on the midterm and final.  Once you know this, though, the tests were pretty straightforward.
My favorite intermediate OEB class so far and probably will remain my favorite. Lab is actually great, which is rare in my experience. You eat AND learn a lot in it! The TFs and Prof Davis are great guys too.
Incredibly interesting synthesis of botany, anthropology, and history. I feel better informed about where my foods and medicines come from after taking this class. It's also just a lot of fun. Professor Davis is a great storyteller and labs are a free-wheeling investigation of cool plants: looking, tasting, and asking questions.
I definitely recommend this course as a good option for fulfilling your OEB midlevel requirements, as it isn't too time-consuming and the material is also interesting, since it's presented from a unique viewpoint. The first few weeks are more botany-oriented, but after that it really moves into a more focused study of the different ways humans use plants.
I took this class because I was missing an OEB mid-level, and not only is it a laid back class, but I ended up really liking it! Perhaps my favorite OEB class I've taken? The lectures cover a variety of topics, so it's fun to go and just learn about something completely different each time. Also, section was a lot of fun. Hands on and a lot of eating. But also they want you to ask questions, investigate the plants, and learn. I thought it awesome that Chuck went to section sometimes and talked to every student and just helped us grasp the material. The material of the course can be heavy on memorizing, but still not too bad a courseload.
Go to lectures because the slides are mostly pictures and the labs are important to understand for the practicals--don't spend the entire team eating food despite how fun that sounds.
This class was incredibly interesting, and the professor and TA's were awesome. However, the class was a little unstructured, so be prepared for anything.
The class is low-stress and low-commitment, but that laxity extends to a vagueness about the structure of the final project and a total lack of preparatory materials for the exam. Eating in lab is fun.
There's no reason not to take this class, especially if you're OEB. I hadn't taken a plant class yet and this helped me realize I'm not interested in plants but in the best way possible.
I loved Professor Davis! He is a great lecturer and just seems like a great guy. The labs were really fun (we always had food!) but the practicals and tests were very specific, which made them tricky. A super interesting topic, but if you're going to take it, make sure you put in the time to know every detail before the exams and practicals!
The material in this class is fascinating, and lectures are great. Lab is also amazing (tons of food every week, low-key environment where you just kind of explore). The exams are really weird though, which is why I gave this class a "moderate" in terms of difficulty. They feature one or two lectures (out of the 10 or 22 you are responsible for) incredibly heavily, so if you don't guess right you are kind of screwed.
This was such a fun class!  You learn a bunch of really cool facts about plants and their uses.  There isn't much weekly work at all, but midterms and finals are definitely not easy.  Lab is also really awesome, in which you get to basically eat plant products and explore really awesome and cool plants!  The TFs and professor are all amazing individuals and teachers.
Good class overall. The lectures were fairly interesting if you care about plants and their historical usage. Sometimes the anthropology side of things was a bit heavy. I would give this class a B for the most part, BUT. The tests were awful. For the midterm, we had no study guide, and only after some coaxing, they gave us ~5 practice problems, which were totally different and way easier than the test questions. For the final, also no study guide, but this time I knew that you just have to know absolutely every minute detail from lecture. The lab was fun and laid-back, lots of snacks. But there were 3 lab practical exams. It was strange to have unstructured, pure exploration labs and then be tested over them pretty harshly. If you know going into it that all the tests are difficult, then you'll be fine.
This class is an awful lot of fun and a particularly good course for non-science students.

OEB students be warned: this will satisfy a midlevel requirement but unless you engage the Professor and TF's about specific topics of interest you might find your intellectual curiosity unsated (this is an easy course relative to other OEB midlevels.)
Really good course.  I really enjoyed the labs and had a great time learning about plants.  Put in the time and you will get a lot out of this course!
Pretty easy class. The midterm was awful and hurt most students.
take this! Even if you dont like plants it's still really amazing! Lab is the best thing ever.
This class was really interesting.  Professor Davis is engaging and knowledgable.  Be aware that the exams were quite frustrating, however, as they asked for really small details.  Lab was a lot of fun--super relaxed, and always filled with snacks!
I thought this course looked interesting during shopping week and it fit my schedule and my needs (needed an OEB course), so I decided to take it. I would not have revised that decision if I had the chance. The economic / human affairs portion of the course, which ended up being the bulk of it, could be made so much more interesting than it is. There is so much botany, which is not why I took the course. Exams aren't difficult per se, but you will not be given practice exams or any guidelines of what to study. So that's kind of stressful. Overall, good idea for a course but just not the best organization / content within that idea.
