An intensive, but fun course. You will never look at plants the same way after taking it.
This class is just fantastic- Elena is an incredible lecturer and you will end the semester having learned so much. Be prepared to study a lot before exam time, but workload is light in between.
This a great course that provides a broad overview of plant development. It runs through all the major development stages and draws evidence from looking directly at experimental data. Elena is a wonderful teacher with a broad knowledge of the field and an excellent person to guide you through it. I took the course as an undergraduate and overall, I highly recommend this course for advanced undergraduates interested in development and in plant biology.
The topics covered in this class are amazing. If you put in the time, you can learn an incredible amount about plants. Elena is a fantastic teacher, who wants her students to do well and is gifted at explaining hard concepts.
Wonderful class overall! Professor Kramer is enthusiastic, knowledgeable, and really wants her students to learn.
Keep up with studying the material each week, otherwise studying for the exam will be overwhelming
This is an efficiently designed course that covers an enormous amount of information while maintaining an excellent balance between presenting the big picture and highlighting important details.
Definitely take it if you would like to learn more about how smart plants really are!
It's a great class if like me you knew nothing about plants.
It's a really interesting class!
If you love genetics, take this class. Otherwise give it a pass, as it is much more about how specific genetic mechanisms than their impacts on plant diversity or anything else of a macro perspective.
If you like plants or genetics at all, this is a great class. It is a wonderful opportunity to get to know some great professors and really delve into material. Its a cool hybrid between a lecture format class (lots of material!) and a discussion class (small class, lots of question, close relationship with professors). Great class, but be prepared to work.
If you like plants, definitely take this class! Elena and Pam are incredible, and they will bring snacks to lecture if you ask nicely.  The field trips to the Arboretum are really fun, and you will learn an almost absurd amount of plant genetics and development.
This is an amazing course. It has a very light work load but is packed with very very interesting subject material. It tends to be a small class, so you get to know your professors. Do not hesitate in taking this course!
Plants are fascinating. I think I spent half of the lectures with my mouth open like what is going on. Sunflowers are inflorescences, and pineapples are aggregate fruits.
If you have an interest in plants or genetics you should not leave Harvard without taking this class. You'll learn a lot about what makes plants work (did you know they have hormones? I didn't even know that), and the professors are super helpful and friendly. The lectures require some mental keep-up but otherwise the course load isn't terribly demanding. A very worthwhile class!
Although this course covers a lot of material, it certainly will change the way you think about plants and the study of plant genetics. Studying for the exams can be challenging, so I would recommend going to office hours since Pam and Elena are really good about telling you directly what they want you to know and take from the lectures.
Take this course, if nothing else, because it is taught by Prof. Kramer.  She's an excellent lecturer and very patient.  The only outside class work that is necessary is reviewing lecture material.  If you do this and maintain an understanding of the genetic processes, you'll definitely do well in this class.
OEB 106 is the best course to learn about the genetics underlying the plant life cycle. The course material is important and exciting. It will apply a lot of genetics you may have learned in other classes. However, the specific details learned in OEB 106 are always examined in the broader context of plant development, so you don't lose the big picture.The course is well-structured, the assignments are fair, and Elena is a great lecturer. The readings are recommended but you can get all of the information from lectures. However, you should know some genetics before taking the course. That said, if you want or need a broader introductory plants course, OEB 52 is the way to go (but you should take both anyway).
This is an excellent introduction to plant development, which covers both classical and cutting-edge discoveries in plant form and function - you MUST take this class if you'd like to become a well-rounded biologist. Although plants are the focus of the class, all kinds of concepts applicable to other systems, are discussed so you can apply this knowledge to a wide array of models. Teaching is great, grading is fair - just take it.
I gained a basic knowledge of plant developmental genetics. Take this class!!!
Good for anyone who is enthusiastic about science and curious about plants.
If you have a solid plant biology background, this course takes the same material from undergrad classes and goes into more depth.  Elena is an excellent instructor, extremely knowledgable and good at explaining concepts.
