Such a wonderful class! Professor Cavanaugh is a brilliant instructor, definitely one of the best at Harvard!
This was the first year offered, but overall a good class! I really enjoyed the discussion.  Sometimes the readings were sent out a bit late but if that is fixed next time the class is offered it'll be great.
Come to this class with an excitement for symbiosis, and you will not be disappointed.  Through interesting lectures and thoughtful discussions we learned about the most recent research that has been conducted to characterize human bacterial symbionts and their functions.
Amazing way to further explore symbiosis through discussion based hot topics
The course topics are great, but be prepared to work independently and without much guidance on the few assignments you have.
The courses gives what it promises: good discussions on the human microbiome. However, be prepared for much more readings than most seminar courses.
I think this is a great course if you have any interest at all in the microbiome. It covers a diverse array of topics, so you will walk away with knowledge of the microbiome in various contexts, but you will also certainly leave with experience reading a variety of different research paper types and styles.
Not only is this course a great overview and broad introduction to symbiosis, you are also given the opportunity to steer the course in some ways. Additionally, the presentation practice is invaluable.
You will get plenty of practice in critically reading papers, thinking of future experiments, and presenting information to peers!If you need any more reasons to take this class- the microbiome is incredibly important to human health and is now beginning to explode with new findings. Understanding the role of the microbiome as well as techinques used to study it will be critical if you want to do any kind of biological or medical research in the future.
This class is a great introduction to and overview of symbioses, particularly human ones. Be prepared to contribute actively to the discussion and presentation components.
