This class was very interesting and provided me with a broad base for understanding biological diversity.  It is quite difficult to do well on the exams, but opt-in assignments help make up for that. Overall, you should take this course because you will learn a lot.
Super fun class if you like biology and environmental science
This class is dumb
This class in not too painful, and the teaching staff is nice. However, it is not a gradesaver course unless you rock your midterms and final. Be aware that these are the only real grades in the courses; three tests, three chances to redeem or damn yourself.
The memorization for this course is overwhelming. Although you do not have a ton of work throughout the semester, exams are graded harshly, so you will want to do all of the opt-in assignments. Think twice before taking.
Memorize everything.
I took this class as a biology pre-med requirement.  It's a fairly doable class overall, but essentially just consists of a lot of memorization.  The tests are fair if you put in the time to study for them.  I would also recommend doing all or most of the opt-in assignments - they are annoying but they provide a good buffer for your grade if you don't do as well one the tests.
If you're a premed student like me, you are trying to decide what to take for that last biology credit for pre-med reqs and you're choosing between LS2 and this course. While this course is much easier in terms of workload when compared to LS2, it is by no means an easy course. This course will take you back to AP Bio where you are memorizing the most minute details of everything from the particular life cycle of gymnosperms (like pine trees) to the exact location of chickens on the tree of life. As a general heads up, this class will get on your nerves sometimes, but considering I never went to lecture, was barely mentally present in section, and have done well on exams, I would say take this over a different bio class. I've surprised myself with how much I relish knowing all these random facts about the way life works.Recommendations: 1. To practice for the exams, DO THE DISCUSSION QUESTIONS! Each lecture has one and they are a godsend.2. Section is mandatory, so just grin and bear through it.3. Do as many opt-in assignments as you can/feel like doing. (I did none of the psets or popular posts, just the 2nd grant proposal and lab write ups and they helped my grade, but I wish I would have done more).4. Collin, the preceptor or course head, is a gem. He's really understanding and helpful and I wish I would have reached out more to him this semester.
CHILL class, but the grading will hurt you. The material is no more difficult than something you'd encounter in an AP Biology class, but everyone does well, so you get graded more harshly. Plus, they need to get rid of the grant proposal assignment. There is no purpose to it, and it only messes up your grade unless you go to office hours and ask them how to write it. Additionally, the lab experiments were pointless and never had anything to do with the material we were learning in lecture. Doing the experiments easily wasted half of our section time each meeting. It's an low-stress class, but your grade won't reflect it. The final exam is ridiculously easy.
I took this class to complete my SLS requirement, not having taken AP biology or other other biology classes at college. I really enjoyed the material, and the lecturers were all clear and engaging--I especially enjoyed a number of lectures that discussed the biology of culture, and the evolution of culture in humans, but the bulk of the course goes rigorously through a number of areas of biology, such as diverse metabolic strategies and the evolution of land plants. I found the level of detail in the material challenging, but I think I learnt a lot of cool, entirely new things in this class, and a new way of asking and answering questions--would recommend it to anyone willing to put in a substantial amount of effort. Many assignments are fun, although the number of assignments can sometimes make it hard to keep track of everything, and the grading can be hard.
If you need to fulfill your SLS gened requirement, do not take OEB10 to do so. This class has tedious work and content, based solely on memorizing what they tell you in lecture. That being said, it did not take that much work week to week, but for the tests you best know everything they said in lecture! Lectures are dry and most people stopped going, sections are painless but you do not learn much in them. It has great potential in the content but the class is set up with lots of optional assignments which, if you want to get a decent grade, most people do- they are tedious and uninteresting.
If you are not a bio concentrator then seriously reconsider taking this class! ie. don't do it just to fulfill a gen ed because it is not worth it. The material is sometimes interesting but there is so much that it's impossible to internalize everything, grading is harsh, and sections are boring and not very engaging.
In my opinion this is not a good course. It unfortunately disproportionately focuses on learning superficial facts and terminology at the expense of more in-depth discussion. Although the content is interesting, the way knowledge is tested makes this course artificially difficult, though the principles are fairly basic. If you don't mind having to memorize definitions and statements without having time to explore each topic in depth and relate it to open questions and ongoing research, this class may be very enjoyable for you. Otherwise it can be very very frustrating.
Not life-changing but very solid background and quite fun
This class is fairly light workload (except for midterm weeks) and covers a lot of really interesting material. There are a couple of weekend trips for the course (Boston Harbor Islands and Harvard Forest), and are a lot of fun, too! Weekly psets are optional--they are honestly pretty irrelevant to the course material but they are quick and simple. The course require a lot of memorization. None of the concepts are particularly difficult; the challenge is the quantity of information that you are responsible for.
I enjoyed this class, but it might be uninteresting for those not interested in the sciences.
Great intro course into OEB. Fun field trips, great teaching staff.
You learn a lot of cool tidbits about biology and your appreciation for natural ecosystems will certainly increase. That said, this class has a lot of issues and I don't recommend taking it unless you are concentrating in IB. I took it as a premed requirement and I seriously wish I'd just taken MCB 60. The class is so disorganized and most of your energy goes towards trying to save your grade after the brutal first midterm.
It's a very interesting and good summary of evolutionary biology. The professors and TFs are great. The preceptor wrecks you grade-wise though. It's the most deflated grading I've seen at this school. The final exam is also the last day if that changes your mind at all.
It's a good course to take to satisfy the premed requirement because it doesn't require a lot of work. That said, the course is entirely memorization based, and in this way, exams can be difficult. Problem sets are multiple choice, and while that makes them incredibly easy, it's not very helpful when it comes down to studying for exams. There are few assignments, which makes doing well on the exams even more important. Do the optional study questions, those were actually helpful.
This class is a good introduction to the diversity of life as well as biological processes in each domain of life. However, course structuring is not great, and exams cumulatively account for 80% of your grade.
This is a very interesting class. It's a lot of memorization at times and be prepared to really put in a lot of effort into learning the material on your own. It's important to review and process the information after lecture -- it really helps to look at lectures again. While interesting, you don't really learn much from going to lecture in person.
As a junior IB concentrator, who has taken courses overlapping with a lot of the material, this was pretty easy (I don't think it's too much memorization). The field trips were kind of cool (one is collecting bugs on a harbor island, one is a short hike in the Harvard forest).
It's a survey biology course. So, it's very similar to AP Bio that I took in high school.
OEB10 is my favorite class that I've taken so far at Harvard. If you loved AP Bio and want to learn more about Biology over a wide array of topics, this is the class for you! It is really interesting and you learn a lot of different snippets about the natural world around you-- super interesting!
it's not quite AP bio - you learn about the same subjects, but much more in depth (for example, for the second midterm, we had to memorize the entire evolutionary tree that led from eukaryotes to the human species. Definitely don't go into this thinking it'll be an easy A - the average for the first midterm was like a C if i remember correctly. but there's a bunch of awesome field trips, the professors are really engaging and want to talk with you, and the TFs are cool people with some very funny stories
Don't be fooled by this class. It requires a lot more than you think and the midterms and final require a lot of studying. Make sure you have a good TF - it can make all the difference
This class was incredibly disappointing. Lectures were long and boring, sections/labs were a complete waste of time and the exams tested your ability to regurgitate arbitrary details that may have been discussed for a second in lecture.
It's a pretty broad class and you're most likely not going to find all the topics interesting. But the professors are nice and Collin is great.
keep up with the lectures because it is a lot of material, do the study questions
You will learn a lot in this class!! If you want to do well, make sure you know the study questions. The lectures are chock full of cool facts and the field trips are awesome.
This class is too broad and has so many different themes. Topics are briefly glanced over and range from such wide diversity. Lecture will briefly go over examples of species that are meant to identify a specific theme or lesson in the lecture and then are randomly tested on tests. It just seems very arbitrary, especially the large stress the class put on plants and fungi; about two weeks worth of lectures were devoted to these topics in such great detail where it was a little unnerving to learn so much about a plants sex life and the differences between each species. I understand it is an introductory course, but there was just a lot more  emphasis on plants reproduction life cycles and evolution than I wished to study instead of focusing more on human causes of change in ecology, population structure, species diversity, and other slightly more relevant to general life topics that provides useful knowledge of how common things work. Although it is an introduction course, I would have preferred not to have taken this and to instead have taken higher level classes that did not require OEB10 as a prerequisite.
I did enjoy this course and found that I learned a lot. However, I think this course expected you to know too much material, which ultimately caused students to focus so much on memorizing information that they focused less on getting engaged with the material and interested in learning it. I felt that some questions on the test were not always fair, and were graded a bit too harshly.
Would definitely recommend with enthusiasm if the grading wasn't so intense.  The class material is really interesting.  If you can take it pass/fail then this class will be a lot of fun, but if you are pre-med might not be the move haha.
This is a great class.  You learn a lot that you don't get in other departments.  Definitely be prepared to study a significant amount for exams, but the class is doable.
The class is a lot of material but definitely manageable and interesting.
This is a very straightforward and pretty interesting course! I took it as a senior for a second bio pre med requirement (in an attempt to avoid ls1b) and it was great! The exams are very fair, lab is simple and not demanding, and some of the topics are truly interesting. I would recommend it if you need a bio for pre med!
So much memorization about things I personally do not care about. There were some cool things we learned about but I wish exams would focus more on understanding than regurgitating material
While perhaps a little more difficult than some of the other Science B cores, this class does change the way you view the natural world. It's unlikely that you will leave it with that same, bedraggled, what-a-waste-of-time feeling you get from some core classes.
As a student who took OEB10 as a class within the Science B Core Curriculum, I found this class to be extremely helpful in understanding what role biology plays in the world around us. As the course title implies, I learned how diverse the world is, and how human beings are just one dot in the myriad of organisms and species. The professors are extremely enthusiastic and willing to help. The field trips were helpful and, as a city kid for all my life, made me appreciate nature so much more. I truly recommend this class for all students who want to learn what biologists do, and it is a great departmental alternative in this core area.
Very interesting material, slow lectures sometimes
if you need to fulfill a core it's a great way to do it!  also, for anybody who thinks that mcb is the only way to fulfill premed requirements this is another lovely option!
Ecology and organismic biology are very relevant to some of the problems our generation is going to have to address.  This class, although far from labor-intensive, is a solid introduction to the field.  You can learn a lot with relatively little effort.
It's a fun and easy way to fulfill both a pre-med and concentration requirement.
This class is incredibly easy, but the grading can be really picky.  Overall, low stress, but also lots of redudancy.  If you want a challenge, this class is not for you.
Really fun bio class!
Take the class if you enjoy it and are prepared to explore the material further. It's a good survey of the field, and throws up many interesting questions along the way, but it's easy to just switch off and coast through the course without much enthusiasm.
Lecture's very important for this class, because of the lack of consolidated reading. However, the connections between lecture units can sometimes be hard to follow (why this after that? etc.) and material presented in lecture sometimes seems random, and it can be hard to tell what you're actually supposed to know from what the professors are just telling you because they think it's cool. And it is cool, but there's already a lot of information we're responsible for. Basically this class is sort of like a class in "How to Appreciate Nature" or something.
unclear, not necessarily worth it
This class is a great way to get a general introduction to organismic and evolutionary biology. You learn a lot of the basic principles of the science that you will use if you continue in the field, and you also get a great look at a lot of different aspects and subfields of OEB that you could choose to specialize in in years to come. Furthermore, this class is a concentration requirement for the OEB major, so I highly recommend it.
fun class, will learn a lot about evolution, ecology, and molecular science.
Class is fun but disorganized and deteriorates at the end, veering off course to discuss human evolution and climate change, important topics but not precisely OEB.  Class spends too much time as an "introductory course" to introduce us to the field overall and doesn't teach any one topic in enough depth.
for those interested in the subject
Please, if you're a premed, stay away. We want to keep our class.
fun class, lecturers and section leaders are really receptive, helpful, and enthusiastic
If you're interested in this area, and everyone should be interested in the state of the environment right now, then this course will make clear how important biological diversity is, how we are putting it at risk, why this matters to all of us, and how we might begin to think about fixing the damage to our environment.
Only take it if you can get excited about biology.
A great course and great alternative to the fake sciences of the core. You learn a lot in this course with none of the cutesy nonsense of Cosmic Connections, etc. Social scientists and humanists at Harvard should be expected to take some hard nat. sci and toughen up a bit if we expect scientists to take fairly intense lit and hist courses.
Not the strongest class, but a fairly decent intro class.
This is a fun and engaging class. Any student with an interest in the natural world should definitely develop that interest by taking this class.
If you actually like science, do not take this class. It is fluffy, pointless, and a waste of a class.
Exams are based solely on lecture, so take good notes!
One of the easiest science classes here at Harvard, to the degree that one questions if it could be considered a science class at all.
You should definitely drink some coffee before lecture!
It talks about many different aspects of biodiversity and raises important questions about the past and future of the planet, and concerns of biodiversity.
Low stress biology class makes you aware of global warming if you weren't already... Earth is doomed!  Sort of.
The class is great, and it is low stress and relatively easy.  It is great for people who enjoy biological sciences but dislike learning about molecules and would rather learn things on the organismic level.
Fascinating content; broadens view of life in general; gives appreciation and puts everything into context
It's really interesting and not super-hard, especially for a science course.
Especially good for pre-meds who are looking for a second semester biology course.
Anyone who wants to take this--it's pretty painless, interesting, and fun.
OEB 10 gives you a really broad overview of biology. It covers a lot of material and while interesting, is very fast-paced. The tests are straight memorization with little application, and the psets have very little to do with the lecture material. In addition, the opt-in system is very confusing to understand, which is extra-credit that is not extra-credit. The study questions are what will save you in this class.
I took this class thinking it would be about evolution. There was some information about types of speciation and toward the end there were a couple of lectures on the evolution of humans, but other than that, it really is just about "foundations of biological diversity."  You'll learn every type of metabolism and sex and sex determination and plant that exists. If you're genuinely interested in different types of plants and animals and bacteria, then this class will be interested. If you, like me, are more interested in evolution itself or human biology, this class isn't really focused on that. The tests are also what make this class difficult. The questions seem broad or vague at times, and putting down a correct answer is usually not the "correct" correct answer. Leaving out key words or not over-explaining yourself will lose you points. I feel like I know a lot more about the material than is reflected on the tests. That said, it's nice that they give you so many opportunities to boost your grade, with all the opt-in assignments, but even those can't have that dramatic of an effect on your grade. And READ THE BOOK it's the most helpful component of the class.
mostly based on memorization, pretty interesting material
This class is 100% memorization. The topics tend to be interesting (especially toward the end), and the exams are straightforward. If you can memorize the answers to all the lecture questions you will get a perfect score.
To me, it often felt like muddling through arbitrary material. There are probably worse ways to fulfill your SLS requirement, but this was pretty miserable at times.
Do the study questions!
Ask questions! You'll get more out of the course if you do
OEB 10 is an excellent course! The material is very fascinating and the sections are fun and engaging.
Take the practice exams and do the practice questions! You'll slack off and think you already know everything because you might have learned it all on a broader scale before taking this class, but the types of questions they ask you will be unfamiliar until you do them. Also USE THE HEAD TF (this year, Collin). They basically come up with all the problem questions.
This is a very fun class, and you learn a lot. Like any biology class, there is a lot of memorization, but there are many resources if you don't understand something.
Take this class! You will enjoy it!
Tips/ Advice for this class:1) Do all of the opt-in assignments even though they will take time.2) Study the study guide questions for the exams!! (Took me a while to figure that out)3) Section is pointless and you really don't need 2 hours for it.4) Be prepared for a lot of memorization5) Preferably have an interest in bacteria, fungi, and plants because that's the entire course.
This is a great class with a lot of important biological foundations. Initially it can seem like an almost oppressive amount of information to memorize but the exams are fair and the abundance of creative opt-in assignments makes sure you do well in the course.
This course is amazing and I think it should be a required course for all undergraduates because it teaches you the fundamentals of life and great basic knowledge that everyone should have. Also the professors are really nice and it is really different from other pre-med science classes because the atmosphere is very chill and stress-free. My favorite part of the class was the field trips....I LOVE OEB!
The study questions are incredibly helpful for studying for exams. Use them.
For someone with almost no science background but lots of interest in OEB, this class was challenging and engaging. I really enjoyed it - it's a ton of material to try to pull together, but I feel like I understand how our world works so much better than I did before.
Very exciting biology class, but you have to write down everything they say in class even if its not on the slides.
Great class, well taught, material can be very interesting if you like biodiversity. Teaching staff is awesome, receptive, open to meeting students, etc. And all of that extra credit saves lives
Really cool material and fun field trips; a lot of memorization
This class is so much fun. The material is fascinating, the exams are straightforward, and the teaching staff are really enthusiastic. Few other classes will send you out to an island to collect bugs. Definitely take it if Colin is the preceptor!
There is a lot of memorization, but it's all interesting!
Easier way to fulfill the pre-med requirement for biology, but not as interesting.
This course was okay.  The professors and TFs were nice, and the field trips were fine, but overall the course felt very disjointed.  I am not sure why biology courses here are obsessed with having 3-4 professors/lecturers in a course, but it is not conducive to a cohesive course, since some of our professors would know stuff about some of the topics and nothing at all about the others.  The course also tries to cover too much, trying to shove biology, ecology, anthropology, and taxonomy into a single semester, but in the end it just felt rushed and confusing.  At the least, it's certainly a less stressful alternative to LS2 or MCB52 as far as premed bio courses go.
Excellent introduction to the biological sciences at Harvard. If this replaced LS1b, I'm fairly certain that less students would give up on the premed track after their first year. The class is a pretty relaxed and gentle introduction to studying biology. It is a broad survey of many aspects of biology, which is more similar to what many might be used to from high school. For that reason, it's a good class to take freshman or sophomore year. The exams are almost completely based on rote memorization because it is a foundational class. You have to learn material before you can start applying it. You have to put in a fair amount of work and be good at memorizing quickly and efficiently.
A great introduction to evolutionary biology. The staff all care about teaching you the material and getting you interested in biology, and Collin is the best head TF of any class I've taken.
There is nothing more worthy of study than the intricate mechanisms of life on our fragile planet.
All intro science courses have their frustrations - extremely broad material, different lecturer styles, etc. - but this is a good one. All the profs and Collin are so enthusiastic and happy to help out, and if you want to study OEB, you'll see a good range of material here.
This class is awesome!!  You cover so many really interesting topics that you come out of the class so knowledgable about biology in general.  However, that also means you don't really delve deeply into any of them, so that can make it hard to study for exams.  On that note, make sure you review the study questions for exams!! Many of the questions are taken straight from the study questions.  Also, try to do all the opt-in assignments because if you do badly on a midterm, it can be hard to repair that grade because there aren't many grades in general.  Because of that, the workload for this class is SO SMALL.  Don't underestimate it though and go to lecture because it can be a lot of information to try and learn otherwise for exams.
OEB10 is a really great overview of the diversity of life and a good introduction to OEB. It was exciting to finally be among a group of peers who were interested in the same specific topics that I am, after going through LS1a and LS1b and mostly being around pre-med students. For the most part, the lectures were good and organized, but some of the topics seemed to be skimmed over. I guess that can only be expected given how huge the topic of biodiversity is, but some lectures felt more like teasers for other OEB courses (like Ecology or Evolution) and didn't dive deeply enough. The professors are all great and are experts in their fields, so it was great to hear them lecture on what they study. A lot of the assignments are "opt-in" (or extra credit), and a lot of people seem to do them, so you will definitely want to complete those assignments. If I hadn't, I feel like I would have had very little homework but would have felt a bit unfulfilled, since there are few required assignments, so definitely take advantage of those opportunities. There is also one required field trip and another opt-in field trip, which were both a lot of fun!
It is just a ton to memorize before the final. It is probably most helpful if you continuously review material through out the semester because you just won't have time to learn it all before the tests. But even then you probably won't be able to learn everything in the detail you are expected to know it. Nevertheless, I did really enjoy this class despite its difficulty. And go to lecture! You might think you'll watch the videos online, but it is just not the same experience. And you get so much more out of being there in person.
The course material is not difficult to understand but just remember to keep on top of your studying.
-pure memorization of course material -maybe too much information covered
If you're an OEB concentrator, you have to take this class, but if you're pre-med and just looking for a "fun biology" class, this isn't it. It's not too difficult, yes, but unless you're interested in ecology/plants, it's not too interesting. Read Collin's study questions (in lieu of studying lecture material), as he writes the exams. Switch TFs if you get a crappy one--it makes such a big difference!
This class is mostly based on memorization. Make sure to utilize the study questions that are posted on the iSite to guide your efforts. Otherwise, there is so much information that you will waste time learning things that will not be tested. The head TF, Collin, is fantastic. If you have any questions, go directly to him.
Fun field trips, lots of content so don't fall behind.
This course lacks coherence. It covers a huge range of material, but makes very few connections between the disparate material. While some of the lectures were great and the material was presented in a coherent manner, I found that other lectures were incredibly confusing and I walked out of class without any idea of the broader picture of the details that I was supposed to have garnered from the lecture. The exam questions rely VERY HEAVILY on the study questions that are posted after lecture. Be sure to memorize the answers to these questions. While I found these questions to be very helpful, I think that it would have been great if the professors could have more clearly explained the material during lecture rather than forcing students to rely on study questions to understand the material.
Learned a lot, interesting material for a non-concentrator.  It's not quite a painless way to fulfill a Gen Ed. requirement--I don't know how many other non-biology non-premeds took the class--but I really enjoyed it.L
The overall topics in this course were interesting and it was a fine introduction to OEB. However, the material was very disjointed, some of the lectures were quite bad, and the assignments were not very helpful. These are all things that could be improved and hopefully will be for future iterations of the course.
Not a bad class, very interesting material.
This class was fun and you learn a ton about the environment and life. It is an excellent introduction to OEB. All the professors and TFs were cool.
OEB 10 is a great course! Fun intro to OEB, but would be an interesting class for nonOEB'ers also. Love the fact that most assignments are opt-in
This a great class, whether you're an OEB concentrator or not. The history of life and biodiversity is relevant to everybody, no matter what you study, and the professors and Colin (the preceptor) are fantastic. The field trips are really awesome and the exams are very reasonable and its easy to do well on them if you focus on the study questions they give you. It's a fun class, not too hard and very satisfying
OEB 10 is an overall great class. The field trips were great, the professors were super helpful, and the lab section was actually pretty enjoyable, especially compared to LS1a/LS1b. The material is super broad (at times it can be a little dry, at other times it's incredibly interesting). My biggest complaint is that the material might feel a bit disjointed since there is so much material and you only go briefly into a bunch of different topics. Still, no reason not to take it if you're interested in the material- as an OEB concentrator or as a gen-ed.
It was not a great bio class. The teachers were teaching about things that weren't their specialties and they let students know this. Because they weren't that excited about what they were teaching, students were not that excited about learning.
This class is just really easy and nice. OEB are super nice and the professors and head TF are ridiculously friendly.
I can't tell if the mounds of optional 'extra credit' will help or if the time doing them could have been better spent doing extra studying.
Do the opt-in assignments.  Also, reach out to Collin, because he is amazing and provided so much help for studying and conceptual understanding in general.  You learn a lot of material, and it'll sneak up on you.  It's just a great class for anyone interested in better understanding the other species we live with, and the information is super interesting and relevant.
Relatively painless way to fulfill a semester of the pre-med bio requirement. It's a pretty ambitious curriculum  - covering the breadth of the history of life on earth - which is interesting, but while they keep stressing focusing on the 'big picture,' exams often seem to demand random details/examples from lecture. That said, the class isn't too difficult, and it's very well-organized - Collin, the preceptor, is really the star of the whole operation and an invaluable resource for the class.
This is a great class! The course presents a wide-range of topics, from metabolic processes and microbiology to climate change and conservation efforts today. You gain a deep scientific understanding that is very useful knowledge even for non-science concentrators, i.e. those interested in global health, climate change, simply the world around them. It would be good to have some biology background, however. Very reasonable workload and fair tests. As long as you keep up with the lecture material on a regular basis, you should be fine. The preceptor, Collin, is also incredibly friendly, knowledgeable, and supportive, as is the teaching staff. Fun field trips throughout the semester (Boston Harbor Islands, Harvard Forest) are a great way to escape the Harvard bubble and get to know your classmates. Definitely take OEB10!
While the class as a whole is not overly difficult, it can be tedious to study some of the material since it is so dry.  It is run similarly to an AP biology class.  There is a ton of memorization, and little application of material.  Do not underestimate the exams!  On a more positive note, the head TF is great, and the field trips are wonderful.  Additionally, all of the members of the teaching staff are very enthusiastic about the material.
This course has an unimaginably light workload -- other than the midterms, the final, and one essay, all of the other assignments (problem sets, lab write-ups, forum posts) are optional and serve only to buffer your grade. The material is inherently very interesting, yet it is taught in a dull, AP-biology style, with a heavy focus on memorization and little depth. I'm sure that this is a great course for pre-meds, but I would not recommend it as a Gen Ed, for example.
The lectures are interesting. Constantly review what is presented so you don't have to try to memorize it all last minute like me. It is very difficult to understand without constant studying.
This should be taken by any freshman or fall semester sophomore who wants to be a life science concentrator. Had I taken it then, instead of as a senior HEB concentrator, I would have chosen OEB. It is a great course with that give you a much greater perspective on life than LS 1a or 1b. The professors are great, especially Prof. Kramer and Prof. Farrell (his final lecture is EPIC). The class field trips are a perk, too. Be sure to do the study questions, they show up on the exam. And Colin, the head TF, is a boss.
A lot of memorization, a lot.
This is a great introductory course that covers a broad span of material. It feels like the teaching staff really wants you to do well, and sections had great labs. However, if you are not really interested in biology that is nonhuman, this may not be the course for you.
I think maybe a good course to take to satisfy one premed requirement for biology but it he grading is ridiculously nitpicky and the lectures vary in efficacy. Some lectures are mediocre.
OEB 10 is a solid intro to the OEB concentration.  If you go to lecture, fill out study questions, and keep up with the material, it is not hard to do well.
Good course! It covered a very, very wide range of information, but didn't go very in depth on everything.  Basically zero workload (psets are optional and readings really aren't necessary) until the Grant Proposal, which was pretty painless. The exams are a ton of memorization, but if you do all of the study questions then they're really not bad at all.  The professors are generally good, and Collin the preceptor is excellent! Overall, I would recommend the course highly as a second semester of bio for premeds, and also for anyone who's looking to get a very interesting and very broad survey of biology.
This is a great span of material for those that have not taken Bio since high school. You'll get a lot of information in, at the cost of exams that felt very nitpicky. In preparing for exams, know the answers to the relevant discussion questions (i.e. those lectures covered on the midterm) and the answers to questions from released exams COLD. Collin (who, it should be noted, is the most dedicated and accessible course head I've seen at Harvard) is not shy about the importance of those discussion questions, and you should really emphasize them in your study. Do the opt-in assignments; they are cool and will really broaden your knowledge of the material in this course. Section can be hit or miss depending on the experience your TF brings to the table in doing the activities, but I think all TFs are equally excited about helping you succeed in this course and, for those that are relatively new to Bio, will show you some really important techniques in research (i.e. PCR). I really loved the material, but am not sure how much of this would be applicable to the MCAT; it's a good class to get introduced to bio, but definitely take LS1B/LS2 on top of it (both would probably be helpful).
While this class seems interesting on the surface, it covers way too much in one course.  This prevents the professors from effectively teaching individual concepts.  It also makes for rushed lectures where many feel left behind or lost.  The system of only releasing the study guide answers a few days before the tests is RIDICULOUS, as it prevents one from being able to study what will appear on the test.  There should be more graded assignments rather than opt-in ones.  The current opt-in grading system is EXTREMELY complicated and hard to follow.  It would be better to make the system straightforward by having more graded assignments and less focus on tests.  Don't take this class if you want to see if you like OEB, because it's probably one of the less good OEB classes offered here.  It also might be better to take another class to fulfill the pre-med requirement.  While the course material is interesting, there's just way too much of it and not a whole lot of learning really happens.
This is a good course to take if you are interested in general biology concepts but not anything specific.
Not a class to take as an elective, but suited for those who are particularly interested in evolutionary biology or who need it for a concentration. Best advice would be to keep up with the study questions every week. You're told they're optional but that's where the exams come from. Go talk to Collin, the preceptor, he's probably one of the best parts of the course.
Don't think this will be an easy class- while it is better than Life Sci 1b and 1a, it still has its frustrating components. Lectures can be painfully dry and disorganized, which makes studying around the exams difficult. The bright spot of this class, is the preceptor Collin. He really is the face of the course- not the two lecturers. Do the study questions in preparation for the exams as they are often repeated on the exams.
This course is pretty low work and pretty easy but I would recommend that you do the opt-in assignments anyways to help buffer your grade. Also definitely go on the field trips!!
interesting course.  field trips were fun!  not too much work, but does take a good amount of memorization to do well on tests, etc.
This class is a nice survey of biology. The professors really care about giving you a broad view of the field and care about helping you understand and get excited about the material. While it is a very broad survey, it helps to cement a lot of different concepts that you might have known before but didn't deeply understand.
Take this class if you really want to have a broad survey of biology that explores many fields in just the right amount of depth. I think this class really helps you find your favorite field/focus within biology, which is very helpful for picking a concentration, future classes, etc.
Beware of the exams. Understanding the material doesn't mean you'll get a good grade. You have to be able to regurgitate exactly the wording you heard in lecture to do well.
Take this class only if you have to.  Yes, it offers a lot of information about a pretty broad topic, but the exams are annoying.  The professors say that you only need to know the 'big picture', but a lot of the questions ask about specifics.  A lot of the class is about memorizing phylogenies and regurgitating information.  But, if you are concentrating in OEB, there's OBVIOUSLY plenty of reasons why this class should be mandatory.  You really can't do much in the field without knowing about the diversity of life.
The OEB10 professors and preceptor are great. They're very supportive and friendly, and you can tell they're passionate about the material. If you've taken AP biology, though, the course feels a bit redundant.
If you need a first semester biology for pre-med/pre-vet, I highly, highly recommend this course. For some reason people were advising me against this course last semester, but I couldn't be more happier that I took it.  The teaching staff is absolutely wonderful, and I can't imagine that there is any other science course that will make you feel so appreciate as a student. Everyone is really encouraging, and the exams and assignments are very straightforward and are graded fairly. It's just a great course, and I'm so glad that I took it!
Not the best class, but if youre OEB you have to take it. Just treat it like any other bio class and you should be fine. Its a lot of memorization and they go over a million different topics, and will (unfairly) expect you to know them all in depth, despite the fact that they never taught you about them in the same level of depth. Overall an average course. Give yourself sufficient time to memorize all the material pre-midterm.
You should really enjoy evolutionary bio otherwise it'll be a bit difficult to get through the course.  The grading is pretty stringent when it comes to exams but I'm not sure how curving will work out.  The actual courseload itself though is pretty manageable.
If you have to take it, take it obviously. However, there are so many better science courses at Harvard.
Interesting material but many topics are covered so it is a lot to be tested on.
This class is great for anyone. I especially recommend it to students who aren't interested in a science concentration but enjoy studying it. The course is more interesting than the main intro science classes at Harvard and the profs are all great and love to teach their material. That being said, sometimes the tests are graded a little unfairly, with the grader expecting you to provide more information than was asked for by the question.
I will and already have told my peers that this class is ABSOLUTELY AMAZING and changes your perspective of the world and the biodiversity around you.
This class has a lot of optional assignments that will really enhance your learning and understanding of this course material.  Do the opt-in assignments.  Do the study questions.  The material requires a lot of memorization which should not be saved until the last minute.  The tools are there for you to succeed, but you have to learn how to utilize them in order to be successful in the class.
review the study questions and take advantage of TF office hours. Also reading the textbook is actually super helpful.
This class is pretty boring and not very interesting, but it's a prerequisite for most OEB classes. I'd recommend taking it as a freshman; it's not too difficult and as long as you study the phylogenies and elemental processes, as well as pay attention to small details, especially for the midterms. The exam is fair and relatively general, but the midterms ask very specific questions. The book isn't very necessary unless you want to do the opt-in problem sets. Take advantage of the opt-in assignments--they are pretty easy and the field trips are super fun!
This class is pretty fast paced, but not totally unmanageable.
Only take this course if you have to. It was unnecessarily hard.
Super interesting content
Professors are amazing!! Get to know them
Unless you have to take this class as an OEB concentrator, I would suggest not taking it. You can take upper level OEB classes without it (the requirements are very easy to get around) and it's nothing that you wouldn't learn in LS1a/LS1b.
Definitely a step up from LS1a and b in terms of course organization and material. Topics are a bit more focused, more interesting, and overall, the course is much more relaxed than those intro courses. Not sure I would take it as an elective, but good to fulfill concentration requirements.
This course is a little-known but GREAT way to satisfy a semester of biology for medical school.  Definitely easier than MCB 52 or 54, but still very interesting - you learn a lot about biological diversity that you might not learn elsewhere and get an appreciation for how all life is interconnected.  Pretty cool stuff.
There's nothing wrong with the way the course is run or the information that is taught.  However, in such a general survey biology class, it's impossible to really delve into anything, so I felt like I was just learning a few tidbits about lots of topics but nothing very in-depth about anything.  Be prepared for professors who mean well but are clearly not interested in the subject matter.  It's not their fault, but having a plant physiologist lecturing on climate change and ocean ecology is a difficult task.  This course is not a bad experience, and you have to take it for the concentration, but it just feels like a bit of a waste of time.  Not even the teaching staff takes it very seriously.
Keep up with the work and you'll do fine.
This class was fascinating. The lectures were full of great information and I really feel like I am coming away with a new lens through which to see the world around me. The labs and section feel unnecessary but the topics covered in the class are a great introduction to the forms of life on the planet.
Be willing to memorize a lot of material. It would serve you well to take good handwritten notes, and review them once a week to actually absorb all the material they give you to memorize every day, just to stay on top of it. They test you win a lot of gotchas (ie describing examples they talked about, or testing memorization of phylogeny). It doesn't have to be a lot of work if you manage your time. Try to figure out wants your tf wants for the grant proposal, they gave very little direction and were rather harsh with the grading.
I would not recommend this class unless you have to take it. Some of the material is definitely interesting, but many of the assignments were not engaging to complete and not all lectures were stimulating. However, I did find the field trips enjoyable and I enjoyed discussing topics from the course with the teaching staff. The preceptor, Collin, was the brightest spot of the course for me, as he was on top of his duties and generated a lot of enthusiasm throughout the semester.
the exams are too long for the time allowed, but the field trips are fun and interesting
Lots of memorization, but it's all manageable and interesting material.
It's a good course with lots of opportunities for improvement, but exams are challenging and a strong interest in nature and species is preferable
A good introduction to biology that covers all the domains of life. It's not terribly difficult and is a really good balance for pset classes. They present some really interesting topics, and the optional assignments mean that you can really put as much effort into it as you want. But I wouldn't advise blowing it off! Keep up with the material and it won't be a problem. The professors are also overwhelmingly helpful. Go to office hours! You won't regret it!
This class covers a lot of material, but if you're interested in biology it's pretty fun. Lectures go quickly but are usually pretty intriguing. It's a lot of material for the midterms and finals, but it's overall pretty good.
It doesn't matter whether it's good or not - it's a requirement if you're OEB. Collin the TF will probably save your ignorant butt. Also field trips are awesome, though space is limited. If you're looking to just take an OEB class for the heck of it (which you should!) keep looking.
The atmosphere of this course is much more friendly than other "pre-med" courses.  The section/lab component is only two hours a week, and the workload is manageable (do the optional assignments!). The teaching staff is genuinely interested in the material. The field trips are a ton of fun.
I didn't feel like I was learning much in lecture that I couldn't have learned from reading a textbook. Our textbook was only necessary for assignments and almost all assignments were optional. We didn't go into much depth in lectures, so the material felt dry at times. Labs were interesting. Field trips to the Boston Harbor Islands and the Harvard Forest were wonderful!
You learn a little about a lot of different things, which is somewhat frustrating at times and makes for a lot of memorization for the exams.
Easy OEB requirement. Great field trips. Very little work commitment during the semester. Some memorization for the exam but not unreasonable.
This was a really great class. It's not overly challenging, and you get a great overview of ecology and species diversity, from the microscopic to the macroscopic.
The coursework isn't overwhelming or stressful; it is definitely manageable. Don't underestimate the exams, though, and do all of the optional assignments! The class isn't the most exciting, but it's tolerable. If you like the material and are an OEB concentrator, you will probably like the class more than others.
The material in this class is really interesting though the teaching needs to be improved somewhat. If ls1b destroyed your spirit and intentions to continue majoring in biology, OEB 10 will rekindle that flame.
optional assignments and fair tests.
This is a fun class that teaches you new ways to think about the world around you.
Obviously you have to take it if you're OEB, but even if not it does a great job giving you a foundation in environmental science and the evolution of organisms. Plan on doing all the optional psets because it's an easy way to boost your grade, also the popular press project was good (read Diversity of Life it is amazing and very helpful in a non-scientific way). Lectures and section can be boring, but in the end you'll learn a lot and be grateful.
This class gives an excellent introduction to biological diversity. The material is interesting and class doesn't require that much work compared to many other pre-med courses. However, lecture is painfully dry.
Take this class if you need to. I just hope this is not what all OEB classes feel like (lots to memorize). The second part of the course was better. It really puts all of life into perspective.
This class is not great. It's a review and you have to memorize a lot. Certainly not the best OEB class...
It's an interesting introduction to bio- you relearn a lot of what you already learned in high school and then a bit more. And then you learn lots of random stuff about whatever the professors are interested in. You also have to memorize the entire tree of life. So if you're into all that, take this class.
Unless you're interested in memorizing phylogenies, memorizing life cycles, and understanding metabolisms, don't take this course.  It is exactly what it advertises--an introduction to ecology, and thus it covers a broad-ish range of topics.  I did learn a lot, and I do understand the tree of life better, but lectures were for the most part pretty boring (I think I fell asleep every day).  However the lab component is super chill, and you do a bunch of experiments that aren't even graded at all.  Not what I would call an extremely strenuous course, but also not the best class I've taken at Harvard.
1. This class is straight-forward and manageable.2. The folk invovled with teaching/tfing OEB 10 Fall 2011 (Haig, Holbrook, Cornwall) are all fantastic.3. Great survey of biology but not terribly rigorous - if you know what you want in OEB or anything else, go straight for that.4. Worth considering taking as a freshmen.
While the material can occasionally be a bit random, it is generally an interesting course with great professors that gives you a good, general understanding of biological diversity. Plus, it's not super tough, and generally easy-going.
If you can tolerate the boring cellular stuff at the beginning the topics become organisms, populations and ecology. Very cool stuff.
If you have to take it, just bite the bullet and do it. From what I hear it has improved a lot from past years in terms of having to learn unnecessary information. Take detailed notes and learn all of the life cycles because even though they seem useless you have to know them for the exams and in the end you learn a lot that you'd never even though about. Like how do ferns "have sex"? Never thought of that one, have you? Good cocktail talk.
This class is way better than life sciences 1b. I would definitely use it to fulfill a biology requirement. David Haig is also an amazing and interesting lecturer. If he is still teaching it, take the course (this was his first year I believe).
This class will give you a great foundation of knowledge about life on our planet.  You will also gain incredible insights as to how organisms interact with each other and how they interact with the environment in terms of metabolism.
This is a great class, and I would definitely recommend doing as many of the optional assignments as you can.  You get as much out of this class as you put into it.
Had a great time in this class. A good way to start off the coolest concentration at Harvard.
OEB 10 is a useful class as an intro to the major. IT has components of metabolism, phylogenies, and ecology. It can be boring, but once you learn all the material and it comes together its not bad.
For an intro course, this class isn't bad at all! The staff and the materials are all great. The first unit of the course is really slow, but the second and third unit are a lot of fun and you learn about a lot of cool information.
This is a solid introduction to the OEB concentration. Your enjoyment of the course may be greater if you are intending on pursuing OEB as either a secondary or a full concentration.
I HATED this class.  I have never rated any other of the 21 classes I've taken below a 3.0, I give OEB 10 a 1.0    The professors, while sweet and caring, are very scatterbrained and even the most dedicated and hardworking students struggle to keep awake.  And even though the professors SWEAR (like all biology professors, of course) that "the concepts are the most important" this is LIES!!!!  STOP DOING THIS TO US!  We were required to regurgitate phylogenetic trees which benefits absolutely no one as is by no stretch of the imagination a useful or concept based way to learn.  This class takes interesting concepts and makes them boring and tedious.  Some professors are great teachers, and Professor Haig and Holbrook are very interesting, but they are not good lecturers.  They are confusing, long-winded, and circuitous.  I think they publish interesting findings and are amazing researchers, but they really don't perform well in the classroom, at least not lectures.
This course is a great change from the rest of the typical biology courses you might take as a pre-med. Focused a lot more on the diversity of life, the evolutionary history of the world, and how everything works together in the environment. I was very glad to have taken this course.
I took this class because of my interest in animals. I learned a lot about how different organisms work and the way they survive in different environments. I would recommend this course because its very interesting and you learn a lot about multiple types of organisms.
This is an amazing course... why would you not take this as a pre med requirement, the professors know your name! It's very personal and everyone wants to help you
This class is not that difficult and a fun way to be introduced to an important theme in the OEB concentration. I recommend taking this if you are at all interested in concentrating in OEB. The field trips are a ton of fun. Make sure you go on one!
This class will be so much better if you go to lecture, sit in front, and do the optional problem sets! Don't leave memorizing lots of information to the last day before an exam.
very interesting but an almost unmanageable amount of material to learn. as a pre req it is better than something like lpsa/LS1b but still more work than I expected
As the name of the class suggests, this is an introduction to biology and the diversity of life. If you are interested in learning briefly about a variety of topics in biology, then take OEB 10; if you are beyond that "intro" level and would like to engage strongly with more comprehensive material, I would recommend you take another higher level biology class. All in all, OEB10 gives you a succinct view of many of the topics that could be explored in future OEB classes.
Interesting material + light course load = winThe professors and teaching staff are also wonderful.
The material covered is dense, but fascinating and eye-opening. Although I strongly recommend you have a solid chemistry background, the material is fairly basic (minus the copious amounts of memorization). Great course! Prof. Haig is amazing and presents the material in an amazing manner.
You learn as much as I have learned in any class at harvard.
This was a really cool course. The information is kind of broad so be prepared not to learn everything in depth. It covers a lot of material, so pay attention during lecture. Also be ready to memorize a lot of phylogenies (although that was my favorite part).
If you're interested in a thematic overview of biological diversity, this is a great introduction with all sorts of fun features (labs, field trips, connections with everyday life, etc.).  However, if you're not interested in ecology or thinking about bacteria, plants, and animal phylogenies, this may be a little boring.  A relatively painless course, though.
Take it if you have to, but it's not an elective. I'd recommend doing this and LS 2 if you're pre-med but not a biology concentrator.
You have to take this class for the OEB concentration, but if you are not an OEBer, I would suggest not taking this course. If you are someone looking for an intro to OEB to see if it is right for you, I would also suggest not taking this course. You learn a lot about life in all its forms and the basic biology that makes it up. The breadth of the course, however, is so wide that the information becomes overwhelming. The only saving grace--there are no mandatory psets.
I'd say it's a lot of work and the labs were sometimes ineffective, but the material is very interesting and useful.
Only take this course if you have to (i.e. you're an OEB concentrator, like me).  It's very scattered and unorganized, inconsistent (including in terms of difficulty), and the assignments aren't very helpful.  The teaching staff is very nice, accessible, and willing to help you, which saves this class from being terrible.  However, I wouldn't take it for a Gen Ed or before you're certain OEB is for you.  Also, don't judge the rest of OEB by this course; most real OEB classes are much better!
This is a wonderful class to learn about life on earth. If you're interested in the subject matter, you will not regret taking this.
Go to and take good notes in Professor Knoll's lectures, a lot of what he says ends up on midterms, and its not always on the slides. For Farrell's section, you dont need to go to lecture at all, just read the section in the textbook.
Don't take this class if you're looking for a good elective (it's not a good elective). If you are used to working in a lab or have previous science experience, it is unlikely that you will take a whole lot away from this course - the material is very superficial and presented in a very unorganized way, and I found it to be very frustrating and boring. Also, the exams do not reflect the difficulty of the course and are graded relatively harshly. Definitely don't take this course unless you ABSOLUTELY have to.
The course involves a lot of work. It especially requires a lot of time devoted to studying and memorization.
The class is actually really interesting if you like biology that can be applied to the real world. Some of the topics can be really dry but the way it's presented and taught is very good. Surprisingly good class
Bio-diversity is the most important word for this course, even though it never really shows up in lectures or readings. You will definitely learn about how life has changed, adapted and responded to geological, biological, and anthropological challenges throughout history.
There is minimal work for this class, though the exams are harder than the problem sets. Section is painfully boring and not helpful at all.
I love the material itself and both professors are great, but the organization and level of detail are kind of ridiculous. I always studied profusely for the midterms, but the details that had never been particularly emphasized were always what we were tested on. It's frustrating because the subject is fascinating but it's hard to enjoy learning when you're always wondering if you have to memorize this or that. Section is long, and the concepts are interesting and detailed as well, but never seem to be of material we're later tested on, so there's not much motive to care. The trips to Boston Harbor Islands and other biodiversity hot spots are great though!
Field trips are very fun, the class is interesting if you get into the material.
only take it if you have to.
The subject matter has the potential to be interesting, but the lectures are often so disconnected, it is difficult to follow the material and know what is expected.
Easy way to get a bio + lab requirement without taking LS2
The class covers a lot of material, so it's a good introduction for those interested in the general diversity of life.
Take it if you want to learn about how diverse life really is.
Good overview of evolution, ecology, biodiversity, conservation. Relatively pain-free and field trips are fun.
This class is boring!
The lectures are a bit dry but the material overall is interesting and the work is very manageable because a large portion of it is optional and there to help you keep up with the course and/or raise your grade.
This class demands more of you than you would initially think, but it opens up all these doors into the OEB concentration, which is pretty awesome. Just be prepared to learn and know a lot of information.
Amazing Course!! Forget LS1a and 1b.  If you love science, this is the course for you.  Pre-med or not, this course has optional weekly psets (for extra credit!) and readings.  Work isn't that much.  But the material is fascinating.  Prof. Knoll and Prof. Farrel are fantastic; really engaging and both bring years of expertise to the class. They're always ready to answer questions that you have.  Also, you get to go on field trips (on of the highlights of the class).  TAKE THIS CLASS!!!
Great material and interesting concepts housed in a poorly organized course.  Labs are tedious, long, and really are not with the two hours per week.  Lectures are great and sometimes do not even feel like lectures.  It's very hard to gauge what is wanted on midterms, but the field trips are fun (if it isn't too cold out) and if you really, really love the material you should consider this course.  But really not a good way to fulfill a GenEd or elective slot if you are not determined to memorize a lot of information.
Don't take this class unless you're an OEB concentrator -- if you need an additional bio class for any other reason, take a better course.  That said, this course isn't awful, and it's pretty easy -- it's just fairly boring, doesn't go into the material too in-depth, and doesn't really inspire.  I hear that other OEB classes are much better, though, so don't judge the rest of the department based on this one class.
Tests are unexpectedly hard.  Make sure you study for them. Also, make sure that you ask someone what is included in them. There is so much information that you virtually won't know how to study for them.
OEB 10 is a good introduction to the most important biological processes which impact Earth; in addition, it provides an underlying knowledge of the relationships between the organisms which drive such processes.
The class is great if your interested in environmental policy or evolutionary biology.
It covers interesting material, but it is presented in a pretty dry way during lecture. They definitely try to make you feel like a real biologist during section, which was kind of cool.
Only take this class if you're OEB major. Pay attention in class, take good notes, and you'll do well on the exams. Section is really easy, kind of boring, except for a couple labs but it's mostly discussion.
If you are really interested in the material, you will enjoy the class and learn things.  However, be prepared that it is at times highly disorganized.  The sections have the potential to be interesting but are sometimes too low energy and can be incredibly boring.
A good introduction to the scope of the OEB department, and a nice sampler of the earth's biodiversity (though the broadness can be a little frustrating at times). Talk to the professors--they know everything!
easy, relatively interesting class for premed requirement
This class takes some time to get rolling, but when all is said and done, you should be able to look back on a very informative and inspiring semester. This class covers all the major areas of life on earth, and gives a very humbling view of humanity's role in shaping earth's biodiversity.
Be advised: there is a strong emphasis on phylogenies and memorisation of information. There will be some instances where what's fundamental is working out the system, but aside from that, memory work. However the lecturers are some of the best in their field.
I had a very good time in this class. The field trip(s) was awesome, the grant proposal was surprisingly helpful and I learned a lot in this class without a huge amount of work.
Unless you're an OEB concentrator, skip it for the more interesting higher-level OEB classes
Professors Knoll and Farrell are AWESOME--two of the nicest, most knowledgeable professors you'll meet during your time here at Harvard. This class made me work by butt off but I learned so much more than in any of my other classes.
If you really like evolution and phylogenies, than this class may not be terrible. With that said, it has a very unstructured feel to it, and shouldn't be taken unless necessary.
This course is a great way to get a broad understanding of biology and evolution necessary to understand the environmental issues facing us today.
Take this class-you will learn a lot and since Manus is leaving after this year, your grade will reflect what you learn from the great professors
While I had my ups and downs with the course, coming out of it I am so pleased with how much I have learned, which is what really matters. I know SO much more about the biodiversity of our planet, and how it came into existence and I really appreciate having such knowledge.
Read everything.
It's a great class. The Profs and TFs are all super fun and helpful. The material is very interesting if you like animal biology and ecology as well as if you are interested in climate change and the connections to biodiversity.
Only take this class if necessary! The material is great. The organization and teaching of this class is horrible. They really need to work on it. Half the time I had no idea what I was doing.
don't let OEB10 discourage you entirely from OEB as a concentration.
this class is great! i took it as a premed requirement as an alternative to life sci 1b. the material is really interesting and the professors and teaching staff are very approachable. the class is pretty relaxed and while it can be dry at times, you learn a lot about the role of biology/humans in the environment. the assignments are doable and the optional assignments aren't too bad.
Don't get lulled too much; you will need to study for the first midterm.
fills a unique niche as far as introductory courses go-- definitely check it out for a more ecological, environmental complement to LS1a
This class is a very good overview of the diversity of life and how it got that way. It also touches on the future of biodiversity and humans and the climate. There is not a lot of work and the professors are great.
If you are willing to cope with unorganization, it's great for a core or a concentration requirement
This class is painless, interesting, and taught by knowledgeable and enthusiastic professors. Highly recommended.
The material is great. A great introduction to biology. The exams are difficult and most of your grade depends on your exam grades.
Manus was incredibly helpful. He was extremely accessible, and always willing to answer my questions. I recommend asking him as many of your questions as you can.
very interesting and painfree class
OEB 10 is very low key which is great, but it is absolutely necessary to be paying attention in lecture and to attend lecture! The whole class rides on the lectures. Lab is really nice because it's not high pressure and never lasts the whole three hours- usually max 1.5 hours!
Good for everyone at Harvard. If you want to know some useful science and have a Core or an Elective to take, take this course! It will give you basic evolutionary biology and ecology that everyone living in the modern world has to know!
Don't do the reading for this class unless it actually pertains to the material.  There is a good deal of reading but not much of it that is relevant to the course material.  The tests are all based off of lectures anyway.
Go to office hours- it is refreshing to find science professors at Harvard who genuinely care about undergrads and want them to learn the material.
I would recommend this course because of the importance of the material and the interesting way it is taught.  The course is fun and unlike other large introductory courses, it is not cut-throat because the students who take the course want to take the class. The professors make it into a friendly atmosphere. It is a good introduction to the material and also a good way to fulfill a requirement like Science B.
Doing well in this class is a matter of understanding the basic concepts introduced in lecture and section, and putting in a little effort.
It's a great class for getting excited about the field, but I found it a bit frustrating that our grades are based pretty much on the exams alone.  Sometimes it's hard to tell what to study for on the exams (some questions are incredibly specific, while others are incredibly broad) and I wish we could have done some more hands-on projects.
EASY!
Great introduction to foundations of biology and its relevance
The course is a great fulfillment for premed requirements.
It is fun and interesting
Having two professors with very different teaching styles makes it hard to gauge academic expectations
the best-kept pre-med secret: take this instead of ls1b
I would say to students to stick with the course, as it gets more interesting than the first few lectures suggest. I found it very easy- it made me feel good about myself academically, a feeling I haven't really had since high school. Not everyone in the course felt the same way, however, and studying is necessary.
It's a little vague on what it is that you're doing there. Ultimately the course was interesting, but that's because it's basically a lecturer going "Here's some cool stuff".
It's a good class for touching on many issues within biology and seeing how things have progressed over time.
Good if you're interested in the material, minimal work involved.
It's fun, and not too difficult! Also addresses very important topics, such as conservation.
This is a fun class that is not work intensive yet still teaches you a ton. The topic is of the greatest importance, especially considering the developing biodiversity crisis.
A great intro class to OEB.  Very helpful and involved professors and knowledgeable section leaders.
Perfect introductory to OEB or, indeed, the natural world at large.
It is good if you want to concentrate in OEB and may be interesting to people, but it seems to be less interesting to pre-meds like me.
EXCELLENT! Take no matter what concentration you're in, the information covered is applicable to countless fields.
Only take it if you absolutely have to as a requirement.
Future students should know that while this course certainly shares the professors' love for their subject, its lack of cohesion significantly detracts from the learning experience.
Please be prepared for a sometimes unstructured but interesting overview of basic biological concepts.
SO much more chill than lifesci, while every bit as intellectually stimulating--if you like the ecology/organismic/down and dirty field-study side of biology, come on over stat.
the concepts were very interesting, but it's a lot of work and sometimes you have to bang your head up against the wall to truly understand what's going on.
The coursework is not fun, and the lecturers don't engage the class well. Don't be fooled by the fascinating first lecture or two.
Take the course if you are interested in the material or have very good memorization.
It's a boring requirement.
This was the most poorly taught, inane waste of a course I have ever had the displeasure to take.  I learned nothing of interest, and were I not already an OEB major I would not consider continuing with this concentration. And lest you think I am bitter because I am a poor student, I am a John Harvard scholar who got 17% above the average on the midterm and crushed almost every other assignment this semester.
if you're concentrating in oeb, you have to take it, so just get it out of the way as soon as possible. if you're pre-med, please take something else to fulfill your requirement, or at least try to hold in your grade-grubbing attitude. it makes it more painful for the rest of us and it's not like you care about the course material anyway.
This is a great fun course! My only problem is that I was always confused about how in depth or not I should be learning the different material.
Only take if interested in biology
Great background course
It's very interesting material but if you want to get something out of it, you need to be engaging in the material outside of what is required by the course
There is a lot of information crammed into once semester. You will be unsure of what to study and the lectures aren't always very stimulating.
It's a little random, but entertaining and informative.
OEB 10 truly gives you a deeper understanding of evolution, earth history, and man's place in the natural world.  It's a good course if you love nature.  The field trips are fun.
This is a well-structured course with a great teaching staff.
This class was a badly organized joke. Don't take it unless you have to or until it gets its act together.
Take this course if you want a broad overview of modern biology that uses specific examples to demonstrate the scientific method.  Overall, cool stuff.
OEB 10 is not a hard course, but it wasn't as easy as you would think (I was misled by the Q ratings last year). You will certainly learn a lot, and the information is all very important. However, it is not that easy of an A, and you should expect to take it somewhat seriously. The material isn't hard to understand at all (some of it you will know from high school biology) but because there aren't a lot of assignments, it is easy to fall behind on grades. That being said, the field trips are a lot of fun and the TFs are really great. This is a good intro class for anyone who wants to learn about biodiversity and conservation.
As an alternative premed requirement, this course is both interesting and much less intense than typical courses. The material is important and worth knowing even as an elective.
harder than it seems
If you don't have to take it I wouldn't. There are much more interesting science courses out there.
There are probably easier ways to complete the core. It was kind of cool, but you would probably only get the most of it if you are really interested in it and want to devote yourself.
This class is accessible and fun even for those who, unlike myself, are not OEB fanatics.
it seems easy b/c there's not a lot of work, but tests are unfair. lectures are unstructured.
It is a good introductory course, but not as interesting for OEB majors
While this class is not particularly difficult, the sheer volume of information covered could be overwhelming
The class is too broad a survey to really cover anything in particularly engaging detail.  This also leads to poorly defined expectations in terms of how much detail you really need to know.
The class is interesting and relatively easy, but there is a lot of material and a lot of busy work.
This course is an intro class in biology, but it was graded on the scale of a difficult Harvard science class, so a common sentiment was that grades were lower than expected.
I don't know what to say about this class except for if you are pre-med DON'T  TAKE IT. Suck it up and take LS 2 instead for your biology.  I really don't think anyone who doesn't have a genuine interest in the material should take this class, because there is no motivation to do any of the work because it is so easy to get away with not doing any.
good way to fulfill the premed bio requirement, otherwise not great.
It's a fairly easy way to fulfill a requirement. The class lacks structure.
HARD!
Take it only if you have to (i.e. you don't have time to take MCB or life sci 2)
Ask questions.
I liked that this course mixed biology and environmental science.
It is more of a class of interest than a class of normal academia.
The TFs for this course are pretty good, the assignments aren't bad, and the material is quite interesting.  The only drawback is that some lectures can be dry and it's difficult to understand what you need to study for exams but the exams aren't ridiculously hard either, so that's a plus.
It's unorganized and you will never know what it is that you will be tested on.  You will have to fish through the information without guidance.  Lectures are all over the place.  But other than trying to figure out how to study for the exams, the class isn't stressful at all.
This class was well-taught. If you are interested in ecology and the environment, this is the course for you. I personally strongly disliked this class, but it was only because I was severely disinterested in the material.
The first couple lectures are not geared towards shopping week; you may be underwhelmed.  If you are interested in the subject matter though, it really starts to pick up later on.
Great but it's what you make of it. In hindsight, I wished I hadn't been so stressed out about learning the material as much as just enjoying learning it. However, the curve and the nit-picky and difficult tests inevitably breed this attitude.
Take LPSA or Life Sciences B before taking this course.
this class was the WORST class I have taken at Harvard. The material made no sense, way too many topics (from the very first bacteria to mushrooms to humans) were covered in way too much, unimportant detail. Section is a waste of time, and this class was painful to even sit in. Never again will I take an OEB class here. Ever. Take Life Sci 2 instead!!!!!
The material is very interesting, but presented in a disorganized manner.  The assignments are really reasonable, though, as are the exams.  The trips you go on are also really amazing experiences.  Section can get boring/tedious, however.  If you're interested in biology, I think it's a good class, though if you don't need to take this for a requirement, I suggest (any) other more interesting OEB classes.
The material of this course is really interesting and important to understanding the world around us and how we affect it, but the lectures are poorly organized and the reading is hard to get through.
There was not very much enthusiasm for the course material among professors.  The section was not helpful.  There were very unclear requirements for what was expected of students in terms of the level of detail to learn.
this class provides and interesting approach to learning about biodiversity
This course requires a great deal of reading and memorization. While there isn't too much work other than during the time of the grant proposals, you do need to spend time memorizing the information presented in lecture and in the book for the exams.
Loss of biodiversity is one of the greatest global environmental crises of our time.  This course provides an important foundational understanding of how that diversity arose and its importance for maintaining global stability. Don't miss out on this great chance to get your hands dirty and learn this for yourself!
The class is interesting and fun.
It's a good course to take because it builds a good foundation for understanding the diversity that surrounds us.
This is a relatively easy course and a good way to get a Pre-Med assignment over but it is not a great course. Students with particular interest in the subject material might like it.
It's a very fun course and you'll get to go on field trips to enjoy the wonderful New England fall weather. Definite plus!
It's a survey course and it's hard to learn about anything in specific.
read the coursepack/textbook and go to lecture!
Take this if you don't mind learning more than you (really, I) ever wanted to know about plants
It was a great, low-stress, interesting course
There is a lot of memorization, but you also have to understand complex processes
Good basic intro class that is not going to trick you about the material. It is much better than other intro classes because you get the basic information about things that will be delved into in later courses rather than presented all at once, leading to confusion for the students.
Course is highly disorganized. It is unclear what needs to be known and what does not.
Though this class is very interesting and ended up being not that easy, the professors are great and it is an awesome introduction to the field of OEB.
This class suffers from Survey-itus. It is too big, covering too much material, taught in an uninspiring lecture. As a potential History and Science concentrator this class gave me a very poor impression of what science entails at harvard.
So fun! This course makes you think hard about what you should be spending your time on, and what direction your life should take.
It is fairly easy but interesting. Brian's lectures were very engaging and fun.
The class has few requiremtns which sounds nice, but really that just makes the class very difficult. The material builds up and suddenly you are swamped. There is not enough feedback. You have no idea how much you have learned until the final exam. Brutal class.
There isn't too much work, but there is a surprisingly pre-med, competitive atmosphere. The preceptor actually fosters this competitiveness.  It's definitely not an easy way to get out of a pre-med requirement, but it still might be better than MCB52.
While the course material was very interesting, take it only if you are really interested in learning about ecological principles and biodiversity and evolution.
This class gives a basic overview of biology and is relatively manageable after high school biology, though more difficult than it seems.
Just don't.
Although this class may seem like the "easy pre-med bio class," it can be a little bit tricky.  Because you think it's easy you tend not to spend much time studying, and then random little things can sneak up on you during exams.  Also, for a pre-med, Life Sciences 2, although more difficult, would also be much more relevant.
Do the practice problems to study for the exam -- they take the lectures (which can sometimes be confusing) and focus on the important concepts. The grading is weird and section can feel excessive sometimes but the lectures are really interesting and the instructors are really helpful!
OEB 10 is an interesting class and doesn't have an overwhelming amount of work, and the opt in assignments are really helpful. Collin is a wonderful human.
Take this class with caution. The tests are hard to do well since they cover quite a multitude of topics and areas.
OEB 10 makes you feel like you know everything about biology. It covers a nice balance of topics from metabolism, to categorization of all the life on earth, to current issues facing life with climate change, so there is something for everyone. It also allows you to learn a great deal without doing a great deal of work.
This class was pretty decent overall. It isn't a particularly hard class but large quantities of information were covered, so expect a lot of  memorization (though some of it is a repeat from LS 1b). Lectures vary widely in quality and they're all videotaped, so it's not really necessary to go to all of them. I find the material to be inherently interesting, but the way it was presented can be kind of disjointed sometimes. The textbook is not necessary at all and all you need to do to prepare for exams is know that answers to the study questions they give you. I did enjoy the field trip to the Boston Harbor Islands and section was pretty relaxed. I would say take it if you're interested and are thinking of concentrating in OEB, but otherwise, probably skip it.
chill class but you wont learn anything new if you have a bio background
This is a pretty easy course that gives a good overview of biology, letting you figure out what portions of biology you enjoy the most.  Very much a survey course, but that isn't a bad thing.
If you're taking the class for OEB requirement, chances are comments won't sway you much either way. Nevertheless, I would say that, if you can digest it, this class will leave you with some of the most fascinating encyclopedic knowledge you can find in a course here. Though the class can be disorganized and difficult to understand in terms of expectations, I would nonetheless recommend itif you can bear it, it's definitely worth it.
I took this for premed credit, and I would only recommend this for premed credit, if you are an OEB concentrator, or if you are willing to dedicate A LOT of time to pursue your passion in these subjects. This course is a lot of time, a lot of memorization, and the grading is really tough. The final is 40 percent, and having taken it, I can say it is quite ambiguous. I am definitely anxious about how the course turned out for me even though I made a strong effort to keep up with the material and assignments throughout the semester. These two things seem at odds to me, so I hope in the future more guidance can be given on how to focus studying in this course and about how you will be evaluated. Overall, I am happy I took this course, but definitely think about why you are taking it before you make the decision to commit to it.
It's your basic survey course.  I love OEB so I wish I could say otherwise but it really mimicked a lot of the generic premed courses.  If you want to get a sense of what being an OEB major is, don't take this class, take an upper level.
Memorization is key. Do all the optional material, and study the study questions.
This class is great, but more work than you would expect. The fact that they rotate four teachers gets frustrating, but rely on our section leader for consistency. Definitely put in the time to do the extra credit, and definitely go on as many field trips as possible.
This class is very much taught in an AP Bio style- just as the topics get interesting, the lecturers have to move on to new topics without doing the previous ones justice. In order to best prepare for exams, do all of the Questions posted in each Lecture, and contact Collin if you have any questions. Depending on what TF you get, section may or may not be a waste of time. 

The benefits of this course are that you get to write a grant proposal about a question in science that interests you, and that you get to go on field trips. Other than this, I dont' feel that this course gives one a very good mastery or understanding of any topic except to the extent required on exams.
The material is really fascinating and the lecture practice questions are a key to reviewing the concepts. The professors are very passionate about the material and experienced in the subject matter. The atmosphere is not as tense as other biology class and you really gain an appreciation of biodiversity and its role in our lives afterwards.
I honestly did not expect to enjoy this course going in, and it ended up being one of my favorite this semester. OEB has a lot of interesting applications that I hadn't considered before. Just make sure to leave enough time to study for the midterms and final, as they require a lot of memorization. Read the study questions!
It is great and overs a very comprehensive view of organismic biology. However, it can be a lot of information, like most introductory courses, and at times I wish we would've covered a few topics more in-depth instead of a whole bunch. It is very manageable though! Just keep up with the study questions and you will do fine on exams! Also, you only need the book to complete the optional pests.
too broad, i did not enjoy this at all
Lectures move quickly. Even though the course material is fascinating, lectures were difficult to pay attention to. That being said, this is not the worst way to fulfill pre-med biology. The field trips are awesome, and the TFs are great.
I took this initially thinking I wanted to concentrate in OEB, but I changed my mind. It counts as a pre-med requirement, so it worked out fine. If it wasn't a concentration or premed requirement, I probably would not have taken it. It's a fairly easy class, though. Just study the study questions and you'll be fine. After the second midterm, I stopped attending lecture. Looking back, I probably could have skipped all of the lectures and focused on the study questions. Also, memorize that phylogenetic tree thing. It's on the second midterm and final. Seahorses are fish. This will make sense when you take the course. Labs are fun.
All memorization, honestly. The field trips are fun!
This course is definitely worth taking. It covers a large variety of topics, and the professors and TFs really care about the material. It can get a bit dry at times.
It is a terrible course, but oeb as a concentration is worth it.
If the idea of learning (at least 3 times) about gigantic undersea worms that never eat, don't have anuses, live in pitch blackness at the bottom of the ocean near volcanic vents, and get their food from sulfur-eating bacteria that live in a specialized organ in their bodies sounds good to you, you'll love this class. I did.
If you're interested in getting an overview of different topics in biology, this is a great course to take. At times though, the class felt a disjointed because it seemed like it was trying to cover too much. It was frustrating sometimes because I felt like we were just skimming over some really interesting topics. Really would have benefitted with some more depth.
This class is for anyone interested in biology, but is not sure about what specific field to pursue.
Do the extra credit. Study with a group. Be prepared for a lot of memorization. Use Collin and the TFs for help. They are very knowledgable!
It's a lot of memorization, so start studying for the midterms early. It's also a much better class if you do the opt-in assignments and go on the field trips. Sustaining Life is an excellent book to pick for the Popular Press project. It really ties together everything you learned in class and makes it significant.
Take advantage of office hours and get to know Collin.
you need to review lecture material each week in order to enjoy this class. I think you can enjoy this class if you either a)really like OEB or b) consistently review the material. I did not and was consistently confused each lecture.. and then only really understood the material after reviewing for the midterms. The workload isn't too much but in order to succeed you need to put in many more hours each week than most people do. There are optional assignments to boost your grade but I'm not sure how much they help you. It isn't structured very well. It is a lot of memorization and not easy so if you are looking to fulfill second semester of bio for premed like I was.. I'd suggest taking something else. It was alright though. not very stressful.
The course is fine if you need a way to fulfill an OEB or pre-med requirement, but independently of that, it has issues.  Professors are great but the way their lectures were strung together was oftentimes very unclear, and they go through a ton of material very quickly.  Labs are tedious and riddled with review that is helpful but mandatory where it could otherwise be left to be done at your discretion.  The course will give you a solid grounding in biodiversity and you will meet some great professors, but those are the only major positives.
I took this course figuring it would be an easy A. From what they told us in the course, the exams would be fair and grades would also be fair. On the contrary, I found that studying the material that they told us to was not enough to do well on exams, and the opt-in assignments were a waste of time. Take this course, but be aware that it is not as easy as you think.
take if premed or bio major, or if you are really interested in topic.  not ideal for random elective
The class is a great intro to Biology, as it teaches about biodiversity, molecular biology, and ecology. However, the class was based mostly on memorization, and originality and authenticity was not valued much (1-2 assignments on grant proposals). Overall, the class does not require much work outside of class. Focus on memorizing the slides and lecture questions.
This class sacrifices meaningful depth for breadth. The idea is to expose you to a range of topics in OEB, but it's really just memorizing lots of shallow detail. The tests were the study questions rearranged.  You learn heaps of interesting facts, but leave without a cohesive body of knowledge. Honestly, just skip this class and go right to a higher level OEB -- it will be worth it and you don't really need this class as a prerequisite. I did it and so can you! OEB is such a fantastic department and this class does not do it justice. That said, you can tell the course staff cares. The professors seem invested and passionate. TF Heather is awesome.
The material in this class is fascinating and extremely relevant - you'll learn a lot of information that will apply to modern conservation efforts and global-scale biology. The lectures are not very well organized, so studying is a challenge in terms of knowing WHAT to study, not the material itself. If you have taken AP Biology and LS1a/LPSA and LS1b before, you are totally golden, but it's definitely manageable if you have only taken AP Bio. The field trips are a BLAST, it's so worth it to get off campus and explore New England from a biologist's perspective. Also, definitely do the opt-in assignments, they're basically a Harvard form of extra credit.
Make sure you understand the lectures after each one. It's hard to have to teach yourself all the lectures come exam time. Don't use the textbook - only use lecture info to study.
Not the absolutely easiest way to satisfy SLS, but not hard, and very interesting.
Do the study questions
This course covers a lot of information very quickly, so be prepared to memorize a lot of information before the midterms and final exams.
The opt-in assignments were great. The grading system is better than fair, and the midterms and final are very straightforward. Section is short with a great review, and the lectures are interesting. Highly recommend!!
This was an awesome course! The professors do a great job of making the material interesting and tying it to relevant examples. The field trips were awesome and lab wasn't actually a waste of time. They really want you to have a good experience and try hard to give you a taste of being a field biologist. Definitely the most caring and helpful course staff I've ever had. Exams are a bit of a pain because there is so much material but it's definitely do-able- just use the study questions for each lecture.
Overall the class is interesting but covers many topics (bacteria, plants, fungi) that not all students will have a personal interest in. It also requires a lot of memorization. However, I left feeling like I had a much greater understanding of the diversity of life.
This class is such a chill and enjoyable class that I would take it to learn some general evolutionary concepts (that aren't too conceptually difficult) with a fairly light workload if you choose to make it so. The TF's and Professors are all laidback people who still care about the subject, but due to the nature of the subject (especially phylogeny), it's fairly heavy on memorization.

That being said, definitely do and know the lecture review things that Collin posts thoroughly. He's awesome and writes the exams as well (though I'm not sure if he'll be back next year?), and they're really good for knowing what material you're asked to study.
Pretty easy but there are so many more interesting/intense courses you could be taking on ANY of these topics. Good survey of life. AWESOME field trips.
This course tries to cover too much material and do too many things  at once for students interested in life science. It failed to be cohesive because of that - section and lecture and field trips always felt scattered.
Oh my god it's so easy. This is a ridiculous course. It's also weird and hilarious and fun. The slides don't make sense sometimes--there's one that's just a picture of coral, and then in comic sans in the corner it says "soft coral porn" which, as someone who didn't go to lecture and thus had no explanation, was pretty great. This class is great. I don't even want that magical slide explained to me.
If you're interested in biodiversity/evolutionary biology, then it's a great class that covers a lot of ground. If not, be aware the the exams require a lot of memorization.
This course made me fall in love with biology. It doesn't really teach you a lot of in-depth information, but how to think like a biologist.
There's a lot covered but it's all so interesting. Exams are fair and the only hard part is probably the grant proposal, but it's a very great course.
This course has a lot of issues. Unfortunately, it's a prereq for a lot of other good classes, so it has to be suffered through. It's disorganized, sprawling, etc. and it makes it hard to learn.
You should take this class, but be prepared for the 2nd midterm to memorize phylogenies extensively.  It is unlike anything else in the course with the amount of detail that it entails
Try to do opt in problems because it will help and don't under estimate the midterms. They will trip you up and you can lose dumb points.
It's a great straight forward class if you stay on top of your studies.
It's a cool class to learn stuff but the way they run it and grade it make it difficult to enjoy.
Elena Kramer is a goddess and the TF stuff is very good!!
This is one of the most amazing classes offered at Harvard. The course offers so many different and interesting topics that will enable you to gain a greater understanding of the world around you and how we as humans are part of an interdependent ecosystem. It is exciting to understand the basis of current environmental concerns.  You will also love gaining a deep knowledge about the most fascinating things (such as organisms that use iron for fuel, or how the largest organism on earth is a fungus.) Every class was eye-opening!
This is a much better option to take than LS1a or LS1b if you are a premed looking to fulfill the biology requirement.  The field trips are a fun addition to the material and this course has great lecturers who manage to give an excellent overview of organismic biology.  However, beware that the difficulty is very misleading.  Since there is very little work, your grade consists of two midterms and a final in addition to the grant proposal.  Try to do the optional lab write-ups, press project, optional grant proposal, but the optional problem sets are extremely hard to get an A on.  Also, the exams are very memorization heavy and it is quite difficult to get an A on the exams.  It seems like they made the course harder this year as opposed to years in the past.  Make sure you like your TF since there were some TFs who lacked knowledge on all subjects in the course.
The only good part of OEB 10 was the optional problem sets. You can get through this course doing basically nothing but going to lecture for most of the semester and just cramming for a few days before the exams. That said, the material is pretty basic, and will be mostly review if you have had a good AP biology class. A lot of emphasis is put on memorization, and grades don't seem to be correlated with conceptual understanding of the material. The field trips for this class almost made it worth it on their own though, and a lot of the examples in lecture were pretty cool.
OEB 10 is a great class. I can honestly recommend this class to anyone, not just OEB concentrators. For that matter, not just to science concentrators: for all of you people out there looking for an SLS, this class is super chill, really interesting, and doesn't require much from you on a week-to-week basis. I'd also recommend doing the Popular Press Opt-in project; I don't know how much it's weighed on my grade yet (obviously), but it was a great way to introduce myself to some really high-quality evolutionary biology writing. Take this class, you won't regret it (unless you for some reason have a strong adversity to plants--those get a lot of attention for a week or two in the middle of the course).
This is a fantastic course. If you're interested in the diversity of life, this is the course for you. As far as pre-med goes, it's an easy way to get out your second bio (the lab portion of this class is TINY), but not applicable to the MCAT. Overall, a solid course that I would recommend even to non-science concentrators who are looking for an interesting SLS course.
