Be prepared for a very disorganized/full of tangents lecture style.
This course was an excellent way to fulfill a core class.  It was both interesting and easy.
Great class.  If you're trying to fulfill a science core, this class is also great because it's fun and interesting.  Don't take if you have no interest or hate animals.
Good to take if you're into the specifics of animal behavior, particularly insects and fish
OEB 57 gives a wonderfully rich introduction to animal behavior and I strongly recommend the course to anyone interested in the material, regardless of their background in the subject.
This is a great class but you MUST be very into it.  I would not recommend this class to anybody who is just taking it to fulfill a core, because there is too much evolutionary theory and stuff in it for those who are not interested.
Animal Behavior is interesting - but the class is not any good.  I knew that sophomore and junior when I dropped the class because I didn't like how it was taught.  But I had to take it - so eventually I did.
If you love animals, this course is a must. It is colorful and engaging and a lot of fun.
This is a fun class to take even if you're not a science person.  Definitely take at least one OEB class, and if you can, choose animal behavior.
Do not take this course unless you are a bio/neurobio person, or are really interested in animal behavior. I came in thinking it would be a good way to fulfill a core requirement, but it was a lot harder than I was expecting.
It is the most light-hearted, refreshing, and at the same time intellectually stimulating course in the biological fields. Anyone remotely interested in biology or even in humanities must take this course!
Attend the guest lectures.
Entertaining class filled with video materials. Great for visual learners. Guest lectures are a bit of a pain but generally are interesting. Squirrel experiment is an awesome change of pace.
Fun assignments and a wonderful professor.
unorganized
It's a little disorganized and there is little unity in the class. Also, it seems to focus more on anecdotes and specific cases than concepts.
It's pretty painless and fairly interesting.  Don't go in expecting an intense academic experience.
Don't take it for the core! It's a trap! Hardest science b you can possibly take.Also, don't let the simplicity of the subject as seen through lectures and readings fool you. They find ways to make the exams difficult.
It is a very interesting course full of vibrant examples of ethology, but the material can be challenging at times.
the examples, if not always related to each other are always fascinating and informative. However, it is difficult to decipher which concepts and examples are most important, and also hard sometimes to figure out what concept the examples are demonstrating
this class is frustrating.  if you have to take it for concentration requirement it is not that bad but i wouldn't recommend it if you don't have to take it.  it is disorganized and vague but requires you to know specific details of all topics covered.  the guest lectures were hard to attend because they were later in the evening on wednesdays.
If ethology gets you going, it is the best place to start.
Not very helpful if you are a Neurobiology concentrator.  Like I mentioned before, MCB 80 is a much better class and you actually learn.  I felt like I did not learn much in this class that I will retain once I am done.  It is not a good class to take as an elective.  I would not recommend it unless the  professor changes, or if you have to take it because of the Neurobiology concentration requirement.  I do not think this should be a requirement for the concentration.
I would tell them to study for the exams alot.
You have to really like the details of animal behavior (like what's going on inside) to like this class. It wasn't what I was expecting.
what a great class
Naomi Pierce is an excellent lecturer. Anyone that likes animals, whether or not its their concentration requirement, should take it. This is my favorite class in Harvard so far!
Try to do the lecture notes in your own hand
It is a very fun way to fulfill a Science B core and learn more about natural behaviors you see around you every day.  The animal kingdom is SO fascinating once you learn about all these behavioral quirks and how they have evolved! :)
If you're taking this as a core, beware - there are many science enthusiasts and it is very possible to be lost in the crowd.
Overly concerned with details-- I probably won't remember anything from this course in a month, except the image of damselflies having sex.
I loved this class. It made me consider changing from a humanities concentrator to an OEB concentrator.
Great introduction to a different side of biology.
Even if you really like animals, do not take this class unless you really like memorization.
i would tell them that it was an inappropriate required class for my concentration but is perfectly acceptable for someone who wants to learn about animal behavior
Dear god this may be the most useless class I've ever taken. Animal behavior is a ridiculous guessing game, and most of the time when you figure out why one animal does something you can't extrapolate it to any other animal ever because the circumstances are all different. You're not doing anything for mankind by studying bugs.
maybe
I would tell them the material is very interesting and it is an enjoyable and manageable introduction to the topic.
I don't enjoy this subject, so that is part of the reason why I give it a low rating. The professor is fun, but the class itself is irritating. It requires a lot of memorization of random concepts. I find that the class also discourages any sort of analytical thinking. If memorization is your thing, this is a great course. Otherwise, choose another. I'm going to forget everything I learned last semester in a couple weeks.
Too hard and unreasonably demanding. Which is a shame, because the instructor is adorable and the material is interesting.
This class is difficult, but well worth the work. The subject matter is very interesting and the lectures are intellectually engaging, as well as fun.
It isn't that difficult but it's very interesting.
Next year, this class will change substantially to become more difficult and neuro-bio focused; this class is mostly neuro-biology concentrators
fun material, relaxed student environment, but tested like a freshman class.
This class isn't about the life cycles of different species, it's not like the lecture form of nature documentaries; it takes "animal behavior" to a far more extensive level. You will learn about neural circuitry, evolutionary history, and the mathematics of eusociality. You will also, barring changes to the course, get to receive lots of strange looks from tourists as you chase squirrels around Cambridge trying to observe their feeding and caching behavior. All in all, a great time!
It's tough, but very rewarding.
I did not like the class before the problem set material, do not take it unless you are have to. Lectures were many times dry and overly structured. Levi Yant is my favorite TF at Harvard though, get in his section.
Take the course seriously, and you won't be caught by surprise by the difficulty of the tests. Enjoy it--this is one of the best classes I've taken so far at Harvard, and you can learn a great deal more than just the nominal subject material if you're disciplined and take advantage of the teaching staff's accessibility.
Incredible material.
Only take this course if you have to, or if you have a serious interest in animal behavior.
hope you like animals! and math about animals!
The bird feeder experiment was a little annoying with the specifications.  During the course, it seemed like there wasn't that much work, but when the midterm and final came around you realized that you had a lot more studying to do than you thought.  Even so, I'd recommend the course to anyone interested in neurobiology and/or evolution, because the material was very, very interesting and we had some great guest lecturers.
The David Attenborough animal behavior videos were really awesome, and the material is relatively easy.  I did learn not to blindly trust experiments in literature.However, the guest lectures at 7:30pm can get tiresome, section requires an irritating mix of psets, reading quizzes, and writeups, the midterm and final are detail oriented, lectures aren't videotaped, lecture slides aren't helpful, and I still don't think that it was a necessary class for neuro concentrators.  On paper it looks well-balanced and a nice curriculum, until you realize how much time it takes.  Some parts are interesting, but don't take it if you don't have to.  If you do take it, GO TO LECTURE and TAKE GOOD NOTES.
This class is pretty mediocre. Its overview of animal behavior is not bad, but not thrilling either. Guest lectures are, for the most part, useless and boring, and the bird feeder assignment was one of the most frustrating, useless, unhelpful assignments I've had to do here at Harvard. The first half (which focuses more on neurobiology/genes affecting behavior) redeems the second half(which focuses on applying economic principles to animal behavior).
Take this class only if you need it as a neurobio concentration requirement (why it is a requirement is still a mystery). The first half of the course, taught by Prof. Olvecsky, was decent. Prof. Pierce's lectures, however, were very boring and technical. My biggest problem with the problem sets in the second half was that we learned the material in class after each problem set was due (so we wasted lots of time struggling with the problem sets). The bird manuscript project at the end is also annoying, considering you have very few results to work with. The exams are not bad, but not great either.
It's interesting but the tests can be pretty hard.
Really interesting material is covered in this class! The tests are a lot harder than you would expect though.
If you've taken any other intro science courses at Harvard, this course is relearning for the most part, with different examples.
You learn a lot of the basic principles and theories behind animal behavior. Pretty interesting stuff.
Be prepared to put in a lot of hours (in class and out) but if you put in the effort the materials are really enriching.
Write notes in class, don't depend on slides afterwards.
If you are a Neurobiology student, then there is not much you can do to avoid this. However, you should be able to do well if you put in mild effort, or if you have a good TF. You will be bored out of your brain though and you'll be forced to attend useless guest lectures at night as if you didn't have enough too much on your plate already.
Do not be intimidated by the subject if you normally like learning only about the human body - I literally skipped a few lectures of this class and still did really well (assuming you're smart and pick up facts/ can memorize details easily). You still have to read papers carefully though and participate in section.
The class is good but make sure u keep on your work.
This is a great class that teaches you to understand how evolutionary theory is applicable to animal (and sometimes human) behavior. This will give you a better and broader context in which to place the more detailed disciplines such as molecular cellular biology or neurobiology.
This is a good course if you're interested in animal behavior and neurobiology.  The professors are enthusiastic, and they show tons of cool animal documentary clips. Many of the topics are very interesting and observable in nature.
- the subject matter seems interesting, but it is not. - it seems like an easy course, but it's more difficult because there aren't set topics or review session, or any discussion of the material, but you still need to memorize everything
interesting material but not always clearly taught
material is interesting at first, but after the many guest lectures on wednesday nights and having to go look at birds, it gets pretty old.  take it if you really have to.
I recommend this class if you feel like you have a grasp on how the material learned in lectures are to be tested in the actual midterms/final.
Midterms and Final are so rough... LOTS of information is covered and materials/resources offered in the class aren't that helpful. Take good notes and review material often to keep up with the class
Class was interesting, but some annoying assignments with vague directions, section articles are interesting though, guest lectures can be a pain to sit through though.
This class is required for neuro concentrators.. It doesn't relate to neuro. It was not as exciting as MCB 80, so be prepared to MAKE YOURSELF WORK.  I am waiting to see why we needed this course and am hoping that other neuro courses are not like this ( just gathering facts about animal behavior-- there was no unifying theme that made it all come together for me, which was disappointing). That being said, I can see why OEB students would love to know about the evolution of eusociality and game theory.
The content is great, the exams are hard
As a course necessary for Neurobiology concentration, I would tell other concentrators that this class isn't a bad requirement. However I still don't understand why it is a requirement for neuro, since there wasn't very much neuro taught in the class.
The class gives you new perspective on not only animals, but human nature. Cool class, just make sure you have no problem going as they refuse to tape the lectures.
you'll watch a lot of david attinborough videos.
Even though animal behavior seems like an interesting topic, there is a ridiculous amount of information you will be expected to memorize and the problem sets/exams are designed to trick you. The bird feeder experiment is rather pointless and something you will endure.
Fantastic class that is well structured and interesting.
The lecture material is very interesting.  The guest lectures are a pain in the ass, and some of the lectures are difficult  (though some are interesting). Section is largely unrelated to the lectures.
It's not the best course, but the material can be interesting. An awkward marriage of neurobiology and ecology
Only take if you need concentration requirement
The material is great--who doesn't want to learn about animal sex and watch them mount each other? Everyone loves the course topic, there's no doubt about that. It's the course structure that totally needs work. They need to trim the fat--there's enough extra stuff here to sustain a 50-foot bear's winter hibernation (and probably even enough to cover his mating season too). Guest lectures are UNNECESSARY and really quite distracting from the rest of the course. I remember 0 things from those lectures because you're pressured to memorize what these random professors say about their research (yes, it is on the exam), and in the end you gain nothing. The bird feeder experiment ties in with the class in no real fashion, so it's a waste of time as well. Sections require you to read articles, take quizzes on them, and discuss them--you never talk about lecture materials, so section is essentially a class on its own (Neuro concentrators--think an upper level discussion-based Neuro course, but downsized). You'll get frustrated with problem sets, but guess what, you'll still remember that material 'cause you wrestled with it. Pressure the professors to tape the lectures because much of the exams are based on the lectures and lecture slides don't fill you in if you miss any part of it (and it's easy to miss part of this class because it's in NW labs). You should also petition to get the class moved to somewhere better, like the science center. Also, you should petition to have the guest lecturers, if they keep them in the class, to be done somewhere closer as well, because no one wants to walk to NW labs on a Wednesday night at 7:30 to fall asleep during a lecture not because he's lazy, but because the lecture is long and dense. So in short, make them change the lecture halls, make them cut the bird feeder and tailor sections better for the class itself, encourage them to cut the guest lectures, and you'll be fine. And don't put the class on your study card until you guys mobilize a student union against the unnecessary cow poop of the class, because in the end you benefit from less, not more, busy work.
I took this class as an elective because I wanted to learn about cool things that animals do. It served its purpose. Along the way I also learned about how to think more scientifically. I also liked the game theory component and the problem sets in the second half. The bird feeder manuscript is kind of annoying, but it's not that bad.
The problem sets and exams were surprisingly difficult. Study for exams, and prepare to spend a while on problem sets.If you like neurobiology, you'll like the first half of the course--the second half is more ecological.
It's so easy and fun!  Take it!  Some people complain about the midterm (which is on housing day - boo!) and the final (which is kind of long).  The final is easily manageable if you prepare at all - if housing day is super important to you, the midterm is only 1.5 hours.  Bence's lectures are really fantastic and Naomi is super cute, the material is really fun and interesting (sometimes a bit hodge-podge) and getting an A is really not difficult.  Also: try to get Chris Baker if he is a TF again - he is fabulous!
This course was somewhat interesting because of its connection to animal behavior (there were a lot of interesting movies).
Attend lecture!  They're great!
rather dull at times and not a very clearly organized course.the journal articles that are read in section are very interesting though, and the video clips of the animal behavior described in lecture are awesome.  I wish I had the collection of them to watch now!
really interesting; fun class to learn some cool behavioral material, but also science-oriented and not an easy course.
Don't take this course only because you love animals and want to learn more about them. The course is very demanding and consists of many different components which can often seem to be daunting to deal with all at the same time. It can be a fun course as long as you're on top of the material on a weekly basis, especially during the second half of the course.
This is an awesome class in which the section component is really great but it's not just a review of the lecture material. The material is really interesting and the guest lecture are worth the trek to Northwest at night.
I know that you are thinking that Animal Behavior sounds extremely interesting and fun. However, this class is anything but animal behavior. The material is extremely superficial and useless. You will be calculating the coefficient of relatedness between hymenopterans- which if you know anything about Kin Selection, you will know that it's one of the most useless skills you could learn. Furthermore, the first half of the class is just as bad. There is no cohesiveness, and they don't really teach you anything that you haven't learned in MCB80. Surprisingly, it was a huge disappointment.
the videos were the best part and got me interested
A lot of components of this class make it far less enjoyable than it should be given how interesting the material is that we cover. Wednesday night additional guest lectures in NW labs are horrible, and the bird feeder assignment was time consuming and unclear. Only take this if you really love the material and are willing to make a big time commitment, or if you have to for your concentration.
overall this course is pretty fun and easy going, but when the exams come up it is stressful because there is a lot of material!  also you really do need to read for section every week because it is entirely discussion based
There are periods when you have to work very hard and periods where you don't have to work at all. Just be ready to tell when.
Exams can be very tricky, asking about lots of really seemingly tiny details.
This class has a lot of material and you need to know all of it, including the examples they give. Pay Attention in class!
#md Unfortunately, this course is a requirement for neurobiology. I don't understand why it is necessary given the various options that exist to learn behaviroal mechanisms. I would be very careful about taking this course. Unfortunately the material has a very academic feel to it despite the alluring title of animal behavior. With section readings, guest lectures, guest lecture readings, problem sets, textbook readings, lectures at 10am in the morning in the NW labs, the work can easily pile up. And dear student, it is not rainbows and butterflies, it's compromise and sacrifice. The conceptual questions are extremely meticulous and very rarely test for understanding-- most of the time just memorization of minute truism from the articles. I enjoyed the quant part of the course, but unfortunately this was all concentrated in the last three weeks it seemed. Stay away for the sake of your gpa if anything. -signed, lowly premed.
It is vital to stay on top of all of the section readings and be active in section since a good portion of your grade comes from section. Also, make sure that you start studying well in advance for the midterm and the final; they are both knowledge and endurance tests.
Take good notes, and lecture slides are the most important to study
I had fun with the material. It was fun survey of behavioral science. The guest lectures are tedious to go to but great.
Very interesting material.  The examinations are both surprisingly difficult.  Seriously: don't underestimate that
I would NEVER have taken this course if it weren't a Neurobio req. I don't see how it fits the concentration either.
It's awful don't do it.
The material presented is extremely interesting, but this class is easy to fall behind in if you don't review lecture slides and understand the material as it is taught.
The course is still a bit scattered, but I think it's good for learning various elements of animal behavior. Not a heavy workload during the semester, but the exams are tough since you don't necessarily know what they are looking for.
The only thing that makes this class hard is the final exam
good introduction to animal behavior but lot of assignments to deal with
Make sure you keep up with all of the material presented in each lecture because the questions on the exams are very specific.
The course had way too much going on: lecture + lecture readings to section + section readings + section presentations, guest lectures and readings for those, problem sets, and the birdfeeder experiment. It was overwhelming and hard to keep up with all of the material. The first half of the course is much better than the second, and also your experience is highly dependent on your TF. I wouldn't particularly recommend this class, but if you have to take it for your concentration, you'll live.
Interesting material, but the course needs to be revamped - especially the sections and assignments in order to be really good.
This class is the type of class where you just have to memorize everything. The tests are rough and the graders are picky on the short answer questions.
This course is fun (think: watching lots of clips of animals doing interesting things) and pretty easy.  Section can be boring, but it's a class worth taking, even as an elective, if you're interested in the subject.
It's a very interesting look at animal behavior that, as a neuro major simply looking to fulfill a requirement, changed the way I look at other animals and humans. I think the knowledge is rewarding, yet the structure makes it seem like two entirely different classes.
Take the course since its a prerequisite. Pay attention to the specific stuff. Get together a study group.
This class emphasizes learning about animal behavior through the guided analysis of published research on the subject, so you leave this class with a greater appreciation for scientific experimentation.
TAKE IT! although the lecture slides are a bit poor, the section component of this class and the experiments you get to discuss are fascinating!
Take it! Bence and Naomi are amazing. I looked forward to every class and the guest lectures are so much fun--don't listen to the people who complain about it being in NW Labs; we all need the exercise anyway and it feels more like a fun outing (like the field trips in elementary school) than a chore. So enjoyable--my favorite class this semester.
OEB concentrators might like this course, since it is more relevant to what they study. As a Neurobiology concentrator, I was not a fan, and it has absolutely no relevance to what I plan to do, but since it's a requirement...
Exams emphasized literal memorization of slides- they were very detailed.  Not sufficient to understand themes and concepts.  Sometimes the slides did not make certain things clear so there were things to piece together on your own.  Definitely would not recommend as an elective
The class isn't necessarily hard, but it's definitely annoying for neuro concentrators. The second half has no applicability to what you're interested in, and the lecture slides are painfully lacking any sort of useful information whatsoever. But, it's a concentration requirement. If that ever changes, the enrollment in this class will drop dramatically.
This is a fun class.
Lecture slides pretty unhelpful when you're reviewing for exams/etc. The learning curve for the psets is like hitting a brick wall... the first one is incredibly easy and then you have no idea what's going on for the rest of them. A lot of watching videos of animals doing the deed, which is great.
Go to guest lectures because it's more convenient than writing a paper on it each week.
This course covers very interesting topics, so you will love lecture, but beware of the exams (they ask more specific things than you would expect).
If you take this class be prepared to memorize every single detail on every single lecture slide. Section was definitely the highlight of the class. Lectures were interesting, but exam questions and assignments were very very annoying.
Good way to fulfill concentration requirements.
The lecturers and lecturers were interesting, but the course asks a lot of you that doesn't seem very helpful.
Honestly the material isn't what I'm interested in so I thought the class was pointless. However, you did learn a lot and for a required course it wasn't bad at all.
The class material itself is not difficult to understand--but there is a lot of it, and there are a lot of details. So because of this, the midterm and the final are difficult.
This course is a great combination of neurobiology, ecology, and evolution. Take it if you're interested in any of those.
easy class, but a less easy final
It's an interesting class, but there's more work involved than meets the eye.  I kind of feel stupid since the professors and TFs seem to rave about what an easy class it is, but the minutiae covered on the exams seem to say otherwise.
the material is interesting but it can seem ranging and scattered
Its a really interesting class. A solid amount of work, but worth it.
Only take this class if it is a requirement because the assignments are very annoying and sometimes tedious
it's very fun and generally painless.  the final exam, however, is ridiculously long so be prepared for that.  also, study your psets and the more rigorous aspects of the course.
Don't let the syllabus fool you - there's a whole separate syllabus for section assignments.
This class teaches you about the internal and external factors influencing animal behaviors and highlights an array of interesting materials and concepts. Many readings are done from research papers, teaching you not only the concepts covered in them, but also ways in which you can write an effective paper, which is an assignment at the end. The bird feeder experiment was a fun process. Guest lectures are informative and some are entertaining (while others can be quite boring).
very visual; lectures are great
Really really fun class. Not too much work, and the work is all very appropriate and helpful - zero busywork, very efficient workload. Fun lectures, awesome material. Appropriate for OEB types, MCB types, and non-science people alike. Fun and highly informative/educational.
Subject material is interesting but assignments are somewhat annoying
This class is awesome!  Although the exams and certain assignment are difficult, the material is really engaging if you're at all into animals, and it's really well organized and presented in a fun way.
It's a really interesting class, you won't be bored no matter what you're interests may be.
Awesome. Your friends will get sick of hearing about the crazy things you're learning in lecture.
This class is usually taken as a concentration requirement, so there's no choice.  But it is an interesting science course that doesn't require any previous knowledge.
It's pretty easy but not incredibly stimulating. If you need to take both MCB 80 and OEB 57 (e.g. neurobio), TAKE OEB 57 FIRST! MCB is much more in depth so taking OEB 57 after is pretty anticlimactic and slightly frustrating when all the details are left out.
You get to learn cool things about animals!! Not terribly difficult, well-run course.
This class was just not intriguing for me. It felt like a lot of random facts thrown together. I wouldn't take it if I didn't have to.
Do speed drills before the exam! You may not finish otherwise.
The first half of the course is fantastic. If you don't like game theory and more ec/math-based material, the second half of the course might not be your favorite.
It's fun and interesting,  but a little difficult.
I would tell students that this class is very interesting but not as easy as it seems. The class definitely requires effort but it's worth it.
Although I like animal behavior, the shear amount of poorly organized data you see in this course is daunting and the experimental design component of the course is poor.
This class has an incredible atmosphere.  Both of the professors and all of the teaching fellows are really enthusiastic about the material.  It's also really well-run and provides students with a variety of perspectives on the subject matter.  Section is based on discussing scientific papers instead of on lecture material, which makes it much more interest.  You get to try doing a field observation, and hearing the guest lecturers talk about their research is really great even if you do have to go back to Northwest on a weeknight. Lectures have lots of fun video clips, too!  This course was a requirement, but it didn't feel like one.
While fun, this class is a lot of work in terms of reading the articles and understanding the concepts, particularly for the first half of the course.
humans are just smart animals - this class teaches a lot of interesting things about how dumber animals behave.
The first half was a watered down version of MCB80 (take that instead if you're interested in mechanisms behind behavior), but the second half's content was pretty interesting if you like to apply econ concepts to behavior.
You have to take this for certain concentrations.
There is a lot of work, but the lectures are fun.
Be careful with the final.
Take really good notes!  The lecture slides are mostly useless if you don't have notes to go along with the picture of a koala that reads "chlamydia?" underneath it
Not an easy class but is interesting.
It is a fun class and the teaching staff is great. The material is interesting. It does require a lot of memorization though. And I did not enjoy the bird feeder experiment.
Have fun learning about animals! Prepare, however, for a very difficult final exam.
the class is not too hard, but requires a decent amount of memorization.
Get Gabriel Miller as your TF.  It is a manageable sci-b core.
disorganized, horrible assignments (pointless, annoying, poorly timed, and poorly thought out, poor communication on the part of the faculty. lecture slides are useless and guest lectures are mandatory. does not follow the textbook at all. The course was a waste of my time. Decently easy if you just want to get a good grade though.
If you are interested in animal behavior to a great degree and are willing to be involved in the nitty gritty details of neurobiology in animals and evolutionary theory, then this class may appeal to you. However, it is not an easy elective or fun for everyone. You really should be interested in biology-- and most likely have a good background in neurobiology, genetics, and evolution-- to take it. This class is average; don't be fooled by the title "animal behavior" and think it will automatically be light-hearted and fun. It can be much more dry than you think.
Only take this course if it's required for your concentration or if you're really interested in animal behavior. I didn't really like the material and found it to be largely irrelevant to anything I would be doing in the future.
It's not a neurobiology course.
Whether you are taking this to fulfill a Neuro or OEB req or just for fun, OEB 57 is a lot of fun and not very much work. There are a lot of components to the course, but it is organized very well into weekly expectations: short articles and quizzes in section, 3 problem sets, interesting guest lectures. It may feel like there are a lot of class related things to attend, you really don't have to spend too much time on the course outside of that. Just stay on top of when assignments are due. All the TFs are really great (Chris is super helpful with the economic model psets) and there were a lot of weeks where we had some pretty interesting discussions. Lectures sometimes feel like "here are some random facts about animals" but I think at the end of the course, you get a good sense of the bigger picture of animal motivations and why they behave a certain way. Bence and Naomi are pretty good lecturers (though I would say Bence is more organized with his lecture slides). Take this class!
Only about half the information was new (most of it has come up in other courses at one point or another). It would be a good course to take early in college (i.e. freshman year).
This course has interesting material, but don't let the multiple choice midterm fool you, the final is a PAIN!
beware of the final
This course is very hard to study for.  Tests draw from coursebook readings, section readings, lectures (which are never discussed after they are given), and guest lectures.  It is almost impossible to get a handle on all of the information with so many sources that may or may not be relevant. Also, it is very difficult to learn all of the lecture material because the subject matter is given very quickly and then never discussed again.
Had great expectations of this course, was let down. A lot of information felt repetitive, and problem sets/exams were surprisingly difficult and time-consuming.
It is very interesting and not too difficult for how much you learn.
It's a good class, just make sure you keep up with the materials and lectures.
Animal behavior goes beyond our own perception of animals and can be applied to our own nature today through natural selection and concepts we learned in the course.
Interesting if you like animals, but the first half of the course seems to be a repetition of MCB80 except applied to animals, and you are expected to memorize a lot of details for the exams.
Enjoy the lectures, keep up with the section readings, and good luck on the final!
The material is fascinating.  Each lecture has at least one video of animals doing cool things, so on the whole lectures are really interesting.  There is very little work aside from section readings until the very end of the semester, but be prepared to spend a significant amount of time on the bird feeder manuscript.  And beware of the final exam! Study your lecture notes really carefully and be ready to regurgitate the many definitions and examples given in class in short answer form.
hardly any work during the semester, but watch out for the final exam, it counts for a lot and is really hard.
This class features very a interesting and holistic overview of animal animal behavior. The mathematical models taught in this class are very intriguing and they train you to think critically.
Prepare yourself for no curve at the end of the class and for a final that kicks your ass. This isn't a real science course at all.
Animal Behavior is fascinating, you learn a ton, the professors are great, and you get to watch a lot of video clips that actually relate to course material.
Whether or not you like it depends on your ratio of interest in neurobiology/evolutionary and organismic biology...be ready for the second half if it's not your thing.
This class provides a fascinating window into the study of animal behavior. I am now totally enthralled by the subject and I only wish I had taken the course my freshman year and discovered this interest sooner!
This class is definitely manageable in terms of workload. Just stay on top of section readings. The multiple choice exams are very difficult though.
The tests are going to be hard because you just have to know everything that has been said in lecture.  YOU NEED TO GO LECTURE
Great intro to neurobiology and animal behavior
Do no gloss over even the tiniest details - you will need to know them on the test!
I'd recommend it if you have an avid interest in the area, but if I'm sure there are better Gen Eds or electives out there. As a concentration course, it isn't as bad as many other required ones out there.
I wouldn't recommend it unless it was a requirement. There are a lot of small assignments that appear meaningless.
A fun, non-stressful class with a lot of interesting videos about wacky animals. Professor Pierce is a great lecturer.
unless the format of testing and assessments are drastically changed, the material is just not enjoyable to learn.
The course is far more heavily neurobiology-based than evolution-based. The sections are frustratingly disparate from lectures. The required guest lectures every Wednesday night are a big commitment because they're all the way in Northwest Labs. Sections are also frustratingly far (most of them in N/W labs as well).
A great way to learn about animal behavior and a course that I think has improved tremendously over the past few years. Might as well be retitled OEB 57: Sir David Attenborough.
Unless you're a particularly enthused fan of animal behaviour, don't take this course. The first half will seem alright, but the second half will send you crawling up a wall. In addition, the paper writeup is rather arbitrarily graded and meaningless as far as learning goes. Almost every single other science class that I've taken has taught me so much more about writing hypothesis and science articles, with much less effort.
Just go to lecture and pay attention :D You learn so many cool things...but the lectures could go a little bit faster (for the second half of the course we would almost never finish on time)
OEB57 is an AMAZING class, one of the best I've ever taken at Harvard for sure! I know this class has gotten a bad rep in years past ( for not being relevant to neurobio, too much work, etc) but I think they really revamped the class this semester in every way. Lectures were absolutely fascinating, with tons of planet earth videos, section was actually really enjoyable, and there ended up not being too much work. (Psets/question sets take no more than 1-2 hours per week!) The only thing I would say that is tough about this class is the midterm and final, they are extremely detail oriented and you won't be able to find all the material on the slides, you'll actually have needed to attend lecture and taken notes. I wasn't vigilant about taking notes and ended up not being able to understand some concepts by just looking at the slides before the exam.
I would only take this class if you need it for a requirement or are generally interested in animal behavior.
A lot of the information in this course is very similar to that of MCB80, so it definitely does help to take that class first; however, OEB57 has somewhat simpler material and is definitely less time consuming.
Most students who take this class are Neurobio student who have to take it - that having been said, realize that this course focuses pretty specifically on animals with little human relevance.
The material is decently interesting, but do not make the mistake of underestimating the amount of material buried in the lectures. Going back over all the material covered for the final was more than a little bit overwhelming.
Super random class with interesting material. seems easy until the tests!
Animal Behavior is a very interesting subject and the course materials are fantastic (especially the videos). I really enjoyed this course and I think it has improved compared to last year, but there is still more room for improvement.
Take good notes in class, and start the p-sets and final paper early
This course is a requirement for neurobiology, but I would not take it if it were not a requirement. The animals addressed in examples throughout the course were interesting, but the lectures were not very helpful, and the problem sets were difficult to understand and tedious.
I am a history major and a senior and I wanted to take a fun bio class pass/fail to learn some natural history before I graduated. This was not the correct class to take. The material is mostly memorizing minutae, the psets involve game-theory math, and the professor for the second half of the course (Pierce) was much less organized than the first half (Olvetsky).
Coming into this class, I didn't expect much because a lot of Neurobio concentrators told me that is was the worst requirement in the concentration. I was pleasantly surprised. The material is actually pretty engaging, especially the second half of the class. The first half of the class is a bit redundant after taking MCB 80, but the class never seemed to be a huge time commitment. The tests can be tricky, but they're not impossible. All of this coupled with a great TF made me enjoy this class. I do wish I had more time to put into the class though
It's easy to get lost in all the material, especially in the first half of the course. Section is the best place to understand the material.
Animal planet in a class! It's sweet!
This is a straightforward, very interesting class. It is not too hard. The first half is very little work, and the second half includes a paper and some quick psets that are fairly painless.
So poorly organized, I felt like my time was being wasted. Should not be a requirement for neurobio, but it is. Make sure you memorize the slides for the midterm.
it's fine
It's a good class: the lectures are pretty interesting, the material is somewhat straightforward, and the professors are nice. Prof. Olveczky is a more engaging lecturer, but I enjoyed Prof. Pierce's lectures as well. Section was useless at times, and the assignments were decent (except for VERY long exams--the content was doable, but a 20-page final is a lot of work in 3 hours). It is a requirement for Neurobiology, so if this is a requirement for you, be prepared to work to do well.
If you like animals/quasi-economic models, you will love this class!
I am NOT a Neurobio concentrator. I took this class because I want to pursue an OEB secondary. This class needs some serious redesigning. It is advertised to students of all academic backgrounds, but is certainly not taught that way for at least half the course. Olveczky is great. He's funny, succinct, understandable, and personable. It went downhill with Pierce. She's nice, but she's awkward, goes on tangents, and let us out at LEAST 5 minutes late every day. Section was also very intimidating and geared towards Neurobio students who seem to hate the class as a requirement and want nothing to do with discussion, so you feel weird asking questions.
As is the general consensus (I do believe), this course isn't the most exciting or concentration-relevant. Don't expect to be wow-ed. Pay attention in lecture (lectures aren't recorded).
I wouldn't take this course unless you have to (for neurobio). The lectures are pretty straightforward, but the tests are really hard and make up nearly your entire grade. The questions are incredibly arbitrary and the tests are designed to trick you. However, the lecturers are pretty great.
I'm so, so sorry that you have to take this class. If you don't have to take it, please don't subject yourself to it. I went into this really, really excited to learn about Animal Behavior, and this class destroyed my interest. Advice: Pester your TFs, they can be very lazy. Take good notes. Join a study group (it WILL help). Memorize all the animal models. Stay on top of the material.
I think they've changed the structure somewhat in this last year, and I think it definitely benefitted the class. I felt that the assignments and exams were straightforward and what you'd expect. The material is pretty interesting, encompassing both neurobiological topics as well as oeb/heb topics. It was interesting to see how those fit together. The teaching staff is very communicative and obviously wants to provide as much help as they can.
The first half of the course was relatively well-lectured, Naomi Pierce's lecturing style is much too scattered for students to get any unified insight out of each lecture. The book was awful, long-winded and unhelpful. Powerpoints not NEARLY self-explanatory enough to be sufficient for learning. Some side lecture notes would have been extremely useful, but we were just kind of left drowning in water when the final came. Everything was rote memorization and little concept-learning. This is one of those factory courses, in which everyone learns the exact same useless details, and no one really thinks about concepts. A lot of material repeats previous neuro pre-req knowledge, with a slight different slant. We COULD learn all of this by ourselves, but in practice we can't because we're not provided with enough side material, so we're required to go to lecture with it feeling like a waste of time (at least the second half of the course).Bird vocalization assignment felt like a TOTAL waste of time -- not scientific in its method at all, time-consuming, and utterly unsatisfying.Problem sets were very helpful. Question sets only somewhat helpful -- would have been more helpful to get "problem-set" type assignments for the reading, because qsets are too easy to "fake" without really understanding the reading.Very little discussion. One person leading discussion is a good idea, but it causes everyone else to zone out -- we need more at stake (i.e. being graded on our comments/contributions to sections). May be more helpful to have TWO people lead discussion at a time, so that there's some discussion at least back and forth.
I mean you have to take this if you are a neuro concentrator. Definitely record the lectures and pay attention in class. The exams are hard.
Lots of memorization and more ecology based material than I had expected.
Fun and very interesting, heavy workload (if you take the class seriously) though.
Huge amounts of memorization.
This is a fun course. Animal behavior is an interesting subject and the material is never boring. The reading is never difficult, and problem sets are pretty fair.
Take very good notes and always go to lecture.  The lecture slides do not present the information clearly and there are no lecture videos to reference to.
For neurobiology concentrators, this is a requirement, so you have to take the course. It's not difficult, but it can be gassed to get motivated about the course, especially if taken after MCB80. Stay focused and study for the midterm and final a few days in advance and you should be fine. Make sure you pace yourself well on exams though.
This is a good course and it was very interesting. I liked the lecture videos and section was fantastic. All of the reading is interesting. However, beware. I thought this class was really difficult and felt somehow that nobody I talked to about the course had really fairly warned me about the difficulty level. The first half is neuro and the second half is more ecology focused. The first half was hard and I thought that midterm was extremely difficult. The second half was easier to understand but had the psets, which were not necessarily a walk in the park, but the final was easier than the midterm (although beware it does cover both halves of the course...). I think the teaching staff is fabulous and really cares about your learning, which is good. I also really enjoyed the bird manuscript and think it's a great assignment; just don't start it the day before like I did otherwise you'll hate yourself, like I did.
This class is interesting if you really like animals. It is taught well but is tested way harder than it taught.
OEB 57 is a pointless exercise for Neuro concentrators. Everything you learn that's neuro-relevant has already been covered in MCB 80. If you're passionate about Neuro, just put your head down and bear it. If you're on the fence, shop this class before you commit. If you're an OEB person, then I guess you may like this class?
I am a bit biased since I am an OEB concentrator and very interested in animal behavior to begin with, but I really loved this course. I found the professors to be quirky and interesting characters who made lecture interesting. David Attenborough's presence (through lots of videos during the lecture) also made class a lot more entertaining. It's also so important to be able to see the animal behaviors that we are studying through videos, and the professors did a good job of incorporating that into class.I was a bit disappointed that others were not as enthusiastic about the class and subject matter as I was. Most of the people in the class were neurobio concentrators, since it is a requirement for them, and I honestly found that that detracted from the class...It's an animal behavior class but I feel like the teachers had to skew things a bit more towards the human side of things to keep people's interest, whereas I was in it for the animal behavior. Section was good and culminated in a field experiment at the end of the semester, which was fun. There are only a few problem sets, and they come at the end of the semester, and there was a lot of support for completing those.If you're interested in OEB and animal behavior, you definitely need to take this class and you will surely enjoy it like I did. Just know that not everyone around you will be as excited or "into it," so don't be disappointed to discover that.
You do not need to buy the textbook! You will be tested on what you learn from lecture and the discussion readings. The problem sets are fair and the course material is really interesting!
Go to lectures and pay attention since the slides don't have all the info. Videos are fun and entertaining. Sections are the best part of this course, great TFs!
The course is wealthy in examples of the concepts you'll learn, but come test time be sure that you know the concepts well and the examples fairly well because you won't have much time to try to think of an example that you can't quite remember (it's not like you need to have photographic memory, but you will be asked to come up with some of the examples that illustrated a certain concept). Even so, the material was pretty interesting and will broaden the knowledge base that you gained in MCB 80 (which you probably took if you're taking this class; even if not, you'll be fine).
The material can be very interesting, but unfortunately the lectures can be slow and slightly incoherent in the second half of the course. Make sure to stay up with the material. Overall though, if you can engage in your section and with the material itself it is an enjoyable class. Oh, and beware that the final project requires getting up at 7am to chase squirrels.
Fascinating class with some annoying organizational aspects.
If you're taking this course, it is most likely that you are fulfilling a (neuro) requirement. The course has its merits and demerits. There are some very interesting aspects of animal behavior which will be presented, but if you're like me the lessons are mostly observational and very intuitive. Be sure to attend lectures as much as possible because the lectures are what's tested on. I never really used the book for the course and did well without it.
I would tell students to review material on a regular basis and make use of your TF for any questions. Ask questions early on so you don't find yourself confused about instructions at the last minute. Since video recordings are provided, students should audio record the lectures, which I found very helpful for review.
Great class. Very interesting and well taught. Don't listen to anyone who took the class before this year, because it was totally different back then.
This isn't the most difficult class, but it can get difficult around midterm/final time because there's a lot of material that it covers and they expect you to know it all. The first half with Professor Olveczky was great, the second half with Professor Pierce was not as enjoyable and was hard to follow without lecture notes or recordings. You learn some really interesting stuff about animals though which was entertaining.
Great for any animal lover!
OEB 57 is a requirement for Neurobiology concentrators, and that is why I took this course, but the material is interesting and useful. I believe that videos shown in lecture contributed most to my interest in the information given. Lectures could have been better organized, and the lecture slides were usually undecipherable without having attended lecture, but the course itself did include valuable material about what underlies animal behavior. Having a good section TF also made the class worthwhile. I had Chris Baker.
This is an interesting course but don't take it for granted and assume it is going to be easy. If you attend lecture and put in the work it will be easy but that's easier said than done. As far as the material, the course at times seems disconnected but the videos the professors show are pretty cool.
This class proves to be very engaging and informative if you have an interest in the subject.  Make sure you take diligent notes and pay attention during lecture.  The lectures aren't filmed and section isn't a lecture review.
Bring a video camera to record lectures otherwise, good luck on the exams. Manageable workload, however.
This class is fine.  I was worried when the comments were not posted on the cue guide, but I think it is an interesting, well-taught class. Pretty straight foreward.  Just go to class and take good lecture notes.
Neurobiology students will gain an understanding of ecology and evolution and OEB students will gain an understanding of neural networks.
Take it only if you need to. Don't waste one of the 32 classes you will take at Harvard on this one.
Just an awful course. The section component is entirely different from the lecture component, and it seems like the same people are reluctantly responding to the TFs. Be prepared to memorize EVERYTHING.
don't take it if you don't have to. or if you don't have a real interest in animals
This class is interesting and fun if you like looking at how animals behave and why they sometimes do things that appear to be detrimental to their sexual fitness. Also you should be interested in exactly how the brain of an animal works.
You'll finally have a legitimate reason to chase squirrels.
Great class, you'll learn a thing or three.
Really cool class with good presentation of the material and funny professors. The material is highly engaging and not overwhelming to someone without much science preparation in college already.
A lot of work if you haven't had a science class for a while.
Read The Red Queen by Matt Ridley instead of taking this class. Its more informative, and doesn't waste a slot where you could take an upper level class and actually learn about something in depth.
Do practice problems!
keep up with the reading! i got really behind on the textbook reading and never got a chance to catch up on it. also- for the final exam, don't forget to review notes from the guest lectures (i forgot to do that...)
The class is fun, interesting, and well taught :)
prepare yourself for a magic journey in animal kingdom
Heavy emphasis on neurobiology
Wait for the final to kick your ass. Then edit your Q guide so that you knock OEB 57 a couple pegs down.
Wait until it changes. It is reasonably well taught, and the material is good, it just seems like they went out of their way to make it ridiculously hard. They did not test us well.
I could see the instructor bringing a stingray to class one day and wrestle with it a la Steve Irwin style.
This is an excellent introductory course, is exciting, has a low workload, and is generally enjoyable.
Andrew Berry is phenomenal and its not that much work.
Easy way to fulfill the core. Can be easy depending on how much you put into it.
Andrew Berry and Bence Olveczky are amazing professors! Very interesting, even entertaining.
This course is a fascinating exploration of animal behavior from the level of neural substrates and endocrinology to the grand sweep of evolutionary time.
If you love David Attenborough, take this course!
Only as requirement. Ridiculous that it's a neurobio requirement I know. Ugh.
interesting course material, excellent lecturers
This is the one class this semester which I found myself telling my roommate about again and again. The material is so fascinating, and AB's accent and enthusiasm is contagious.
it's a very manageable class with fun lectures and great material
Fun, not too much work
The class is incredible, particularly because of the professors.
This class is a fun way to learn about animal behavior. Although it is required for Neurobiology concentrators, it is interesting and not as demanding as other higher-level courses. I would recommend it for anyone interested in the topic.
You have two choices.. take this awful class and get through it in order to be a neurobio concentrator.... OR change concentrations
I wouldn't recommend it to a non-neuro concentrator (for whom it would be an elective) unless they were REALLY into animal behavior.  I'd say that it's not super-well organized but also not super hard (especially for a junior or a senior), and that both lectures and sections are hit or miss - probably about 65-70% hit.  I'd say there's not a lot of work except one pretty frustrating project, two pretty easy "psets," and two tests that aren't that bad to take but studying can be overwhelming because there's so much information and so many different examples.  Overall, the class is okay and not too painful.  The videos in class are awesome.
This course could be so much better! The material is very interesting and the lectures enjoyable, but the structure/organization of the course is severely lacking.
The material itself for the class was actually very interesting but lectures tended to be pretty boring which is unfortunate
This is a great class if you are willing to put work in to memorize a lot of information and dig into material that at times can be bland.
This is a stupid, horribly taught class. The trivia will flow through your ears and will never enter your brain because there is no overarching theme or attention to analysis. The lecturers run down the facts and don't do anything with them.
If you like animals and neurobiology, this class is awesome. I never knew how many cool things animals did, and I enjoyed this class so much that I want to be a vet now.
SUCH cool material covered in this class -- you'll learn a lot of random facts about animals. Each lecture, they'll introduce a topic and give a bunchhh of examples of that topic. You're expected to know all of the examples for exams. It's a heavy memorization class, but really interesting!
I don't see why you would take this course unless for the Neurobiology requirement. If you have a choice, don't take it. The course is structured horribly, as if the professors are out to get the students and want us to fail, as opposed to other science courses which do all they can to help you learn and succeed. Then again this class require minimal effort on a day by day basis. If you want to do well, really focus on doing well on the assignments and study hard for the midterm and finals. If you talk a lot in section that will help you.
Interesting topics and seems to have gotten better in recent years (from talking to previous classes). Way better than LS1B.
OEB 57 has very interesting themes throughout the semester. The two major assignments (field and quantitative) require a long time to complete. So make sure to start them early. As long as you go to lecture you should be fine for the exams!
The material is fairly interesting. I understand why they make neurobio concentrators take but I feel like it should be revamped to be more applicable to them. A lot of topics were just kind of random. Lectures were pretty dry (especially Naomi) and the assignments were dumb. But you gotta do what you gotta do.
take this class if you have to for neuro, but if you have the choice, there are definitely better OEB courses out there.  the professors are both very accomplished in their fields, but the lectures in the 2nd half of the course feel disorganized. the one thing i did really like about this class is that you learn how to critique scientific studies.
This class is interesting in itself but not really applicable to neurobiology, so I'm not sure why it's a requirement. Make sure to take very thorough notes during lecture because the lectures aren't recorded and the notes are quite sparse.
I would take this class if you were a Neurobio concentrator...but that's pretty much it.
poorly organized and seemingly irrelevant
You probs have to take it. Also, the professor's name is naomi. say that backwards
Make sure you take good lecture notes, because the textbook is totally useless, there are no lecture videos, and the lecture slides only have the bare minimum.
This course, especially the second half, really isn't that interesting for neuro concentrators. You learn a lot of game theory and stuff that personally is incredibly boring. That being said, the first half of the course is a nice rehash of mcb80.
It is not too demanding of a course in regards to workload. The material is also really interesting (lectures involve mutliple animal videos). However, the lack of coursework makes everything more weighted, so you can't really afford a single low grade.
Lecture material seemed pretty useless--ex. who cares that this specific animal has this specific mating ritual? Especially the second lecturer was horrible. The exams were extremely unfair because they went into a lot more detail than lecture. Conceptually, this class was easy but somehow you got screwed on exams. The only redeeming quality of this class was section, in which you discuss scientific papers and do some math. There is one in-class midterm, 3 assignments, and 1 in-class final. Two of the assignments are easy, but one of them is a "field experiment" with birds, where you have to design your own experiment to conduct on birds around campus, but it was impossible to acquire the amount of data that they wanted.
I really enjoyed the class and thought the lectures were entertaining!
Take this class seriously and you will enjoy it.
If you're a neurobio concentrator, chances are you'll breeze through the first half of the course and dislike the second half. If you're an OEB concentrator, you'll probably have the opposite experience. Be aware that there's a fair bit of math and memorization involved. The course is not easy, but the workload is very light.
Take good notes because random things from lecture show up on the exams.
A lot of work, but very worthwhile.
I enjoyed the class, but that seemed to be a very uncommon opinion.
The coolest things I've learned about science were taught in this course. Even if you are a pure neurobio concentrator wondering why learning about animal behavior could help you at all, remember that nothing makes sense except in light of evolution, and that this class will give you an incredibly useful foundation and overview of the more technical things you will be doing.
Many of you will have to take this course. The best way to make it not painful is to make sure you make flashcards as you go and really talk to your TF about the important things to take away from lecture. The lecturers themselves usually fail to capture the attention of the class, and you will often feel like they're just reading what's on the slides instead of actually explaining anything. There are also lots of national geographic videos. Enjoy those.
Don't come into this class with preconceived notions about it - approach with an open mind and you'll likely enjoy it!
There is a good deal of information to remember and apply. Tests can be specific at times. Not a class to be taken lightly but not one to stress over.
Very manageable work load week to week, but don't underestimate the midterm and final.
will not do well unless you have a perfect memory of stupid details, lecture is very dry, not analytical and more about regurgitating information
Only take this course if you have to. It is required for Neurobiology, even though the very little neurobio info provided has already been taught in MCB 80. The lecturers were not engaging at all, the exams are much too long with vaguely worded questions, and the bird-watching assignment was not only given to us very late but also a pain to accomplish because there was not as much guidance as in previous years. Although animal behavior is interesting, this class is not.
1. Don't take this class if you don't have to2. Start early on the assignments (as soon as it's posted)3. Pray that they change the field assignment to something that doesn't make you want to blow your brains out.4.Participate in section5. Record the lectures and take great notes so that you're not trying to interpret nonsense slides before the exam
This class has a lot of interesting material. It is very similar to MCB 80 in that the material is interesting but poorly taught, and exams are difficult.
I thought the material was interesting but I didn't love the assignments.
Material was often interesting, but the course structure could be improved, especially with the assignments.
Only take this course if its required for your concentration or if the subject really interests you. Its a lot of work for an elective.
The material is so disorganized, and lectures are very hard to follow. It seems like you are watching a string of unrelated National Geographic channel episodes, and the videos often aren't linked well to the material even though they take up half the lecture. Section is also too unrelated to the course. There also is no reason that this should be a neurobiology requirement.
This is a neuro requirement, so there's no getting out of it for us. I would recommend that you attend lecture and pay attention during it. They are not recorded. Also do the readings and try to grasp an understanding of the material throughout. Start memorizing immediately. Lastly, try to get in Mark (the head TF)'s section. He's great.
This class was actually very interesting (even though parts of it seem pretty far-removed from neurobiology); the teaching staff was great; there is very little work during the semester, but the exams are worth a LOT; I now have a newfound love of Sir David Attenborough
You've got to really want to learn about animal behavior.
If you approach this course not as a neurobio requirement, but as an interesting biology course, you will enjoy it immensely. The material is fun and the papers presented are understandable and interesting!
Phenomenal class.  You will not enjoy yourself, but you're not supposed to be enjoying school.  A good class is worth your time.  This class is worth your time.
Subject material interesting but the midterm was a trainwreck
This course still needs a lot of modifications including course structure, lecture slides, etc. A lot of concepts were hard to understand due to the lack of videos of lectures, practice problems, and clarity on lecture slides, but we were still expected to understand them for the exams. However, if you enjoy reading scientific journal articles, the sections purely focus on analyzing them, so that was very interesting. Even if you don't enjoy, it's a good practice if you are thinking about doing bio research!
This was a very really cool opportunity to study animal behavior from two perspectives.  Lectures not recorded but definitely worth going to. Section readings are also manageable.
Overall not a hard course if taken as a neurobiology concentrator/secondary. I thought the material was really interesting and the work load not at all bad. Even if the assignments are backloaded (last three or so weeks of the semester) the assignments do not take a long time and are quite easy. Overall, the course is interesting and reasonable, even though it may be a bit dry at times.
Took it pass fail senior spring after taking a lot of behavior classes for HEB. Second half of the course is very familiar stuff. Would recommend. Learned weird new stuff.
The course is extremely interesting but for neuroscience students only the first half is really relevant.
This is a great interesting class. You watch various videos of behavioral experiments and David Attenburogh documentaries. The section component does not directly involve lecture material but you read influential experiments from 19th, 20th and 21st centuries and analyze them. AS you've probably heard the course is quite backloaded, with a final, and long problem set due the last week of classes and then an essay due during finals week.
Having shopped both MCB 105 and MCB125 as a neuro concentrator, OEB 57 was personally the most fun option. Material does not delve into much neurobiological detail, but lectures are very engaging as you get to learn about (and watch videos of!) many interesting animal behaviors. I also really enjoyed the second half of the course on behavioral ecology, and it was nice that there was a mix of biology concentrators taking the course. As in previous years, most of the assignments are concentrated towards the end of the semester, which can be hectic, but the rest of the semester is low time commitment. Go to lecture!
Great course, very enjoyable and interesting content. About half neuro and half ecology. Chill and class but you do learn a lot. Final paper instead of a final exam!
Some people find the lecture to be a bit boring, but I personally really enjoyed them! Bence and Naomi are both really interesting people in their own ways. We watch a lot of nature videos in this class so you'll get to see a lot of David Attenborough if you're into that. We also learn a bunch of random, weird but cool animal facts. The workload isn't too much week to week, and the two in class exams weren't too bad. Overall, I would recommend to neuro concentrators looking to fulfill a requirement, or to anyone interested in animal behavior!
This class is a great balance between Neurobio and OEB. The lectures are always jam-packed with information and you'll walk out of every class feeling like you learned something. The class is a bit back-loaded, so make sure to get a head start on the later assignments. Take this class if you need an OEB elective though!
Very interesting course content in terms of the lecture material and section papers. I enjoyed the videos, the concepts and the material taught. The professors generally lectured well and engagingly. However, the course was poorly structured, and section was badly utilized. There was confusion and the TFs were not briefed properly on all aspects of the course; assignments were returned very late (and assigned late too sometimes- the TFs didnt know if there was an assignment 2 or not, after assignment 3 had been up for ages); the TFs didnt always understand the material they were supposed to be teaching; section was mostly used for exercises in reading comprehension of scientific papers which you were supposed to read beforehand anyway, making it 1.5 hours of little useful learning; in general, the course was not well administrated, which is a pity because it had a lot of promise in content and learning how to evaluate primary scientific literature with a critical eye, as real scientists should.
Lectures are not the most engaging at times and not very well delivered. Exams are graded based on very specific words that they are looking for. Section is good for taking apart scientific papers but doesn't go over much lecture material.
Interesting class, but lots of pressure for time on midterms. Be prepared for lots of work in the last few weeks of the semester (2 psets, a midterm, and a paper within that period). But the rest of the semester involves a light workload. You watch lots of animal videos in class!
You get to watch a lot of cute/cool animal videos in lecture. But the 2 midterms are not easy - all of the course material is tested in two 50-minute exams which makes for stressful studying and precarious grades.
The course material is very interesting and if you like watching/observing animals at all, you'll enjoy lectures. In terms of assignments, most of them are due really close to the end of the semester which can be super stressful. Assignments were also released sporadically or super last minute which didn't help. The exams were much too long to be completed in an hour, especially the second exam (we also never got our scores for this exam). The course material is more math heavy in the second half.
Great class, but be ready for the workload at the end of the year. It builds on pretty quickly in the last few weeks. But in-class final, which I consider a plus.
The workload for the course is very up-and-down.
Very backheavy - 75% of your grade is determined in the last few weeks. But otherwise an amazing class!
Course is fun, although waking up to it at 10 is a pain.
It's a serious but accessible overview of topics in animal behavior, and it should be very engaging for anyone with any sort of interest in animals.
The workload in this class starts off small, but spikes dramatically within the last three weeks of the semester, so be sure to budget time wisely. In particular, Assignment 3 took an unnecessarily long time to accomplish. This assignment should either be shortened, or given at a time during which there are no major events coming up, such as an exam.
This class needs a structural overhaul to ensure the time spent in section is productive.
easy class, hard to get a good grade in because it is hard to care about this course.
Don't procrastinate. You will regret it because the course is back heavy
This class is perfect for those with a passion for nature and all its animals. Neurobiology concentrators, if it's not a requirement, I wouldn't recommend taking it unless you have a genuine interest in animals. This class teaches you how to engage with scientific articles in a deeper way than ever before, and exposes you to the huge variety of fascinating behaviors that animals can display. You'll learn that honeybees are brilliant creatures, and that humans should be humbled by how collaborative animals can be.
It's a fascinating course if you're interested in the material, especially in the second half.
This class is an organizational mess which will make your last two weeks of class absolutely miserable with 4 assignments in that period. The topic is interesting, the lectures are good and the material is well-taught, but there will be stress. Also, prepare to analyze animal behavior from an economical and mathematical point of view almost exclusively.
It is a very fun class. Assignments are pretty cool. Midterms are hard and there is no time to complete them.
This is a great course.  The work is loaded at the end of the semester so it'll be a smooth ride until the end.  Overall, very interesting and well taught class.
Very interesting course. Would be better if the assignments weren't given all at the end of the semester. Last 2 weeks are brutal, but the information is all relevant and engaging.
I loved this class; I had never learned about behavior, especially in animals before, and found the material engaging as well as accessible in the way it was presented.  The research papers we had to read for section also helped me to gain confidence sorting through academic journals and extracting relevant information, as well as understanding a lot about experimental design.
Lectures are interesting for the most part though pierce isn't as engaging. All assignments are towards the end of the course so be prepared for that
Very interesting material and not that difficult to stay on top of things. Professors and TFs are incredible!
Going to lecture is really fun- the hour flies by and the material is presented logically with many cool animal videos and the professors are very enthusiastic about the material. First part is more neurobio (mechanisms of animal behavior) and second part is more evolutionary theories and origins of animal behaviors.
The class was well taught and informative. Unless you are truly interested in animal behavior, however, the material may be a little dry.
The material was awesome! The lectures were great and the supplementary material was very thorough. The two problem sets sucked, but everything else made up for it.
Although this class may be stressful and even tedious at times, I do not regret taking it. I was able to learn a lot and even enjoyed the topics covered in lectures and sections.
Very interesting, loved the quantitative aspect
It is not a neuro class but an ecology class. That being said, I still enjoyed it. Prepare yourself however, the class is extremely back end heavy with almost all of the assignments due right a the end. Otherwise easy and enjoyable.
Lectures were very interesting and sections provided great opportunities to apply the course material in a scientific manner through the discussion of scientific literature. The only weekly work was readings for section. There were four assignments but they were larger assignments that took a lot of time and three of them were in the last few weeks of class and then there was a midterm and final.
I would mention that I found the course to be disorganized and the lecturers to be boring and monotone, but the material was interesting and if you want to learn about animals, you might take this course. But be careful because it is not easy or well-taught, in my opinion.
Go to lecture regularly - the topics are fun and the lecture is actually quite engaging with all the animal videos. Keep in mind the class will cover a lot of material; if you compile detailed notes from lecture to prepare for exams, you should be fine.
I loved it! You will never look at animals the same way...
If you love organisms and the things they do, you should take this class. It's a fun collection of the best nature stories; imagine watching Planet Earth for a few hours a week and getting course credit for it.
This course is quite end-heavy and so it may be difficult to balance with other courses if you have a lot of end-of-semester matters to get through. The course itself is interesting and is well-structured and does not require too much weekly work. The teaching staff (especially the TFs are really terrific) and they really do a good job of making this a pleasant learning experience!
They don't record lectures, so show up.
This is a great course, especially when smaller. Go to lecture and schedule meetings with course staff if you need help--they are very accessible!
Professor Olveczky's lectures are interesting, but you have to get used to the way he lectures. He talks really fast and you have to learn to differentiate what things are pertinent enough to take note of. I found Professor's Pierce lectures lacking and not very engaging. The subject matter she speaks of is of tremendous interest to me but the way she presents it is sleep-inducing. Her lecture slides are also disorganized and hard to comprehend. Overall, the subject matter of the class was really cool, the assignments are definitely doable (if a tad unorganized and all smushed in the last 2 weeks of the semester), sections are eh (but the TFs try their best), and lectures are a bit dull (all the animal behavior videos are super cool though).
This class is super interesting and fun! All the animal videos you'll watch throughout the semester are fascinating and really help to learn the material. The course itself isn't that hard and there's very minimal work for it each week. The one big con is that the course seems surprisingly unorganized given how long its been taught for. There are 4 assignments total besides exams, and you only have one in the first half of the semester, and then the next 3 are due within like one week of each other at the end of the semester, which is extremely stressful. But aside from that, this class is pretty easy and super fun!
It's a pretty good class. The subject material is great--animal behavior is so interesting and you learn so much. Lectures were mostly engaging except when we got really into the quantifying/analyzing/models type stuff. I also didn't like that it was at 10am, but what can you do. The class actually covers quite a bit of material, so the midterm and final were a little harder than I thought they would be, but overall, I would recommend this class. I took it to fulfill foundational neurobio requirement (over MCB 115, 105, or 125) and I think that was a chill choice
This class is deceptively hard. The midterm was definitely more difficult than expected. Day to day, not much homework. Just do the readings for the week you present in section. Some pset-like assignments towards the end. If you like neuro or animal behavior or both, this is the class for you.
The material was very interesting if you are into behavioral stuff. The course is not hard, but you must do the readings for section. The assignments are very fairly graded.
OEB 57 is a great class. While at times the material can seem a bit surface-deep (memorize xyz concept without really gaining an understanding), the course gives a nice overview of the animal behavior field. The first half of the course walks an awkward balance where it tries to teach neuroscience in a class intended for both neuroscience and non-neuroscience students. The result is that the knowledge gained here can be a bit shallow. The second half that dealt with economic models of animal behavior, and (slightly) more quantitative behavioral ecology, was really fascinating. I came into the class very interested in animal behavior, and the course helped to give me a framework within which I can consider behavioral studies. Section was really great-- we basically read papers and talk about them. Mark was a phenomenal TF-- kind, knowledgeable and down-to-earth. If you can get into his section you have lucked out!
OEB 57 is a super interesting class. Not a lot of weekly work, lectures are interesting, and the teaching staff is super supportive. And you will learn some really fun facts.
The class is really interesting if you like bio. I usually am not a fan of animal bio but this class has a lot of variety and is quite fun. Also low workload is nice
Fascinating class, with a low work load for a core science requirement. Make sure you look at the topics of the whole semester before you decide to take it, as the content changes significantly midway. I liked the content of the first component much more than the second (first part was more neuroscience, second part was more theory with some math/logic), although I enjoyed both professors!
Pretty good. First half covers an introduction with a framework about the mechanisms of animal behavior (like sensing, filtering, motivation, command neurons, or genetics/endocrine/environment). The second half covers some theoretical/mathematical biology, like optimal foraging, kin selection, sexual selection and sexual systems, and evolutionary game theory. (The second half was not what I expected, and it ovverlapped and was at a lower level than other OEB classes I have taken).
As a neuro concentrator, I took this class in the first year that it was no longer a strict concentration requirement. Before taking it, I was worried that it would be a horrible experience based on previous Q scores, so I shopped every option for this rec. There are three options now in the spring: this class, MCB125, and MCB105. I shopped all three, thinking that there must be a better class than OEB57, as past comments for this class have encouraged people not to take the course. However, MCB125 was a brand new class and, when I went to the first lecture, I found it to be completely unorganized. When I went to MCB105, I learned that it required coding in matlab (which I did not know how to do, but everyone else in the class did) and I could not understand the professor. So, I settled for OEB57, thinking it was going to be bad. I was pleasantly surprised when I found it to be my favorite class of this semester. The teaching staff are great, the course is well structured, the assignments are fair, and the material is well-taught. It was also a smaller class this year, since fewer neuro students took it, which I think made it more enjoyable. However, there are a few downsides to this class. First, the class has only 4 assignments, but 3 of them were in the last two weeks (and the exam!), which was very frustrating and stressful. Second, the midterm and final are written to take the full time (1 hour for midterm and 3 hours for final), meaning that you will be frantically writing as fast as possible to answer each question before running out of time. Third, lecture is not recorded and it's at 10am in northwest labs. Despite these complaints, however, I really did like this class. The TFs really know the material and seem passionate about it and are always available to help. The professors teach the material is a way that's straightforward and interesting, with lots of useful examples and videos. If you're interested at all taking a class that's less focused on the strict neurobio, and more on how behavior is shaped from different perspectives in different animals, definitely take this class.
I really liked this class -- it's well taught and interesting material and the videos played in lecture are pretty cool. Not too much of a workload regularly but the midterm and final will be very difficult if you have not kept up with the material, as it is a lot.
Animal behavior is a very interesting and engaging class, particularly in section for the discussion of scientific literature and working on quantitative problems in ecology.
This class is perfect for people who are pre-vets or are interested in studying animals in a lab.
It's a really fun class. Lecture is great, but a majority of the learning gets done in section.
This class is a good overview of animal behavior both in terms of proximate mechanisms and ultimate causes. It is fairly hands-off, which means you have to put work to keep up with the material, or at least to learn it all right before the exam - there are a lot of terms and concepts that can be hard to keep track of. The teaching staff are helpful when you reach out to them, but you have to be proactive about doing so. Overall, be prepared to work and make sure you don't get too behind, but the subject material is super interesting, the people are friendly, and it's a good class to take overall - a lot better than its reputation would indicate, in my opinion. It was a fairly standard upper level bio class in terms of quality, and overall I would recommend it.
Beware of the exams.  Study as hard as you can because they make up the lion's share of your grade and they are difficult.  But, on a positive note, go to lecture and try not to goof around on your laptop (ie no facebook, twitter).
This class was one of the most poorly organized classes that I've taken.  Although the material is super interesting and the professors are incredibly intelligent and interesting, because of the poor organization, the terrible timing of delivery and return of assignments--we only found out about the grant proposal until a week before it was due--was incredibly poor.  You've been warned.
interesting examples of animal behavior but the sections and sometimes the lectures are boring
I only took this class as a requirement, and the class overall felt very disorganized, which made it difficult as a student. The material is somewhat interesting, but I would recommend only taking this course if animal behavior is a passion or possible career path for you.
Do the readings for section! You will learn a lot of valuable information, and develop a new lens for reading.
This is a good class if you are interested in learning about a lot of examples of animal behavior. It's pretty cool and interesting, but the class is more memorization based than most other science classes I've taken here.
Don't take it unless you absolutely have to
Make sure to pay attention to when assignments are due and please make office hours as often as you. Be well prepared when you have to lead section for you week.
Take it because you have to!
The reputation this class has developed over the years is pretty much true. The profs are great, but unfortunately the class so disorganized that it becomes stressful. Since this class is no longer required for neuro (and pretty much everyone in the class is a neuro concentrator), I pretty much expect enrollment to drop by 95% next year. Take it if you're genuinely interested in learning strange facts about animals, but not if you like to have straight-forward and predictable classes.
I only took this class because it was a Neurobiology requirement. Fortunately it's no longer required, unfortunately I've already taken it, otherwise I wouldn't. It's really disorganized. For example, 1 month into the class the instructors told us we would have 4 assignment, but they didn't know what they were. Animal Behavior itself is very interesting, but this class wasn't great.
Don't get fooled that this class is not a lot of work. Keep up with the section readings and assignments. Treat this class as you would any other science class with more intensity.
I actually loved this class! People had warned me about it, but that was completely exaggerated. The assignments are fun and the teaching staff is very nice and dedicated. Section was actually really fun and we discussed interesting material. Not sure why it's a neuro requirement, but I really didn't mind having to take it. I'll remember this one!
Don't listen to negative reviews from Neurobio concentrators. It was a very interesting class.
I loved this class! It answers all the questions about life you may have pondered, like why honeybees have only one queen or how birds learn how to sing.  The professors are awesome teachers and people, and the teaching staff must be chosen for their enthusiasm for the course material.  Great, great course.
This course was great! It was not crazy difficult as people in previous years have said. The lectures are really interesting and the professors use tons of examples (basically a bunch of videos of animal fights, sex, etc.) that make it really easy to understand the material and really entertaining during class.
This class was much better than I expected (as a neuro person, who's really interested in more technical classes). Olvecky's lectures were awesome! It was like watching an episode of discovery channel. Naomi's lectures were a little painful but the material was still interesting.
only take this if you are interested in experimental design and animal behavior.  for someone who cares more about human behavior, this course was very boring at times.  also, the course seemed disorganized because all 3 of the major assignments were due within 3 weeks of each other, which is absurd.
Very interesting and fun material! The midterm is not bad at all if you take good lecture notes and review experiments. Section papers are always interesting, and the final writing assignment lets you design your own experiment in animal behavior.
If you find animals fascinating, don't let the Q score stop you from taking this course. A lot of kids are neurobio concentrators who are required to take it and don't see the point of it, but it's definitely worth your time if you're actually interested in animal behavior. Manageable course load for the most part, section is mostly reading cool journal papers about stuff not covered in lecture, and lecture is a good mix of actual lecturing and nature documentaries.
The subject matter of OEB57 is extremely interesting- understanding how animals process sensory cues, as well as getting acquainted with some of the diversities of behaviors exhibited by animals, are critical for anyone studying the nervous system in any capacity, especially in non-model systems. However, lectures are often poorly organized and exams rely on rote memorization. Take extensive notes during lecture and go over them many times, asking TFs questions about all the vocabulary words, no matter how insignificant they may seem to understanding the general topic. The section experience is one of the highlights of the course, because TFs generally have extensive knowledge about animal behavior, are willing to help, and are even excited to talk about their own research.
This course is incredibly interesting, especially the many David Attenborough videos that you will watch in class. However, it was quite disorganized at times.
I hated this class. Its so hard to retain information because both lecturers are boring. You have stupid assignments. So you get to the midterm and final and you dont' really know anything because you never go over what you learned in lecture in section, cause all we do in section is read scientific papers. like i absolutely understand the need to read scientific papers about the topic of this class, but that should not be the sole purpose of section. Section should be for further understanding the material. im done. i hate this class.
Okay rumors about this class were wrong, I loved this class. The content is incredible, it changed the way I look at animal behavior. Before, I didn't care, but now I find it so intricate and intelligent. The assignments ranged from really easy to really time consuming. Loved the alternate grading scale. Amazing animal videos were clearly tied to a concept during lecture. Not too much work on a weekly basis but does have periods of hard work for assignments. Overall great course, great professors they were very knowledgable of all topics. Memorization heavy course.
This class is very interesting because you will learn a lot of cool new things about animal behavior that you never knew!
This is an interesting and well taught course. The examples of different animal behaviors are really fun! Section is great for exposing you to scientific papers and helps you become familiar with reading and understanding them. The workload isn't too bad, but there is definitely more at the end of the semester.
It's not a hard set neuro requirement anymore. It's also not worth your time unless you LOVE animal behavior, or you have alot of time on your hands to memorize stuff, or they changed it to make it an easy A.
This class is great! I loved going to lecture and learning about the amazing and crazy things that animals do. Section is a critical part of the course and helps you learn about research in animal behavior. The lecturers are both charismatic, and the material is fascinating. This course was my favorite course this semester, and I would highly recommend it.
Learn more about animal sex than you may be interested in
I would reccomend only to a friend interested in sciences.
