This is a great course for anyone interested in looking at how organisms function on a macro-type scale.  It is a very interesting combination of physics/math and biology.
Very interesting course material, good introduction to OEB
student should be interested to begin with> if so, then it's good
The course is a great introduction to many concepts in biomechanics. Biology majors should be aware that some parts of the course can be math intensive.
This class is set up as a biomechanics course for physicists, mathematicians and engineers, not biologists.
the professors are awesome
This is an almost unfairly easy class full of fun videos and interesting topics. Comparatively little work is required by the students--a problem set almost every week, occasional primary literature readings, and a final paper. You can slide by with doing very little work and getting very little out of the class. But if you are truly interested in the material, this serves as a good basic introduction to the field.The professors are amazing, but the class may leave you wanting for more, which Harvard doesn't offer.
The class is a nice, laid-back discussion seminar class about the field of biomechanics.  Workload is light, but that's the wrong reason to be taking the class.  You really should only take it if you find the field interesting, otherwise the in-depth discussions about journal articles may not be enjoyable.
If you like biomechanics, this is a great course. You will get out of it what you put into it, The teaching staff is fabulous, the material interesting, and you will learn a lot without an excessive amount of work.
The class is a nice, chill seminar about really cool material with dedicated, interesting, and very friendly teaching staff. As a primarily physics person interested in bio, this class has opened me up to the various ways in which biology and physics intersect -- biomechanics is really really cool, and comes up in many ways that you wouldn't think of at first. Plus, you get to learn some interesting physics (especially stuff relevant to engineering) along the way. All in all, fun way to learn awesome stuff!
If a student has interest in biomechanics, or is curious about applications of mechanics in biological systems, they should take this course. It is incredibly useful to understand living systems in their physical context.
If you're interested in a more complete picture of how the world works, the material in the course is a must. Also great inspiration material for designers.
This course may be worth taking as it is the only biomechanics class available, but it does not facilitate a high-level, quantitative understanding of the topic. It would be a fine class to start out with if there were upper-level biomechanics courses to take later.
You'll enjoy the course a lot more if you have an appreciation for biologically motivated designs. The teaching staff are excellent!
This is an extremely laid back class. There are a handful of problem sets and a few lab write ups, but in general work is very minimal. You get exposed to a lot of cool and interesting topics. With so much leeway, you can really make of the course whatever you want.
Lectures were a little long (1.5 hours of sitting is tough for me).  Paper discussions weren't helpful for learning the material, but you need to do it -- its part of the grade.  Labs were actually the most interesting.  Visualizing smoke flow in the wind tunnels was really interesting.
You can get by just doing the psets without learning much. To really get the most of this class, read the seminar papers and come up with critiques for them before the seminars
This course covers the exciting intersection between physics and engineering and biology. It really shows you the challenges faced by organisms and allows you to appreciate the adaptations that have developed in response to these challenges. Fun and interesting course! (And no busy work--only interesting and educational assignments!)
The class is a broad overview of comparative biomechanics topics.
Work hard
Take this class regardless of your background! But be aware that there are many, varied assignments (labs, psets, discussions, etc.) which become a bit disorganized.
You will certainly learn a lot in biomechanics -- but the material is interesting and the final project has potential to be as well. Definitely consider taking this. Not too stressful and worth the work.
This is a really fun class. Exposes you to a lot of interesting biomechanics concepts with a very manageable workload and has interesting discussions and labs. I would definitely recommend taking it if you have any interest in the topic.
Absolutely take this class! It has been my favorite high-level OEB course so far. The final projects at the end of the term are also so much fun, and gave me opportunity to work with an Engineering grad student one-on-one (a pretty rare chance in any other class/discipline!)
This is one of my favorite classes that I have taken at Harvard. The subject matter was interesting and applicable to many fields of biology. The problems in the problem sets used interesting yet probable examples that applied the principles we learned in lecture. The discussion sections were super interesting because they allowed us to explore papers that we could choose ourselves. I wouldn't recommend this class to a freshman or sophomore, but an upperclassman with experience reading scientific literature and a solid background in biology/physics would benefit from taking this class.
This class offers a fantastic and very straightforward look at the role biomechanics can play in a spectacularly wide variety of different contexts. As a non-OEB concentrator, I would highly recommend this class to anybody who is interested in the biological applications of physics or engineering.
