great way to learn more about adaptation and how to define and identify it
It's great!  Come prepared with a question to ask (and actually having read the papers), but the rest flows from there.  Some truly thought-provoking class discussions, and a chance for video-conference Q&A with the top minds in the field
This class is a fantastic way to make yourself think critically about current research and big ideas of evolution. It`s a great learning community, and Hopi is really great with encouraging everyone to speak and setting a supportive tone for the class.
This class is interesting and fun. Hopi is good at leading discussions that are both broad and stimulating.
Adaptation is one of Hopi's two graduate seminars.  I have heard great things about both and can attest to the excellence of Adaptation. I think they are offered on alternate years, you should probably ask Hopi if you plan on taking one of them.  After taking Adaptation, I feel like I'm better prepared as an evolutionary biologist.  The structure of the seminar is simple but effective; there is nothing extraneous.  You go to seminar to discuss papers and defend your ideas with some of the most prominent evolutionary biologists, and that's what you do. Hopi is awesome, but not overbearing, which is great since this is a seminar. The Skype discussions with evolutionary biologists across the nation or the world alone are reason enough to take the course; this is the most unique feature of the class and is only incorporated into one other course at Harvard (that I know of), that being Hopi's other seminar.   You should definitely have a background in evolutionary biology; the more extensive your background, the better. OEB 53 is a good stepping stone.  Intellectual inquiry and independence will go a long way; you are shaping the nature of the seminar and you should take advantage of it. It was an enriching course that I would recommend to anyone who is interested in the material. A well-rounded evolutionary biologist should take this seminar and/or its companion seminar, Speciation.
Great course if you want to know the different approaches scientists use to study adaptation.
This is a great way to learn about the current and past topics associated with the term "adaptation." It really helps you build a foundation of knowledge and history of evolutionary biology necessary for pursuing a career in this field. You also get virtual face time with famous professors in a low-pressure environment.
One of the best courses I've taken. Ever.
this course gives you an extremely broad perspective about evolution
The most important part of the class is coming in with questions and things to discuss.
This class gave me a good grasp of the state of research in evolutionary biology: what has been done, and what we may do in the future, to understand the genetics and evolution of adaptations. I would strongly recommend it to grad students, and especially to advanced undergraduates students with a passion for evolution
It was a good course to get a detailed overview of many concepts of adaptation and evolutionary biology. Getting involved in discussions helps.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time on the readings so that you have things to say in class - it can be hard to get a word in edgewise otherwise, since the discussion moves quickly.
This class provides a wonderful opportunity to ask researchers about their papers, ideas, future directions and advice.
Adaptation: what it is, how we detect it in actual populations, and similar issues, is a mine field for biology with central disagreements among its practitioners. If you can handle epistemological indeterminacies, then you'll enjoy this course.
The readings for the class are all right and the discussion format is nice, but it does not cover anything that you couldn't read about in a general evolutionary biology textbook. If you want to learn about definitions and terms in adaptation literature, take this course. If you want to learn more about mathematical models or scientific philosophy, look elsewhere.
The course is probably best for people who are just getting into the field of adaptation.  Discussion was not always the most academically engaging.
This course provides an environment for learning the ideas and experimental approaches that are currently being used in the field of adaptation. What you will take away will be very different depending on your background, but it will likely be stimulating nevertheless.
