I've been telling everyone to take this course, it's so fun and interesting!
Make sure to start pinning insects early in the semester so that you do not end up doing all the work for the collection in the last week.
Curating an insect collection is far and away the coolest part of this class. Mike Canfield and the TF Jack are knowledgeable and love what they do, which is inspiring and really made the course for me. Definitely take this class.
I absolutely loved this class!!  It was one of my favorites at Harvard.  However, I plan on becoming an entomologist, so I admit I am a bit biased. :)  I'd definitely recommend the class to anyone interested in insects, however I'd warn that the class requires a very significant amount of memorization.
This is one of the best courses you can take in OEB that is wholly dedicated to the biology and diversity of one of the most incredible and fascinating groups of animals
Prof. Pierce is one of the nicest people out there, and the class times are flexible, but brace yourself for a tough exam.
Making your own insect collection is really great.  It's also cool to know that you'll be able to identify many insects that inhabit this area to family level.
if you enjoy being outside and learning about the natural world this is the most wonderful hands-on educational and fantastic class. i will remember the insect IDs I learned because we got so much practice.
This class requires a lot of work! Collecting, organizing and identifying insects was a massive undertaking, plus there are regular quizzes and a couple other assessments so just be prepared to give a lot of time to this class. It's super fun though!
Be prepared to carry your net and killing jar around with you EVERYWHERE 24/7.  Collecting can get stressful when the weather grows colder... and sometimes a lot of it has to do with luck.  I became the crazy insect-lover among my friends, always asking them to call me if they found any six legged creatures in their rooms.  You learn so much from this course even though it is a hell of a lot of work.  TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!
This is a fascinating course and pretty enjoyable too, but I wouldn't recommend taking it for a letter grade to anyone who is taking multiple classes--especially not if they are also doing research.
If you love insects, you will love learning about them and building your collection. After taking the class, I can identify most insects to family level, and I've learned a lot about their biology. However, the course itself can be a bit disorganized, and you don't always know what's expected of you.
Collect lots of insects early in the semester...you don't have to identify them then, but it's really helpful to have them for your collection at the end of the semester!
I really loved this class. I enjoyed learning about the world around me and was amazed at the diversity that exists even here in Massachusetts.The time that I spent on this class (at least, outside of class) really varied depending on the weather. When it was warm, I spent much more time collecting outside. When it cooled off, I spent (less) time inside, preparing, labeling, and identifying things. If you want to have a good collectiong, the time you have to put into the class can be a bit front-loaded.
If you're excited about trekking around outside and collecting insects--the ideal homework assignment--while your classmates are inside the library writing papers, this is the class for you! A wonderful class with fantastic professors who are clearly passionate about the material. Start the collection as early as possible, and give yourself time in lab to memorize the families for quizzes (time with specimens is key).
If you are interested in any way in insects--their anatomy, ecology and even genetics--take this course. Naomi is really passionate about her field and the lab component of the class (aka insect collection and ID) is actually quite rewarding for all you secret taxidermists out there.
Naomi and Mike are some of the most fantastic professors I have ever had. They are both incredibly helpful, and Naomi is the sweetest person in OEB. The course itself is fascinating, and it's great for people who have loved insects their entire lives and people who are moderately interested. Though, if you take this class, you should be prepared to carry vials around in your purse/backpack and catch EVERY insect you see. This isn't something you merely think you should do. It becomes a compulsive habit. You'll put a lot of time into your collection, but it's fun and it's worth it.
Makes you able to identify most common families of insects you're likely to find around here.
You'll work hard, but the amount you learn is worth it. Lectures may be a bit disorganized, so focus your efforts on the things you most want to learn.
Read the text book. Go on the field trips and collect on your own time. Also, work with the other students in your class. No need for this work to be completely isolated.
The time investment on making an insect collection and memorizing taxonomy is very heavy. Only take this class if you really enjoy such activities
Work on the collection early when the bugs are still alive.  You will be in the lab a lot once you start working on putting it together.
Whether you like insects or not, you will end up being fascinated by them; the class is amazing. The combination of hands-on and lecture components made it particularly enjoyable.
I went into the course more than a little intimidated by the sheer number of families we were to learn and the impossible-seeming task of the collection, but it was so much fun the whole way through. I made some great friends and got a great appreciation for how little we know of the enormous diversity of insects out there. There isn't a lot of work in terms of traditional academic stuff, but you do have to put in some good hours collecting consistently. The work is mostly at the end of the semester, with the big assignments right at the end, but they're all manageable if you've been on top of things the throughout the semester. Naomi is the sweetest professor of all time, and Michael is so great at pointing things out in the field without just giving out IDs. They really show you that entomologists are the nicest folks around. Think you can learn 100+ families of insects? You can.
This course is a lot of work, and it's hard, and you have to overcome your love for insects because you have to kill them, and make killing them a lifestyle. I still don't feel like the course is over, because catching every insect I see is part of my everyday life. But in the end, it was one of my favorite academic memories of college - in what other course can you trek through the woods with jars and poison and nets, and catch insects competitively, and then spend hours in the lab with each other, pouring over dead insects? It's a team class, and it's hilarious fun once you get over yourself and your respect for insect life.
This course is an amazing opportunity! I loved it and you should take it! But the collection does require a very large amount of time and work at the end.
This was easily my favorite class I took this semester.
Do not take this class if you don't think you can get over disliking bugs. Because you will have to catch cockroaches and you will have to be happy about it. Being detail-oriented and self-directed will help.
This class is interesting and fun; you need to put in some time to collect insects and build your own collection, but that is a good time in itself.
Do not take this class unless you want to spend an entire semester hunting bugs in all of your free time.  You must be alert for insects at all times.  In the dining hall.  Walking outside.  Working in your room.  Working out.  Sleeping.  Sleeping with other people.  Partying.  Constant vigilance is required.There is also a lot of memorization and curatorial work, which some people might dislike.This class was awesome.
This is a rare course at Harvard that lets you experience the practical side of science: learning field techniques and handling your own specimens. The lecture material for the course is very approachable and is not a heavy commitment. However, collecting, curating and identifying your specimens for the insect collection requirement is very time consuming, so that I would only recommend this course to students interested in research or a career studying whole organisms. I do think this course is an indispensable experience for these students. As a general or science elective, however, it may be too time consuming unless the student has an interest in natural history, entomology or getting your hands dirty, in which case this course is a lot of fun.
An excellent introduction to the insect orders and to the major insect families. A good balance of theory, concepts and hands-on work.
If you want to learn about insects, take this course.
- if you like nature/ecology at all, this will likely be a suprisingly good course!
A great course; the material is so enjoyable learning is a breeze. The collection you have to make for the course will take a lot of work, however, and you'll be spending many extra hours in the lab and in the field.
You get to collect your own insects, get to know a couple of the most awesome (and caring) instructors in OEB, and free trip to Harvard forest included.  What's not to love?
Essential class if you are an OEB major.  Insects are incredibly important to any ecosystem.  Naomi and Michael are fantastic.
This class was so fun!  I loved doing the collection and going out in the field.  The hands-on component, and the constant push to learn new families, all of it was great.  It moved at a great pace, and was very engaging.  If you like insects, take this class.  If not, you may still want to give it a shot because you'll like them by the end.  Everyone does.
Don't take in conjunction with too many classes that require much work outside of class, because you get the most benefit from this class when you have time and energy to dedicate to it.
This is a phenomenal class. Be prepared to spend a LOT of time preparing your collection! And do the readings, or the midterm will come as a nasty shock.
This course was incredible.  It was the reason why I am working on insects for my senior thesis.  I cannot say enough good things about it.  If you have ever been curious about insects, take this course.  It was, without a doubt, one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.  Just be prepared, the final project is a ton of work and takes way more time than you would think.  Don't worry too much though because the course is designed to let you succeed while still challenging you.
Catch bugs early!!! Maybe even the summer before. Cannot stress this enough.
This course is more work than you might anticipate. Because it packs both an anatomy/physiology course and a taxonomy course into one, it can be a lot outside the classroom. You'll have a lab quiz every week and will have to study up and learn to identify a lot of bugs. That said, making a collection was pretty fun and a very different and wonderful way to learn.
