TAKE THIS CLASS! The material is absolutely fantastic and will entirely change your conceptions of modern evolutionary thought.  Professor Bomblies is incredibly accessible and down to earth.  She is very knowledgable but also has that rare quality of being able to admit when she doesn't know an answer and will encourage class discussion to find the answer.  The work load is perfect, with enough information to keep you informed without ever feeling behind on reading or psets.  This class is a must for anyone interested in studying biology or anyone who wants a great overview of how strange genetics and evolutionary competition can be...More intimate classes with dedicated professors like this one are sorely needed in Harvard sciences.
Take this class!  It is a fascinating way to learn about genetics if you are even remotely interested in the subject.  The material is interesting, the lectures are clear and help explain complicated material, and the amount of work is perfect--you definitely learn things and are challenged, but it doesn't require inordinate amounts of time or frustration.  You will learn a lot about different parts of genetics and biological systems that you may not have considered otherwise, and you will learn material that challenges your viewpoints.
If you are interested in learning more about genetics, then you should definitely take this class. I had only a tangential interest in the subject matter going into the class, but found it very interesting with a very moderate workload.
This is a great course! If you do the work you will do well and the professor is very reasonable.
This is the way all life science courses should be taught: in a small classroom environment with an enthusiastic professors with a passion for genetics!  If this course is offered, I strongly recommend it!  The workload is not bad and it is also not a big time commitment, but you will get a lot out of the course!
Professor Bomblies is fantastic. She was very enthusiastic about the material, and it rubbed off on the students. Not much biology background was expected for the class. The lectures are pretty interesting if you are at all interested in genetics.
Take it. Bomblies is the bomb
As an OEB concentrator, this is the best OEB course I have taken. Prof. Bomblies is an incredible teacher on top of being a brilliant researcher, and it shows in this course. If you want to learn about interesting and fascinating genetic phenomena, this is the place to do it. Low stress course with a great opportunity to engage with and learn from the best.
For a truly fun biology class, take OEB 185. It's an especially fascinating course if you have any prior interest in genetics, as this is a chance to learn about some material that never even gets mentioned in the standard genetics course. The class requires minimal effort; just keep up with the material by doing the problem sets and attending lecture. Exams are not meant to be tricky (and aren't), with focus divided between conceptual questions and problem-solving.
Very interesting topics in a relaxed lecture setting. P-sets fairly test the topics covered without requiring hours and hours of work/frustration. Lecture notes that are provided on the website are a huge plus to this course. I could just sit and listen in lecture without scribbling down notes and then revisit lecture notes if I happened to miss anything or needed clarification.
TAKE THIS COURSE! Pr. Bomblies is incredibly down to earth and makes even the most complicated systems seem simple. The subject matter is fascinating and the tests are very fair (if you study the p-sets, then you can do well on the tests).
Kristen is a great instructor and awesome person, it's really fun to learn from her and get to know her. The class is really great because the professor was less focused on grades and assignments and more focused on how cool she thinks the material is and how she wants to share and explore that with the class. I loved it and I wish more of my classes were like this
