This class will teach you more about birds than you'll ever care to know, but at a price: it's a lot more work than it looks and the midterms and final project are very time consuming and challenging.
This was an AWEFUL choice for senior spring! 7am field trips on Saturdays or the day before the exam are not going to be fun during the business of the term no matter how wonderful the birds and pretty the site. It felt like the exams were meant to trick us rather than encourage us to learn and there just wasn't much consideration on the part of the teaching staff for what would work for students. The field trip was, indeed, lovely but the rest of the course wasn't worth it, and not because of the material but because there seemed to be this weird culture of competitiveness, trying to impress the teaching staff, not being connected as a class, and us, as students, being a burden.
If you really enjoy birds, and are passionate about learning more about ornithology, then I would encourage you to take this course.  The teaching staff is wonderful, and so knowledgeable.  The field trips are fun, and in general, everyone has a good time geeking out over birds.  That being said, if you are only mildly interested in birds, or only want a free spring break trip, I would not take this class.  I really think you need to be dedicated to the subject manner to truly enjoy this course.
Take this course if you have any interest in birds. If you have no prior interest in birds, the biology may not be particularly any more fascinating than what you would get in another class. But if you like birds, you'll love the labs and the field trips and appreciate what you learn in the course.
This class was amazing. It has re-sparked my interest in bird-watching, and I plan to work on internships in Ornithology in the near future. The field trip to Panama was amazing. Even if you don't have a lot of experience bird-watching before, jump in enthusiastically, and you'll be glad you did.
Take this class!! Professor Edwards is a great teacher, teaching staff is amazing, and the field trip was the absolute highlight of my spring. On top of all this I learned a lot and learned to love and appreciate birding and crazy birders! :)
Best OEB class I have taken!
It's harder than you think.  Definitely study for the exams, and identification is not a skill that comes easily.
This is a great class for getting introduced to ornithology or for learning more about it to add to previous knowledge.  Some previous experience with birds can be helpful, but it is by no means required.
The spring break trip to Panama was AMAZING; saw 200+ bird species in a week!  Overall, it's a really good coursethe birding field trips are really great, and the instructors were really enthusiastic about the material.  It's not too hard, and you learn a lot.  Take it!
you better be very interested in birds right from the start. interesting class, friendly teaching staff, but very time-consuming with all the lectures, labs, field trips, final project, exams.
You'll have to get up early and go out in the cold to look at birds, and you'll have to work quite hard to do well in the class.  There is a lab component, a lecture component, and a field component, and these three things will keep you super busy.  If you're into birds, though, it is completely worth the effort.
There is a lot of work in this class come exam time.  The lab final, though expected, was unnecessarily tedious with hours and hours of brute memorization of orders and families.  I thought this was a poor use of my time and would highly recommend less emphasis on memorization to the course instructors in the future. The lecture material was much more interesting in my opinion, and the exams were much more interesting and rewarding to study for.  Looking back, I wish I had taken this course Pass/Fail as it is a LOT of work for an elective but am glad in the end that I took it.
Its tough, but an awesome class and awesome opportunity. NOt many chances to travel for free with some of the world's best bird watchers.
EVERYONE SHOULD TAKE THIS COURSE! It was the most fun course I've taken with the best teaching staff. We became a little bird-loving community, and I'm going to miss this course a lot. Don't miss the chance to develop a love for nature and flying creatures.
The class is great fun and it's very painless.
It's a lot of fun and minimal work... the Mexico field trip is a blast
This is a great course to take if you are interested in natural history, like to do outdoor projects and are curious and enthusiastic to learn about vertebrate diversity
It will change your life!
It's a lovely class! You get out what you put in, and it's a lot of fun, especially if you are interested in birds!
If you have the opportunity to take this course and give a fig about birds, take it. One of my favorite classes at the Vard.
A lot more of your time of the week is required to successfully complete this course than you would initially anticipate. Weekly review of the materials learned im class will be greatly beneficial.
ONLY TAKE THIS COURSE IF YOU REALLY REALLY LOVE BIRDS. This course had a lot of highly enjoyable elements. The professor is a great guy, and the TF is incredibly knowledgeable. It was the biggest mistake of my senior spring to take this class for a letter grade, instead of pass fail. It is harder than what was on the Q guide scores in the past. It is hard in the sense that there are a lot of tests, and the big project, and also difficult in the sense that the tests and the project are difficult to do. The spring break trip was awesome, but taking this course for the trip would not be worth it. If you aren't an experienced/highly interested birder the field trips/spring break trip does get boring, but push through because it will get interesting again. On the other hand, this class has definitely awoken a love of ornithology and birding. I would definitely take this course again, just pass fail.
Do not take this course expecting that it will be a chill spring course with a field trip. The field trip is a lot of work and constant birding. This class also requires a lot of time out of the classroom because there are field projects, lab assignments, mandatory field trips and lab. This course is detail heavy and requires you to memorize the mundane facts about every single bird. The professor and TF are amazing but unless you are very passionate about birds, it will be a very difficult course.
This class is awesome and inspires a true love of birds and birding. The workload is generally light, but keep in mind that OEB 190 is pretty back-loaded, with two exams and a final project at the end. Overall, you will walk away with a new perspective on our littlest neighbors, informed by an understanding of avian anatomy, fossils, and life histories. You will further gain the ability to identify the avifauna of Massachusetts. The Costa Rica field trip is obviously amazing, but this class is so much more than just a fun spring break trip.
This was one of the best classes I have taken. As someone who started with interest in birds but very little knowledge, it has made me much more aware of the nature around me. Preparing for the tests and learning about birds in general takes significant effort, but the more time you invest, the more you will learn and the more knowledgeable you will become. By the end, you'll have learned all the families of birds that are encountered in Massachusetts. Make sure to attend field trips because it is great practice for identifying birds in the wild.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard and possibly my favorite OEB class! You can't beat this teaching staff...Scott and Allison are both so kind, and their enthusiasm for birds is infectious. The class gives a great overview of bird biology, from the molecular/genetic level to behavior and conservation. We also got a lot of practical experience through our field projects (conducted around the Cambridge area) and on our spring break field trip to Costa Rica, which was awesome. If you aren't a birder already, you will be by the end of the course!
