A good way to get to know the department and resources offered by the college.
It may feel a little slow at times, but well worth hanging around to get to chat with classmates and the professors
It is a great class for getting adjusted to the department.
Remember that the Professors come to answer questions that you ask...so ask them!!
Take advantage of everything that this class has to offer. You have the opportunity to eat dinner with faculty members which is a real treat, and you also form lasting relationships with your peers.
Great chance to learn about the department, its faculty, and your fellow students. Be sure to try to get the most out of it by forcing the discussions with professors to address questions you have
This course is a great opportunity to get to know the department and learn what it means to be a graduate student. Take advantage of this chance to ask professors about their backgrounds, their interests, and their advice!
DO not skip! This is a very valuable introduction to the department and Harvard in general, both of which do things kind of differently and confusingly.
Great way to be introduced to the awesome faculty of OEB.
I would only tell about this course when they ask me about it, I would not start spontaneously start telling about a "beer and pizza" class. My former class mates from my previous universities are always kind of surprised when I tell them about this required course. Anyway, when asked, I will tell future students that it is very good to know that at least one day of the week there is free beer to drink and free pizza to eat (or sometimes also thai food).
Look up the professors ahead of time so you can follow the research discussions and ask questions that benefit you.
Awesome way to get introduced to the department!
When the professors invariably ask you to go around and give some simple details by way of introduction each week, make sure to say your favorite color.
BEST COURSE EVARRRRR
This is a great opportunity to get to know OEB faculty better as well as your fellow students
Ask many questions.
This class will give you a great chance to meet the OEB faculty in a fun format.
This course presents an excellent opportunity to get acquainted with the students and professors in the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology.  Enjoy it because it is probably one of your best memories from the beginning of graduate school.
Use this as a time to get to know your cohort better as well as the professors.
Wheerler holds it down.
This class is fun and it's great to meet professors and hear about their lives or research in an informal setting.
It is a fun course, which allows you to meet faculty and have fun interacting with grad students from your year
Lots of fun! Take advantage of the chance to get to know OEB faculty and your cohort.
I would be unlikely to highly recommend this course, other than it requires little effort input.
Enjoy this course, it is a lot of fun getting to know the rest of your class and reading interesting scientific papers with them.  Listening and talking with faculty members provides great insight into the department and the research that is conducted here.
Just enjoy the time
One of the highlights of the week.
An invaluable resource and great use of a Wednesday night.
This course offers a unique opportunity to gather information and advice from faculty, staff, and peers in the department in order to make the most of graduate life in OEB.
Free dinner, chance to hang out with professors, and a chance to get to know the other G1's. It's a lot of fun!
This is a great introduction to OEB!
Although I found the Spring term a lot more interesting than the Fall term, I found myself always dragging to the classroom for this class. This was probably due to the experience of the Fall term, which was not very good (all sessions were just meetings with professors and faculty). I think I expected to come to Harvard and particularly learn things. I do not want to waste time for the time I will be around here, so this course did not exactly fit in my vision of academic coursework, I guess. The good point is that there is free food and drinks, but if that is the reason for going to a class, I don't think I'm happy with that. Then I'd rather pay for my diner myself.
This is your opportunity to ask anything!
Very good for getting to know your department
Skip the reading assignments at your own peril.
you have to take it, so enjoy it!
The course is required-- but even if it weren't, it is useful to spend time with your colleagues. It became obvious from the start that my fellow G1s are my most valuable resource at Harvard.
If you're lucky EO Wilson will come speak to you guys.
great way to meet various faculty members
This is a great way to meet fellow students and department professors.
Make time to get to know the others in your cohort - this is a great opportunity!
A good chance to meet some of the faculty and be exposed to the range of work done in the department.
Take advantage of your time with the professors and ask them questions not just about their research.
It's a great class. No grades to worry about, professors talk and you ask them questions, free beer, wonderful food, grad school could possibly never get better...
Well, it's not necessary to say anything in particular about this course since it's a requirement.  But you get to meet so many OEB professors who have made a significant impact on the world of biology in an informal setting.  That is a very valuable experience.  Plus you're required to go to Concord field station and ride bumper boats afterwards-- and that was probably a favorite requirement of mine for the semester.  If not the Harvard Forest retreat requirement :).  Also, it's such a great opportunity to get to know you're cohort.  I know it brought us all closer together.
This class was a great way to get to know the other students and professors in the department. It was terrific!
You are going to have an amazing time.
This course can be whatever you make of it. Be sure to take advantage of this great opportunity to learn from the faculty and graduate students.
OEB 399 was probably the best part of the year.
great opportunity to get to know professors in the department that you might not otherwise know existed!
At a place like Harvard, you don't get the opportunity to have a face to face semi personal discussions with faculty and this is a great chance to do just that. Its really cool to get their take on things and see wha paths drew them here. The professional development exercises were really helpful and you won't get too much more of that unless you actively seek it out elsewhere.
cherish it!
