Unbelievably satisfying course
I'd recommend it to anyone considering surgery/medicine, given they have adequate preparation.
This is the best class that I have taken at Harvard.
This class is awesome.  If you are looking to go into medicine, it is a great class.
Surgery class is a gem that is hidden among many courses at Harvard. Many people who intend on becoming doctors won't have the chance to participate in a surgery until many years ahead. This course provides the opportunity to experience doing a surgery at this point in one's career. This course will also reaffirm any student's desire to pursue medicine.
It's amazing, but free up your wednesday afternoons
Work hard and enjoy.  There's nothing like this class anywhere else, or even at Harvard.
Best class I've ever taken at Harvard! The teaching staff is amazing and the material an experience!
This class is the most fun and engaging class I have taken at Harvard. You learn how to be an anesthetist and surgeon, which is a rare opportunity for undergraduates anywhere. You learn and do things that you probably won't do until your last years in medical school. The first half of the class you spend it learning, building anesthetic skills and taking exams (which, BEWARE, are a bit difficult so study for the written portion, but are manageable nonetheless). Then you get three surgery days where you perform an ovariohysterectomy, nephrectomy, splenectomy,and cholecystectomy on pigs. You learn how to scrub in, sterilize the surgical field, wrap instruments for sterilization, administer IV fluids, how to place a catheter, intubate, tie sutures, and use different surgical instruments. This class is excellent for any premeds that are genuinely fascinated with anatomy and physiology. The class lectures are definitely geared more towards prevets and you will learn A LOT of information about random animals (like what anesthetic to use for fish) but it is all incredibly informative.
This class was amazing, the surgical experience is awesome and very unique for an undergraduate. The lecturers are for the most part great and really interested in helping you learn. Jeff has been head TF for years and he is really engaged and helpful.
Very very cool lab portion. You will never take another class like it. Exams are ridiculous--not tests of knowledge at all, just tests of memory.
This class is great! It's a hidden gem that seems to only be known to the OEB community. I would place taking this course over any other course.
This course is absolutely incredible. You get to do things you won't get another chance to do until med school or beyond. You learn a wide variety of suture patterns (that you can practice on oranges or pieces of meat at home with the instruments and sutures you're given, either impressing/weirding out everyone you know); you get lectures on topics like anesthesia, fluids, and nutrition; and in the second half of the class you get to do procedures like a splenectomy, nephrectomy, and laparoscopic cholecystectomy on live pigs. There's a lot to memorize for the exams and it's a long time commitment on Wednesday afternoons, but those are scarcely drawbacks. This is the kind of class you come to Harvard to be able to take. I can't recommend it more enthusiastically.
TAKE THIS CLASS! BEST DECISION I EVER MADE AT HARVARD.
As many other students have already stated, this course is an amazing and unique experience usually not available to undergrads and non-medical/veterinary students.  Working with live animals and exercising manual skills gives you a small taste of what surgery can be like.  Though I would encourage more biologists to take this course, the heavily pre-med/pre-vet enrollment means more emphasis towards clinical medicine instead of in vivo research methods.  While this course did not require huge amounts of time outside of class and some of the lecturers had a [overly] casual attitude, I found it important to stay on top of all the material in order to ride out the disorganization of this team-taught course.  Intro to Vertebrate Surgery can be lots of fun, but in order to get the most out of the experience, you should be prepared to approach the material (especially the labs) as a mature professional.
Awesome and easy class for your senior year! Jeff is awesome!
OEB251 is an absolutely fantastic class! It is hands on the surgeries are incredible, and the teaching staff is really knowledgeable (and fun!).  This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard.  If you get the chance, take it!
This class offers a great opportunity to learn the methods and information behind surgical operations, and an incredible chance to try them out yourself. Unfortunately, sometimes it feels disconnected from the campus and logistics are poorly communicated. Although that could be frustrating, there isn't much work, and the practicals and midterms aren't bad.
This class offers the opportunity to do surgery as an undergraduate. Do you need to know anything else? Don't be afraid of what other reviews said - we got out before 7pm every time, most times leaving before 4.
Take the course! As a pre-med it is difficult to truly sample what surgical or medical work will be like. Many of the opportunities involve shadowing. This course gives you the chance to act as first surgeon and part of a medical team. Be prepared for labs to run overtime, but the class is worth it.
TAKE THIS CLASS. You learn how to be an anesthetist and surgeon, which is a rare opportunity for undergraduates. You spend the entire first half of the class learning, building anesthetic skills, and taking qualifying exams. Then, over the course of three surgery days, you get to perform an ovariohysterectomy, nephrectomy, splenectomy, small bowel resection, and cholecystectomy on pigs. Everyone in the group gets to rotate so everyone gets to be the lead surgeon. You learn how to scrub in, adorn sterile outerwear, wrap instruments for sterilization, administer IV fluids, place a catheter, intubate, use different surgical instruments, and intubate. You learn how to do two-handed ties and various suture patterns such as simple interrupted, simple continuous, horizontal mattress, and vertical mattress. This class is invaluable to any vet tech, future medical student, or future veterinary student.
This is the kind of class that makes your tuition totally worth it. Go to the first class meeting during your junior year; you won't get in, but it will increase your chances of getting in as a senior. Also, it's very selective; if you're premed or prevet, you'll also want to have had some relevant experience (in research, volunteering at a hospital or vet clinic, etc.)
YOU GET TO DO SURGERY ON LIVE PATIENTS (i.e. pigs)!!! How cools is that?!  There's no other course like OEB 251; you apply everything you've learned in anatomy, physiology, and chemistry to actual surgeries. Amazing teaching staff who genuinely want you to learn the procedures and the science behind them. Lectures are chill (this is NOT an intense "pre-med" type class). Labs can be long, especially when you're operating; but every moment is simply awesome.  You learn practical procedures, catheterization, intubation, laparoscopic surgery, nephrectomy, etc. etc. Exams aren't hard and lab practicals are based on the surgeries you do. Take this class! You won't have another opportunity like this!
If you can get into this class, absolutely take it! The teaching staff are chill, knowledgeable, and help you rapidly feel comfortable doing things you never thought you'd actually do at the outset of the course. Imagine performing open surgery on pigs on your own! Totally worth it -- and something so unique and awesome that you'l a) never regret taking it and b) never forget taking it.
This class is excellent for anyone interested in  surgery, anatomy, physiology, and biological diversity. Students who win the lottery are truly lucky to be in this class.
An excellent class, the workload is extremely manageable. Well-worth it if you enjoy practical, hands-on work. Note to pre-meds-- it is more geared towards the pre-vet contingent, so be aware of this going in.
Amazing course with great practical skills and very eye-opening for what med/vet schools will bring!
Seriously a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity! The teaching staff is phenomenal, and really just wants you to learn. It is a surprisingly low pressure environment which is a nice break from the pre-med/vet mentality. As a senior, it's been my favorite class! Extremely practical and useful information for any health profession. You learn suturing and how to operate an anesthesia machine, and get to perform three non-survival surgeries on pigs. Don't pass this up.
This is the best class at Harvard. If you are at all interested in surgery, veterinary medicine, or anything related, take this course. Especially if you are pre-vet! This is one of the few great opportunities for pre-vet students at Harvard.
Don't take this class if you don't like the sight of blood.  Otherwise, this class is so so cool -- you get to do surgery on live pigs, which is such an amazing opportunity to get as an undergrad.  It will take up a big chunk of time every Wednesday -- you may be in lab until 8 pm some weeks -- but it's very little work outside of class.  You learn a lot about surgery, anesthesia, and other veterinary care, and by the end of the class you can competently prepare the pig and perform surgery on it.  It's an opportunity unlike any other class at Harvard.
This class was hands down the most amazing, memorable class i've had at Harvard. The teaching staff are not only really smart and interesting, but they are so personable and make the material feel less 'scary'. The surgery labs are something you will not experience again until later in med school, so I really valued that experience. If you are lucky enough to be accepted in this class, take it!
One of a kind. Possibly life changing!
OEB 251 is a gem. You get one on one contact with vet, medical students, professors, and surgical research. You have the opportunity to be apart of team, performing your own surgeries. It's an excellent opportunity. The classwork for the class is difficult, but if you put in the time, extremely doable. It's a class not for the faint hearted, but definitely a not to be missed opportunity. I recommend this for anyone interested in being a vet, a doctor, or even a just a clinical researcher. Great, great class.
BEST.CLASS.AT.HARVARD. Take it! You learn and do things even medical students don't get a chance to.
This class provides hands-on opportunities that simply don't exist anywhere else. The staff teaches with enthusiasm, tons of experience, and not a little bit of humor - but don't think they'll hold your hand the whole time. The surgeries are yours to perform. If you don't try to take this course - you are missing out.
BEST CLASS EVER! Everything about this class is amazing, particularly the teaching staff. Very minor con: Expect labs to go on past 6pm!
This class helped me gain confidence in performing surgery on vertebrate animals for research. However, surgery is only performed in pigs, and the procedures are mainly medical in nature. Inclusion of common research surgeries and common research animals would increase the usefulness of this class to graduate students.
This is by far the most amazing class that I have taken at Harvard. It is a relatively informal, unstructured class in which the main focus is learning for its own sake rather than for the purpose of passing a testthis is far from just another premed class. The course instructors expect you to be engaged, self-motivated, and inquisitive. For the most part the types of students it attracts are genuinely interested in the material, which really makes the experience even more fulfilling. If you are interested in medicine (veterinary or human) or surgery specifically, this class will open your eyes to a world of experiences that you likely will not get to see until your third year of medical school. You will get to do things that you might not have the privilege to do until residency. That said, don't expect this course to be a merely a primer in human surgery. Though many of the principles and techniques that we learn have relevance to human surgery, at the end of the day this is a course on animal surgery, and the readings and lectures reflect this. This course does a nice job of emphasizing fundamentals and basics while still making students aware of more cutting-edge aspects of surgery. The instructors are amazing individuals who are so eager to teach, especially if you show an interest in what they have to offer. If the prospect of exploring the field of surgery in the most hands-on environment possible excites you, then this course is for you.
This is the GREATEST CLASS AT HARVARD. This is not an exaggeration. This is also not an unsubstantiated claim. Where else in the world do you get to PERFORM REAL SURGERIES as an undergraduate? No where. With an AMAZING course staff, each day in this class is a life-changing experience. Plus, they somehow manage to fill the class with 16 of the most easygoing and relatable students - this isn't a class for the overcompetitive and high-strung; Jeff'll cut you down to your (deserving) size if you are. Get ready to work as a team and get ready to screw up, because you will (and Jeff'll let you know that you did). If you are really interested in becoming a doctor, this is the best class at Harvard to take.
The course is a lot of work and can be stressful. It's entirely worth it.
If you manage to get lucky enough to be in the class - literally, you're winning the lottery - this will be the best class you will take as an undergraduate. If you have an interest in surgery, I cant emphasize enough how much this class will open your eyes to the realities of this field. Entering my senior spring, (and loving my English concentration and the courses I've taken for that department ), this was, hands down, my favorite class I have ever taken, since I started school in Kindergarten. Few things compete with naptime, and this is it.
One of the most interesting and fun classes i've taken
Literally the most amazing class you will EVER take at Harvard.  Where else will you be able to perform full surgeries as an undergrad? This class provides you with opportunities to experience things that most people don't get to see, let alone do themselves, until 4th year med school or surgical residencies. Incredible!
AMAZING class, a class you can only take at harvard. instructors are ABOVE AND BEYOND FANTASTIC. you will do amazing things, learn a lot, and get to know wonderful people in this class.
If you go into this class with an overly competitive mindset, it won't be nearly as good.  The class, although 'pre-med' in many ways, demonstrates and typically requires a whole new element of collaborative work absent from most other pre-med classes.  This is not chem, phys or LS2 - this is a teamwork oriented class that requires a positive mindset and even a good sense of humor at times.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard.  Take it! You have to give up your Wednesdays but there isn't much work outside of the long lab.
Best class I have taken at harvard, hands down! Jeff, Linda, and all of the lecturers are absolutely amazing, and this is such a unique opportunity for college undergrads. If you have the opportunity to take this class, go for it!
Best class at Harvard hands down!  Take it if you are interested in surgery. You wont be disappointed.
This is literally the best class offered at Harvard. It's amazing!
This course is amazing, but be aware that you can't really have other commitments on Wednesday afternoons if you take this class. That said, you just have to take it. It's definitely one of the best classes and EXPERIENCES at Harvard. It's unique.
Take it! The best class you will take at Harvard.
BEST CLASS EVER!!!!!!!!!!
I would tell students that OEB 251 presents the unique opportunity to perform full surgeries as an undergraduate. I've been told that even medical students do not get this type of exposure. I would strongly recommend it to students interested in veterinary science or in using animals for scientific research, as this course is heavily bent towards animals and not humans. All in all, the things I learned and procedures I performed this semester were much cooler than anything else I've done at Harvard.
It is a great practical introduction to surgery. However, don't schedule anything right after class, because it tends to run 2-3 hours over its allotted time. Also, note that you only perform 3 surgeries, and the rest of the class is spent learning how to prep, use anesthesia, etc. This can get long and a little boring.
While it is exciting to learn about and perform surgeries, dealing with the disorganization of this course was immensely frustrating. The surgical experiences may not be replicable with a textbook or online video tools, but the information taught can be learned elsewhere.
This course offers a lot of practical skills training. It is also a lot of fun and very interesting to be able to practice surgical techniques in your undergraduate years. Although the course does have some organizational flaws, it is definitely worth taking if you are even slightly interested in surgery.
It's a great way to test your interest in medicine/surgery. The staff is dedicated and engaging, and the material is intriguing. I would suggest this class whole-heartedly!
Class is very hands on and provides application and insight that a lot of science courses don't necessarily provide.
This class will strongly influence you!  It is a one of a kind opportunity to learn these surgical techniques and APPLY them as an undergrad!  I would recommend this course 1000%.
you basically have the knock out your entire wednesdays especcially when you're involved with surgeries
BEST class I've taken at Harvard, hands down. a lot of fun, a lot of practical application. a lot of personal attention. simply AMAZING. you come to Harvard to take classes like this one.
The techniques that you learn in this class are incredibly helpful and practical.  You would never be able to scrub in and PERFORM surgeries on pigs in ANY other class.  Invaluable experience.  At the very least, it will let you know whether a medical career is something you can stomach.
It is amaaaaaaaaaazing.  I had some ethical issues with killing the pigs, but ultimately the experience of the course was phenomenal!
Don't take this if you're squeemish. Otherwise, it was a fantastic class.
Far and away, THE BEST class offered at Harvard for any aspiring physician.  Geared slightly towards veterinary medicine but most of the concepts are easily translated to humans and the instructors realize its mostly premeds and not prevets.
Really interesting course with the most exciting labs of any class at Harvard.
This is a unique and fun opportunity to be able to do surgery as an undergrad.
Perfect for pre-med students. If you want a taste of what performing surgeries is like, this is the class for you. But you must be willing to sacrifice a chunk of your time. Best class I have taken.
It's a great class -- definitely take it if you can get into it. It can be hard to get into, though. It's one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Definitely something unique that I couldn't have done as an undergrad anywhere else.
