The class has definitely improved if compared to the previous time the course was offered. It's hard for some people but reasonable, you will learn a lot.  It's not for everyone, of course, being a graduate-level course and all, but there was a good dynamic between grad students and undergrads. Strengths include course material, instructors, Teaching Fellows, paper presentations and oranges every lecture. Shop it and see if you like it.
Expect to be frustrated by the problem sets.
Great course in general, and great introduction into population genetics.  Would need more to actually do research in the field, but I think this course provides a good foundation.
Great class, just difficult.
An excellent class if you are looking to go into population-level research
This class is a decent intro survey of population genetics. It covers a lot of topics, but not always in much depth or detail. Material is taken directly from the Hartl "Population Genetics" textbook, which we read a chapter from each week.
Really interesting material that will get you up to date in the world of population genetics in a way that's really hard to do even with a hundred nature review papers.
This is a fantastic class, but also quite difficult. Only take it if you really have an interest in the material. I would somewhat paradoxically say that it my favorite class during the semester but was also the hardest class I've taken at Harvard. You come out of it with great proficiency for the material, and more than any other class I've taken here, with real skills. I now feel comfortable talking to Professors about Molecular Ecology/Evolution (my field) in a much more rigorous/mathematical population genetics sense, which as an undergrad is fantastic!The 2 psets written by Professor Desai are really hard, but don't be discouraged -- the other problem sets are not so bad so just push through his two and you'll be fine for the rest of the course.The exams are very fair, but long.
This class is a lot of information and may be difficult for those with a weak background in mathematics.
Great class if you like to see where equations come from and their proofs. The lectures are great as well but be prepared to put a lot of time into the readings to fully understand the material.
It is a course that presents a wealth of information on population genetics. How much you want to take away depends on how much time you are willing to invest.
Be sure to keep up with the ungraded weekly problem sets or the exams will creep up
So useful! If you are going into genetics or evolution this is a must!
With some investment of time to do the readings, this course provides a solid foundation for delving more deeply into population genetics. Students who don't spend time thinking about the readings and doing the problem sets are unlikely to get much out of the course.
OEB 242 was a great chance to address an in-depth subject of mathematical biology. The class meets once a week, half lecture and half section, and is a great opportunity to learn about this great subject. Professors Desai and Hartl are nice and brilliant, Professor Hartl wrote the textbook the class uses. Finally, the exams are excellent representations of the issues covered in class, so the class doesn't surprise you at exam time (the class's only grade consist of two exams and a short pass/fail paper). Take this class, it's a great chance to learn a really interesting subject at the current level of thought, not an over-simplified version like many introductory courses.
Sometimes the lectures did not give you enough background/tools to solve the problem sets. I took the prerequisite for the class (OEB 50) and had difficulty with the course.
Not too hard, but fairly interesting. Psets are more time consuming then you think.
It's an excellent class which will provide a solid base in population genetics - which is essential to genetics and genomics, bith large fields in science and medicine.
I would 100% recommend this class. Interesting, not very difficult, consistently engaging (except apparently for the two people at the front of the class who fell asleep every lecture. Why are you sitting in the front if you're going to fall asleep two minutes in for an hour and a half?). Very good course overall.
OEB 242 was a very interesting course. Compared to LS1B, the genetics topics covered are a lot more interesting and cutting edge. I loved the emphasis on integrating mathematics and using theory to understanding some pretty neat phenomena. Professor Desai and Hartl are experts in the field and do a great job surveying the latest hits in genetics and quantitative genomics in just 10 lectures. The course did seem a bit lacking at times, however. Given that it was a semester long, 10 1.5 hour lectures seemed a bit unfulfilling and I wish we had gone into more detail. Assignments and exams were very fairly designed, although it would have been nice to have more practice material. The TFs were phenomenal this semester. Carl, especially, is such a joy to work with.
A challenging, but rewarding class. Definitely one of those classes where you could slide through without too much stress but the more you put in, the more you get out of it.
It's a math class, but a good math class.
Some cool topics in the class.Not really well-taught.
This was my favorite course this semester. I learned a ton and feel like I'm walking away with a sense of a very important field. However, the structure (participation-graded psets, 2 equally weighted exams, one long meeting each week) might not be for everyone. It worked great for me, but it does lend itself to a less collaborative classroom environment and that's worth keeping in mind.
I suggest you take this class after having a very strong foundation in genetics and evolution. You can pass with a good grade without it, but you won't get as much out of it.
