Best language class I've taken at Harvard.
I think that the first year course provides a pretty solid foundation, and this course is good for practice.  As with most other things, you get from it what you put into it--that is to say, if I spent more time preparing and really memorized the words, it would have been better for me.  I think it is a little slow, if you have more background (i.e. documents-reading courses).  That being said, it is a good preparation for documents-reading courses.
If you need Chinese, take the class.  Otherwise....
ideally you should prepare by doing some modern chinese in advance.  otherwise you must have good chinese character knowledge.  also, familiarize yourself with chinese dictionaries, both electronic and in book form very early on.
Too bad the instructor is not staying for the next term- he was quality.
will be very time-consuming for students without extensive background/near fluency in a character-based language. this course is not contiguous with introduction to literary chinese; there's no transition to free reading outside a textbook, and many students in the class seem like they would have no problem jumping into an advanced reading course in literary chinese.
A great introduction to a good range of Song and Tang-era texts. Challenging but not too much work. If you go to class fully prepared (ie. having written out your translation) you'll get so much more out of it than if you blunder through with Wenlin.
The class is a much-needed component of those wishing to study Literary Chinese seriously.
If you want to improve your ability to read Classical Chinese, this class is a must. You'll be exposed to a wide variety of styles, continue to broaden your vocabulary, etc. It is totally possible to skate by and never do the readings before class (very few of them are actually difficult to translate relatively well sight-unseen), but you definitely will not get as much out of the class if you do so (and you'll make your life a lot harder come time for the midterm/final). Professor is awesome.
An engaging and challenging course in classical Chinese, which will greatly help students prepare for future work in classical Chinese.
It is a great course for learning not only Classical Chinese, but also history of China.
After taking this course, my ability to read Chinese (both literary and modern) has increased a lot. Reading literary Chinese expands your access to source material exponentially so greatly assists in pretty much any research topic that touches on pre-20th century materials.
If you want to improve your ability to read texts written during the Tang and Song, you should definitely take this class!
Things an sometimes feel like a slog, but that's the nature of language study. The texts themselves are rewarding works, so you're doing double-duty: learning the language and some of the culture's foundational texts.
This class is a good way to be exposed to different sorts of texts for those who want to be able to read literary Chinese. It is, however, mostly limited to Tang and Song texts - as someone who doesn't work on those periods, I still found it valuable, but that's worth keeping in mind.
This is a useful course for any student who wishes to start to learn reading traditional Chinese commentary.
A great class, challenging but fun, definitely worth taking!
It is a good class to take for anyone who wants to further their knowledge of literary Chinese or formal modern Chinese, since expanding the number of characters one knows and understanding a character's root meaning is always beneficial.
Big jump from first-level Chinese. I found that working with a tutor for the first part of the semester was very helpful to make the transition smoother.
This class is a lot of work but also a lot of fun!
Low pressure but helpful guide through Classical Chinese. You will learn Classical Chinese.
