it is difficult and time consuming, but it is an excellent class for improving chinese language skills
There is a lot of work on a daily basis, but it is a very rewarding class and probably one of the few classes where you will really feel like you are friends with your classmates and teachers.
If you're willing to work hard, you will learn a LOT in this class
Wang Laoshi is great! You'll love her.
I would only recommend this course if the student has a genuine love of Chinese.  140 is the only option to continue Chinese after 130 (Except for 142 which is only conversational and is not known to be a rigorous, stimulating class).  However, 140 truly frustrates students who have been in the Chinese classes from the beginning (Ba/Bb or Aab), and it is truly unfortunate because these are the students who love the language and love the department and who have put forth immense effort to reach 140 only to be severely disappointed, frustrated and discouraged.
make sure you really want to learn Chinese before you take this course, as you will be contributing significant energy and time to the course.
Fun and useful class. Be prepared to be challenged but it's worth it in the end.
it's challenging but worthwhile
It is somewhat difficult in terms of workload, but very rewarding
The energy and dedication of the teaching staff are incredible, and you will certainly leave the class with a noticeably higher level of reading and writing!
Greatly improves ability to read and understand Chinese.
Become more familiar with the teachers, participate in class
The class focuses on teaching how to use Chinese instead than examining the language by itself. It would benefit students intending to use Chinese in business or research or whatever other profession than students who want to deeply understand the language. A major problem with the class is that it does not discern between good writing and bad writing. It teaches clumsy and even awkward sentence structures. Some academic articles we read in class are written so terribly that they should never be examined and picked to represent Chinese writing.
If you are a heritage speaker, expect big improvements in listening, speaking, and writing. The reading portion was weak because we tried to cover a lot of text.
If you haven't learned some Chinese yet, what are you waiting for?
It's a wonderful class. You will learn a lot of Chinese, but be prepared for a fair amount of work every single day. That being said, your grade is easier to control, due to the amount of work that you have.
it's a lot of work, but you'll get a lot out
Jia You.
listening to the CD that comes with the textbook helps a lot
The teachers are super nice and it's easy to get an A.
This isn't a hard class. But you have to work constantly. The work never stops.
This is a great course to learn some sophisticated phrases while still being able to be easily understood if you only know colloquial Chinese.
So much fun DO IT
A superb class, but like all language courses, you get out of it what you put in.
Be aware that there are native speakers in this class, and the workload is therefore extremely uneven depending on your background and how much time you can commit to your Chinese studies. Otherwise, the teaching staff is excellent and you will learn an incredible amount in a relatively short amount of time.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.  The instructors do a great job.
You definitely learn a lot in this class regarding both Chinese language and culture. The preceptors are wonderful and can easily explain any questions you may have. They do a great job teaching and are wonderful people to meet with outside of classes too.
This course is totally awesome.
This course is helpful for improving reading and writing skills.   However, there are two drawbacks:: 1) it is less helpful in maintaining conversational fluency, and 2) it requires students to wade through some unhelpful and time-consuming material in order to glean the useful parts.
this class is aaaaawesome!!!!
Absolutely fantastic course! You will learn so much Chinese with a good balance between read, written and spoken Chinese. Although the intensity may not be that high there is work to do for this course almost every day. Be prepared to put in a lot of small but regular effort every day.
only people interested in Chinese for its own sake (i.e. not just for language requirement or international business) should apply
A great course with a lot of work, but that definitely helps one improve his/her Chinese. Also that Wang Laoshi is a great instructor.
You should be really interested in Chinese affairs if you're going to take the class.
High return to effort put in.
Study the texts closely; they are the best way to prepare for exams and improve reading and writing ability. Prepare in advance for the debates; not only will you do better, but you will get more out of them.
Take it to further your mastery of Mandarin. But make sure you take the smaller classes!
It's a great way to learn Chinese
Best year of Chinese I've ever taken.
Be prepared to work hard if you are not a native speaker!!!
Definitely make the most of it. There is a lot of information. You can get a lot out of it if you choose to work hard.
There might be a lot of work but the teachers keep the students engaged and make the class really enjoyable.
This class really ends up giving out as much as you are willing to put in. It is definitely possible to skate by in this class and end up doing fine (which is extremely tempting with all the stress during the school year), but doing so means that little will actually be learned and most things will probably be forgotten by semester's end.
Wang Lao Shi is amazing and friendly and super helpful. The class if great and will give you a great grasp of the vocab/sentence forms.
This class, along with all the other chinese classes, will really prepare you to be a chinese speaker. the teachers are really devoted, and help you out a ton. Also, this is one of the few classes at harvard where if you do your work every night, and do it well, you will undoubtedly earn an A.
This course is especially useful if you want to improve your reading and writing. If your focus is speaking, look elsewhere.
Take it! Wang Laoshi is the best-- very talkative and fun. Unfortunately Wu Laoshi, the section leader, will be leaving after this term, but she is very special and nice.  
There are many small assignments and requirements for this course, but they are not at all hard to complete, and will definitely improve your Chinese. Also, it's very fun and lax in the sections, those were my favorite.
Come with a positive attitude and willingness to learn, and you will enjoy the course!  You will get out of the course as much as you put in; the instructors are also very eager to help so do not fear.  In addition, paying attention in class, preparing for dictations, and taking the homework seriously will allow you to stay on top of course material.
You will learn a lot!  The course is similar to Chinese 130x, but a little lighter in workload.The course focuses on formal writing, with one chapter on vernacular/slang.  The vocabulary and sentence patterns learned in the course are not ones you will use extremely often in casual, everyday speech, but rather in either slightly formal, or very formal, contexts.
comfort in formal speech is necessary
It's a lot of daily preparation and work, but it's a great class. The teachers are enthusiastic, assignments are very useful, and you come out with a lot more than you went in with.
If you've stuck with it this long, I'm sure you will love Chinese 140b as much as the rest of us.
This is a great way to improve your Chinese skills. Wang Laoshi is one of the best teachers I've ever had at Harvard. She is so caring and effective - it makes all the difference in a class with a heavy workload.
You will learn a lot of Chinese and have a lot of fun in this class; prepare to be blown away by how hardworking some of your peers can be1
Read the feedback you get for your homeworks and essays! And speak a lot (go to office hours, ask questions) That's the best way you'll improve your Chinese. Memorize chengyus!
Seniors may not want to take this class, as the time commitment is signficiant and the workload, while not difficult, can be annoying to deal with
Like any language course, Chinese 140 is a lot of medium-intensity work.  The workload never gets terribly high, but it's always there.  You definitely get as much out of the course as you put in.  Chinese 140 definitely helps you a TON with reading and writing.  You'll be able to read essays or articles written in Chinese a whole lot better after this class.
Wang Laoshi and Feng Laoshi are great! I'm so sad that Feng Laoshi won't be around next year!
The preceptors are very enthusiastic and makes the class really fun!
It's definitely one of my most enjoyable classes this year!
Professors are wonderful!
Take it if you feel dedicated to Chinese language and culture.
a well-taught course expanding language and culture knowledge.
Great class.
It is a tad harder than 140a, but still very similar in format and content.
If you go to class, put in the effort, you will do fine.
great teachers
The teachers are very thorough in explaining nuances of grammar and denotative meanings of new vocabulary. If you practice by doing readings out loud and writing your vocabulary words as you study them, you will improve your Mandarin Chinese greatly. I feel more confident about speaking and reading now.
Another great continuation of Chinese at Harvard. If you're not Chinese, though, it is very hard to keep up in the class and you have to work a lot harder.
If you took Chinese 140a, this half is more of the same so you'll already have a good feel of what to expect.
Take it with Wang Lao Shi and Zhao Lai Shi!! They are the best and are very caring.
very helpful, especially the individual sections
A lot of work, but well worth it.
You still have class every day, but you only have to turn in homework once a week! Every week you either have a test or an essay, but it's not bad at all and really helps you learn the material.
This class includes a lot more Chinese literature than the previous Chinese classes, but it's still just as fun and engaging.
This is a WONDERFUL course! The teaching staff is awesome and you learn so much over the course of a semester. As a continuation of Chinese 140a, you build upon what you learn and that's really important.
Definitely take this class. There is a very strong cultural component to the class and you will learn much more beyond just the language. The teachers are extremely helpful and caring  you won't regret taking this class!
The Chinese department is honestly one of the most welcoming communities I've found on campus.
Gao Laoshi is so amazing. She's so kind and funny, and she treats each of her students like her children. You learn a lot about societal/sociological issues in China and also about various genres of Chinese literature. Because it's a course primarily about language, it's mostly a survey of these topics with lots of vocab thrown at you, so don't expect to explore the topics too deeply, but it's tons of fun nonetheless. I took AP Chinese and spent a summer abroad in China and I thought the class was really manageable.
This class is a natural continuation of Chinese 140a and is similar in workload and content to it. It's challenging but the assignments are fair and Gao Laoshi and Yu Laoshi are very supportive and helpful.
Gao Laoshi is a great teacher - she covers the material in a very thorough manner and at the perfect pace (not too fast so that you barely have time to digest what's going on, and not so slow that you're falling asleep at 10am lecture). She's very energetic, responds quickly to questions via e-mail, and just a wonderful person to get to know. I would say that my speaking ability did not improve as much in Chinese 140 as it did when I took Chinese 130x, but that's because there's a greater emphasis on formal writing in Chinese 140. I highly recommend taking Chinese 140 if you would like to further your Chinese language skills!
Great continuation of 140a. Revamped course material includes prose and fiction selections, which are quite interesting and fun to read. Gao laoshi is still the best.
Pretty similar to 140a, not brilliant but not too bad
If you love Chinese and want to improve on the foundation you get in 130, definitely take this course. However, keep in mind that it is quite time consuming: three dictations a week, biweekly tests, usually bi/triweekly essays. Overall, the teaching staff is amazing though and they are willing to help you with whatever you need.
It is a very fun class and the teachers are incredible!
This is such a great course! Gao laoshi is so nice and enthusiastic. Yu laoshi, the drill instructor, is great as well. This class improved my writing and reading skills, and I learned a lot more grammar and vocabulary. The workload is not too heavy once you get into the pace of the 2 weekly vocab quizes. Grading is fair and the teachers are really there to help you. Take advantage of the individual sessions!
It's a lot of work, but definitely worth the effort. My level of Chinese definitely improved over the course of the semester. And the best thing about the class is the amazing teaching staff!
Great class to end the 4 year track of Chinese. The class covers some seriously advanced and comprehensive topics in Chinese. I found the material to be significantly harder than any previous semester of Chinese, but perhaps this is to be expected at this level.
You get into this class what you put into it.  The instructors are absolutely fantastic, and the course materials are designed well.  But it's a challenging pace, and you need to go into it committed in order to reap its benefits.
This class is very helpful in advancing your Chinese, but also in introducing you to Chinese literature and other types of media. This makes every class exciting and super relevant.
This is a great class where you learn a lot and really fine tune your language skills. There are quite a few native speakers who take this class, so it can be pretty overwhelming at first for people who have no background speaking Chinese at home. Requires a good amount of time but it's pretty straightforward what you need to do to do well, it just comes down to putting in the time and effort.
This class is a good follow-up to Chinese 140a. There are no surprises in terms of what to expect, as it is structured just like the other Chinese classes. I think at this level, improvement of Chinese just depends on how willing you are to put in the effort. The class can become a bit dry at times.
This is a rigorous course. The material can feel challenging at times, particularly at the beginning of the course and there is a bit of a jump between Chinese140a and b in terms of the level of content. Expect to put in a lot of hours. But it is definitely worth it if you've come this far.
You should know by now what the Chinese program is all about; wouldn't say this class is any more difficult than previous years
This class is a step up in work from Chinese 140a: the dictations are more difficult, homework takes longer, and assignments graded more strictly.  However, the class size was a lot smaller than 140a, which made the course much more intimate and enjoyable.  Would highly recommend taking it if you're interested in continuing your acquisition of more formal grammar structures and vocab you wouldn't be able to learn on your own!  Also the course has a lot of selected excerpts from literature, plays, and poetry, which is a rewarding culmination of your work in Chinese class.  This primary source lens provides a great historical insight into the struggles, triumphs, and worries of Chinese people over many decades.
It is nothing unique from the 130 series. If you are looking to just learn more Chinese, it is just what you would expect. The vocabulary and grammar gets more and more obsolete as you go on, as may be expected. (It is much more work than 130)
This is a great class, consistent with earlier classes in the Chinese department, though steps up the intensity slightly. If you've taken Chinese here, you know what to expect. Interesting topics and well-taught.
A lot of work, but worth it
Take Chinese 140b - it's even better than 140a. Don't think twice; just take it!
A lot of what is taught in this class is perhaps academic beyond any real usefulness in casual conversation but nonetheless is good at teaching you how to speak Chinese.
Chinese 140b teaches you how to speak, read, and write Chinese in a formal tone. It is highly useful when conducting literary analysis, ideological debate, or political commentary. The language is so formal and literary, however, that it is definitely not applicable to regular day-to-day encountersyou should look at Chinese 130a and b for that.
Definitely harder than 140a content-wise. Work-wise it is the same.
Every class feels like some family bonding time. Very warm atmosphere with such dedicated teachers. This course will definitely take your Chinese to a new level.
lots of reading but worth it to keep up chinese
A good continuation of 140a. If you are planning to continue with Chinese, this is probably the course to take. However, if this is your last year, you should also consider Business Chinese.
Gao Laoshi and Zhao Laoshi are amazing!!! 100% recommend
Gao laoshi and Zhao laoshi are wonderful teachers and human beings, and you should definitely take this class, especially if you are interested in higher levels of Chinese as well as Chinese literature and culture.
