be prepared to work.  and go to class every day.
prepare for lecture by reading the material
If you want to use your Chinese in a work or academic setting, then it is worthwhile.
A lot of work but you really learn a lot. It's an especially helpful course if you need to write or speak in formal Chinese in the future.
The most fashionable teacher I've had all year! I will never forget that black skinny tie... and the salmon shirt/white suit jacket combo was amazing.
The preceptor is incredibly nice, approachable. You can learn a lot from this course but must be willing to work very hard.
you will learn a lot but it is quite difficult
This course is very demanding. It is tough for people who just want to get by the class. But if you enjoy Chinese, you'll like it a lot and benefit a lot from it.
It is a great class if you have a Chinese background and really want to improve your Chinese quickly. However, you will have to do a lot of work, so please consider whether this class fits in your schedule. Furthermore, you are essentially giving up large portions of your weekends, so consider that when you sign up for the class.
This course is extremely useful to preparing for academic work in Chinese, but it would not be useful to someone looking to improve informal speaking or practice colloquial usage.
Be prepared to work.
It is a great course that teaches you a lot, but requires such a large investment of time that it is difficult to recommend unequivocally.
There's quite a bit of work, but the payoff is great.
This course will be useful to anyone who is interested in engaging with others in Chinese on a sophisticated level and also any advanced learner of Chinese who has a passion for knowing more about the language. It is taught be extremely knowledgeable and dedicated instructors and requires a reciprocally tremendous amount of dedication and hard work on the part of students. However, for someone who seeks the most practical level of communicative capacity in Chinese, this course might be frustrating, overwhelming, and even a bit of an overkill.
This class gives you a glimpse of intellectualism in China; that is, the verbal expressions Chinese intellectuals use. The teachers are very nice and track your progress closely, which allow them to work with you on things you most need help with and help you improve significantly in these areas. Also a good introduction to incidents in Chinese history that have significant impact on China's cultural, social, and political development today. I recommend this to anyone who is interested in learning about China in more depth.
You have to work hard and work every single day in order to keep up and keep on top of this class.  I would emphasize that it NEVER ENDS. You never get a break, you always have assignments, quizzes, characters to memorize, lessons to read, etc.  So, it is a lot of work and a lot of time.  But this is how a language should be!  Constant practice is the only way you get better, so I think that 150 is designed extremely well for this purpose.
It's quite hard--really depends on how good they are at languages. If they're good, it's tons of fun and very helpful.
The readings are really cool, the teachers are awesome, and you will get tons of practice with speaking and formal writing.
Chinese 150 really trains you to write and think in Chinese. The chengyus that you know by the end of the course makes you feel like a more eloquent and learned speaker. Plus, the class is really small and tight-knit. You have a Chinese family that makes learning all the more fun.
you should only take this course if you have some intention of pursuing Chinese academic/literary research
Is a lot of fun!
Take this class if Yan Laoshi is teaching it again.
the kind of class you wouldn't be able to find elsewhere
The teachers are great and the small classroom setting was very conducive to learning.
Take a classical Chinese class prior to or together with this one
I started the Chinese 150 series not knowing how to write many words in Chinese but now I can write a decent amount of words. My vocabulary also improved. It is a very rewarding class and the teachers are patient and just awesome.
Yan Laoshi and Gu Laoshi are excellent instructors.  They are truly gifted and devoted educators.  However, I think once you get to this level, it really just makes more sense to go study in China.  I do not think my Chinese got much better at all from taking this class.  The teachers are great...it's just hard to go from good at Chinese to fluent in the US.  Also, it is a load of work and very hard; especially second semester.
This is the best language class I've taken in Harvard! Tian Laoshi is the best, and the readings are spectacular. They really give you a great insight into how modern China has evolved over the past 100 years. Zhang Laoshi , the TF, is also excellent, and I highly recommend this class to anyone who is looking to improve their Chinese.
The course is good, and it's a less intensive way to get into Chinese literature and history than the new content course (I was a little intimidated by the amount of reading and knowledge that seemed to be required for that). The teachers this year were super nice, although Tian-laoshi is leaving and I'm not sure whether Zhang-laoshi is staying on. The structure of the course could use a little bit of work, but it was greatly improved from last semester--I REALLY liked that the entire semester took on a narrative concerning modern Chinese history (the 1900s or so onward) and the literature that surrounded it. The class was never very difficult, which was a little frustrating given the amount I had hoped to learn from it. First of all, it was not at all a writing-centered course. Rather, we were given a LOT of vocab to drill into our heads for the homework and then the exams. There were few applications beyond that. This was unfortunate both in that I felt I neither learned how to write well nor how to utilize the vocabulary in my own writings. Nonetheless, I felt like learning the content was worth it, and it was all quite interesting stuff, with a little bit of variety (beyond the theme of Revolution and whatnot).
Tian Laoshi is a great teacher; unfortunately this is his last year. Nevertheless, the Chinese 150 series allows you to really expand your knowledge on the current political issues in China.
Take it!
For those who want to engage with relevant advanced texts in modern and literary Chinese (wen yan wen), the course provides a difficult--yet exceptionally rewarding--survey of such materials. The teaching is top notch, and their dedication is unmatched by other Harvard professors.
Ye Tian is an awesome teacher, the materials will absolutely improve your reading comprehension.
The best course I have ever taken at Harvard. Prepared me for business life in China.
Chinese 150b was a big jump up in terms of difficulty for me - I am a native speaker, and I took Chinese 140ab freshman year (and it was a breeze). The vocabulary learned in 150b are of a higher level, and the exam question types require you to think harder. Therefore, expect to put some more into this class!
You get out what you put in - harder work to memorize vocabulary and view/read supplementary material, attend office hours, and use material will result in a substantially better experience.
This class is an incredible way to intimately improve your chinese. It's by far the best chinese class that I've taken at Harvard.
