Learning Chinese is extremely important nowadays, and this is one of the best places to do it.
It's not too much work, but it's incessant and unending. Only those brave of heart should try.
Be prepared to work hard and expect a great payout.
Quickly read over the text of each chapter before each lecture (even if it has not been gone over in section yet). You'll get to practice Chinese a lot more if you can answer Wang laoshi's basic questions on the chapter. Also, you'll get so much more out of this course if you really learn the vocab. for the Tuesday and Thursday dictations-- it will also make studying for the unit tests much quicker.
This class is well taught, well run, well organized, and overall amazing.
I really enjoyed this course.
Be prepared to work hard.
One of the most intense but rewarding experiences you can have at Harvard.
You have to put work in, but you see the results
It is a lot of work! But the work pays off and your chinese gets significantly better from first year.
Have patience; it takes time.
This class is great. Not only do you improve your Chinese greatly, but it is also fun and interesting. I would recommend it to anyone who likes learning Chinese.
Chinese 120 extends knowledge of Chinese exponentially and is extremely useful.
This class is far more work than any other language class I have taken, but it is far less effective in learning the language than ones with a more reasonable workload.
Be ready to put in a lot of hours of work, but a rewarding course overall!
very hard class but worthwhile, the teachers are amazing
The teachers are very good, the workload is regular and manageable, getting an A isn't difficult -- what's not to love!
It will be intense, but you will learn a lot.
it moves fast and its difficult.
It may seem like it is a lot of work, but if you put the hours in it really pays off and it is a very enjoyable class.
is a little harder than Bb
This class is great!  You're Chinese writing skills will vastly improve!
I learned Chinese ridiculously quickly. Hopefully I'll remember it all!
This class is difficult since there is a lot of memorization required, but this is more easily managed because of the teaching staff's aid. The professor and TFs are always available to help; they make learning Chinese fun!
The teaching staff is incredibly dedicated to this course, and it shows. They're always willing to help you individually, and the class' rigor helps you cover an incredible amount of Chinese in one semester. At the same time, it is an enjoyable experience, and what you get out of it is directly related to what you put in. Your efforts are rewarded by the improvement of your level of Chinese. Awesome class!
preparing for sections and lectures ahead of time is very helpful to learning the language better. once you fall behind, it is very difficult to improve in order to make taking the course worthwhile.
You will be glad you took this class.
Take this class 1. If you are ready to work very hard, 2. If you really want to know Chinese.
Final is extremely difficult. Well prepare for it!
.
Chinese is the class that I look forward to everyday.  It will not only improve your Chinese, but also expose you to many aspects of Chinese culture.
This class is a huge amount of work. It is a big step up from ba and bb in terms of how much you are expected to prepare and the amount that is cover in one week. That being said it is a great class and the teachers are very caring.
The second year Chinese teachers are awesome! This is a great class if you want to get down to business and really bring your Chinese level up to a point where you can have sustained meaningful conversations.
If you're interested in improving your Chinese, this course (and this sequence of courses) is perfect for you!  It's intense, but everyone who takes the class enjoys it.
I thought this was the most difficult Chinese class I have had yet, but I think the transition from 120a is smooth and I definitely recommend continuing Chinese and taking 120b!
Chinese is definitely one of the hardest programs at Harvard, but it is also the best. You work INCREDIBLY hard, but you will definitely see the rewards with your language ability.  This class is incredibly addicting, and although it's really hard, people can't seem to drop it....it's that good.  Take Chinese, hands down.
You had better be absolutely certain you want to study Chinese in earnest; if not, save yourself some suffering.
Great course to expand your Chinese usage; teaching staff are great to get to know; vocab can accumulate as the chapters go on; to really get fluent, you've got to practice.
A student taking this course must be willing to make the time commitment in order to well prepare himself for the time necessary to adequately memorize all of the characters and grammar structures.
Just as good as 120a! The teachers are engaging, the content is relevant and the tourists in the Yard actually understand you when you show off the latest additions to your vocabulary.
Just take it. Your Chinese will improve, and it's not as much work as first year.
I looked forward to it every day! If you enjoyed first-year Chinese, second-year is just as good.
Chinese 120b is an amazing course. It is challenging and engaging, but you really gain something out if it if you put in the time and effort. The teachers are there to help you learn to the fullest capacity while creating a fun environment. I noticed my Chinese language skills increase dramatically this year and feel more confident after going through 2nd year Chinese. Lao Wang Laoshi is an amazing professor and the drill instructors are just as dedicated as those in Chinese Ba & Bb.
This class is definitely harder than first year chinese but it's still a lot of fun and it greatly improved my language skills.
Try to remember and review the vocabulary and grammar from previous semesters over the course of your studies.
If you want to improve your Chinese and work with a group of very dedicated teachers, Chinese 120 is great.
It's hard work, but SO worth it!
One of the best classes at Harvard!
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard so far. It is challenging but the professors are there for you every step of the way. If possible, take only four classes if you are taking this course.
It's fun if you want to learn Chinese.
Note: the course is not "difficult" it is simply time consuming. If you budget enough time for Chinese, it will pay off in your language comprehension and your grade.
Its one of the most rewarding classes that I have taken at Harvard. You can really see the results of the work that you put into the class.
The class is taught extremely well, and the TFs are great. There's a constant workload, but it's usually very realistic. Once you get settled into the rhythm of it, it should be no problem.
Very difficult, but very educational.
It's a lot of works required. Be ready.
Much more difficult than first year. There are also less audio files and practice problems as well compared to first year at Harvard.
Take this class only if you are really committed to learning Chinese.
Extensive testing, but that really reinforces what you've learned, and you don't need to study too much for each individual test
just a continuation of 120a, maybe a little easier.
Very important to be committed to studying a lot
This course is amazing and the teachers are the best! A fun class but be ready to work hard and have homework every day. Also, make sure you like learning Chinese because it is a big time commitment if you are not enjoying it!
This is a wonderful class taught by a wonderful teaching staff. Wang laoshi and the drill section leaders are the sweetest, they create a warm family-like atmosphere that makes you unafraid to ask questions or practice speaking skills. This class will definitely improve your Chinese skills in unimaginable ways. Of course you have to put in the work for this to happen, but the teachers make the class so enjoyable. That said, you'll get out of this class what you put into it.
It's a lot of work (as usual).  But great teachers and you learn a lot.
As much work as you've come to expect in Chinese language classes. The teaching staff is still wonderful, and you will learn a lot so it is worth it. Just remember to budget enough time when taking the class.
Chinese 120b is basically the same stuff as 120a, but the lessons definitely get a lot more challenging (and interesting!). Rather than mostly just reading dialogues between students, you'll be reading about urbanization in China, Buddhism, Beijing Opera and lots of other topics! (There are still some lessons in dialogue format, though.) Wang Laoshi and the TFs (Dong Laoshi & Zhao Laoshi) are all incredible! I felt that my Chinese improved tons over the course of taking 120a/120b--the course really teaches you a lot!
This class is a great way to expand upon your basic Chinese language skills and begin to see improvements in your fluency and ability to communicate clearly and quickly.
This is a great class!! Take it!! You will learn an incredible amount of Chinese. I now feel comfortable using Chinese, especially with speaking and reading. You will also get to know many things about Chinese culture.
This class is great! It can be a little annoying sometimes, just because there's never really a break from learning vocab or doing homework assignments, but all of the teachers are amazing and you learn so much! Walking to Vanserg every day is a bit of a pain though.
It's a challenge, but so rewarding.  Also, don't be intimidated by the difficulty.  Part of what makes the teachers so wonderful is their acknowledgment of a good effort.  If you complete all of the assignments and really put the work in, your grade will never suffer even if you aren't the best.
As long as you are genuinely interested in learning Chinese, and thus aren't afraid of putting in a lot of work to do so, this is an absolutely amazing class! Wang Laoshi is the best!
Awesome awesome awesome Chinese class.  Develops your conversational (and writing) skills incredibly.
This is an amazing course for learning/keeping up your chinese. it is rigorous but the teachers are extremely supportive and understanding so make sure to communicate with them
You need to stay on top of the work and be prepared for every class.  You can't really get away with not preparing, and even if you do, you'll struggle with the tests.
Chinese is not the easiest course and is EXTREMELY demanding and time-intensive. That being said, it is always one of my favorites and is so rewarding. Chinese classes always have a great sense of community and the best teaching staff around.
The teachers in this course are fantastic, and you will learn a lot of Chinese. However, the course moves very fast, and I always felt a little behind.
You truly get as much out of Chinese as you put into it. The more effort you put into the homework, dictations, and preparations for interviews or oral reports, the more you will learn and remember in the future. This course is also not as time-consuming once you get used to a semester or two of Chinese; it becomes easier to know how to prepare for things.
Wang laoshi and her teaching fellows are some of the most understanding, kind and professional around. Chinese gets a bit easier, I promise!
It's one of the better structured language classes at Harvard that I have taken.
If you've taken Chinese 120a, there's no sense in not taking Chinese 120b. Chinese 120b is a really really excellent class that builds off of Chinese 120a to give you an even stronger base of Chinese vocabulary and grammar and to make you more used to speaking Chinese. If you at all liked Chinese 120a, you'll at least like, if not love, Chinese 120b. You already know how amazing the teaching staff is - Wang laoshi is probably about the nicest, sweetest, most passionate professor you'll find at Harvard. She is an extremely effective lecture and teacher of Chinese and really has a way of making sense of an alphabet-less language for us. Dong laoshi and Zhao laoshi are also so kind and enthusiastic, and they make section fun and interesting, in addition to productive and useful. I'm so happy I continued on with the full year of 120, and this class and its teachers have inspired me to continue. TAKE THIS CLASS!
You really learn a lot--difficult vocabs and grammars, and you will know how to use them in everyday life because they always make you practice new things you learned in class.
If you're interesting in learning Chinese, you will not regret taking this class. The teaching staff is phenomenal and really make the course. Be prepared to put a good bit of time in to the course. That being said, it is immensely rewarding.
Wang Laoshi is especially an amazing teacher and Dong Laoshi and Zhao Laoshi are amazing section leaders-you will learn so much very quickly
Second year Chinese will challenge you to expand your vocabulary and understanding of the Chinese language. It's definitely not for the light of heart, you really have to be committed to learning the language. But, if you do commit yourself, this is the most rewarding class at Harvard! The teachers are amazing and your classmates will help you along the journey!!!
Chinese 120b is great!  It's a bit harder than 120a because there is just more work because there are more words and grammar structures.
If you are willing to devote your time and energy, the course will be fun and you will be confident in your language skills.
No matter what, you will love this class.
take the course only if youre determined to work very hard and be patient with the learning process.
120 
Don't take this class unless you are serious about learning Chinese.
Chinese 120b is an excellent continuation from 120a. By this point, you'll know the TFs really well as well as Wang Laoshi and the coursework becomes much more reasonable and easy to manage! As long as you keep up on your ting xies and study well for quizzes and tests, it's totally manageable.
Great class. learned a lot about reading, writing, and speaking
Great continuation of Chinese 120a.
This is a great class that will significantly improve your Chinese language ability.  Even at times during which you do not put as much time in as you should or during off periods (such as spring break), your simple cognition of Chinese will come to such a level that you will find yourself able to think in the language.
You will learn a huge amount from taking this class.  It is challenging and requires commitment and patience but my Chinese has improved more in this course than it did for the 3 years of instruction I had prior to it.  The teachers are all ready to help and facilitate your learning and you will learn a ton about the culture as well.
The class is very consistent; you are always aware of what's expected of you. It is structured somewhat like a high school class in that you have work most nights of the week, quizzes twice a week. But the regularity of it makes it manageable. Your language level definitely improves.
It is a good amount of work (less than Ba/Bb though), and I would say take it only if you want to continue on to 130!
best class i've taken at harvard to date.
Be prepared to work a lot, but you'll certainly get a lot out of it.
If you want to improve your Chinese, then this is definitely the class for you. It can be time consuming with twice weekly dictations but once you get into the rhythm of the class, it becomes very manageable. Your reading and speaking will improve tremendously if you're diligent about keeping up on the work, but the teachers make it hard not to be.
Just stay up on memorization of the grammar and vocabulary and its a great class!
This course seemed to be very difficult for students; if you are not thoroughly interested in immersing yourself in Chinese language, I would suggest taking another course.
Great class! Requires a lot of time... but worth it!
just be prepared to WORK
be ready to work. dont fall behind.
The teaching staff for the entire 120 series is amazing!  Wang, Zhang and Ma laoshi are all easily accessible for any questions you may have (I frequently ended up having hour-long discussions in Chinese with Wang Laoshi during individual sessions and office hours) and the course, while requiring that you truly enjoy learning Chinese, was the perfect combination of lecture and section, ensuring you leave with a solid grasp on the language.
It's hard and frustrating at times, but very fulfilling in the end.
It's a great class for those who want to learn Chinese and be able to live or work in China - I learned a lot of important stuff about Chinese culture.
Definitely take this course if you want to learn Chinese.  This is my favorite department in my experience at Harvard so far.  It's a hard language to study though if you are just trying to fulfill the language requirement.
studying chinese is a lot of work, but studying it here makes the experience very fun.
While difficult, Chinese is definitely worth the time. You get as much from the class as much as you work in the class.
Lots of time, wonderful teaching staff, will teach you a lot of Chinese, but you will spend a lot of time memorizing vocab that you never use, and less fluent than you could be if the course emphasized fluency.
This course was even better than 120a. All of the assignments had a purpose, almost all of the words and grammar patterns were useful, and the laoshis were fantastic. As in every Chinese class, though, be prepared to work and constantly be practicing.
I have found Chinese to be the best taught class that I have taken at Harvard; the teachers are all very enthusiastic, and I gained a huge amount of confidence in my Chinese as a result.
Chinese 120b is an excellent linguistic and cultural exploration - the best part of the course is the relevancy of the course material. I feel like I can talk about important social and cultural (although not political) issues regarding the United States and China in decent Chinese. Grammar points are well explained and the teaching staff are friendly, patient, and available. The written work load is also very manageable with only two pages of written homework a week, though frequent essays and quizzes (sometimes 4 times a week if you have a test mMnday, quiz tues-thurs, and an oral quiz Friday) keep you busy! However, be aware that the course moves very quickly, and that although it is not a heritage course, the speed can be a bit frustrating at times. It requires constant focus and review since you learn around 55 new characters and 10 new grammar structures a week. A common problem is that you can cram for one week and then forget everything before moving on to the next. The onus is on you to keep reviewing consistently so that this doesn't happen, as this class moves super quickly and doesn't offer many opportunities to review.
This is a fantastic class--if you ever want to learn Chinese, you should definitely take it at Harvard. The Chinese program here is essentially the best you'll ever be able to take part in.
It is a phenomenal class. The Chinese language program at Harvard is top-notch and the teacher, Ying Laoshi, and the drill instructors really know what they are doing and are well prepared for each class. They understand how to teach this language in the most effective manner.
Chinese 120b is a step up in difficulty from Ba/Bb or even 120a, but it is definitely worth the effort.
The absolute BEST way to learn Chinese in the whole world!
After taking this class, it's easy to understand why people say Harvard has the best Chinese department in the country. There's a consistent amount of rigorous work, but that also makes it hard to fall behind, so if you're willing to try hard, you should absolutely take this class because you will learn a lot.
Great instruction, great structure, great value to you as a student.
This course, and Chinese language study in general, is very difficult and you must be prepared to put a fair amount of time and effort into it, but it is also very rewarding.
Amazing class. If you want to learn Chinese, Harvard is the place to do it!
This is an amazing class. If you like languages, I would definitely suggest Chinese because it is taught so well at Harvard. 120b is especially great because you can really feel yourself improving everyday. My classmates and my teacher all seem to really enjoy being in the class which really created an amazing environment.
The class is really well structured and the teaching staff is great. However, it does require a lot of time commitment and memorizing. Overall, the course was not too difficult but there a few bumps along the way.
If you took Ba/Bb and want to continue, this class is great. Get out of it what you put in, i.e. lots of work means lots of improvement. Didn't necessarily work the hardest but still came out of it feeling like my Chinese is very good.
be prepared for a big time commitment!
The teachers are really really nice.  You might have to spend a bit more time than 120a but the class overall is about the same format and level of difficulty.
It's worth it
You learn so much Chinese. The faculty is all incredible and so ready to help you learn -- definitely a resource worth tapping into. Your speaking skills will grow noticeably, but only if you put in the work, of which there is a lot.
Take this class! The Harvard Chinese program is like a big, awesome family, and although language learning is taken very seriously, it's still fun.
This course requires dedication to the subject matter. The coursework is pretty constant all semester, and can get tiring.
This course meets everyday and is a lot of work, but it is worth it. The teachers are patient, and will help you if you ever struggle. The speed and efficiency with which you will learn Chinese is incredible.
you have to put the work in but it will be manageable and rewarding
Great Experience!  One of the best classes at Harvard
awesome course
The Chinese department is a hidden gem here at Harvard. The Zhang, Tan, Xu and Du lao shi are so passionate about teaching, and they really want you to fall in love with the language. My Chinese improved very quickly during the 120 sequence. The classes meet every day, so you kind of get into this groove of learning, speaking, listening and writing. If you want to learn Chinese, you won't regret taking this class!
The Chinese teaching staff are unbelievably accessible, encouraging, knowledgeable and straight up adorable. Chinese is a hard language to learn, yes, and it necessitates work every day, yes, but the reward is feeling your improvement every single day! Highly recommended-- I don't know when else you'll have the opportunity to be taught by such incredible teaching staff!
Slightly more challenging than 120a, 5 more vocabulary words each lecture may not seem that much, but it adds up!
The Chinese language program is one of the academic programs at Harvard and of its kind. It's clear they value the pedagogical approach and constantly try to improve and produce useful and relevant content (i.e. they always make new PPTs). The class takes some time but really it is worth it and is a nice break from the other kinds of classes that you will take at Harvard. The teachers do not teach in a tradition Chinese manner (rote memorization, etc.) and really help everyone succeed.
I found the subjects discussed in 120b even more interesting than 120a. After taking this course I feel comfortable discussing current issues and society in China using Chinese. The professors are incredible and always willing to help and provide feedback. After taking this course I feel as if my Chinese skills have improved significantly.
This class is great! The laoshi are amazing and very helpful and supportive. This class is structured just like Chinese 120a and you learn more about China's culture and have an introduction to formal vocabulary.
If you've taken Chinese at Harvard before, you know what to expect. If not, the Chinese language program at Harvard is outstanding, and I highly recommend it. The teachers are great, the textbook is custom-made for the class, you get lots of individual speaking practice, etc. 120b follows nicely from 120a and by the end of the year you will have made a lot of progress in your Chinese skills.
This is a great class to take of you want to be able to speak more formal Chinese and discuss more complex topics. I found it to be significantly more interesting than 120a, both in terms of the language skills I gained and the subjects we discussed. If you took 120a, you should take this class - it is a better way to end your study of Chinese or to start the next chapter in your Chinese language journey.
You learn so much in one semester! Incredible teaching staff
This class provides a very interesting window into life in China and the finer tuned elements of Chinese culture (e.g., the differences between formal and casual Chinese, the encroachment of Starbucks into China). I would definitely say that this class is necessary and important for anyone interested in studying Chinese professionally or for a language citation.
Zhang Laoshi is an incredible professor who strikes a balance of fun and discipline in the class. The work is consistent, so be prepared, and the daily walk to Vanserg can be frustrating at times - but stick it out and your Chinese will improve tenfold.
The teaching staff is incredibly supportive and willing to help you pursue your goals in this course; I had an overwhelmingly positive experience with this class and department. However, do know there is a significant increase in difficulty from first semester to second semester. I was not expecting this, as it was very different from my orignial impression of the study expectations and time commitment necessary, which threw me off.
It's great. Lot's of chinese. Great teachers.
Do your best not to slack off on the dictations - each chapter has a lot of useful vocab that you  might not remember if you repeatedly cram for each dictation.
This class is definitely intensive and can be very difficult if you're not skilled at languages and memorization, but if you put in the work, you'll be fine. The teachers are excellent, helpful, and happy to help you as much as you need. The workload is comparable to Chinese Ba/Bb.
This is a fabulous course and one of my favorites at Harvard. The teachers are incredible and so dedicated to improving the students' skills.
Great course if you are interested in continuing to learn Chinese.
If you haven't taken Chinese before, it's really tough. I took it for four years in high school so it's not too hard for me, but from people who started Chinese for the first time at Harvard I've heard it can be really hard. Either way it's still a great class.
Solid Chinese class with an emphasis on speaking and listening. Grammar structures were interesting -- not sure I would use all of them in everyday conversation but it's helpful to know.Teaching staff are wonderful people who are patient, kind and understanding. They work hard to give us good feedback.
The Chinese language program at Harvard is world-class and Chinese 120b is no exception. We learned a lot of very high level vocabulary and grammar, discussed everything from ethnic minorities to poverty to cultural norms, and solidified our writing skills. It's unbelievable how much we know after only second year Chinese! The highlight though is of course the teaching staff, who are the kindest, most hardworking, encouraging instructors I've had at Harvard. They really make the class great.
This class is very easy to do well in if you just put in the effort. The twice-weekly dictations are an easy A if you just spend an hour or so the night before studying the words and reading the textbook, and doing this will help you in the long run when it comes to review tests and midterms/finals. The teachers are extremely enthusiastic about the course and want students to learn and do well.
difficult class that requires a lot of preparation, but as with the rest of the chinese department, a worthwhile and meaningful experience
The Chinese Department is definitely one of the best at Harvard. The faculty are all phenomenal, the courses rigorous but manageable, practical, and enjoyable as well. 10/10 would recommend.
An incredible class - grading is easy, so you get out whatever you put in! Lots of resources to practice speaking Chinese with instructors, and very thorough, personal feedback on every assignment, but you can still get an A without doing either of those things.
N/A
