You learn so, so much. I was so surprised at how much everyone learned by the end of the semester. So rewarding and I'm very grateful for wonderful teachers and how far I've progressed.
Go to every class! Attendance counts and missing one class will put you pretty behind
It's not perfect, but it's a very great class. I took a lot of larger lecture classes this term, and coming from a high school with very small classes I really appreciated the tighter-knit classes. Our section got really close through the semester, and the rotational teaching system in Chinese BA allows you to get to know almost each teacher pretty well, but not have to have them the entire term. Learning a foreign language is always useful, and Chinese is becoming even more useful, and Chinese BA is a wonderful start to learning that language.
Although it is a beginners' class I would suggest trying to have a basic understanding of how the language works before you start because it suddenly picks up the pace so quickly about 2 weeks in and it is easy to forget the basics they tell you at the start.
Chinese is a major grind... but at the end you'll be able to basically speak Chinese... which is awesome.
The Chinese language itself is difficult, but the professors make the class enjoyable. Chinese Ba was definitely my favorite class this semester.
You will have Chinese crammed into your head.
The amount of work is not a myth. Expect to put in more than an hour a night if you really want to master the material. However, if you put in the time, you will learn a lot and the course will be very rewarding.
Be prepared to learn a lot.
Introductory Chinese-- you can start this course without any background.
This was my favorite class by far! Chinese BA is an amazing course, but it is what you put into it. The resources are all there for you to succeed if you put in the time yourself too. Chinese is not easy, but the teachers really care and want you to succeed. I highly recommend you take this course and continue taking Chinese. I know I am!
You learn a lot of Chinese really quickly but it gets to be fairly difficult towards the second half of the semester.
sooo worth it
Take Chinese BA! Although Chinese is not an easy language, the course is extremely organized, the teachers are extremely supportive, and you practice a lot. You would be surprised to see how much Chinese you learn in one semester
If you want to learn Chinese, there is no reason not to take this class.  It is very accessible, fun and energetic. It moves at a rapid, but not impossible clip, and the instructors put in a LOT of effort to help you improve.  You will not fall behind if you put in any effort, because they will be there to help you every step of the way.  This course is an example of the best Harvard has to offer.
Loved it! Drill section is super useful. Dictations are sometimes difficult, but they sometimes make sure that you remember vocabulary from previous chapters (don't forget them!!). Start learning simplified form, rather than traditional. I learned a lot about Chinese in just one semester and can now make basic conversation/read quite a few characters/understand basic Chinese conversation.
Even if you're slightly interested in learning Chinese, I highly recommend this course!! Very worthwhile!
Chinese Ba has one of the friendliest and most supportive teaching staff I've seen at Harvard, and I genuinely looked forward to going to Chinese class every day. If you're an absolute beginner, the course will probably be quite challenging, though definitely doable if you put in the time and effort to learn the material.
This class is difficult, but it is quite manageable as long as you do the work. The biggest difficulty in this class is the speed and high content of material given each week. There are three quizzes every week: dictations on T/Th and oral on Fridays. You're expected to recognize 40+ characters and write 20 characters per week, and there are 8 grammar rules taught every week. Weekends are important, so spend them wisely.
i'd tell future students that they should definitely focus on speaking and practicing their chinese with their teachers.
Learning Chinese is definitely a challenge, but the instructors and students in this course truly make it enjoyable.
This is not a joke class--it will take uo a lot of time. And if you have no prior Chinese experience, prepare to work hard. That said, it's extremely rewarding and you will learn more than you ever thought possible.
Faculty are very nice.
Amazing class! Promotes comfortable conversation and the TFs are great about repetition so the words get stuck in your head.
So much fun, such an interesting language with fun engaging teachers!
This is an intensive language class. If you're willing to put in a lot of work, you will certainly learn a lot! It is fast-paced but worth it!
Many people think Chinese is a very hard language to learn, but this course makes learning it fun and not so bad after all!
If you want to learn Chinese and have minimal or no experience, this is a great way to do it! I came into Chinese Ba with a small amount of chinese experience, and I relearned the basics (sounds, tones, etc.) so much better than I knew them before. The teaching staff is excellent and the curriculum is very well designed. You've probably heard good things about the Chinese department, and it's all true. The only negative is that you should be prepared to be with some freshmen interested only in fulfilling the language requirement with minimal effort.
You learn a lot of Chinese in one semester! But it actually is a lot of work and expect to work on it everyday. This can be a little strange coming from other classes where you don't have to keep on top of things on a daily basis. But I would say it's worth it. The teaching staff is great and so incredibly caring. You learn so much. Just try not to procrastinate and review characters often because it can get overwhelming towards the end of the course. Also, since the course is taught in smaller sections, you actually get to interact and know your fellow classmates, a rarity amongst Harvard courses!
The course is worth it. Instructors care about your progress so you never can feel left behind. Do not hesitate to approach them for further help. At the same time, it is helpful to have friends who are either in higher level courses or just speak Chinese proficiently check your assignments. If you never had experience with characters, it might be quite a lot of work to memorize them. And tones--they would be pretty hard too if you never spoke other tonal languages. In general, the course is a thing that made my first semester such a fantastic experience. Don't forget about Harvard Beijing Academy, another chance to immerse into the language if you liked the course.
An intense class that will teach you a lot of Mandarin in a short space of time. Beware the workload though, it's a hard subject and one you need to make your focus if you take it. Teachers don't tell you much on the things you need to be doing outside of class to stay on track.
If you have any interest in learning Chinese, definitely take this class! It has been my favorite class this semester, and I feel like I've already learned so much. It truly is a beginner course, requiring no experience at all, and there's a lot of opportunities to receive personal attention and practice with the teachers in small groups and even one-on-one. The workload is very manageable, because it splits itself up into a little bit each day. The class works at a pace that allows you to learn quickly, but also gives you the time and resources to make sure you're really mastering the material.
It is just a lot of fun. Take it if you want to learn Chinese effectively at Harvard.
I encourage everyone to take Chinese!
This is a fantastic course with passionate teachers and the best organization I have ever encountered in an academic setting. You can absolutely begin this course with no background in Chinese - I did and don't regret it - but roughly half the class have a Chinese-speaking family member, lived in China, or studied Chinese in high school; this can be disheartening when you are struggling with a grammar point or to remember vocab, while someone else is breezing through it because of prior experience.If you really put in the recommended 10 hours/week outside class (memorizing characters, learning grammar points, listening to dialogues, etc.) you will learn a significant amount of Chinese and get an A.
If you are thinking about learning Chinese, then you should definitely look into this course. There isn't a better time than in college especially with the exceptional program at Harvard. It is a lot of work,especially if you have had little previous experience, but it is worth it.
This course is absolutely amazing. The teachers are all invested in your success, the language is simplified into lessons that teach just the right amount of information per week, so you won't feel too overwhelmed but also won't feel like it's completely easy. You learn so much, much more than you expect to learn in one semester, to the point where you can hold simple conversations with a native speaker, like I sometimes do with my roommate from China. You can choose to learn characters in traditional or simplified, and you memorize them in manageable numbers. I would highly recommend this course if you want to learn the language. Homework is due once a week, on Mondays after the weekend, so you have tons of time to complete homework. The dictations are all based off the book, so they're simple enough if you put in a little bit of time to read through the dialogues in the book and look at the vocabulary.
It turns out, learning one of the most challenging languages actually takes quite a bit of time. Be prepared to put quite a bit of work in. Teaching staff is great, but keep in mind you'll be going to Vanserg...every day. Don't know where that is? Neither did I. It turns out it's at the end of the earth. Teaching staff really care, but yo absolutely need to put the work in every day or it will end badly. You can BS your way through certain things. Having no idea what is even going on when you're handed a piece of paper because you expected pinyin and got characters is not one of them.
Be ready to learn tones- 1 through 4.
"This is probably the best teaching team I have at Harvard, everyone is really helpful and work really hard on improving your ability to communicate in Chinese. I have made incredible progress in 3 months of work and I am definitely looking forward to next semester/year classes"
Don't hesitate to take this class if it's only because you're afraid that Chinese is hard or that it seems too foreign. They teach it so incredibly well it's amazing and you have so much fun with this class! I thought Chinese was going to be scary to learn but I'm surprised that it's turned out to be so amazing and the teachers make classes so fun and energetic that I'm considering a citation in it now.
The course material is challenging, for those who are new to the language, but it is very worth it and valuable. If you put in the work, you will learn a great amount and be very encouraged.
A very instructive and even fun class to expose you to Chinese language as well as culture. The teaching staff is also wonderful and receptive.
This class moves at a very fast rate, but it a nice introduction course to learning Chinese.
Workload can get rigorous for someone with no background in Chinese, but it's well worth it. If you put in the time, you will look back and be amazed at how much you learn over the course of the semester.
really amazing program. take advantage of the languages at this school, you won't regret it. You need to put time in and it's not an easy class, but if you want to learn Chinese there is no better place to do it.
Good course to start off learning Chinese. Lessons are structured logically and progress as a decent pace that is neither fast not slow. By the end of te semester, you will be surprised at how much you have learned and honestly be able to carry at least basic Chinese conversations. The only annoying part is that there are a lot of people with prior Chinese experience which may make it frustrating if you are just starting to learn. Overall great class and the teachers were all wonderful and sections is actually really fun!
You can't go wrong with this class - it's harder to learn than some other languages because characters are completely different from letters, but it has a lot of applications and it also opens up the possibility of working/studying abroad in Asia.
If you really want to learn Chinese, this is the best way to get started.  You learn so much, and build such a good foundation with such little time.
This is a really solid introduction to Chinese. The teaching staff's teaching methods are very good. It feels like there has been research into language learning that went into designing this course
Very good and fun class to be, but don't slack off because you might be left behind forever due to its fast pace. But if you come to all the classes and sections, you'll be fine.
If you're interested in learning a language, learn chinese! It might be difficult at first (especially the tones!) but after a while, you get adjusted to the pace. Zhou Laoshi and the rest of the staff are very enthusiastic about teaching and will help you learn the most chinese you possibly can.
TAKE THIS COURSE if you have any interest in learning Chinese! It is challenging and time-consuming, especially if you aren't particularly adept at learning languages, but totally worth it. If you are willing to put in the work you will be amazed at how much you can learn in just one semester. I can't wait to continue my study of Chinese in this excellent department!
This is an excellent class! Teachers are supremely amazing, and the way they structure the classes are so efficient. Definitely take it, they make learning Chinese fun and enjoyable!
Keep up with the vocabulary and grammar! It will only make the later lessons easier to understand
1. You have a choice of whether to learn simplified or traditional.  Only learn traditional if youre going into East Asian studies (or planning on studying something where you would need to be able to read older texts that are in traditional), or if you want to go to Taiwan and Hong Kong and want to be able to read things. Although even then, its not necessary.  Traditional is NOT helpful for if you want to go to mainland China  at all.  At first, professors use traditional all the time in class (in powerpoints, grammar handouts, etc.).  However,  by the end of the year, everything was being written in simplified.  

2. Be prepared to spend a lot of time studying characters  especially if youre taking traditional.  You need to learn how to write 20 per week, but be able to recognize ALL the characters in the book for each lesson.  I made flashcards for everything, which was really helpful.  

3. Overall, would recommend this class.  Its fun and youll really learn a lot, even if youve had Chinese before.  I was pleased with the amount of characters we learned and how much we could read by the end of the semester.  If your other classes involve a lot of writing (or if youre a grad student), this class will be a nice departure from that.   Of course you still need to dedicate a lot of time to the class, but when its a different kind of homework from what you usually have, its a nice break.  It may be a lot of work, but youll feel like you really learned and accomplished a lot by the time the semester is over. Definitely recommend!
If you're serious about wanting to learn Chinese, this course is for you. It moves at a quick but manageable pace. Don't expect to move through it like a romance language (I studied French), they're very different and Chinese requires a lot of your time. However, after one semester it'll feel extremely rewarding and I'm excited to continue studying it. I studied Chinese in China for a summer and while I learned a lot of spoken Chinese I left China not knowing how to read or write anything. This course is comprehensive and it covers it all!
Spend time practicing with a teacher and also on your own. Practice literally makes perfect.
This is a thorough, well-structured, and fun class.
It's tough but worth it! Very fast paced but at the end realizing how much you've learned in a completely new language is extremely rewarding.
It is a great class to pick up a difficult language that Chinese is. You will get a lot out of it if you put in the time and the effort.
It is a lot. Work every day, so only take it if you are dedicated. But you learn so much.
Such a rewarding class!
Chinese is a great language to learn, and this course does a great job doing it. It can require a good deal of work and memorization, but it is worth it.
Chinese Ba is extremely strong in teaching spoken Mandarin. The instructors, who are extremely enthusiastic and friendly, reinforce language learning through call-and-response exercises and dialogues. Sections and lecture are genuinely fun (and, at times hilarious), which is a good thing, because this class meets every day. Every week, students are expected to teach themselves how to read approx. 40 characters, and write half as many. There are also weekly homework sheets, dialogue memorizations, and dictation quizzes. Though the workload ramps up towards the end of the course, it is completely do-able so long as you are diligent about practicing about half an hour every night. By the end of the semester, class will be taught almost entirely in Chinese, and you'll find yourself understanding every word.
This class will be a lot of work, but the language skills you will emerge with are extremely rewarding.
THIS WAS THE BEST CLASS I HAVE TAKEN AT HARVARD THUS FAR!!! Seriously, the Chinese Language Department is the most interactive and attentive department at Harvard. All the TFs and the Professor truly want you to succeed and they offer so many opportunities for you to ask questions and seek help. I have nothing bad to say about this course.
From someone who has studied several languages, Chinese Ba is far and above the best language course I have taken. Mandarin is a difficult language to learn, but throughout this course I felt a tangible sense of progress each class session. The teachers are helpful and enthusiastic, and all of the work assigned pointed at a goal of being able to converse fluently in the language, which it accomplished very well.
The amount of work you do in this class depends on how much prior experience you have studying Chinese. If you have no exposure whatsoever, it will be a very challenging course. If you have studied a little bit of Chinese before, the class will be much, much more managable.
Do not be afraid to take this class just because it's a completely new language! The regularity of the schedule makes sure that you can't fall behind as long as you put in a little work everyday, and the teachers are all very available and quick to help. There's also a lot of small assignments that end up as padding for your grade, so the course is overall very manageable.
This is not an easy class but if you love languages definitely take it.
Chinese Ba is hard. Even if you work diligently, it's hard. You're going to wake up some days and hate it, then feel okay about it, then hate it again. But it's worth it.
If you are interested in chinese, take it 100%.  If you're not passionate about it, it might be a challenge
If you've ever had any desire to learn Chinese, take this course!!! It was amazing from the instructors to how well the material is taught to the other students to how much you'll learn in just one semester (significantly more than one semester of a high school language class). The Harvard Chinese department is famous for how well it teaches around the world for good reason. It's also great, because the instructors rotate sections, so you get to have each for a bit. Unlike previous years, you could also opt to just learn simplified characters this year, which was great.  Also, even if you're an upperclassman, don't be hesitant to take it--I did, even though I've already satisfied my language requirement and had a fantastic time. The course is a mix of all years and graduate students, which was fun. As long as you do the work for each day (although there is something due virtually every day, it's not a lot), it's not as hard as others may make it out to be. Only downside--the course is located in Vanserg, which is absurdly far. It's hard to take classes on either side, because you'll be perpetually late.
Chinese Ba is an excellent and very well organized course. All the instructors are very helpful and genuinely try to make the course fun. The drill section was probably the best part of the course. It both reinforced the material from lecture, and allowed people to get to know their classmates. That said, Chinese is a very difficult language, and be aware that it's very easy to fall behind in lecture if you don't study for a few days.
Even though many students come into Chinese Ba with a few years of Chinese classes, total beginners shouldn't be afraid to take this course; after all, it is supposed to cater to beginners. The professor and TFs will hold your hand in the beginning and through to the end of the course if you find you need it. The dialogues are fun and the class is quick and dynamic, so I personally enjoyed the class very much. I don't really recommend Chinese Ba to people who are looking to painlessly knock out a language requirement, but I definitely do to anyone who is remotely interested in the Chinese language.
Be prepared to invest a ton of energy and time into this course. It is not a joke. If you're looking for an easy way to fulfill the foreign language requirement, look elsewhere.
Wonderful course. You'll not only learn a ton (and watch your skills grow exponentially by the week) but have a ton of fun. I've never taken a class that's made me laugh so hard on a regular basis. The class exhibits some of the best teaching at Harvard (these instructors straight-up care about your learning), and if you've got a bit of a knack for languages, the work won't crush you whatsoever (the weekly assessments and homework are extremely reasonable). Lastly, you'll make friends in this course. Section thrice a week develops a real community.
This class is definitely worth your time! It is very fun and engaging, and you will learn a lot. All of the teachers are fantastic!
teaching faculty is great and many opportunities to practice. very rewarding if you put in the work
This is an awesome course that teaches you a ton over the course of just one semester. If you have a lot of exposure to Chinese please don't take this class, you just make it harder on actual beginners like myself who are easily intimidated by people who took Chinese in high school. Great class if you're willing to put in the time!
This course is very fast-paced and you have to be ready to put in a lot of outside work to be prepared in class and for assessments.
This class comes with a significant time commitment, but is well worth it. It gives you a functional knowledge of speaking/reading/writing Chinese.
Do the work diligently, don't fall behind. The course is easy if you put enough time in and are consistent.
Pay attention, and don't slack off, and you will be fine.
Fantastic class with a great teaching staff who really want to help you. I wasn't sure if I wanted to continue studying Chinese after fulfilling my language requirement, but now I plan to take Chinese beyond the first year because the teachers made it such a great experience. This class does have a good amount of work, so be prepared to study a decent amount every week, especially in the beginning when you're doing the foundation work. It'll make the rest of the course much easier!
It is a great course that is taught exceedingly well (much better than high school Chinese classes). That being said, there will be individuals in the class that have taken some Chinese before, just don't get discouraged.
Teachers are wonderful!
If you're looking to learn Chinese this is the absolute best place to do it. The teachers really care about your experience in the class and are willing to help you individually anytime you need it.
This class is awesome -- if you have any interest in Mandarin Chinese, you should definitely consider taking it. Admittedly, the workload is rather immense, but the good thing is that you are never really faced with one huge assignment; rather, you end up doing a ton of smaller pieces of work (weekly homeworks, dialogue memorization, character practice for dictation etc) over the course of the entire semester. Do not do what I did and fall behind; the course can get very nerve-wracking in that case. This class is also great for those who think they simply "don't possess the language gene". After 3 months, you will be amazed when looking at the progress you've made.
Take the course if you wanna learn Chinese. Don't take it for fun, unless you already know some Chinese. If you are true beginner, meaning you've had zero Chinese language experience, than be ready for a tough semester with a lot of studying. In the end, you learn a ton of Chinese, and the language that seemed so hard before starts looking easier and easier.
It takes a lot of hours of work per week, but the progress you make toward the goal of learning the language is insane. But, seriously, sooooo much work.
If you are willing to be attentive and motivated throughout a semester in Chinese Ba, and if you recognize that your commitment (or lack thereof) one week will affect your understanding the next week, you are prepared for this class. Anyone with an interest in beginning Chinese should take this class; with enough study, you can excel.
If you want learn Chinese, this is the best way to learn it.
You will learn quite a bit of Chinese for a beginning class. However, be prepared to commit time to memorizing characters especially. The grammar is not especially hard.
This is the best taught class offered at Harvard. It is very difficult, but equally rewarding. This class is so awesome. I looked forward to going to Chinese everyday and I want to now pursue a Chinese citation so I can continue to work with this incredible department.
Great way to learn a lot of Chinese in a short amount of time! Definitely requires work, but the teaching staff is amazing, and will make it worthwhile! I think anyone is capable of doing it if they put in the work.
I decided to take Chinese as a junior after previously taking Spanish. I never studied Chinese before, and this class was very difficult. However, I have taken few classes at Harvard as rewarding as Chinese BA. Be ready to work, and, if you commit to the course, you will see incredible results.
To master the language and truly excel in this class, you need to practice every single day. Chinese is very difficult, and if you don't maintain a strong study routine it could be a very long semester. But if you're willing to put in the time, this is an amazing opportunity; rarely at this university will you receive so much individual attention from excellent teachers.
If you really want to learn Chinese, this class is great. I can read and speak to native speakers and they all say how great I speak and how much we learn. It can be intense and at times very difficult, but in the end it is worth it. As long as you put in the work, you will learn Chinese, not to mention that the teachers will be there to help you along the way.
You must have interest in learning the Chinese language. Not just some curiosity but a real interest.
Great class to take if you want to be introduced to Chinese. It is very fast paced but students are immersed in the language every day and make great progress over the semester.
great class very manageable
Be prepared for Chinese to become an integral part of your life. It will be there when you aren't busy, and it will be there when you have three midterms and a paper due all in one week. However, also be ready to be utterly enchanted by this new friend of yours who is always around. You'll laugh in class, you'll be enthused in class, at times, you may even cry in class, but you'll never be in any doubt in class that this course is worth taking
Be prepared to spend a lot of time studying. The class itself is incredibly fun and you will learn a ridiculous amount, but you're definitely going to have to work.
It's a lot of fun, but a lot of work
It's a lot of work but it's fun and you will learn a lot of Chinese in very little time.
Amazing course, probably the best place to learn Chinese in the world.
If you have any interest at all in Chinese or learning something new, DO IT.  Teachers are wonderful, coursework is clear, sections are fun.  What's there not to like?
if you want to do well in this course make sure you have a lot of time set aside for it because it requires a lot of memorization and studying since there are two quizzes a week.
This is class is extremely difficult, but so incredibly rewarding. You will be able to speak Chinese. That's CRAZY.
This class is AMAZING!! Sun Laoshi is a VERY effective lecturer and the rest of the teaching staff is also VERY good. This class is very time consuming and can get quite difficult, but you WILL learn a lot. Best language class I've taken at Harvard.
Beware that Chinese ba is intense.
Great course! Very challenging, but totally worth the effort. I came out of this class every day feeling excited about learning Chinese. The teachers are animated and helpful, and the coursework is never pointless. If you've ever thought about taking Chinese, consider this class.
A great class. Make sure you are committed and will spend time learning all the stuff they throw at you, or you will flounder. But if you do the work, you'll learn an incredible amount. The entire teaching staff seems really dedicated. They know all the student's names, strengths, weaknesses, etc. All lectures and drill sessions are impeccably organized and designed to maximize the amount of time spent using the words you're learning. It's fun, challenging, and you'll learn a ton.
The teachers are all great! Section is fun and though you may feel overwhelmed at first, it's really not that bad.
It's a lot of time outside of class. Super enjoyable, especially in section, but you're gonna have constant pressure to keep up with everyone. That being said, if you study and do your flashcards or whatever, you'll be golden on the (biweekly) assessments, which constitute the majority of work required. Take this class.
I would recommend this course to anyone who wants to learn Chinese, but I would warn you that you really need to pay attention in lecture from the start and make sure you are following the course requirements from the start. The class is extremely fast paced and it can often feel like you are being left behind if you don't make yourself stick to the schedule.
This class is worth it if you are willing to put in time every day.
This is a great class! It is a good amount of work, but so worth it! All of the teachers and teaching assistants are absolutely fantastic, and they make class very fun.
Chinese Ba undoubtedly requires a good deal of work, but if you are interested in really learning Mandarin and you are willing to put in the time, it is an extremely rewarding course. This is not a class to that you take to fulfill a requirement - you have to truly want to learn. But you will be amazed by how much you are able to learn in just a semester. I definitely recommend this course!
This is a tough class, but it's worth it if you're interested in the language and/or you'd like to get though your language requirement.Chinese is a difficult language, one that will require a lot of frustration and replaying the audio for homework. There are, however, many opportunities to meet with professors for help, as well as with other students. The Section Teachers are all different in personality which allows students to find someone they like and connect with. Be prepared to devote a significant portion of time to the work and to reviewing for class.
Only take it if you genuinely feel dedicated and passionate towards learning Chinese as it requires a lot of work time.
I would like to tell future students to study vocabulary as you go along because it will help you a lot in the long run and save you time on every homework. There is a lot of work in this class so unless you really want to take Chinese I would not recommend it. However, the faculty members are really playful, making it a pleasure to be in the class.
Definitely take this course if you want to start studying Chinese. This is a great introduction
Taught from all angles; accessible for complete beginners to Chinese! Don't be intimidated by the difficulty of learning Chinese, this class is excellent.
be prepared to learn a lot and put a lot of time in
Chinese is more work than any of my other classes (maybe even combined), but it was by far the most rewarding and enjoyable class this semester.
Ba is not a particularly difficult class at all. In fact, if you like languages enough to be okay with spending a few hours a week memorizing characters, then it's pretty easy. What's more important is how rewarding it is. I'm always so excited when I look at a page of characters that look so foreign and realised I can completely understand it and could probably read it out loud (although my accent still isn't great). The teaching staff are all wonderful, too. I learnt a lot more chinese than I was expecting to learn. Great language to take!
Take this class only if you are serious about wanting to learn Chinese. The work is heavy and difficult, but you learn so much. You have class every day which is time-consuming and sometimes inconvenient, especially since the building is so far away from all of the dorms!I appreciate how the class is very organized and what you have to do for good marks is very clear. The pace is very fast, you memorize about 50 words per week and more than 4 grammar usages. You have vocabulary quizzes twice a week. Don't be deceived by the three page homework packet, it will take you hours. But in the end it's all worth it! I absolutely love all of the teachers! This is my favorite class by far.Go to office hours! The teacher makes you tea!
This class is extremely challenging, but quite rewarding. There's quite a bit of work - daily homework and two vocab quizzes each work. The class itself takes up a lot of time because it meets Monday-Friday, but it's well worth the time in the classroom. The teachers are exceptional and they make class enjoyable. The language is interesting and fun. It's certainly an intensive introduction to the language, but well-worth it.
Get ready to do a whole lot of work. This was the most difficult class I have ever taken. However, it was also the most interesting and exciting class I have ever taken. The characters are the most difficult, especially the writing, but, in the end, you will not regret taking this class.
If you really want to learn Chinese, this is the place to do it. It'll be time consuming, but they are very supportive and want you to succeed. You'll feel like you're succeeding quickly, so just find a good routine and stick to it. Make sure you learn the foundations such as pronunciation and tones perfectly; it makes things so much easier in the end. This class has been so fun and I got so much out of it, all of the time spent was worth it.
Chinese Ba is a great course to explore for students interesting in both Chinese language and culture. The course requires a lot of dedication and outside preparation for class, but it is also incredibly rewarding. The Chinese department fosters a great sense of community I've yet to experience in other classes--students become close with students in their section through collaborative exercises and outside studying time.
If you are not willing to put in the time to learn in this intensive Chinese program, look elsewhere. If you give yourself to the program, you will learn so much! It's definitely challenging, even frustrating at times, but my Chinese is SO much better for the time and energy I and the Chinese Ba staff have invested in the program.
By the end of the semester you can communicate with tourists. You learn to speak and write a lot for one semester.
A very thorough and intensive introduction to Chinese that is well-taught and has a great teaching staff that really wants students to enjoy and learn the language! Be prepared to dedicate a significant amount of time to the course to really gain a strong grasp of the language but if you do you will learn a lot in a short period of time!
I've never been more excited about learning a difficult language!
if you want to learn Chinese, then take this course and put weekly effort into it. Even though you will feel overwhelmed, stick with it -- you will be surprised how much you can speak after even just one semester. There is no better program for learning the language.
This is an amazing class for whoever intends to speak, read and write Chinese. It is so well designed that anyone can take it and make huge progress within a few months. But don't take it if you don't intend to study at least one hour per day outside of class!
This is an incredible course for learning Chinese, but do know that it is a LOT of work. If class five days a week wasn't enough for you, the weekly grammar homework, character sheets, audio recording, and vocab quizzes pile up. That being said, if you're interested in learning Chinese and putting in the work, this class has amazing results. All of the Chinese teachers are incredibly helpful and funny, and class is always fun.
do the work, and you will love the class
Be prepared to spend a significant amount of time on this class outside of section if you want to really commit to learning the language. The class itself is structured very well, and the teachers are absolutely fantastic, however, so don't be afraid to take it if you have a strong interest in Chinese. You will learn in all areas much more quickly than you think - it's been fantastic to see how much I can do now compared to when I began.
This class is challenging, but the work is manageable and extremely rewarding. Take it!!
Don't be discourage because it is difficult at first! It is a great class and the teachers are there to help.
Chinese Ba is an excellent class, and I would highly recommend it.
Extremely tough; you have to REALY want to learn Chinese. I did, but got behind due to some problems...once that happened there was no catching back up. Be ready to work, and make a good schedule. Will eat a ton of your time, but will be worth it (if you really want to speak Chinese!).
This is by far the best course I've taken here! The Chinese department is simply brilliant! I enjoyed every moment of Chinese class and also learned a lot! After just one semester I'm on the road to fluency. I'm not as lost in Boston's Chinatown as I was before and I can string together basic sentences in Chinese. I can also sort of fish out what people are saying in Chinese. The teachers are really good and fun-loving and I've gotten really close with my section. So much so that we don't even know each other's English names anymore! This is easily one of the best courses at Harvard. If you're considering it, stop hesitating and take it! I promise you won't regret it!
If you're interested in learning a language, take Chinese Ba. The teachers are great and extremely helpful, and though Chinese may be difficult to learn, you will have a great time learning it.
lots of work, but definitely worth it. you'll always feel a little behind because of the fast pace, but it's entirely manageable and that quick pace will only push you to get better
The class is demanding, and you really need to make time for it every single day because the material is cumulative. It's extremely rewarding, though; I learned so much in one semester.
i just love, love, love this course! the language is already incredibly interesting and useful, but the teaching staff made the semester a delight. sun and zhou laoshi make lecture go very smoothly and dispense the language is a very easy-to-understand manner. the drill section leaders are all incredibly good at what they do and i liked each and every one of them. yes, you have to do a lot of homework and put in a lot of time, but it is worth it!
Chinese is hard, take it if you're actually interested but if you've never been exposed to it at all, you're going to be doing a lot of work to keep up with the pace
It is definitely an intensive course, but worth the effort. The class teaches you years' worth of high school Chinese and you learn so much more effectively. The teachers are all supportive and offer ample opportunity to study at office hours and practice Chinese with them.
The first few weeks are very intimidating, but if you stick with the language and work hard every day it will pay off.
The teachers for this course are wonderful--they're always willing to help you work on tones or pronunciation or just to explain the meaning behind certain words or grammar structures. All in all, they very effectively teach a very difficult language.
If you haven't taken Mandarin before expect to spend 2-3 hours studying for every hour in class.  You should also consider making private investments in complementary grammar guides or dictionary software applications because it can take a very long time to search through the text for certain words or characters.  Office hours are a help but it is best to attend with a Ba instructor because the other Chinese instructors may not know what you have learned and won't be able to offer as appropriate advice as would a Ba instructor.
Take this class! The teaching staff are fantastic - engaging in class, available outside of class, and always patient and understanding with mistakes, pronunciation difficulties, etc. The pace is difficult but not overwhelming, and, most importantly, I learned more Chinese than I thought possible in one semester.
While this class is rewarding and extremely well-taught, I recommend that you are aware of the intense time commitment the class requires.
While this class is definitely difficult, it is very rewarding. You need to spend a lot of time reviewing characters and it can get frustrating, but in the end you'll be surprised by how much you learn. If you are interested in learning Chinese, don't be afraid to take the class because you think it might be hard. While there is a time commitment, the teachers are always ready to help you. My only complaint is that we have to learn traditional, while it would make more sense to learn simplified.
its a huge time committment
Very difficult class. Be prepared to put an extraordinary amount of time just to get by, let alone do well.
This was one of my favorite classes I took this semester. I learned so much that it's actually incredible to look back and realize that before this semester I didn't know any Chinese at all. The teachers are great and section is really helpful; you get a lot of personal attention. That being said, don't take this class unless you are willing to put in a lot of time. There is a lot of vocabulary and grammar to memorize and to do well, you have to consistently be putting in a considerable amount of work. It's not really difficult, just a lot of hours and effort. Totally worth it though!
This course is excellent! I highly recommend it to those interested in Chinese. Although it is a larger time commitment because of 5 classes a week, if you have a genuine interest in the topic you will find it very enjoyable. While there are a lot of commitments and quizzes in this class, it becomes fairly routine so you aren't stressed out by each one. The teachers are superb - funny and friendly. And if you chose a section with a good group of people, you'll end up looking forward to class everyday. Lots of resources provided to help you learn and just an overall great course.
The expectations are at times unreasonable given the pace (particularly near the end) and you have to really make sure you have few other obligations.
It takes a lot of work, but if you have time it is definitely a class worth taking.
This is an absolutely fantastic class. Every single teacher is amazing-- and I definitely cannot say that for most other classes I've taken. It's a rigorous course, so be ready to work hard, but by the end of the semester you realize you've learned so much. Definitely take time to learn radicals. It's a time investment, but it makes studying so much easier.
This class is really fun. Chinese is a very cool language, and other people will be impressed that you are learning it. With that being said, it definitely isn't the easiest language out there. If you are simply looking for the easiest way to fulfill your language requirement, look elsewhere. Don't let me scare you out of taking it. This class is very doable, and all of the instructors are nice and understanding. They don't grade too harshly, and they make jokes during class. I would highly recommend this class to everyone. You learn so much in such a short period of time, and you feel good about yourself when you are doing things right.
be prepared to learn traditional characters!
The teachers are incredibly enthusiastic and extremely eager to help their students learn. Their dedication is very apparent. Excellent class--great experience overall.
It's a great class to take, but you have to be ready to put in a lot of time. Even if it comes naturally, it is a lot of character memorizing each night, and if you struggle with it, it can become a nightmare.
You'll learn more in a semester of this class than you ever could have imagined. The professors are funny, accessible, and excellent teachers. However, if you're a beginner and want to succeed, this class is very time consuming. I would only recommend taking it if you can commit more than ten hours a week (outside of class).
If you want to learn Chinese, take this course. If you want to learn a foreign language well, take this course. Harvard is known for its Chinese program. It's hard, it's challenging, but it all pays off.
Get ready to spend a lot of time studying. It's a great course, Chinese is an important language, and its very well taught, but it demands out of you and could be difficult to handle with a large courseload.
This course was just fantastic! It is UNBELIEVABLE how much progress you make in this class! This was my first and only college level language class and it blew my mind-it doesnt even compare to language classes you take in high school because you make so much progress so so so fast. the teachers are fantastic and while the course does require commitment on your part-dont be scared off it by the workload, its definitely manageable! also, the instructors are fabulous!
Be aware that this class will take up a lot of your time.  Much more than you would expect.
You have to have a thick skin to take Chinese Ba. The teachers are very enthusiastic and open to answering questions; however, there is a lot of time involved in studying for Dictation twice a week and completing the weekly homework of character sheets, exercises, and audio recordings. Plus every other week you have individual sessions with a teacher and do a mini oral presentation. I have learned a lot, but it wasn't easy - especially initially. I remember feeling completely overwhelmed and like, "How in the world am I supposed to memorize and write so many of these random marks in such a short period of time?" It was completely foreign. Even though it was tough particularly in the beginning, I'm proud to have completed the course and thoroughly enjoyed getting to know the teachers and other students in my drill section. I plan on continuing Chinese, but I now understand the workload that comes with it (especially since I'm premed and this is not my main focus - already finished the language requirement and I'm only doing it for my personal knowledge). Overall, I think it's worth it though.
This is truly a phenomenal class. Every teacher is excellent and you'll be surprised by how much Chinese you can read and speak at the end of one semester. Be prepared to put in a significant amount of time into the course, especially if you have no prior experience with Chinese. But don't worry. Lots of people are in the same boat as you are.
This class is an engaging introduction to Chinese language and culture. Be sure to take advantage of office hours! The instructors are such a fantastic resource.
Very fun and different from other classes
This class is fantastic. It was definitely my favorite class this semester. The teachers are all very enthusiastic about and dedicated to teaching the course, and by the end of the semester, you learn a surprising amount of Chinese (over 400 characters and quite a bit of grammar).
This class is taught amazingly well. The teachers are friendly and helpful (office hours are perfect opportunities for one-on-one practice). Sections are engaging and lectures are fun. However, fall behind a day or two and you'll start dreading class, because (at least in my section) your peers and the teacher keep up the pace. So, practice everyday. Actually. By the end you'll be able to at least write more than many Chinese-Americans your age.
The memorization of characters is the hardest part
You will learn a lot whether you want to or not. This course somewhat assumes that you don't have any other work on your plate. In other words, you'll be spending 2-3 hours a night learning for the vocabulary/grammar quizzes, plus huge, comprehensive reviews for the exams. None of this will be a waste of time, as it will actually and effectively cement the language in your mind. Just be prepared to put Chinese at the center of your life all term long.
Only take this course if you are very certain you want to learn Chinese. It requires time and effort and will be harder than you expected, so you really have to want it. But they are very, very good at teaching the language to you if you do!
This course was a great way to start learning Chinese, and much of our vocab revolves around life at Harvard. Be prepared for a lot of studying though.
This course will be very time consuming. It is not that difficult but you have homework multiple times a week and it moves at a fast pace. Make sure you have the time to put in to get the most out of this course.
Practice as much as you can. The more you practice, the more amazing you will be at speaking and writing. Seriously.
Just take it. Superbly taught.
I would recommend this class to future students. It's extremely fun and interactive. The teachers are also very good.
The teachers are great. Their english is perfect. The classes are all very fun (we laugh a lot), but get ready to study.
This class takes a lot of time if you don't have experience. Many of your peers taking the class will have had 2+ years of experience with the language.
This is a great opportunity to learn a great language. Chinese is extremely difficulty but also very fun to learn. You definitely won't regret taking this class.
Definitely take this language if you get the chance--the teachers are all wonderful and extremely nice. Grading is very fair--the consistent homework and dictations/quizzes help keep students on track (this alleviates a lot of cramming). Everyone in my section has a ton of fun in class!
This course is extremely time consuming: I would say that is the most negative thing I can say about this class. It is often hard to keep up with the material, but if you put your time and effort into it, then the class is worth your while, and I would recommend it to anyone looking to learn a new language that is becoming more and more important at the world stage. In other words, the class is hard in that it is time consuming like any language class, but if you are prepared to put in the time, by the end you will already know common expressions and how to both write and speak basic Mandarin.
For students who have never taken Chinese before and are totally unfamiliar with the language, the course is very fast paced, especially at the beginning. You have to be ready to hit the ground running and expect that not everyone in the class is a real beginner.
a little chinese background can be really helpful. the class tends to move quite fast. there's dictations (aural quizzes) every tuesday and thursday on the new vocab (they pick about 5 from a list of maybe 20-30 words). chinese is a substantial time commitment but you really learn a lot.
This course is the best. The teachers are so hilarious and they make Chinese very fun. My Chinese has improved so much because we speak Chinese everyday. The small sections help students to practice what they learned in lecture and to get to know other students. I feel that my Chinese section is like a family to me.
The Chinese language program is AMAZING. There is so much help available, the office hours are every day, you see the teachers everyday, and the teachers are so friendly.
For those with no experience with an Asian language whatsoever, this will be a very hard, fast-paced, time consuming course. That said, if you have even the tiniest bit of experience, it should be much easier.
This class was great! It is amazing how much you learn in just a semester going from not being able to identify a single character to having conversations completely in Chinese. It goes very quickly and you absolutely have to be on top of things (with there being daily class and biweekly dictations) but its quite rewarding. It's a lot of work though so take it only if you know this is something you absolutely want to pursue. Plus it's actually awesome when you realize you can start to pick up bits and pieces of the tourists' conversations in the yard :)
This is a great class! Sun laoshi and the drill session leaders are really great. They're understanding and there to help you.
A pretty fast paced class, but leaves you with a conversational understanding of Chinese.
This language course is very well designed. Lecture is only twice a week - the other three days are spent in section with a small group. Both the lecture and section leaders rotate, so you get to learn from a ton of different professors - there's no chance of being stuck with someone you don't like (and the professors are great, seriously). The variety of assignments also gives a very comprehensive education - recordings and individual sessions help improve pronunciation while written homework helps grammar, writing, and listening. The teachers are very invested in students' success, all you have to do is put the time in and take advantage of the multitude of opportunities they offer.
I took this class to clear my language requirement, but it ended up being my favorite class. I'm so glad I took it!
Take it! The professors and section leaders are awesome, nice, and really help you learn Chinese.  I'm a senior with no reason to take this, and I still loved every moment!
It's definitely a lot of work. You have two dictations - short vocabulary quizzes - and at least one homework assignment each week, and you will be expected to be prepared to work with new material during each section. BUT, the teachers are absolutely fantastic - just incredibly nice, helpful, and good, enjoyable people to be around in general - and you really learn a ton of material very quickly. Worth it both if you want to just get the language requirement out of the way or if you want to get a citation in Chinese.
Definitely know that you are coming into this class to work really hard and put a lot of time into this. You won't be able to miss lectures and then cram everything the night before the exam.
This is an excellent course if you are prepared to do the work outside of class. It is difficult and a lot of work but you will learn a lot.
Chinese BA is by far the most fun class I've taken at Harvard. However, be aware that you'll need to put in the effort and time outside of class to keep up with the characters since we learn about 50 new vocabulary words a week. If you're serious about learning Chinese, take this class!
This course is an absolutely fantastic way to be introduced to Chinese. The teachers make this course marvelous and the weekly dictations will keep you on your toes at all times. I wholeheartedly recommend this course if you want to learn Chinese. The class are lively and well-taught and having a section you love makes it even better.
It is very fun, rewarding and effective! You will not believe how much you can speak within 2 months!
Chinese Ba is so much fun. The teaching staff is incredible and the language itself is so interesting and fun to learn. . It was one of my favorite classes this year. Take Chinese Ba!
This class and its teachers are fantastic. You should definitely take it! You get to learn a lot of Chinese and the class is really fun.
Chinese is a really difficult language to learn and is very confusing. However, the instructors are fantastic and really want you to do well so that makes it a bit less stressful. The accent is really hard to get down, but if you talk like a stereotypical japanese shogun you apparently can sound pretty legit.
This class was fantastic. All the teachers are very enthusiastic and helpful. Both lectures and drill sections are very, very well structured.
I would tell them that this class is a lot of work, but it's also very rewarding. You will definitely come out of the class being able to speak some Chinese!
You'll work hard, you'll curse the Chinese department at times, but at the end of the day you'll learn more Chinese in semester than you ever could have imagined.
Just make sure you keep up with the work, make full use of all materials offered, and you will really enjoy this course.
It's hard work, but if you are committed, you can guarantee that you will learn the language pretty quickly.
It is one of the best language classes I have ever taken. But beware: Bring time and a high frustration tolerance! It is not easy.
This class keeps you busy all throughout the week. There are two quizzes, character sheets, exercise sheets, and a recording due every week, so be prepared to set aside enough time to finish everything. On average you're learning 30 characters a week also, so it takes some review to remember past vocabulary. Overall it's a fun class and you feel very accomplished learning so much material.
This is an excellent class for anyone interested in learning Chinese. It's not easy. It takes time to get used to tones, practice speaking, and memorize characters, but it is more than worth it. There are dictations twice a week and it can be hard to be prepared for every one, but even if you aren't, they help you keep up with course material. All of the teachers are wonderful, extremely approachable, and helpful.
If you want a strong and thorough introduction to Mandarin Chinese, this is certainly the class to take! The teaching staff is phenomenal -- all of them are incredibly dedicated and go out of their way to make themselves available. Section is also super educational and fun. Note, however, that it is a fast-paced course, and you have to be ready to work every night. Character memorization for dictation takes lots of time, as does the weekly homework.  Still, I give this class my highest recommendation!
This class is intense. It is very difficult and you will learn traditional characters (rather than simplified) so it can be a pain. However, the payoff is remarkable.
Take it! You quite possibly will never have another chance to learn a new language, and Mandarin is extremely useful and interesting. (The class is also taught extremely well.)
Be prepared to spend a lot of time in the class. However, it is very rewarding.
If you feel that learning Chinese is something you really would like to do in your lifetime - now is your perfect opportunity! This class certainly will give you one of the most useful skills you could learn as an undergraduate - a foreign language.
Take it! You won't regret it!!!
If you, like me, are looking for a course that is different than all your typical pset or reading heavy courses, this is for you. It is a ton of work, but really fun and interesting, and a great break from other types of work.
This class is a quick and strong way of learning the Chinese language, meeting daily to enforce an efficient curriculum that will optimize students exposure to the Chinese language.
The teachers and program are excellent-if you are interested in learning Chinese sometime or other, this course is a great place to start. It is not a gratuitously easy course, but as long as you put the effort in every day, you will do well. I highly recommend it.
This course will require a lot of time but in the end you do learn a substantial amount of Chinese. It'll take time to get used to studying so many characters every week
This class is amazing. If you think you want to learn Chinese this is the place to do it. I could not imagine a better course staff than Chinese Ba they are all so nice and fun. You will learn so much while feeling like you're just having a good time.
Although Chinese Ba is definitely a tough class, it's a fun and engaging one. You'll walk away at the end of only one semester of Mandarin feeling confident to communicate in a variety of different situations. I'm well beyond survival Chinese, for sure!
Take this course only if you are seriously intersted in making progress in Chinese language. If you do, you will have extreme amounts of fun in this course while learning Chinese and making friends.
This class is very rewarding, and if you put the time into learning the material, the results will definitely be apparent. Offers a very sold foundation in the study of Chinese.
Be prepared to spend around two hours a day on weekdays studying/preparing for class.  Little weekend homework, fortunately
you need to put in the effort.  it's an easy class if you have the time.  you also learn a lot in a short amount of time.
If you put in the work, really prepare for all of the quizzes, then you can make great progress in the language. Also, there's a steep learning curve. It seems insurmountable for the first couple weeks, then became a normal, manageable course.
Get to know the teachers.
You have to have a desire to learn Chinese to take this class.
If you have the time to take a 5-day class, this is the best way to begin to learn chinese.
This is an amazing class to take if you really want to learn Chinese. However, take in account that it takes a lot of time and effort. Only take it if you are willing to work really hard. The teachers are amazing.
Be prepared to work hard, but know that if you do, you will learn a lot.  The teachers are there to help you; ask if you have a problem.
This class is amazing! I am a senior right now and I am taking this as an elective. Though my friends called me crazy, I have ignored them. This is my hardest class this semester other than my thesis, but Chinese Ba is the one class that has kept me "sane," since it is a class that I am intrinsically interested in. I really recommend everyone take it; I regret not taking Chinese Ba sooner!
taught extremely well, will learn very quickly, teachers all very helpful and funny
A very intensive class that will stretch any beginner but well worth the effort; you will make rapid progress
Great teachers, fun
You will work hard, but the consistent exposure to the language and interactive drill sessions will help you learn so much in a brief period of time.
Only take this class if you are willing to work hard and are genuinely interested in the language.
If you want to learn chinese real well, this is the place to go.
This class teachers who really care about you learning the material. They are all easily approachable for questions. The class is intense but very fun.
This class is a lot of hard work, but once you get used to the workload and develop a studying routine, it is very rewarding.  The teaching staff is phenomenal, and the interaction with them and fellow classmates makes this class a very fun experience.
This is a great class. If you're interested in Chinese at all, take it - it's worth the work. It is a lot of work and time but you really get out a lot if you put in a lot.
The teachers put everything into the class.
Students should be ready to work hard
The class requires a lot of hours, but the end result is well worth the effort.  The instructors are amazing, so the rest is up to you.
It's rigorous, but you'll actually learn Chinese if you can keep up.
Be prepared to work hard, but do not let this discourage you from enrolling. The teachers are world-class and the subject matter is fascinating.
Chinese Ba is a lot of work, but the time and effort you put into the class really pays off.  If you are not willing to work hard, then you will not get much out of the class, but if you are willing to put in the work this class is very effective in teaching students how to speak, read, and write Mandarin.
If you want to learn Chinese, you are in the right place!  This course is very effective in teaching students beginning Chinese.  My only reservation is to say that if you don't really want to learn Chinese, you will become frustrated with the heavy workload.  However, it really is a fantastic program.
If you're at all interested in Chinese, take this course. Despite the existence of an intense track, this course will not treat you lightly, but the breadth and depth of material it covers is astonishing. The best language course I've ever taken.
The workload is very demanding, but very much worthwhile and indeed manageable
get ready to study all the time, but it's worth it!
If you want to learn Chinese, learn it here at Harvard!
One of the best classes here.  If you wan to see language done right, take this class.
While the course is amazing and the teachers are incredible assets, the class is extremely difficult and requires a lot of work and dedication.
don't get behind
When you look back on your experience in this course, you can say with conviction that you have learned a lot, because you are learning a language, which is something so concrete and satisfying. However, this course is torturous at many times and is incredibly time consuming. Prepare to have your academic life revolve around Chinese!
Be prepared for non-stop learning and work, but they will still be quite manageable.
It's absolutely amazing!!!! You'll meet lots of people through it and have fun in section!  It's DEFINITELY worth the hard work.
This is a well-taught class that goes along at a quick pace but provides much opportunity for speaking and listening practice. Chinese is an enjoyable language to learn and the teachers do a good job of helping you learn it.
It requires time and dedication. Only enroll if you are genuinely interested and are willing to learn to love the class.
Great introduction to Chinese with some of the best faculty members at Harvard!
2 quizzes a week - enough said. You learn a lot but you have to put the time in too as there are a huge number of assignments and tests on a regular basis.
This class is very rigorous, and if you want to learn Chinese it is definitely the way to go.
It is the most amazing class I have ever seen. You will learn Chinese. But at the same it is A LOT of work. Especially beginning as a freshmen. I actually wish I hadn't taken the class, not because I didn't enjoy it, but because I had to drop my extracurriculars and I felt my grades in other classes suffered because I was memorizing characters for five hours each night those first few weeks.
This is a difficult and challenging course but it is worth every minute. The lectures and TF's have a personal invested interest in your learning and the class is great fun!! I would recommend this class with the utmost enthusiasm.
Doing well in the class is not difficult, but it requires a great deal of time.  However, the class is a lot of fun and very rewarding.
It is a very challenging but interesting and fun course.
Be prepared to work hard, but you will have a lot of fun, and as long as you work, you will see results!
what you see is what you get; study and you'll do well, and it will be rewarding.
Take this course if you want to learn a beautiful language.  You will not be disappointed.
Be open-minded and excited and you will love this course. The profs are great!
One of the most rewarding classes at Harvard, but should only be taken by those who are genuinely interested and willing to work.
The course requires a lot of time but the end result is extremely gratifying.
it requires a lot of time.
Only take if you are sure you want to devote the majority of your semester to chinese.
There's a lot of homework to do, but the grading is very generous; most students get between 90 and 100 on quizzes. The teachers are a lot of fun too.
The Chinese Ba course in a phenomenal way to learn the language. While I worked very hard, I found the teachers to be incredibly encouraging and supportive. If you are serious about becoming fluent in Mandarin, take this class, and you will not regret it.
The course is challenging and demanding, but it is a lot of fun and worth the hard work in the end. The instructors are enthusiastic and make the course a lot fun. It is a great introduction to Mandarin.
This class is great, and learning Chinese would be good too, just in general. You must be prepared to devote quite some time to this class though, because there is much work to be done! Very rewarding at the same time.
good introduction to chinese.
The Chinese Ba experience is great, mainly due to the dedicated and energetic teachers.  They are almost always available and the course has extensive resources to help you learn the new language.
Make sure you are ready to work hard and keep up with the fast pace.
This course is what college is all about. Be ready to learn!
The class is definitely challenging and difficult; however, the teachers know how to make it extremely fun and enjoyable so that  you love learning the language.
You will have a great time learning the Chinese language! Although it sounds daunting at first, it is a lot of fun and you will see yourself improving in no time!
I would highly recommend this course to those willing to work hard. The class is rather time consuming but certainly worth the investment. The best past of the course is the teaching staff. They are extremely funny, engaging, and even stylish!
Take this class. The course is so much fun and the teachers are hilarious. You'll end up coming out of it learning a ton and having fun while you're doing it.
If you've ever wanted to learn Chinese (which you should) you should take this class. It will challenge you; the workload is staggering at times. I remember one day, when I did all the optional assignments, that I spent literally 6 hours on this class. Professor Wang, who does the lectures, is engaging and hilarious. I enjoyed going to lecture immensely. The section leaders are critical, sometimes in non-constructive ways; however, this is a Chinese cultural difference. Be prepared to work a lot. It will take at least an hour or 2 (most times 2-3) nightly. However, you will learn so much.
you should be ready to be challenged!:) but it'll be fun!
If you want to learn Chinese, there is no better way. But brace yourself for the ride.
This course gets a lot of hype for being difficult, but honestly if you just set aside a few hours a day to do the work and repetitiously speak/write the vocabulary, it is totally manageable and quite rewarding.
It gets harder every week, and you will fall behind if you slack off for even a little bit.
Be ready to work.
Perhaps the best language course I have ever attended (I studied 4 languages in 4 different countries) but be prepared for a lot of work. A perfect way to channel your productivity.
This course is wonderful if you are willing to put in the time to get everything out of it.  It is "easy" to do well if you invest time in the course, and you will get SO much out of it!  I'm a thesis-writing senior, though, and I found the workload totally manageable.  Seniors: if you're on the fence, take Chinese Ba!  It is absolutely worth it.
You should be expecting and ready to spend "decent" amount of time for this course.
It is very, very hard work, but the work pays off.  The class is really fun, and if you work hard you will see the rewards in your speech.
I have not had more dedicated, hardworking, and funny teachers in any other class.  If you want to learn Chinese, and are willing to put in the time, this class can be amazing.  If you do the work, you will learn an impressive amount of Chinese and will probably get a good grade.  Also, the head lecturer, Wang laoshi, is HYSTERICAL.
If you want to learn Chinese, you definitely will in this class, but it will be very demanding.
It's a spectacular course that truly rewards hard work and persistence.
Best class I took this semester: great teachers, lots of personal attention, well worth the time. The progress I've made is amazing.
This is a brilliant class as long as you understand that it will take over your life with the amount of learning/preparation necessary. On the other hand, you do get a sense you are making concrete achievements for all the pain!
This class is amazing. It's a little painful in the beginning, but it definitely gets better over time (especially getting used to the tones and memorizing characters). The exams are fair. As long as you study, you should be able to do well. If you want to learn Chinese and have no previous experience, definitely begin with this course.
This is a great introduction to Chinese. It is hard and will take up a great deal of time, but it is SO worth it. The teachers are fantastic and really care. You will see so much progress in your skills and get to know a group of other very dedicated students weel.
The instructors are fantastic and they make learning Chinese enjoyable (even if the language itself has so many difficult characters).
The class is pretty straightforward. If you want to learn Chinese and learn it quickly, take this course. It's more fun that it sounds; the work is difficult, but the teachers are great.
It is A LOT of work! Only take it if you are serious about continuing your study of the Chinese language.
If you are new to Asian languages, then only take the course if you are willing to put in time daily.
hard, but worth it.  I feel culturally enlightened
Having to do a significant account of work every night for the class becomes tedious. Make sure you really want to learn Chinese.
With determination and practice, will learn...but if you slack of, it also clearly shows in this class.
The teacher's are extremely resourceful - you just have to want to learn the language.  They've made it incredibly accessible through extra practice exercises, office hours, and individual drill sections.
This course is really tough but the amount that you learn makes it worth it.  The instructors are both great teachers and caring people who all know you by name (although it will be your Chinese name, of course!).
Be prepared to work! The work will definitely pay off though.
They teach you Chinese extremely well! I feel like I know the language a lot more even though I took three years in high school.  Definitely one of the most useful classes where I actually learn that I have ever taken.
This course has helped me learn an incredible amount of knowledge in such a short amount of time. If you actually give the effort to stay on top of the vocabulary and grammar, you will look back after the course has finished and feel very accomplished. All the teachers are extremely funny and nice, and section is amazing.
You will learn a lot of Chinese, but you will work hard.
Taking this as a senior, my friends thought I was crazy. But I really wanted to learn Chinese, and I definitely did. So yes, you'll have to work really hard, but if you want to, it's much more rewarding than other classes.
Chinese BA is very difficult for the first 6-8 weeks.Then it becomes better, but the workload never decreases and the intensity does not let up.This course was the reason I stayed up till 3 am most nights. The lecturer and the TF's are amazing! By far the best I have experienced, but the pace and workload negate that, so much so that it possible to completely lose ones passion for the language. Do not take this as a freshman ( your schedule will just be too intense) and do not take this unless you have a definite unwavering passion for Chinese.
It's a character building course. You'll not only learn to speak Chinese but also to be happy in times of crisis and to make friends out of suffocation. At the end, you'll be so happy you took the course because you were happily suffering for your own good.
Be prepared to work hard and study for every lecture class - it is not an extremely difficult course, but the workload is very heavy, and constant.
Good, and you'll learn, but if you don't have at least 3 hours a day to spend on it then you will not do as well as you'd like. Extraordinarily time-consuming.
Don't get behind - it's ridiculously annoying to catch up on even a day's worth of work.
This is a great class. You will need to study a little every day, but after three months, you will be able to speak Chinese.
Incredibly difficult, but incredibly fun and rewarding!
Even if you're only the slightest bit interested in Chinese, TAKE this class. You won't regret it. Promise.
It does get a bit easier after the first month, but be prepared to work hard throughout the entire term.
it's hard work, but if you want to learn Chinese, it's a great course to take.
difficult but you learn so much!
Make the effort to learn all the characters. Make flashcards if necessary. Do not allow yourself to put off practicing Chinese as you will get left behind.
It is a lot of work but manageable.
It's a lot of work..
I would recommend it, but only to students very interested in Chinese with a relatively light courseload for that semester. (Do not take it with 5 classes, as I did).
I would recommend this course to anyone who a) wants to learn Chinese, or b) wants to learn a completely different language in general. While the work may be tough, and the language completely different from English, it's rewarding in the end. However, you need to be aware what you would be getting into: the course is fast-paced, yet filled with content.
Its a good class if you want to work hard and learn alot
needs about 15-20 hours a week.
This is one of the best language courses at Harvard.  The teaching staff are phenomenal, and if you put in the work you will see significant results!  Yet, it is important to realize, especially if you are an incoming freshman, that this is a very challenging course-- you'll be spending a good 2-3 hours on it everyday.  This shouldn't be a turn-off, but just make sure that it fits in well with the rest of your schedule, and that once you start classes that you reach out to the teachers ASAP if you start falling behind or struggling.  With that, I encourage everyone who is interested in Chinese to consider taking it!  The amount of dedication and passion seen from both students and teachers is inspiring.
Wang laoshi is AMAZING!!!
Try to take the placement exams for any other foreign languages that you might know anyways even if you're thinking of taking this to fulfill the language requirement. Take the placement exam for Chinese if you have any exposure at all--and yes, that includes if you're ethnically Chinese and your parents speak a dialect at all. Most importantly: Learn enough Chinese so that you can be placed into Chinese Ba instead of trying to start this as a new language or as a new dialect. If possible, also know how to read and write Japanese and/or Korean. Also, if there's any reason you might not want to take this class, shop it. If there's still any doubt, don't take the class. If you can't keep up in this class during shopping period, you'll fall behind in this and the rest of your classes if you try to do well in this. Plus, you'll still be having trouble in Chinese.
you need to put much effort and time into this course. don't be discouraged in the first few weeks because you need some time to get adjusted to the massive amount of work.
Be prepared to work hard if you want to make the most of this course. If you are enthusiastic, you will have a brilliant time. The teachers are excellent and drill sections are always a giggle. Go for it!
It's definitely a LOT of work, especially at the beginning, but the teachers make it fun and the work isn't too hard, so it's not that bad.  Expect to take 1-2 hours or so a day studying characters.  Concerning work load, memorizing characters took the most time, but speaking isn't as hard and overall it's pretty enjoyable.  Definitely my favorite class this semester.
This class is REALLY time consuming.
this course, while not terribly difficult, is a fair amount of work. But the reward-- a basic understanding of written and spoken Chinese-- outweighs any late nights that you may spend recording dictation homework or studying characters.
The class was excellent and I learned a lot, but it did take a lot of time out of my schedule, so be prepared to work hard on the material.
Be prepared to work hard, but they are generous with grades.
Be ready to work hard! Sometimes you may wonder why you are doing this to yourself and trying to memorize a bunch of difficult characters but when you look back and realize how much you've learned in 12 weeks, you will be happy you did it.
You have to commit yourself to study Chinese, but you WILL learn it.
If you put in a lot of work you'll get a lot in return.
You're gonna work hard.
This class is the definition of the statement - you get out what you put in.
The teaching staff is awesome! As for the coursework: memorize, memorize, memorize!
This class will be quite challenging. You will have to memorize 15 words a day and you will be tested twice a week. The homework is varied and difficult. This is a very beneficial class, however. You will learn very quickly.
I've been around the world of chinese language instruction, and this is top of the line.  Don't miss the opportunity to learn to speak this difficult language like a native.
Take this class if you have a desire to learn the language. If you just want to say you are learning Chinese and do not actually have an interest in learning, this class is not for you
This course is very hard, but if you want to learn Chinese there is no better way. The instructors are some of the best I've ever had, and they really want you to learn to speak and write it well.
You really need to want to work and put the effort into this class. It takes a lot of time outside class studying.
Intense and a lot of work, but enjoyable.
Perfect class to kindle your interest in the Chinese language
Unlike some other language classes, Chinese will take a lot of time and effort.  But it will likely become your favorite course, and the teachers are amazing!
Great professors but poor pre-packaged course materials. Be prepared to work hard because it's Chinese and extra hard because of the quality of the course pack, but you are also guaranteed to have fun.
This class is great to learn chinese, but it takes the work of two courses. Even though labeled non-intensive, this seems an intensive course.
Be ready to work!
It is fun!
A strong interest in learning the language is absolutely necessary--otherwise you will hate the workload! If you're interested, the work is fun, but if not, it is quite trying.
The class is challenging but a lot of fun.  There is no lecturer as entertaining or hilarious as Wang laoshi.
Beginning Chinese is a lot of work, but the TFs and course heads really care about teaching you and they want you to do well (even if that is not obvious). Stick to it, study hard, and do the supplementary exercises. Plus, the long trek to Vanserg is a great time to bond with your classmates, and I have become good friends with many of the other students in my section.
Be prepared to work, but more importantly be prepared to learn!
This course does require a substantial time commitment (i.e. more time than I spent on it) if you want to get the most out of it.
You will work very hard, and you will learn a very large amount.
The teachers are hilarious and love to teach. You'll feel somewhat out of place if you're not a freshman though.
Chinese Ba is a very fun class--it could be subtitled "How To Flirt In Chinese". The instructors are all enthusiastic, and the heavy emphasis on speaking really helps you to learn quickly.
Requires a lot of work.  Homework is substantial, quizzes are twice a week - and it really helps to constantly be reading/listening to Chinese just in general.  Worth it?  Absolutely.
The class is fairly difficult, and it may be unlike anything you've taken before, but if you get into the pattern of the class - which is fairly easy to do - and make sure not to fall too far behind when it comes to learning characters, then you should be able to do well. The professors are definitely enthusiastic and they want you to do well in this class.
This class is a lot of fun and rewarding, but be prepared to work hard.
I truly believe that Harvard has the best Chinese language program in the country. I have spoken with Chinese students from other schools, and my knowledge of Chinese far exceeds theirs. If you want to learn Chinese, and if you want some amazing, truly enjoyable professors, this class is for you!
It may require a lot of studying and memorization, but knowledge of Chinese is very advantageous in the working world.
Be prepared to work really hard.
Come prepared to work, but if you want to learn you will
If you are genuinely interested in mastering Chinese, there is no better way to do so than by taking this course; however, it is not for everyone, and caters more towards individuals with a desire to achieve fluency than it does to people looking to simply fulfill a language requirement.
Take this course seriously from the beginning. The teachers are willing to work diligently to help you learn, but you have to be willing to learn as well.
Be prepared to work hard, but the class will be a lot of fun and you will feel like the teachers sincerely care about you and your progress.
The best teachers, the best system, the best course preparation - Chinese Ba has it all.
This class is well taught and the teachers are always there to help the students, but students have to be willing to put in a lot of time and effort to learn the material.
If you are interested in learning Chinese you will not be disappointed, the instructors are wonderful and very approachable and willing to help you in any way. Just know that Chinese is a difficult language and therefore a lot of homework is given to that you may be able to grasp the concepts.
This course is so well structured and set up to teach students how to speak fluent Chinese. However, it requires so much time inside and outside of the classroom to do well. There is a lot of homework and the practice that goes into speaking and writing Chinese just to keep up with the fast pace of the class can be overwhelming. If you really want to learn Chinese, this is the way to go, but you have to understand that it takes lots of work to learn such a different language.
