Don't expect to improve your Chinese. I was told by a previous student that the most I would get out of 142 is an opportunity to maintain my Chinese. He was completely right.
great way to maintain your Chinese but will not see much improvement. Needs lots of individual initiative to maintain
It is a great alternative to or supplement for other Chinese language courses in that it allows you to practice your oral Chinese in an intimate environment.
This is a good class if you want to skip the intense reading and writing of 140a and b and just work on your conversational skills.  It's pretty fun and you gain confidence in your speaking and listening skills, also it's pretty low pressure if you put in the effort.
It may not drastically improve your language ability, but will help you from losing it.
You get to discuss some really interesting topics, but I found I didn't really learn anything/improve my Chinese all semester.
If you want to practice your Chinese in a practical way--watch news, watch debates, read contemporary news/magazine articles, have fun--here's your best bet!
you get what you put into it. it's easy to get away with not working that hard, but then you won't have improved very much
This course has great discussions in which you learn about contemporary issues in Chinese society, but I didn't really improve my Chinese much.
Students should be prepared and eager to regularly do their homework, and to come to class prepared at all times. This is a very challenging class, but if one prepares well, in-class participation is rewarding and engaging. Having taken this course I really feel that I learned a lot.
I would recommend against choosing this class as an "easy" alternative to 140a or 140b. Rather, the emphasis of the course is different from the Advanced Reading and Writing class. The course will expose you to many different styles of writing and speaking, and there is still written work in addition to biweekly oral presentations and regular news reports, dictations, and recordings. The readings are very interesting and the instructors are engaging, and you will leave this course with the ability to speak Chinese more accurately and at a more advanced level, and you will also gain an understanding of Chinese culture and history. If that is your goal, then I highly recommend the course and it will be well worth your time.
A good way to keep your Chinese fresh if you're worried about losing it. You'll get out what you put in -- it doesn't meet often enough and isn't rigorous enough that your Chinese will progress a lot just by showing up and doing the assignments, like it will in 120, 130 and 140, so it's up to put in the time and effort you need to retain all the vocab and grammar patterns you'll see.
Take advantage of opportunities to speak in class--that's how you will learn. Also, read over the instructor's post-class notes for good tips on new vocab, common errors, etc. As with all courses in the Chinese department, your experience will be made much more rewarding if you take advantage of instructor office hours, one-on-one tutorials, etc, to practice your conversation skills.
This is a good class to keep up your Chinese language ability, but you're unlikely to see much improvement.
Lot of serious topics to debate and discuss. Would recommend if you want to improve your formal oral Chinese.
This is a great class if you want to keep up your Chinese but don't want to spend a ton of time doing it. You won't learn as much, besides some everyday vocabulary you probably didn't have. The class is very easy, especially compared to (for example) 150 - your homework will take you 30 minutes twice a week and that's it.
This is an excellent course. It's good even for those who has completed the fifth year course who want to find the way to maintain their Chinese language skills.
Great chance to practice speaking and reading Chinese.  Good course
This is a great course where you can practice your spoken Chinese but not have the intense and heavy workload of many Chinese courses here.
A great, nonstressful way to retain and improve your language capabilities during the craze of the semester.
A good way to keep up Chinese language skills without having to trek to Vanserg five times a week.
Great low-key alternative to traditional Chinese classes at Harvard, but because it doesn't require as much work you don't learn or progress as much.
It's too easy and won't really push you at all.
Great class to keep up with your oral Chinese, light workload, and only meets 2x a week.
The class isn't structured to keep you accountable so you have to motivate yourselves if you want to learn.
This course is a wonderful way to practice your Chinese speaking skills as well as picking up colloquialisms and specific speaking tips that you do not learn in other Chinese classes at Harvard. Like every other course in the Chinese department, the teachers are great. You will have a lot of fun getting to discuss things with your teachers and classmates and getting to know them over the course of the semester!
The Chinese department is arguably one of the best if not the best department here at Harvard; the teachers are so passionate about education and truly want every student to succeed. This class in particular is the perfect blend of fun and education; the discussions are great, and you come away knowing more about Chinese, China, and yourself!
