this class is great to gain a familiarity with reading literary Chinese (which a background in modern Chinese alone isn't enough for!) and the readings are a fascinating window into 2000 years ago- like a literary history class as well as a language class!
Try not to get frustrated when the guy sitting next to you brags about how he never prepares, and you've spent 5 hours on the translation the night before.  This class is just filled with people of all different levels.
Wonderfully, zany stories! Lots of crazy vocab!
I think it really depends what you want to do with your Chinese (or Japanese I suppose). If you will be doing research or a lot of academic/formal reading, it is definitely worth your time.
This course is not only really fun and helpful for studies in Modern Chinese, but also not terribly difficult.  (A favorable gain to pain ratio.)
Don't get behind in memorizing characters.
Zeb is a really nice guy and good teacher.  Class is a good way to learn Literary Chinese.
Painless, fun, interesting, engaging.
A wonderful class! I can't believe how much I have learned in only the first semester.
Great course, especially if you were educated in modern Chinese like I was. Literary chinese is literally a whole new world that you've never seen before.
The readings take concentrated effort, but Chen is a fair grader and understands who difficult literary Chinese is for beginners.
Although the material may seem daunting at times, Chen is a lovely teacher and will guide you through it.  Make sure to prepare for class, though!
Chen is the best teacher ever. She made this difficult subject so much fun and so interesting. You do need to have some basic knowledge of Chinese characters though, and it is a lot of work and very difficult.
The readings are fun, the instructor is skilled at teaching the material--it's a low-stress class that one can really enjoy.
Hope many people take this course when Professor Zhang is teaching it. She knows the material very well and knows how to teach it to students in a fun fashion.
It's a goofy language; don't try to apply rules to it and just enjoy the ride.
its enjoyable but we translate a lot of the same material
A very logical, straightforward and enjoyable class which has you reading real texts and feeling good about yourself right out of the gate. Not too bad even if you haven't taken modern Chinese as long as you know a few hundred characters already.
It's vastly different from any other language but fun in that it's mostly about creatively interpreting the grammar and vocab.
This class is great if you are a modern Chinese student looking to get a greater understanding of classical Chinese (which will also help your modern essay writing). The instructor, textbook, and study materials are all great, and the stories in particular tend to be humorous and very interesting.
Knowledge of Chinese is highly recommended-- the pace is manageable at first but will become extremely hard to follow for students who do not have prior experience of Chinese.
Fear not! I have been avoiding classical Chinese like the plague for *years* now! Turns out it's really not that hard if you already have some background in modern Chinese! This class in particular I found to be quite reasonable.  Also, to my great surprise, I found it to be extremely enjoyable, maybe even my favorite class last semester.  Reading classical Chinese is like deciphering a puzzle, and this class slowly but steadily gives you the tools to do that.  Prof. Zhang is really nice and understanding and an excellent teacher; her intimate understanding of the subtleties of both classical Chinese *and* English is crucial.  The class environment is quite relaxed, while still being serious.  Highly recommend!
Doesn't take long before you start reading interesting works. The class works with students taking turns translating sentences so the speed of the class can depend on how well prepared the students come to class, or how difficult the in class reading is.
This is a really fun course: you get to read a lot of famous and fun stuff in a low-pressure environment without much work. The difficulty of this class depends a lot on how much Chinese you've taken - if you've had two or three years you can breeze through, otherwise you'll be learning a lot of characters.
The course doesn't require a background in modern Chinese, but as the explanation of the grammar is often done using the Chinese pronunciation, it is helpful to have some background in it.
It's best to take a few years of modern Chinese before taking this class.
that they need to have at least two years background in Chinese before even thinking about taking it
The way the course is organized, you move only as quickly as the slowest student. Therefore, you are at the mercy of the class make-up.
Teacher is kind and witty.Good opportunity to learn part of Chinese culture.Lots of assignments.
This class is a great introduction to Classical Chinese to anyone who feels they may need to tackle Classical Chinese texts for their outside research. You will come away from the class feeling capable of puzzling through texts on your own.
Who knew that reading about birds roosting in trees and fish fleeing shallow water could be fun?  Yet the moment where the secrets of literary Chinese start to be gradually unlocked and you find yourself reading passages with ease that would have been entirely incomprehensible just a few weeks before is a very heady one, especially if you do not speak Chinese!
Take it when this professor is teaching it - she's great!
Take it to get a different perspective on Chinese language and history.
Take this course if you're willing to commit to the following semester and second year.  Otherwise, one semester will not put you far in terms of reading ability.
You must definitely take this class if you want to read and translate literary Chinese texts.
I likely to recommend.
If you're on the fence about this class, take it!! Chen is a wonderful, caring instructor, the texts are unbelievable, and the atmosphere is unlike any other language class I've ever taken (students reading in Korean, Japanese, Mandarin, or Cantonese, and Chen makes it all work.) Also, it's a rare college that has the ability to offer literary Chinese.
