This class will definitely improve your proficiency in Mandarin and is definitely worth taking.
You cannot have a 5th class while doing this class. It'll be more work than your other classes combined.
It's a lot of work, but don't get intimidated--it's really rewarding!
Chinese is a lot of work, but the class is worth it.
be prepared to put in some work even though you may have native background in Chinese.
It is difficult and time consuming, but you learn a lot in the end.
Students should be prepared to work hard. There are a lot of assignments, essays, and presentations.
Really good class with excellent teachers, but the pace is very fast and there are no breaks in the workload...
Prepare to work hard but it'll be rewarding
don't be intimidated by the workload, it's actually very enjoyable and manageable
I would highly recommend it to students who are willing to work hard to pursue higher level Chinese. But it is not a class for students who wish to simply "wing it," even though the challenges were part of the fun that we had.
Must be willing to work hard, but not at all a tough class; very good teachers.
must be willing to work hard and walk long distances to class
Challenging and a time commitment, but very interesting, rewarding, and fun!
Very worth considering instead of 130a/b. Even as a non-heritage-speaker, being around native(ish) Chinese speakers will improve your listening skills significantly, and Gao Laoshi is extremely understanding. A great course, one which fosters camaraderie among the students.
This is an amazing class. The material just gets better from 130xa and the class becomes really tight-knit, which makes it a ton of fun. As with all Chinese classes there is a lot of work though; expect to work hard if you want a good grade. This is also a good alternative to Chinese 130b for non-heritage students who want a challenge.
Very rewarding. A lot of work, but very rewarding.
I consider the people in this class to be family.  We didn't just learn Chinese, we covered all sorts of Chinese culture - movies, plays, and things that I had thought boring, until they were introduced to me.  I believe the selection of works that we read were very tasteful, and they kept me very engaged in the class.  Chinese is that class that expects much out of you, but is also that class where you gladly go above and beyond.  This was truly the most enjoyable class I have ever taken.
Gao Laoshi is an awesome teacher! She is really nice and considerate and really helps you improve your Chinese. Gao Laoshi always made me feel really welcomed in the class, and the class material was presented in a very interesting and fun way. Reflecting back on this semester, I realized that I really did become much better at Chinese.
Great course! Workload doesn't seem as hard as in 130xa, but the content/tests are a little tougher.
Gao  and Zhang  are both very engaging and take personal interest in how you as an individual are doing, both in class and out of class. I learned a lot, though not as much as I wanted to (my goal was to be able to read the newspaper and understand the news, which didn't happen). You will get as much out of this class as you put into it, so be prepared to work hard and watch your Chinese improve.
The class is very well structured with plenty of opportunities for feedback from the preceptor and section leader! I recommend it highly! :D
Fun, effective, hard
This class greatly improved my listening and reading comprehension, as well as my vocab and writing skill.
You learn a lot in this class, but you must be prepared to do a lot of work.  This is probably twice the amount of work needed for a Chinese class at MIT, at least for the classes I had taken.
The teachers are extremely helpful and understanding. The structure of the class is well thought out so you can expect to learn a lot.
A great 3rd year level Chinese course.  Stay on top of readings outside the textbook because they tend to be at a higher level.
It's really not that bad, mostly mindless busy work. It definitely builds up your Chinese skills, and the nice thing about it is that you always know what to expect every week.
The workload is steady and easily manageable. Your Chinese writing will improve significantly.
This course is not for everyone. You have to have previous Chinese experience to take this course. However, saying that, I believe that this course is perfect for anyone who has had two or more years of previous Chinese experience and is looking to enhance their Chinese. The course is structured in a way that allows anyone to succeed and to have fun!
Take it! Amazing class!
I definitely think my Chinese improved a lot after taking this course, but it's sooo much work!
It's definitely harder than 130xa, but I've learned a lot, and it's quite rewarding.
130xb was more difficult than 130xa! There were more kinds of assignments to do, such as the speed reading and extensive reading, and we learned more difficult vocabulary pertaining to more difficult subjects. However, Gao Laoshi and Yeh Laoshi are both amazing, the class is a lot of fun, and you learn a ton of Chinese.
This class is hard, much harder than 130xa. It is really not a joke. Be prepared to struggle through essays, tests, and fast readings. Fast readings are brutal at first but you get used to them (plus they get easier towards the end). You will constantly be doing work for this class, but your Chinese will improve because of it. The most noticeable difference is in reading speed.
be careful, the work gets very intense after a while. it becomes a pain and gets annoying. HOWEVER, the community is the best!
This course is essentially an extension of Chinese 130xa, but the work does get slightly harder and can be a bit overwhelming at times. Overall, though, it has all the merits of the Chinese department (lots of personal attention, great teaching, and solid material) as well as enthusiastic teachers. I'm not as fluent as I would like to be yet, but I'm well on my way with what I've learned in this class.
Take the class. If you took 130xa, you'll regret dropping out.
Definitely harder and more work than Chinese 130xa, but definitely worth it in the end. We learn a lot more formal Chinese, and start reading more formal Chinese material as well. Be prepared to put in at least 2-3 more hours per week than you did in Chinese 130xa.
130xb is similar to 130xa, but the material gets harder. Just be prepared to put in a little more time than you did in 130xa. The tests are a little harder too, so may require more time to study.
The course overall is definitely worth it if you're trying to improve your chinese, but together with 130xa, this course is is much more difficult than 123xb. Assignments, essays, and dictations may all be due on the same day, which is difficult to plan for. Additionally, there are random super-hard chapters, so watch out (the KFC chapter was ridiculous).
Worth taking. :)
a lot of work, but gao laoshi and yeh laoshi are really great! your chinese level definitely improves
This class is consistently demanding, but your Chinese will definitely improve. I found that the second half is harder/more demanding than the first.
This course will improve your Chinese tremendously. It's quite difficult, and in fact even more difficult than 130xa. You really need to be able to speak and read Chinese fluidly, if not fluently, i.e. you have to be able to have full conversations with the teacher in Chinese. If you can't, 130a/b would probably be more suitable. That said, even if you're not a heritage speaker (though there was only one non-heritage speaker in the class), you're still capable of taking this class, just be prepared to work very hard. It will pay off dramatically though, and your listening, speaking, reading, and writing comprehension will all improve drastically.In short, take this course if you want Chinese to be your most important class this semester. If not, shop regular 130b as well. You will learn much more than you would in 130b, but you'll have to work for it.
This is a very fast-paced class. Be careful when selecting this class.
The professors are awesome, the material is interesting, and class is fun. Take this class!!
This class is amazing! If you want to improve your Chinese listening comprehension and speaking abilities up to a level where you can communicate with actual native Chinese people, this is the class for you. It's incredibly well taught, and it will blow your mind how fast your Chinese skills will sharpen over the course of one semester.
Great class, but be prepared to work. If you want to improve your reading and vocab, have a good foundation in Chinese, and have an interest in modern Chinese culture, this is the class for you. Be prepared to do an hour or so of preparation every day (and more on essay weeks!).
Gao laoshi is AMAZING!!!! She is so friendly and willing to help. :) Yeh laoshi is also a wonderful TF. Both of them are so encouraging and really want you to learn the material.
There can be a lot of work at times but this is a great class-one of the best I've had at Harvard.
There will be a lot of work, constantly throughout the semester, so make sure you schedule can plan for it! It's not THAT much work, but it's every day.
This class not only teaches you a lot, but is also a great community. Make sure to get to know Professor Gao and the TF - they're really helpful and engaging.
take this course if you did HBA!
Love this class. Really easy and teachers are great!
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. From the amazing, responsive, and caring teachers to  the engaging subject material touching on aspects of Chinese and U.S. society from business to culture to politics to society to literature to media to film, this course really runs the gamut and facilitates interesting and relevant discussions, while really sharpening your Chinese. You will not regret taking this class!
Try to speak as much as you can in class. Even if you don't have the most insightful answer. Speaking practice is important and hard to come by. Take advantage of it.
Great course
A great class to improve your speaking and writing skills beyond simple conversations.
TAKE IT!!! I loved this course! The teachers are fantastic, and you will learn SO much. The learning is done in an interesting and useful way, which is always a plus!!
I love the teaching staff and my classmates. It was a bit easier this semester than last, but was also a bit less well organized. Still one of my favorite classes, though.
Great class!  and  are both very supportive and effective teachers, with a great grasp of modern Chinese culture as well as language, and very open to feedback from students about materials and topics covered in the course. They're also much more concerned about your learning than your grades, and definitely provide the environment necessary for you to succeed.
take it. your Chinese will improve dramatically. and it's really fun and lowkey
The professors of the Chinese department at Harvard are amazing, and I would definitely recommend anyone who is interested in improving their language abilities from a proficient to more advanced level, especially on the reading and writing fronts, to take 130x. Definitely take both semesters, 130xa and 130xb, because 130xb builds upon a lot of the material learned in the first semester and challenges you to learn even more quickly.
The class is a lot of fun and very helpful. The pace is often very fast, but you learn so much from the course. It really helps to keep up with the material. Liu laoshi is really good about assignments and work. I was definitely surprised by the improvement to my overall level of Chinese.
It's a lot of work, but Gao Laoshi is great, and if you're like me, you'll need some discipline in order to get better at Chinese.  So overall it's a fantastic opportunity to really improve your Chinese in a short amount of time.
A lot of work but very rewarding!
Chinese 130xb was a fantastic course - Gao Laoshi does a great job teaching the difficult grammar structures and lessons. My favorite course this year!
It's a very fun class.  There is a lot of work involved, but your Chinese will get so much better.
Just as with Chinese 130xa, Chinese 130xb isn't just for heritage students. It's for all students who wish to challenge themselves in their Chinese learning. In fact, I might actually recommend the 130x classes even more for non-heritage students because being around heritage Chinese speakers guarantees that your own Chinese pronunciation will dramatically improce.
Chinese 130xb is a tougher class than 130xa. It was more writing and the added reading component was a challenge. If you're a non-heritage student, don't be scared to take this class, but be prepared for the challenge. You will learn so much from laoshi and your tongxuemen. Class is exciting and lively with lots of discussion. Be prepared for lots of character writing! Tingxie is tough. Jiayou!!
Felt Chinese greatly improved, particularly speaking. More writing exercises would be preferred.
The teachers are so good, and the class is so chill.
Do not take this if you are not confident in your Chinese! Only take this if you are willing to keep up with a fast-paced, always-lots-of-work course. You learn a lot though, and you become close to your class.
As long as you stay on top of the work, you will learn a lot.  Cannot be a class that you slack off in. Work also gets a bit excessive at times.
This course is amazing if you want to develop your Chinese skills; is a ton of work but at the end of the day is worth it. Teachers are great!!
It's a lot more work than you expect, but it's very fulfilling and the class community keeps you going.
This class is rigorous and the workload is consistent (weekly/daily assignments). However, this rigor and difficulty pays off because students will learn a lot and see improvements in all areas of the language.
I've never taken a course with so much work before. Be prepared to work extremely hard every day because there is homework every day, and not always only one assignment. Still, I feel my Chinese really improved over the course of the semester, so I 'recommend with enthusiasm' to whoever is willing to put in the effort.
Doing a regular amount of work on your own every day will make this class much more enriching than binging right before a project or test.
Like many Chinese classes at Harvard, the 130xb classroom's familiarity and cohesion really takes you back to high school. The teachers are incredibly dedicated to your learning and you feel that every bit of work you put into this class is reciprocated by thoughtfulness and dedication from the teachers. There are lots of assignments (weekly homework, regular essays/oral presentations) but the class serves as a wonderful support network throughout.
Excellent for learning and improving one's Chinese ability, especially as a heritage speaker! Covers a broad range of interesting topics. Be prepared for plenty of homework and many tests though!
time commitment but very engaging
There was a bit more busywork in this class, and I would only recommend it to strengthen and continue practicing previous Chinese skills.
I was able to improve my reading and conversational ability fairly quickly taking the heritage class.
It will strengthen and broaden your Chinese knowledge vastly.
It's a great class if you want to continue learning chinese. For people who are deciding between this class and 140, I'd say that 130xb is much more useful!
Overall, good course that helped me improve my reading and writing skills. The workload is very manageable during most of the semester, though there is sometimes an influx of assignments (sometimes unreasonableHowever, the feedback received sometimes wasn't proportional to the amount of work put in. Constant exposure to the language was very helpful, but personally, I think I could have made more progress had I received more constructive feedback on written assignments.
Although there were non-heritage students taking the class, having that background is still in my opinion very necessary to succeed in this class. Also, the grind of having homework all the time needs to have a student who is prepared for work every evening. However, this class was - no kidding - incredibly enjoyable, perhaps even more so in the early morning. The topics we covered were current and relevant but still also addressed Chinese culture. Starting my days with Chinese always made my mornings great!
It's a really great class!
