This was a great Chinese course! Hu laoshi is very dedicated to helping students improve their practical speaking and writing skills and expanding their knowledge of Chinese as a whole. The class atmosphere is quite relaxed, which is conducive to student learning. The workload and exams are very manageable, and you learn a lot about business customs in China. Definitely take it if you are interested in learning more practical Chinese as an alternative to Chinese 150a/b.
I took this class even though I don't really have an interest in business in China because I needed one more for the citation. Perhaps not the best idea, but it turned out to be pretty good. Hu Laoshi is really great: very organized and focused on helping you learn. At least this semester it was tougher than I expected: met 5 days a week and the other students all had a very high level of Chinese. But you could tailor the class to fit your interests via presentations and essays which you could choose. Overall, a very nice course even if you're not interested in the subject material as much.
This course is fun and covers a good amount of topics, but it moves quickly. I regret not taking a basic economics class before studying Business Chinese because many of the terms we studied I encountered for the first time..in a foreign language. Having taken 140a and b, I felt adequately prepared for the class, but it definitely throws out a lot of new vocabulary terms at you that you may or may not have studied and expects you to know them. That said, I am very pleased with the amount of formal Chinese words and grammar patterns I learned in this class.
Try to use the vocabulary as much as possible in presentations, papers, and on exams.
This class is amazing.  It requires a lot of work, but if you've been taking the 120, 130, and/or 140 series, it should be about on par with what those classes expect of you.  Sun Laoshi is so kind and caring,
This is an excellent class, for the right student. The breadth is challenging and the pace rigorous (5 classroom hours per week and constant flow of assignments!), but it is well worth the language practice and the specialized vocabulary, as well as valuable business culture lessons. The class uses innovative materials, as well as an excellent textbook, and the professors are patient while demanding. This is a perfect class for students who have moved beyond conversational Chinese and want to improve their specialized context-driven language competency, in a business context.
If you want to learn important cultural and business practices, this is the class to take.  You also end up being comfortable with making presentations in Chinese, which can help you in the future.
An excellent language course, but pretty intense. As someone who had taken first- through third-year Mandarin at Harvard, I found the workload for 163 to be more demanding than any previous Chinese course I'd taken. The teaching staff and the curriculum are fantastic, and your progress will be huge, but it will definitely be a challenge to get there, particularly if you are just coming out of 130.
If you want to take a Chinese class, in my experience this class is much better than the 150 series and more practical if you are not thinking about studying Chinese academically. That said, when I took the class the students in the class had a very broad range of Chinese abilities (due to the loose pre-reqs) so I'd be cognizant of that.
You need to practice using the vocab in ways other than you're shown in class. The teachers help equip you with good tools, but they don't give you the full scope of these tools' uses
Great and useful class!
I took this class after doing HBA, so maybe I was a bit burnt out on Chinese, but this class was pretty tough for me to get through. Although the teachers were both great, the material was less than engaging and the tests were unnecessarily difficult. Take this class only if you are willing to put in a lot of work and read/memorize a boring textbook.
This class is really useful and probably more interesting than other available courses. Also, you are asked to make presentations (not very stressful, but new and helpful indeed!) a couple times, along with brief analysis of corporate strategies/advertisement, all of which were very much related to every day life and frankly, less dense than a range of random academic topics (that usually come up in other courses). I wouldn't say it's a very easy class, but it's definitely doable, even if you are not a native Chinese speaker.
Very practical course where the sayings and idioms can be frequently used (as opposed to Chinese 150)
definitely worth taking
If you're interested in gaining some useful and interesting knowledge of both general business terms and a taste of Chinese business culture while also making modest improvements in general language skills (speaking, listening, reading, writing), this course is a solid choice.
This is a phenomenal course, probably one of the most useful classes I've taken at Harvard. Given that I anticipate conducting business in China and with China in the future, this course proved to be extremely invaluable in terms of learning the business terms, professional culture, and business etiquette.
Very useful, great section leader and teacher! :)
If you want to do business in Chinese, take this course.
Zhao Laoshi is an awesome teacher, and Wang Laoshi is great in section.  There's not too much homework, just one assignment per chapter (which translates to 1 homework/week roughly); there are mostly tests and oral presentations.  You will definitely finish the course well-acquainted with lots of business terms, concepts, and useful phrases, idioms, etc..  If you're looking for a crash course in business and want to improve your Chinese, this is a great choice.  You'll also get an awesome grade if you do the work.
While this course is quite time consuming, the grading is very reasonable
This is the most practical Chinese class I have taken
I love Zhao Laoshi and Wang Laoshi.  They are the best CHinese teachers I have ever had at Harvard.  ANd this is the best class of CHinese I have taken at Harvard.
You will actually learn super useful vocabulary for having formal Chinese conversations, even if you are not interested in business.
This is so useful if you ever want to do business in China! Extremely practical class.
Strongly recommend this class even if the student is not interested in doing business in Chinese in the future; One of the most useful language classes I have taken.
Great class even for those who do not plan on necessarily conducting business in Chinese in the future.  Highly recommend this class as a general continuation of Chinese after 130 or 140 as an alternative to 150 or Conversational Chinese.
Be prepared for a steep learning curve in the beginning of the semester.
This is a good class to take if you're interested in working in Chinese speaking locales. It's really more of a language class than a business class. Teachers were friendly and I would definitely recommend it if you're looking for a good upper level Chinese class to take.
Very useful course with material applicable to the real world.  Many cultural aspects and terms taught are extremely useful not only in the Chinese business world.
This is a really useful class and you learn a lot, just be prepared to PUT IN THE TIME to benefit from it.
This class is extremely useful to understanding Chinese business in the news and in other situations. I think completing this class also expands one's business knowledge in general as well as knowledge of Chinese business.
This course teaches you specialized vocabulary and formal speech structures associated with business and law. I found it prepared me well for an internship that required language skills in these areas.
it's really useful, but surprisingly time-consuming
The course was a unique opportunity to supplement colloquial Chinese with business and formal conversation.
Great class, especially if you ever plan on working in China or interacting with Chinese people in a business setting. It may be a lot of work, but no less than any other advanced Chinese class. Take it!
You really learn alot in this class: just be prepared to have exams, oral sessions, and essays due every alternate week.
Definitely take it! You get to learn about the Chinese business scene AND learn how to converse in the language. One of the most practically useful classes I've taken at Harvard.
This class is helpful in improving general language skills as well as exposing you to language used in a business setting. A business background/interest is not really required.
It's fun and useful
Material is not too difficult but the people in the class usually have a high level of chinese. Overall good class, but something to keep in mind.
The first half of the term had a reasonable workload, but the teacher began adding unexpected and rather time-consuming assignments during the last four or five weeks of the semester. Suddenly, we were asked to give extra oral presentations and complete other assignments, all of which were helpful, but difficult to foresee. Some of these assignments were poorly designed. For example, we would be asked to use specialized vocabulary to speak about a topic that was only somewhat related, so it took some mental acrobatics to make things fit together. Not to mention, many of the writing topics did not allow for much creativity. This might be because it was the first time our teacher created these assignments, but it sometimes came off feeling like we were just doing extra work for work's sake. Ye Laoshi was a saving grace, though. His light-hearted teaching style and clear dedication to his students makes us wonder why he is still a drill instructor.
Make sure you can converse in Chinese.
Take it if you want to work in China for internship/post-grad job
It was amazing. Ye Laoshi and Liu laoshi are the best people in the world. No doubt.
While the format is pretty much like other Chinese classes, the focus is on business situations and formal Chinese, meaning that you really should take 140 before taking this class.
This is one of the most well-taught Chinese courses at Harvard, and it's definitely very applicable. If you did 150 and are looking for an easy course, this is probably it. 140 and 130 kids will have to work more, but it should be very enjoyable.
Probably the most useful of the higher level Chinese classes
This is the most useful Chinese class currently in the catalog, even if you are not interested in "business." Take it if you want to be able to sound remotely intelligent when using Chinese in formal settings.
This course is absolutely essential for anyone who wants to work in China, both non-Chinese and heritage students alike. More interesting course materials than CHNSE 140a/b.
Don't underestimate this class. It's incredibly useful and there's a lot of pertinent/helpful material and characters/phrases to be learned; but definitely takes up a lot of time.
Excellent class! Definitely take it!
Ensure you sit in on a session to see if you meet prerequisite Mandarin level.
I am much more confident in my business Chinese communication skills now after taking the course. I also feel well equipped to practice on my own now with the learning skills I've acquired.
Be prepared to put in consistent work for this class, as there are no major examinations but many smaller assignments that need time to complete.
You should come to class motivated, excited, and creative. The teachers are amazing and you will learn a ton.
One of the best Chinese classes I had so far.
Take it if you are interested in doing business in China. Highly relevant and important.
This course is a great opportunity to learn career-relevant Chinese, which presumably for many students will be the most useful class they take in the Chinese language.
One of the few classes at Harvard where you learn something practical.
This class is a wonderful chance to explore the more practical uses of the beautiful Chinese language.
Awesome class in general. My Chinese really improved through this class.
It definitely is the workload of a Chinese class - meeting every day, doing all the assignments, and intermittent work whether it's looking at new vocabulary, studying for an exam or writing a paper. You're always doing something and expected to integrate new knowledge. Chinese below at least 140a would make this class difficult - 130x series could be a good substitute for requirements.
This is an amazing class- Hu Lao Shi is super funny and down to earth, and the material is relevant and pretty interesting. Just be prepared to spend more time in the course- the homeworks get a little time intensive, but its overall very worth it
This is the best Chinese class Harvard offers. Hu laoshi and Gong laoshi are fantastic. You learn so much useful vocab. Don't leave Harvard chinese without taking this class.
This class is amazing!!! Take if if you're interested in learning business vocabulary. Take it if you're interested in learning formal writing skills (e.g. resume, speeches, contracts). Take it if you want to have fantastic teachers (Hu laoshi and Gong laoshi). Basically take this Chinese class!!! It was a great class to end my last semester at college.
A lot more work than you anticipate--much of your grade depends on class attendance & participation. You get out of it as much as you put into it.
It's a great class to learn Chinese - regardless of whether you are interested in business.
If you do not know enough about business, you will be confused and fall behind.
An excellent way to learn and practice a specific set of vocab. It's not hard, but it involved A LOT of work! Surprisingly time consuming.
Chinese has never disappointed me at Harvard. Though the workload was a bit heavy at times, this was through and through a great experience.
Some of the work feels like busy work, but overall the class is useful for learning formal and technical words and phrases.
This is a fantastic course, you'll have fun, learn, and do well.
This is a very fun course, that is an extremely easy A. The time spent on the work can vary a lot from week to week, and the teachers like to spring random assignments and presentations on the students out of the blue. Your language ability will definitely improve significantly though.
Great for improving your Chinese-- lots of talking and presenting opportunities. Also, very useful vocab
So much fun!!
The best Chinese class I've taken at Harvard. Much more practical than the other upper-level Chinese classes. I'm not interested in studying obscure idioms or classical Chinese literature, so I thought this was a great class because it focused on teaching practical language skills for business in Chinese-speaking countries. Following the theme in the Chinese department at Harvard, the teachers are amazing and spend a ton of time on the class. The workload is higher than other Chinese classes, however. Quizzes are every Monday and Wednesday, Fridays alternate between tests and 700-character exams, and there are a few pages of additional homework each week on top of that. Most weeks, you'll also have to do other projects ranging from creating powerpoints about business strategies and advertising plans for imaginary Chinese companies to dubbing over a few minutes of a movie of your choice in Chinese. Overall, I'd definitely recommend it and it helped me improve my Chinese.
As is expected of any Chinese class, this is a lot of work. The class itself has very different levels of Chinese and the teacher is very forgiving about your work and capabilities. This class is a steep learning curve but if you put in the time and work you can learn a great deal that will be very useful to you should you seek to work professionally in or around China.
If you're planning on working in a Chinese-speaking place in the future, you'll definitely learn a lot of applicable vocabulary and grammar structures in this course. The textbook is a bit outdated (2006) but still has a lot of good stuff in it. Also, Hu Laoshi is just great!
For those who may conduct business (financial, legal, what have you), this course offers a good intro to formal language and business culture
Be prepared to work hard! You learn a lot of technical words whose English meanings you might not be familiar with (especially if you have never studied economics or business). However, the class is very interesting and a great way to keep up your Chinese. In a given week, you prepare characters twice and have either a test or a presentation on Friday (all quite manageable). If Hu Laoshi is teaching it again, definitely take it. He's the best!
Very useful class for students who plan to work or do business in China.
