If you really want to learn to actually speak Chinese, this course is great.
It is very difficult, but truly worthwhile. You know exactly what is expected of you.
I love this class the most out of all the classes I have taken at Harvard. I feel that the teachers really care about making sure the students learn in the class.
It's an easy class if you're willing to put in the work; if not, you will struggle.
so much fun!
Be careful.  If you're lazy, this is NOT the course for you.
This is such a wonderful class. The teachers are very dedicated and you learn a lot in two semesters of elementary Chinese - in fact, many tests consider us to be at an "intermediate" level! Yes, it is hard in that the class meets every day, but at the same time, you will never get this level of personalized attention elsewhere.
The teachers are incredibly dedicated and effective.  Harvard may have the best Chinese Language department in the U.S.
Take this class if you want to spend a lot of time learning a beautiful language.
I stongly recommend this course, but only if you are willing to put in the time. If you don't put in the time you will fall behind. If you do put in the time, you'll come out of it feeling as if you can express yourself in Chinese, which is quite an accomplishment for one year of studying it. Also you can directly see the result of your efforts in this class.
Be prepared to work, get to know the teachers, and get involved.  Don't take this course casually, as this not only hurts you, but hurts others as well.
It's a lot of work, but very fun, very useful, and the grading recognizes the work you put into the course and is on the whole, "encouraging"
This is positively the best class at Harvard.
This is the best taught class I have ever taken. It is extremely fun, a fair amount of work, but the friends you make and the ability to speak at the end of the year make every bit of work completely worth it. The teachers are amazing and the presentation of the subject matter is so fun.
The Chinese Ba class was plenty of preparation of this course.  The homework was requires noticeably less time too.  If you are having trouble, you can go to any of the teachers and be comfortable that they will help you.
If you would like to learn Chinese, this is a fun and effective way to do so.
You really need to have time to make for this course, but the teaching staff is incredible and you will learn a lot.
If you are prepared to work hard, it is a wonderful class that gives you the opportunity to learn Chinese really well.
Xue zhongwen!
This course is certainly challenging and there's a lot of work involved, but the teachers are really there for you and it's incredibly rewarding.
I loved it! Just be prepared to work hard, and it will pay off.
It requires a lot of work but it's a lot of fun to learn.
This is a class that meets everyday for an hour. M, W, F are sections where we practice speaking and practicing grammar points in a small group setting. T, and Th are the lecture days when we have short quizzes. Although it meets everyday, the work is spread out nicely that we don't feel too overwhelmed while also being able to learn Chinese very well.
This was my favourite class -- besides gaining the skill of speaking another language, there was so much I was able to learn about China, just from the classes.
Get ready to spend 2 hours a night
If you are even barely considering taking it, do it. You'll be glad you did!
If you like learning languages, this is one of the best classes Harvard offers.
If you have any interest in languages, in learning languages, in learning about how languages are learned, in Asia, in Chinese, or Chinese culture and language, take this course.  It was fun and I feel very proficient in my skills in Chinese.  There is work and class everyday and you can't fall behind, but if you stay up on the workload and do the work you will do fine, learn a lot, and get a good grade.
VERY good choice. and very very fun. the teachers are all nice and caring
Chinese Bb is a very rewarding course, and you can always see the results for every minute of time that you put into the course. However, you must be willing to invest time in the class and work hard in order to do well.
Amazing class, great fun and useful too!
Best teachers on campus; best language program
This is a wonderful class that teaches you Chinese very thoroughly. It is interesting and fun while still being intensive.
The Harvard Chinese language program is carefully organized to provide an optimal learning experience through building grammar and practicing the language daily.  Speaking, listening, reading, and writing are all developed in this course.  The teachers are outstanding - they are personable, enthusiastic about teaching, and extremely prepared to introduce English-speakers to the structures and nuances of the Mandarin language.  I can't imagine a better-orchestrated language program and have used the organization of this class as a model for my ESL teaching.
Incredible teaching. funnest class at harvard.
It entails a lot of hard work and can be extremely time consumer, but you learn a lot in a relatively short amount of time.
The class is challenging but rewarding.  It is necessary to work hard to learn the language and characters, but the process is very fun due to the conversation classes and enthusiasm of the teachers.
I feel like I have been very lucky to take an important language like Mandarin Chinese in such a well-taught, yet intensive, environment.
Its really, really hard. But you will get an A/A-
Take Chinese! It will change your life!
Good class, but takes up a lot of time (every day for an hour) and the location is far away from campus
Amazing!!!!!! So worth it.  Even though it was one of my more difficult classes, it was one of the most rewarding because I could see how much progress I made and the class environment was extremely fun and welcoming.
It takes a lot of memorization and is difficult if you have no experience with asian languages.
This class is tons of work, but the returns are enormous.
It's just about the most intensive, best Chinese intro you can take worldwide
If interested in possibly working/ living in China and desire to learn the language this course is definitely top-notch.
It's awesome in every aspect, especially the instructors.
If you do the work consistently, you will get a good grade and you will learn Chinese.
its a lot of fun and you do learn much througohut the year.
This was by far my most favorite class during the year, and I highly recommend anyone who is looking for a new language to take up or for a fun class to take this one.
Chinese is hard. It demands a lot of time. While the class is great, it goes really fast.
It's really interesting and the teachers are very fun, but it requires a huge amount of work and time.
Not only will this course offer you a greater understanding of Chinese language and culture offered in a fairly accessible, but intense, format, but it will also teach you how to study foreign languages generally, which is invaluable.
Think hard about whether you want to learn Chinese. If you do, then you will get a great deal of exposure to basic conversation and many opportunities to learn basic grammar and form basic sentences.
It is hard, but if you want to learn Chinese it's worth it
Be prepared to do a lot of work.
This course is absolutely fantastic.  The teaching staff is engaged and dedicated to making sure us students improve our Chinese.  It's a lot of memorization and some of the grammar structures can seem inconsistent, but it's definitely a worthwhile course.  That being said, I felt the textbook wasn't very good, because topics in the textbook and in class often didn't overlap (however, I hear there might be a new textbook next year, so hopefully things will improve).  Secondly 5 Bryant Street, where office hours are, is pretty far out of the way (though close to Vanserg), so it's sometimes a hassle to go to office hours.  Overall, Ba and Bb have been the best courses I've taken here so far.
It's a lot of work, but you learn a lot of Chinese.
Be prepared to practice every day, but don't get overwhelmed or scared by Chinese's reputation as a hard language to learn. It's really not that bad. Chinese is so much fun!!!
This is such a great class! I love all the teachers, and they all really care about helping the students learn. It is a lot of work, but no more than Chinese Ba. Just keep up with the work and you'll be fine for the exams. You'll learn a lot.
very cool teachers
Chinese was hands-down one of my favorite classes to take this  year. Class was fun, the teachers are easy to talk to, and the subject is so interesting. Yes, there is a lot of work, but you will learn how to handle it. You will look back and realize that all of the hours put into this class really pay off.
Work hard and you will make the most out of it
Chinese Bb is great! As you begin to transition into second-year Chinese, the course becomes more flexible with simplified / traditional (I personally chose to start learning simplified).
You will definitely become more fluent during this course.  The instructors are very nice and very good at explaining Chinese grammar.
I would recommend this class to a student because it is not as difficult as many think it is. What learning Chinese requires is consistent hard work and practice. This does not necessarily take up a lot of effort, but it does take a lot of time. I found that when I gave less time to Chinese, in order to study other subjects, my scores in the dictations and quizzes suffered. Be sure you have enough time to give to this class if you are going to take it.
If you want to take this class, make sure you have enough time to invest in it. Although there is a lot of work involved, you won't regret it. At the end of the semester you'll feel fulfilled because of all that you've learned.
If you have any doubts about taking Chinese, dispel them at once.  I came into this class as someone who wanted to learn another language, but with no particular reason for choosing Chinese.  This class, however, convinced me to concentrate in East Asian Studies.  You will learn a terrifying amount of Chinese in a very short time, but in a comfortable environment.  Sure there's work due every day (in addition to weekly character dictations and quizzes), but the teachers are so incredibly supportive that it never feels like a burden.  I couldn't recommend this class higher.
lot of nightly homework but worth it
An extremely tough class, be prepared to work! Nonetheless, it is rewarding when you realize just how much Chinese you have learned. The teachers are absolutely phenomenal!
Pretty much like Chinese ba. You have to put forth a lot of work, but you learn the language really well.
This class is so good! It's hard work, but the teachers are awesome and you will learn a lot of Chinese in little time. Definitely worth it.
Learning Chinese is doable and this class will help a lot!
this is the best way to learn chinese.
Watch out for the "concordance issue" + memorize pieces of the dialogues.
It's really tough, but you will find yourself learning more than you would ever have expected
Like Ba, it's a time intensive class but rewarding if you put in the work and the teachers are great.
This class is excellent. Having taken two other languages, I truly believe that Harvard's Chinese language department is better than most of the other language departments here.
If you loved Chinese Ba, you will love Chinese Bb. This is my favorite class I have taken so far.
it's a decent amount of work but worth it!! the teachers are all great and have a great sense of humor!
requires a lot of time
This is an absolutely fantastic course. If you have any interest in China, the Chinese culture, or simply the Chinese language, definitely, DEFINITELY take Chinese Bb. It can be a challenging course, but your Chinese will improve by leaps and bounds over the course of the semester.
This is an awesome course. If you're seriously considering Chinese as a second language, Chinese Ba-Bb provides an exceptional foundation that you can build upon. The entire teaching staff is amazing, and they make what could be a potentially lackluster subject a class that I actually get excited going to every single day at a far-away location like Vanserg. In other words, if you're somewhat interested in Chinese, or you just want to experience the beauty of a foreign language education at Harvard, TAKE THE COURSE.
I would recommend this class enthusiastically to anyone who has a sincere desire to learn Chinese.  The faculty is the best that I have experienced at Harvard.  It is a fun language to learn and the course is well taught and fairly graded. However, it is a big time commitment, so I would not recommend it to someone who is just looking to fulfill a language requirement and does not have a real interest in foreign language.
Come to lectures and sections and individual sections regularly. Review vocabs little by little everyday and try to use those vocabs and grammar points to talk with teachers, a lot.
it is better if you can afford to make this class a priority. if you have to treat it as an elective because you have other priorities, it will be difficult to keep your grade up; however you will still be successful in learning the language.
Chinese Bb is excellent. The course is well-run and well-organised, and the teachers are fantastic. Of course, you have to spend time nearly every day on homework and preparation for class. It is a very rewarding class.
Chinese is a lot of fun, but it's a lot of work. Be prepared to work hard and not get very much sleep.
Continue taking Chinese. Great class.
Continues Chinese Ba. Great when you have the same teaching staff. While you've already gotten into the rhythm of Chinese Ba, Bb gets a bit more intensive as vocabulary lists are longer and quizes are more complex. However, no regrets on taking this course!
You will be proud of what you have learned and are able to do. The teachers are the best!
Probably the best language class at Harvard.  The teachers are great, the course is extremely organized (unlike some other classes, like Russian), and you learn  A LOT.
Chinese is a challenging language, and you are definitely pushed in this course. But I cannot say enough about hard the teachers work to better each student's level of Chinese. In this course, you will receive a great amount of individual attention and you will see results.
Definitely take this class if you're interested in learning Chinese. This was my favorite course freshman year (and it was the most work too!). You will learn A LOT and your Chinese will dramatically improve in just one year in this class.
Take this class! If you've taken Ba, you'll know what you're getting into; it's pretty much the same deal, and the teacher's are still awesome.
If you are ready to put a good amount of work, take this course. You will learn so much. The teachers and professor are great- funny, honest, and generous.
This course is a lot of work, but you really get to learn Chinese and you get all the effort you put in back out. The one thing that is really important is that you manage your time properly and do a little bit of work every day, then the class shouldn't be too hard.
The teachers make this class very enjoyable! We were even laughing at something right before the exam. Memorizing characters is very hard, but reading through each chapter helps a lot.
This course is difficult, but if you want to learn Chinese, this is the course to take.
If you have any interest in continuing to learn Chinese, you must take this course! The way I see it, this course may be a lot of work, but it is the best way of learning Chinese that you will ever have available to you in your lifetime. You will NEVER regret continuing with learning this language.
Bb is more grammar-intensive!
It's a lot easier then Chinese Ba, but set up the same way so you're really in the groove by spring, and you get to keep the same awesome teachers.
it is difficult, but correspondingly gives an excellent introduction to chinese.  native speakers are surprised that i have only taken one year of coursework.
you have to keep up with the work every week.  it'll suck sometimes, but it's important to do.
If you're are interested in Chinese, take this.
The Chinese department, in general, is incredible! Chinese Bb, like Ba, is taught at a very fast pace and requires consistent work to keep up with vocabulary, characters, and grammar. But it is also really satisfying and I am amazing by how much I have learned from this course! I would highly recommend it!
This is THE course to take if you want to learn Chinese.
Man it up and take Chinese!
Chinese is challenging, but all the teachers are so nice and supportive. They are resources and make themselves very available to help you however much you want. You have to study everyday if you want to do well, but it's very rewarding.
You learn Chinese very quickly, and it's a very satisfactory feeling.
It is an amazing class with very well prepared teaching staff. You really do not need any background to take it. I am so happy to have taken this class because it taught me a lot (now I can actually have conversations with my Mandarin friends) and you get really close to the people in your Chinese class.
A wonderful class! The teachers are fantastic and the material isn't super challenging. There is A LOT of it though, so it's a pretty significant time commitment. But that's kind of how college language classes work, I guess.
This is a great class but requires a serious time commitment. The instructors are excellent are there are plenty of opportunities to work with them individually if you seek them out. The class moves rapidly and can quickly become overwhelming if you start falling behind on the vocabulary and grammar.
You should definitely continue with Chinese Bb after Chinese Ba. You refine your Chinese and are challenged continuously with new vocabulary and grammar structures. It's definitely worthwhile when you can see how your Chinese has tangibly improved.
This course is a natural progression from Ba. The course is taught at a higher pace, so make sure to stay on track. The staff is the same and they are absolutely amazing. Chinese is an excellent language to learn at Harvard,
This course is fantastic. You finish learning on the basic grammar concepts in Chinese, as well as learn useful vocabulary. By the time you are finished with this course, you will be able to speak about a variety of topics, from picking up your friend at the airport to going to the hospital to choosing your concentration in college. While this course requires that you put in consistent work, you will be rewarded for all of the effort you put into learning the language.
This class will make you reconsider learning the language. But if you decide to go through with it and give it your all, you will walk away with an amazing experience. Be sure to plan out your time and practice a few hours every day on the side.
Chinese is awesome and so much fun, just work consistently and on time and you will be fine. Study lessons before they are taught in lecture and you will get much more out of lecture.
Read the lessons and look over the vocabulary before you go over it in class and don't underestimate the time it will take to complete the homework assignments
Harvard's Chinese department is incredible and this is no exception. If you take it, be prepared for it to be more work that the first semester, but also be prepared for your understanding of the Chinese Language to increase drastically. Just be sure to not fall behind on reviewing vocabulary.
Taking Chinese was one of the best decisions I made freshman year. The class is a lot of work (definitely a step up from Ba), but if you budget your time well it's very manageable. The teachers are incredible and are really invested in you learning the language.
This class WILL teach you Chinese but if you aren't committed to it- it will be painful. There is a ton of material that you blast through and you can really master the basics of Chinese effectively, but you have to commit.
It is easily the most difficult intro language class at Harvard
Be prepared to work on Chinese every day.
if you put the work in, you can get to a good standard of Chinese very quickly. if you don't, it can be a stressful experience...
Chinese Bb is amazing. Definitely take it, even if you don't need to fulfill a language requirement. The preceptor is adorable, hilarious, amazing, enthusiastic, compassionate, and just the best teacher ever. After only a few months of learning Chinese, I feel like I can already carry a conversation in Mandarin. It truly is amazing how well this class is taught. Love Chinese!
Try to practice speaking as much as possible by participating in lecture and sections. Also take advantage of office hours and chat with the teachers to help solidify grammar and vocab.
You need to be extremely motivated to take this. You can't take this is a sidenote to other courses as it requires a large amount of time.
This course takes time and practice; but if you in the work, you'll be able to do well
This is an amazing class! It's more manageable than Ba in terms of memorizing characters, but you learn so many useful grammar structures, you'll be surprised at all of the things you now know how to say in Chinese. Take this class!
LOVE IT!!!! You will acquire a skill that you never knew you would! after just one year, I can have basic conversations with people and understand basic chinese when I hear it spoken. It is the most rewarding thing ever-not to mention super cool when people find out that you speak chinese! It's not an easy class but definitely worth committing to-its stretched me and been one of my most rewarding experiences here at Harvard.
Chinese is a lot of work. It will almost dictate your life. But Harvard has a really good Chinese programs, and this class gives you many more opportunities.
IT IS AWESOME. Just take it. Don't think about it.That being said, it is very much like Chinese Ba. You will need to remember a lot of vocabulary etc from that class (which can be difficult, because you're coming out of a vacation and tend to forget), but otherwise its pretty much the same great teachers. Just keep in mind it is a LOT of work, and the more work you put into it, the more you'll get out of it. In the best way possible.
Good class. Chinese is just a hard language with tons of emphasis on memorization.
If you have never had Chinese experience before, this class will require a lot of your time; however, it does a great job of teaching basic chinese
Great course if you're willing to put in the recommended hours for the course.
The Chinese Language program is intense, but very rewarding at Harvard.
This class is awesome, take it! The teachers are all awesome and you learn a lot!
If you have taken Chinese Ba and enjoyed it, then this is the next step. Be prepared to put in the time required because learning Chinese is a continuous process that will eat whatever time you have to give it. However, it is extremely rewarding in the end and you can notice your progress when you write the final exam.
People often tell me that they're impressed by how quickly first-year Chinese students here are able to speak relatively fluently.
Most effectve and fastest track learning for a foreign language. Excellent teaching team.
This course requires a lot of time, but is very very rewarding. Whether a person would like to take this class for general knowledge of the language, application to business or international aspects, or to develop stronger connections with the culture, I highly recommend this class. However, students should be prepared to give this course 100% of their effort all term round. Falling behind on even a lesson or two can quickly grow to be a huge disadvantage in one's progress throughout the class.
This is an awesome follow-up to Chinese Ba! The staff were always helpful, fair, responsive, and led wonderful sections and lectures. I say hi to them and talk for a while whenever I see them outside of class - they're all super cool people. The syllabus is also great; it covers a wide range of topics with just enough depth. I feel like I can speak just enough Chinese after a year to converse with native speakers in a not-too-stilted way.Traditional characters were a supreme frustration, though, and you couldn't really get around them. Even though they accepted written work on tests and homework in simplified, any reading you had to do was in traditional, so you had to recognize it no matter what. The workload in Bb is really manageable, though; all in all it was a fun, enriching, much more manageable follow-up to Ba, and I recommend that students put off by Ba's intensity give it a shot.
HARD! BUT WORTH IT
Fantastic teachers, wonderful way to learn Chinese. Please take. If you study radicals and stroke order, memorizing characters really is not that difficult.
This class is hard.  Only take if you want to learn Chinese.  You will learn that Chinese is a language that takes years to speak at even a rudimentary level.  It takes a lot of dedication, and though the department is excellent, this course will present a major brain drain as you find it consumes much more time than most languages.
The teaching staff for Bb, and really the whole Chinese Department, is incredible. If you are interested in learning Chinese and willing to put in sometime you will find this a very rewarding and manageable class.
Chinese Bb is an exceptional class and an exceptional experience. In just a few months, it brings your Chinese level to a much higher level and empowers you to have full conversations in Chinese. The teaching staff are all incredibly dedicated. Sections are both fun and educational. If you took Chinese Ba or its equivalent, absolutely take Bb! They are terrific complements, and this course will make sure that you do not quickly lose your Chinese skills. Dictations, of course, are rigorous. The grammar structures can be hard. But at the end of the day, this class is wonderfully rewarding.
This is a great course for someone who is really looking for a great introduction to Chinese. Hoewever, if you are not absolutely sure that Chinese is the language you would like to pursue, I would suggest you take a second look at the challenges of this language and course.
The class is amazing. There is a lot of work, and the work is definitely difficult, but if you survived Ba, you'll survive Bb. The teachers are always available to help you, and by the end of the semester you'll be able to discuss some really cool topics. Definitely recommended!
This is a very fun language to learn. It is slightly difficult, and it does take some time outside of class. However, the teaching staff will work with you. They understand that Chinese is a difficult language. I would highly recommend taking this course. You will bond with other people who are in it as well.
It requires a lot of work, but if you can put in the necessary time you will learn a great deal.
Friendly environment, wonderful teachers, but a faster pace than Chinese Ba (and rightly so).
Take it!
Chinese Bb is a lot of work (more than Ba), but your Chinese will improve immensely.
Pretty easy, about an hour of day of homework.
Chinese is a fun but difficult language to learn. You'll be amazed by how far you've come after only a few months but you absolutely have to put in the time. It's extremely easy to forget characters or grammar if you don't go over it after section/lecture however it's also a pretty easy class to do well in.
You learn a lot in the class but expect to spend a lot of time. If learning Chinese is a serious commitment, take this class - otherwise, you will not do well and not spend the ample amount of time needed to complete all the assignments.
This class follows approximately the same format as Chinese Ba, with a shift towards understanding and creating whole ideas in sentence form (and grammar structures) rather than just vocabulary. If you enjoyed Ba, I would recommend taking this course. It requires a little less workload than first semester.
Taking this course is one of the best decisions I've made since coming to Harvard. It requires a great deal of dedication and discipline to do well, but the resources and support of the course staff lend great confidence to those interested in learning the language. It is truly amazing to look back on the entire semester at how much progress you have made!
This class is great! You will learn lots of Chinese very quickly, but be prepared to put in a good amount of work every day. Only take if you're prepared for the work that comes with learning a difficult language like Chinese.
Make sure you are willing to commit time outside of class to practice speaking and the tones. The workload is demanding simply because you have to prepare homework or study for a quiz every day.
Practice everyday.
You made a very smart choice in choosing this class.  Also, if you feel discouraged by the difficulty of this class, please know that it gets easier with time.
Chinese is, and will be, undoubtedly one of the most important languages in modern society. This course is a perfect way to jump start an individual without past experience into speaking, writing, and reading Chinese. Ni yinggai shang zheige ke!
The Chinese Ba series will be one of the hardest things you will ever do. But actually - one of the hardest. But it's so rewarding and you make so much progress so quickly that at the end, you're actually sad to see it go.
Starting Chinese here is really tough, but this program is phenomenal.  Especially if you took Chinese Ba in the fall, you should continue with Chinese Bb. The teachers will continue to give you so much attention and you will learn so much. It is a really time-consuming class, so make sure that you are serious about wanting to learn Chinese before you enroll!  Otherwise, this may be the wrong class for you.
This course is astonishingly well-taught. You will not be sorry you took this class. That being said, you get what you put in to it. Is it possible to just get by? Sure, but you'll save yourself a lot of stress and time by committing yourself from the beginning, it's worth it and the staff could not be better. Caveat: The teaching staff is excellent overall, but the real heart of the course Wang Laoshi is leaving!
Very difficult, but rewarding
definitely requires lot of effort, hard work to keep up with class.
If you are really interested in learning Chinese and love the language then you should without a doubt take this course. If neither of those is the case then you will likely regret doing so.
You learn an immense amount in one year, a lot of work but it's worth it.
Very useful but a lot of work and time-consuming.
This is one of the very best language classes at Harvard. A lot of work, but so worth it! I think it's an opportunity that shouldn't be missed.
One of the best classes I took in Freshman year. Although the course does require a lot of times to be put in, it in no fashion is a difficult course. The Drill section leaders are the funniest and most caring individuals. Everyone is there to make sure that you are learning the language properly. There is no need to feel any embarrassment because your peers are right there besides you struggling through it as well. You will definitely come out of the Chinese Ba/Bb series having learned to speak a considerable amount of chinese. AS much as if not more if you had taken four years of it in High School.
The course is rigorous but relaxed--the expectations are realistic, and the teachers are helpful and fun.
Be ready to work hard, but it is so well taught. It was so fun and am looking forward to going to HBA to learn more chinese.
If you liked Chinese Ba, you'll love Bb. You learn so much more Chinese and you learn it so quickly. It was really a great class and I would absolutely take it if you can.
It is amazing way to get a little insight into China, one of the most relevant countries in recent and historic times and least understood by Americans.
Work hard and you will find yourself at the end of the year being able to converse in Chinese. Office Hours are also great opportunities to practice Chinese.
Lot of work!
Go to class, try to just say something without fearing error, and you will improve your Chinese more than you can imagine.
It is an incredible introductory language course, and the teaching staff is absolutely amazing.
This course lives up to its name of being the best Chinese course in the nation. If you take any language at Harvard, take Chinese Ba/Bb; it will be challenging and will require lots of diligence, but your work will pay off in oodles. Be sure to give to a try to using mnemonic devices to memorize characters, as I found that immensely more effective and enjoyable than rote memorization on character sheets.
This is a great course and you will learn a great deal of Chinese, but be prepared to devote a lot of time to it.
Great class (although a little bit challenging and time consuming). Really effective and will guarantee results as long as you do your part (do homework, go to class, etc). The office hours are a great way to go beyond and improve even more, but are not essential to do good int he class.
One of the most well-structured, well-delivered language courses you'll ever find. The teaching staff is very energetic, accessible, and enthusiastic (especially Wang laoshi, it's a shame she's leaving!). The pace of this class is very quick, and the delivery is very rigorous, but you'll make progress that you didn't know was possible. This course really demands a passion for learning the language, and you'll find that outside/supplemental study besides the assignments will really help your learning and your progress in the class. Overall, one of the most well-run courses I've ever taken here.
The course is very organized and well-taught.  It covers a lot of material (characters and sentence patterns) in a short time.  However, it can be grueling, not just because there is a lot of (sometimes monotonous) work, but because there is a significant workload almost EVERY DAY (with less on weekends).  This is different from most classes that I have taken at Harvard, which are challenging/demanding at times, but from which you can occasionally catch your breath.
This class requires daily attendance and frequent homework, but for a semester's worth of time if you put in the work you the pace of learning is extraordinary.
This course is harder than Chinese Ba and focuses more on grammar, but the work is still more just tedious studying than intellectually challenging work. The dictations are not as straightforward so make sure you read the dialogues.
If you want to take a language at Harvard and be serious about learning it (not just trying to get in your foreign language requirement), take chinese. It's intense, but completely worth it. The teachers, the course materials, and the individual attention are all excellent. Also, it's a fun class - languages are inherently social in that as soon as you learn new words or grammar points, you are immediately applying them to your self, to others, and to Natalie Portman. Don't take it as a fifth class, don't take it as a fourth hard class, but take it as one of the consistently best courses you will take at Harvard.
Struggle through, it's worth it in the end!
This is an amazing course. If you have ever wanted to learn Chinese, Harvard is the place to begin. Wang Laoshi is a wonderful teacher, and truly makes the lectures interesting and applicable to life.
be prepared spend a lot of time studying outside class.
It's very difficult for some people--I was one of those people but I dedicated a lot of time to it and succeeded.  If you're not committed don't take it.
If you have an idea learning Chinese, take it and you won't regret!
Taking Chinese is difficult and highly time consuming, so you should be well aware of that in deciding whether or not to take it. I would encourage anyone to take a year of it in order to experience something that forces you to think and study in different ways, but beyond a year depends on whether all of the time needed to approach fluency is worthwhile in  considering future plans.
Although Chinese seems like a very intimidating language to learn, it is incredibly rewarding to see how much ground you cover in such a short amount of time.  The teachers are all GREAT and the program is incredibly well run.  TAKE THIS CLASS!!  You will not regret the work and effort you put into it.
Chinese is most definitely the best taught language course at Harvard. The teachers are all dedicated to helping you learn Chinese- if you work hard, you will love this class.
This class is great for beginning Chinese speakers. I had no previous experience with Chinese and yet it's amazing how much I learned over the course of two semesters. This class does wonders. Lectures are thoroughly engaging and Wang laoshi is the best Chinese instructor Harvard has seen! Drill sections are also extremely helpful in practicing conversational Chinese. Overall, very very good course.
Definitely listen to audio of the language! If you do this you should be fine.  The sections are really fun (:
Chinese Bb moves faster than Chinese Ba, so while it is still great that it covers so much, be prepared to be moving at a faster rate than you are used to
This is the most rewarding class I've ever taken, but if you want to do well, you'd better make thi priority number one.
Wang Laoshi was the greatest teacher of them all. She will be missed but never forgotten
This is an incredibly difficult course, but if you put the time in it is more than worth it.
This course is very tough and time consuming, but you learn a lot of Chinese.
This is an awesome class and a great language to learn! Beware people who have taken Chinese before, this class is taught in all traditional characters!
Do it.
I loved the year of Chinese beginner level! The teachers are great, and I'm so sad that Wang laoshi will be leaving!
The entire Chinese department is wonderful, the teachers and course overall is incredible.  I cannot believe how much I have learned this semester and how much my Chinese has improved.  In the fall, I did not know any Chinese and I know how to say and write so much!
You have to want to take this class and work at learning Chinese. It is a lot of time but if you like the language it is all fun!
Chinese Bb is an excellent complement to Chinese Ba, and continues in mostly the same matter. Just like Chinese Bb, it requires hard work and dedication, but these qualities are rewarded in this class. The TFs all genuinely care about their students, the course heads are all really good at teaching, and you learn so much. As long as you keep up on the homework, study for the dictations, and keep an open mind, you'll succeed in this class.
An amazing experience. You must put tons of effort and work to keep up, especially if you have had no experience in the language before, but it's totally worth it!
If you have ever wanted to learn Chinese- here's your chance. The teaching staff is fully devoted to making sure that each student is able to master the skills of reading, writing, and speaking Chinese. I cannot think of any better situation to learn Chinese.
This class is not easy, but it's definitely worth it. The teachers really know what they're doing and they want you to learn. Sections are fun. I learned more Chinese in one year than I thought possible; I've taken it in the summer and have taken other foreign languages, and I was blown away by the quality of Harvard Chinese. Assignments are not too difficult or time consuming. Even people who are not quick with foreign languages enjoyed the class.
Great course, but you must be interested in the subject matter or else it's going to be extremely difficult.
It's a lot of work but you learn a lot
if you want a good supplement to your chinese learning (and that's all language classes should ever be, just a supplement) this is a great course that won't give unnecessary work.
As a student coming into Bb without taking Ba, I was taken aback at first - it definitely takes some time to get use to tutorials, submitting recordings, etc, but patience and a willingness to learn (go to office hours!) is necessary. You'll definitely learn a lot. Unfortunately, the course is in traditional characters though - ask to use simplified if you want to.
You learn a lot and the section leaders are all really helpful and caring, but it does take up a tremendous amount of time.
May be intimidating at first, but it is well worth it.
This class is quite challenging and required a great deal of dedication, but it is an excellent course for students like me who want to learn Chinese in a short amount of time. You learn an incredible amount of vocab and grammar so that by the end of it you can already express in Chinese much of what you say in everyday conversation. I am very impressed by how much I have learned.
Best class ever. I have loved my Chinese experience at Harvard - taking Chinese is one of the best decisions I have made while here.
Although it may not seem like it sometimes, this class has the potential to be one of the easiest and most fun classes you could have in your schedule.  As long as you keep up with the workload and challenge yourself to really learn the material, it is very simple to make progress in mastering the language (and of course, to do well in the class).  The teachers provide excellent support and are always willing to work with you to make sure you are getting the most out of the class.
This is a tough course but it is really rewarding. The teachers are awesome and the work is a lot but you learn really quickly and have fun doing it.
This class may be difficult for those with no background, but it is a generally fun class and rewarding if you are willing to put in the effort.
This course is fast-paced, intense, and can be difficult.  However, the instructors are excellent and as long as you stay on top of your work, it is incredibly rewarding.
This is an excellently structured course with wonderful and kind preceptors! Whether you have experience with the language or you are hoping to try something new, you should take this course! It is rigorous but you will learn a lot and the preceptors are always happy to help.
This is a great intro Chiense course. The teaching staff is incredible and very dedicated/passionate about getting you to learn Chinese. The workload is very, very manageable. You find you have learned an incredible amount of Chinese by the end of the tem.
Chinese Ba was awesome. Chinese Bb is awesome as well.
Be prepared to work. But, know that you will get so much out of this course, depending on how much you put into it.
Chinese Bb is an excellent continuation to Chinese Ba. The teaching staff is amazing, the course material is very well organised, even though the material gets gradually harder, the support that the instructors provide makes the entire class an awesome adventure full of joy. Chinese has definitely been one of my favorite programs at Harvard so far, there is really no better place to learn Chinese!
Chinese Bb (along with Chinese Ba) have been among my favorite classes this year. The curriculum is better than any other language curriculum I have used, and I learned as much in one year as I would have in 4 years of high school level Chinese. The teachers are all enthusiastic and perpetually helpful, ready to answer any questions students might have.
Take this class if you took Chinese Ba! It's definitely a step up in difficulty from Chinese Ba, but you will also feel a lot more confident in your ability to have basic conversations. Ba was excellent, but I didn't feel ready to say that I spoke Chinese at all, but in Bb, you learn so much everyday grammar and vocabulary that I think I can now say that I have a basic proficiency in Chinese.
Continuation of Chinese Ba, of course. Easily my favorite class this semester. The instructors are enthusiastic, funny, nice, and really encourage (read: force) participation, which helps you improve your Chinese so much more quickly. The homework isn't too bad, and dictations are about the same as they are in Ba, though the passages are a bit longer. TAKE THIS CLASS. YOU WILL LEARN SO MUCH.
Awesome class - definitely learned a lot of Chinese. Teachers are wonderful - always excited and ready to help. If you want to learn Chinese, Bb helps you on your way!
You will learn a fair bit of Chinese after taking two semesters. I would say that you would be able to hold simple conversations with Chinese people. It is a very well structured course!
Chinese can be a demanding language to learn, but it is incredibly interesting and the teaching staff is incredible.
Chinese Bb is a really great course! It's as hard as or maybe easier than Ba, and the material is more interesting because you get to build on the basics you learned before.
Requires constant attention
Take it if you want to learn this language!
Requires sustained effort but well worth it
Definitely worth taking if you're at all interested in the Chinese language. You learn so much, even if you've never spoken a work of Chinese.
Class itself is pretty amusing. You cover a lot of material and will be surprised at how much you are able to learn so quickly
Fantastic class! It's sad to see so many of the teaching staff go their separate ways, but I'm sure whoever replaces them will be great as well. The staff really cares about its students and wants people to learn Chinese. They are very helpful if you go to office hours, and will try to push you to keep you on track. Going to class every day is tough - especially Fridays - but without that, I would've forgotten words and characters. The workload isn't low but to learn such a language, it's necessary to put in some work. Overall, I am very glad to have taken the class and can't wait to take 120 (hope Li Laoshi teaches it). I will miss you so much, Zhang Laoshi, Zhou Laoshi, and Pan Laoshi!
BXBbBbI couldn't write that at the beginning of this year. Now I can. Great class, great teachers, a solid teaching team and a lot of other students (with varying skill levels) to smooth it all off. A very enjoyable experience.
This class in a TON of work.
Chinese Bb is an absolute gem. Though I thoroughly enjoyed my time in Ba during fall semester, this course really solidified my conversation ability. I owe it all to the instructors, who took a genuine interest in my progress throughout the year. Though five days of class per week is a grind, the instructors made a real effort to keep things lively and fun. The textbook, written specifically for Harvard Chinese, is also scarily relevant. You learn phrases like, "It's already mid-March, but the weather in Cambridge is still so cold!" and "I applied for several summer internships but didn't get accepted to a single one." Luckily, in the final chapter, you'll learn how to say, "I can't believe how much my Chinese has improved this year," and no matter what level you begin at, you'll find yourself in agreement.
Extremely fun and your Chinese will improve very fast.
Make sure to keep on track of studying and vocab. Create a routine to stay on top of work.
Great class, lots of fun, really nice and friendly instructors who are good at what they do and who really care about your learning.  Dont be scared off by the fact that its Chinese, its just like any other language, and it really is a lot of fun!  (Of course, its a beginning language course so it IS a lot of work  practicing and memorizing new words and how to write characters  but definitely doable and worth it.)  The instructors are great and are always available if you need any help or just want to practice, theyll go above and beyond in helping you out.  Take it!
You get out of Chinese class what you put in; if you aren't devoting your attention to the material during class, you won't get much out of your time there. The assignments and textbook are very helpful for learning the material, if you take the time to go over the resources you're given. The teachers are very friendly and understanding, and will encourage you to speak despite mistakes - you should encourage yourself to do the same.
Don't think twice. Just take this class. Chinese is an extremely fascinating language and this class makes it all the more interesting.
This course's materiel is not extremely challenging, but the workload for it is very immense, making the overall course a lot of work. You should expect to have to devote a large amount of time each night to just prepare for Chinese class quizzes, homework assignments, and section. The fact that it is part of an introductory course and meets every day every week demonstrates how much time you will need to commit to it.
This class is structured exactly like Chinese Ba. The homework and assessments are really manageable as long as you keep up with the material, and there is truly nothing very difficult about this course. The day after day grind can get tiresome, and Vanserg is in a really inconvenient location, but if you can overlook those disadvantages, you'll be treated to some of the best and most passionate teaching at Harvard. You'll learn a lot, and you'll enjoy doing it.
Chinese Bb was a great class. It is impressive how much we were all able to say in Chinese by the end of only the second semester. Just make sure you are willing to put in time every day, because it is easy to fall behind on learning vocabulary and characters and very difficult to catch back up if you do.
Taking Chinese is the best academic decision I've made to date during my time at Harvard.
TAKE THIS COURSE if you have any interest in learning Chinese! It's really fun, the staff is outstanding, and you will learn way more than you ever thought possible! Be careful, however, as it does require a significant amount of work outside class.
Excellent follow-up to Chinese Ba.
amazing class but not an easy one at all
Great class! You learn so much in a short semester's time.
If you want to learn Chinese, this is the course to take. It's difficult, but lots of fun, and the teachers are the best teachers I've ever had.
Great continuation of Chinese Ba. It does move along at a faster pace though and you're expected to remember a lot of things, which can be hard, especially when you must recall obscure characters or grammar patternings. But by the end of the course, looking back at the year of Chinese you've taken, you really do feel like you have learned a lot and should be reasonably comfortable holding a basic conversation entirely in Chinese, so that's pretty awesome!
I took Chinese as an elective during my junior year, and I am very glad that I did. The teachers are so helpful and were always available to meet with me and review grammar structures. I struggled a lot with Chinese, and the learning process can be very difficult and stressful, particularly when surrounded by other students who have had A LOT more exposure to Chinese (even though this should just be first year!). Despite these challenges, I am very glad that I took Chinese and would recommend it to anyone willing to work hard. I entered Chinese in the fall not knowing a single word, and now I feel like I have solid, basic conversational skills. It's so cool!
very well run course. teachers put a lot of time and effort into preparing for class.
if you are interestred or have experience, take it.  if not, choose an easier language
Very fast paced course built around very relevant vocabulary that introduces you to Chinese language and culture.
Chinese Bb was one of my favorite classes this semester! The workload is minimal, classes are fun and engaging, and the teachers are friendly, funny, and helpful. There is always support in the form of flexible office hours/email, so no one is really left behind. Chinese is definitely a challenging language, but this class breaks it down very well.
Quite difficult class but made possible by an excellent teaching staff- definitely take it if you're committed to learning Chinese!
This course was wonderful, and all of the Chinese teachers really want you to succeed! Please take this course! You will not regret it!
All the teachers are super friendly and always willing to help. Workload can get demanding at times, especially when preparing for midterm/final, but if you keep up with the lessons and characters with the weekly amounts they give you, you should be fine. Important thing is practice practice practice when you have time.
Like all other Chinese classes, you need to devote a lot of time to this class, but you learn so much and it pays off.
Don't miss class
Chinese Bb is a fantastic course taught by a great staff! Be prepared to spend your whole week learning characters and enjoying every bit of it.
It's a lot of work, but it's surprising how much you end up learning in one year. The teachers are really supportive and you end up bonding with your classmates a lot through the hard times.
Class is very fast-paced but well worth it. So much is taught within one semester, but the amazing teachers are enthusiastic and willing to give additional help outside class time
Chinese truly is a great language to learn, and this course does a fantastic job of teaching it. Keep in mind that Chinese is inherently a difficult language to learn for English speakers. However, the teaching staff does a great job of making people learn how to speaking Chinese properly and more importantly, with the proper accents. It is in traditional characters, so keep in mind that if you want to learn simplified characters, you will have to bear through a year of traditional characters. The small dictation quizzes every lecture will take a lot out of your schedule however, as memorizing the characters is quite tough.
Once again, this is a phenomenal course, and goes to show how incredible the Chinese department is at Harvard. The teaching staff is wonderful and always eager to help, and you can also get to become good friends with many of them. That being said, it is an incredibly intensive course, and the fact that it is 5 days a week means you can't go one day without doing Chinese work. It's a big commitment, but definitely worth it.
Difficult, but extremely rewarding. Quite possibly the best Chinese language program around.
Chinese is a challenging language, but really fun once you get used to writing with characters, tones etc.  I would definitely recommend trying this course, whether or not you need to fulfill a language requirement.
It's a lot of work and it's definitely difficult, but the teachers are awesome, and I'd definitely recommend it! I made a lot of good friends through the Chinese program.
If you're considering this course, stop thinking about it and just take it! It's even better than Ba, which sounds impossible, doesn't it?! They're absolutely amazing!
Bb is significantly harder than Ba but if you put in the time and ask questions right away if you don't understand what was covered in class, you will do well. The teachers are super helpful and caring!
This is a very intensive course. Make sure you truly wish to learn Chinese before taking this class.
I would definitely recommend this course, but students should know that Chinese Bb is very demanding and takes a lot of time. Office hours and check-ins should be a requirement, as its almost necessary for doing well. Take Chinese Bb if you are absolutely dedicated and ready to push yourself!
Great language course. It is structured extremely well and you will see your Chinese improve so much. The teachers are enthusiastic and very involved and dedicated to teaching. It really allows you to master the lesson's grammar. Although having to go to Vanserg everyday is quite annoying, it's necessary for you to fully process the grammar. Depending on which TF you have sections will also be pretty interesting so I would recommend Chinese to anyone who wants to really master a language in college.
Be ready to study every single night. This class is exceptionally rigorous and difficult, and it can be hard to have the patience to practice the characters everyday.
If you would like to learn and be good at Chinese, this may be the greatest opportunity of your life to do so.
This was a good transition between Ba and what I feel 120 will be like. The difficulty of the material intensified, as well as the amount of characters to which we were exposed. The grammar and reading seemed the easier of the three main skills (i.e. writing, reading, and speaking), but speaking will definitely improve. Be warned however: the number of characters you need to learn increases, will not stop increasing as you go past Chinese B. But the professors you learn from and the avenues you open are well worth the hours you spend trying to memorise. Also, simplified characters open up to you here, so you have that option.
Great course to learn introductory Chinese. Students will leave the course very satisfied by the amount of Chinese learned over a single semester, since the course teaches reading, speaking and writing extremely well.
This is a fantastic class. The teachers are excellent and engaging, and the course is very well structured and organized. I highly recommend taking this class.
Chinese is one of the best things you can learn here at Harvard
This is an amazing class, take it if your at all interested in learning a new interesting language. The teachers and their approach is simply outstanding. However, it requires quit some work, depending how comfortable you are with Chinese tones and how easy you find it to learn characters. Actually, the class is also quite a lot of fun and not very hard if you put in the required time. It is a welcome change to other courses, and I can only recommend it without reservation!
lots of work, but worth it
Do you want to learn Chinese? Do you want the most enthusiastic teaching staff on campus? Do you want to be able to pick up cute Chinese girls/boys (optional)? Good. Take this class.
Chinese Bb is a continuation of Ba, but the pace definitely does pick up a little from first semester. You have to memorize more characters and write sentences instead of words for dictations, but overall the class has a similar structure to Ba. If you are serious about learning Mandarin, I would definitely recommend continuing your study by taking Bb because the teachers are great and you learn a ton in a semester.
The first weeks are hard, but if you can get past those it is a very rewarding class.
The Chinese department here is absolutely incredible! I have learned an incredible amount by taking this class - I can even eavesdrop on Chinese tourists. It's fun to walk past people speaking a foreign language and realize you can understand the general idea of what is being said...and it's even more fun to try to talk to them and see their shock when you start speaking Mandarin.
Just take it. You will learn so much. By the end of this course, you'll be able to watch Chinese cartoons with a pretty high level of understanding. The teaching staff is excellent, and you will have a lot of fun.
If you took Chinese Ba and didn't enjoy it, I would continue and take Bb for your foreign language credit. It is much easier second semester because hopefully you have a grasp of how to study. The only difficult thing second semester is that you have to learn all of the characters, not just a select amount. While more challenging, I thought that this helped me learn the material much better. Chinese will always be a struggle, but if you put the work into it, it can be rewarding!
Be ready to work
You need time for this. This course is no joke. If you don't WANT to learn Chinese for the sake of it, take Spanish. You will, however, learn a lot if you can commit to it.
This class is amazing. I learned so much in the last two semesters, more than I ever did in any language class in high school, and it was relatively painless. Once you get into a good routine you'll see that the teachers make learning Mandarin much easier than it seems to be.
take this course! it's crazy and time-intensive and you'll most likely have an assignment due every single day, but it's worth it if you want to learn mandarin. the instructors are always there, energetic and enthusiastic and willing to help you with everything. they definitely make the course so much more interesting.
You'll only do well if you genuinely want to learn Chinese. Otherwise studying for tingxies will make your semester miserable.
That it is challenging but fun.
If you have a serious interest in really establishing a strong foundation for this class, take it. But know that it is rigorous: the course is fast-paced, there's a substantial amount of homework, and to really master the material, you need to put in a good amount of time. It's not a throwaway fourth or fifth class like many language courses are.
This is a great continuation of Chinese at Harvard.  Be warned now: it is a lot harder and much more time consuming than Chinese Ba. Here you focus on writing which, in my opinion, is a lot harder to memorize because of the detail involved. The good news, you will learn a lot! Also, as always the teachers are amazing and really there to help you. Be prepared to have this be your first or second priority regarding academics
I never expected to progress so fast an be actually able to speak, write, read in as little as a year!
Like Chinese BA, this is one of the best-taught language courses at Harvard. The weekly homeworks aren't too time-consuming and help reinforce the last week's material, the midterm video project is tons of fun, and the final exams had no surprises. I can't stress enough how good the laoshi are at what they dothey're always engaged and ready to respond to students' questions, and they make a massive amount of material digestible. Totally worth it if you're not sure about continuing after BA.
If you are willing to devote 5 days a week to learning Chinese, then this is a great course option as the workload isn't too great and the professors do a great job of reinforcing material into your brain.
The learning curve is fast.
You will learn a lot from this course but it requires a decent amount of effort outside of class.
Be prepared to work hard. The teachers are amazing.
Great course.
make sure that you have enough time to commit to the class; the instructors are very supportive
The teaching staff is incredible, the course is well-designed, and the workload isn't too intense.  It's a great course!
As a continuation of Chinese Ba, which I already enjoyed, Chinese BB solidified my interest in learning the language and convinced me to take it for another year at least. Though the language is difficult, the curriculum and the instructors make it as enjoyable and interesting as possible.
If you question whether Chinese is right for you, don't judge it by the department because is incredibly strong. Take Chinese if you truly care about the culture and want to know the language. This course demands hours of tedious memorization of Chinese characters.
Chinese Bb, like Ba, is an enjoyable course with invested instructors. If you put in the time, you should do well in the course. I originally took Ba/Bb just to knock out my language requirement, but I am now inspired to earn my citation in Chinese. Learning a language is such a tangible and useful skill (definitely more so than, like, how to solve matrices), and the Chinese language instructors are all so invested in their students. I feel like my brain has been challenged in different ways through the course of this year. I highly recommend taking Chinese!
Best language class of your life!
The Chinese language program here at Harvard is incredible.
This class is a lot of fun. There's a lot of memorization, but this is the only class where I consistently laugh every section and lecture. If you took BA or have a couple high school classes, BB should be at your level.
If you're wondering whether or not to take this class, DO IT. It's so good, so enjoyable and well put together. Your Chinese will improve unbelievably much, it's going to be so worth it.
One of the best language classes you can take. The teachers are amazing and you learn so much in such a short period of time, but I've never felt like the work/class schedule has been a chore. Expect to be committed to Chinese though - it meets everyday and you can only miss two/three classes (unexcused).
Be prepared to spend a lot of time in the course but also learn a lot of useful Chinese.
This course is great and the people who take it with you are amazing. However, it is 5 days a week and you have to be ready to make that commitment given than attendance does cost towards your grade.
I would definitely recommend Chinese BB. All the teachers, especially Li Laoshi are so enthusiastic. They are invested in the course and want to make sure that you understand the material. The course is structured well, so your knowledge builds on itself. It is a lot of work and a big time commitment.
great class, teachers really care about your success and progress
This is genuinely the most incredible language class I have ever experienced. All of the teachers love teaching so much - they are so fun, so caring, and put so much effort into every minute of every class. The work you do is interesting and helps you learn. There isn't too much work - enough that theres always something to do, but in a way that's not overwhelming at all. If you took AP Chinese and scored from 2-4, this class is a perfect way to ease yourself back into it while learning a lot of new stuff in a fun way. Recommend to everyone.
This is a very demanding course time wise, but you WILL learn Chinese. The teaching staff is incredible and so dedicated to your improvement.
You get out of this course what you put in. The teachers are amazing, you just need to do your part; come in ready to learn and don't forget to have fun! It's not like you're learning to do heart surgery, it's a language. Have fun with it.
Great class.  Lot of work but would definitely recommend
Great class, taught well. Take it to learn Chinese quickly and effectively
This is a great course to finish off the first-year Chinese course! The teaching staff are super friendly and the course itself is fun, and empowering, given that your Chinese really improves from the first semester class.
Chinese Bb, along with Ba, have been the highlight courses of my freshman year, hands down, no comparison. The teachers are all so helpful, enthusiastic, and funny, making the difficulty of learning a new language not just bearable, but highly enjoyable.
This is not a joke class, only take if you are seriously interested in the Chinese subject.
It's a great class and the sections leaders are such great help. Utilise their resources! Super fun class with lots of laughs
Fantastic continuation of Chinese Ba. I was unsure whether I wanted to continue from Ba and was skeptical about the time commitment and energy required to truly learn Chinese, but Bb--although technically the level of work and grammatical difficulty increased--actually became significantly easier because I had surpassed the original learning curve. Developing a system to more quickly memorize characters and prepare for dictations facilitates learning in this class; everything appears more natural; and at the end of the year, I look back at everything I learned with pride and satisfaction. I highly recommend.
This class is fantastic!!! Highly recommend. Teachers are great and highly invested in your education. Pace is super manageable if you keep up with characters and vocab weekly; in-class practice is usually enough to learn grammar structures well enough to only need light review for exams!
If you want to learn Chinese this is the best way to do it.
Of all the classes I've taken at Harvard, Chinese has been not only the most fun but the most rewarding as well. It's rough at first, especially if you don't have any previous experience with Chinese, but when you get the hang of things, lecture and section become something you look forward to everyday. Every single  is so genuine, kind, and funny, and they really feel like your friends more than they are your teachers. Even if you aren't interested in Chinese, I highly recommend that you at least give this course a chance - the last thing I wanted to take when I got to college was another foreign language yet here I am, smiling from ear to ear reminiscing about all the shenanigans that went down over the semester.
Great class, you will learn a lot and the Chinese teachers are absolutely amazing/not out to get you!
This class is a great opportunity to begin learning Chinese and effectively taught me the basics of Chinese in a way that was interesting and enjoyable.
Definitely well taught. Teachers care. The homework feels annoying at times but arent too time consuming. Expect some memorization too which can be incredibly unbalanced but I feel helped me learn the language.
Such a great department.  I highly recommend Chinese Bb - I even enjoyed it a lot more than Ba and am thinking of taking more chinese as a result of this class.  Class is fun and you really learn a lot.  It is difficult, but if you keep up, it's really not so bad.  The teaching style makes it easy to learn and class is engaging every day.
Hard work but you will learn a great deal
Don't be afraid to take this class, Chinese may seem too foreign but the teachers are absolutely amazing and they make it manageable, but you do have to be willing to put the effort in and to keep up.
I honestly think that the Chinese department is the best language department at Harvard! If you enjoyed Ba go ahead and take Bb. The teaching staff is incredible as always and you will learn a lot
Preview lessons, review lessons, and go to office hours. All the  laoshi are kind and are willing to help!
Work your ass off and you will end the year happy.
Chinese Bb is significantly harder than Chinese Ba, but you learn the material necessary to be somewhat functional in Chinese! Make sure to keep up with the vocab.  The work isn't necessarily hard, but it is very constant throughout the course of the semester.
Get ready to have fun and learn a lot! This course requires a lot out of you, but it's worth it. You make progress very quickly and it'll almost certainly be one of your favorite classes.
You really want to take this course--they're helpful and the course is useful!
If you want to ever learn a new language, consider Chinese at Harvard! You will definitely have fun with it.
The teachers are all amazing! The pace is fast but you'll learn so much, it's definitely worth the hard work.
The Chinese teachers, particularly, are stellar! They are the sweetest, kindest, most enthusiastic people, and they honestly made my day everyday. Chinese is a really cool language, but be prepared to put in a lot of work - consistent work is essential to doing well in this class!
Amazing. My mom is fluent in Chinese, but I never grew up speaking it at all. When I came home, she said that I've improved so much. Honestly, the teachers are amazing. This is the best taught class I've taken in my life (and in second place is Chinese BA)! They really care about our progress in class, and it shows - they make class incredibly engaging (call on you during class, make jokes, encourage dialogues, and make hilarious videos), encourage practice (2 dictations a week/homework/dialogue memorizations mean that you are consistently studying, which is imperative for learning Chinese), and always being available outside of class (outside sessions, language tables, by email, etc.). It's incredible to me how the teachers are very conscious in teaching using the words they've taught us - this means that we consistently hear the words we've learned in many different contexts. I'm going to miss this class next year.After only a year of Chinese, I can have conversations with my mom, understand much of Chinese TV, read thousands of characters, and more. Can't recommend this class enough!!
Chinese Bb was by far my favorite class this semester. The teachers are extremely helpful, and even though Chinese is a difficult language they make it a lot of fun to learn. I always looked forward to my Chinese class. Note though that the grammar in Chinese Bb is more difficult than in Chinese Ba, but the class helps you learn it by practicing grammar a lot. If you are at all interested in learning Chinese I completely recommend this class.
Have a hard time imagining a better foreign language class.
The Chinese department at Harvard is amazing! You learn so much in such a short period of time. I highly recommend taking this course. Staff is accessible, compassionate towards students, passionate towards teaching. Great teaching material and relevant study!
This course is taught really well, you just have to want to spend 1-2 hours every night on chinese no exception or you will fall behind, get bad grades on assignments, and stop caring.
If you want to learn Mandarin, do it here at Harvard and take Chinese Ba and Bb. The teachers are really great, you learn an incredible amount of Chinese (which can definitely be intimidating at times, but if you put in the necessary time, you'll be fine), and you'll come out of the courses impressed by how much Chinese you've learned. Because of my experience in Chinese Bb (and Ba), I'll definitely be taking Chinese during my next three years here at Harvard.
Though this is a very valuable course and an excellent introduction to Chinese, it is more than a bit suffocating. The workload is intense. Prepare to work hard for a B if you haven't taken Chinese before.
the best introduction to Chinese you can get
A lot of work
If youve taken BA this class is a lot harder than Ba in terms of the amount of material covered from week to week. i was not prepared for that and was thrown off by it.
The Chinese program at Harvard is excellent.
Very good class, structured well, take this if you didn't score a 4/5 on AP Chinese, lots of good material covered (I got a 3, the course has been mostly review, but now it has become more challenging because we are learning more things now).  Recommend highly because of the teaching staff.
You will really learn Chinese, even if it takes some work.
Chinese is challenging but this class makes it manageable, you will improve greatly and it is very fun
If you've taken Ba and enjoyed it, then you should definitely take Bb. It's just as great. There's also some people who study the Ba material and take Bb. They had a great time too. If you feel ready for the course, then take it. Chinese, this semester and last, has been my favorite course.
This class is amazing. The teachers are fantastic and the class teaches you a huge amount of Chinese in a short amount of time. But, if you're like me and have zero previous exposure to Chinese, get ready for the ride of your life. It's fun and rewarding but definitely the hardest class I've taken at Harvard (harder than Chinese Ba for sure). You just have to be sure to devote a lot of time to characters and vocab.
If you're interested in Chinese politics/economics/culture, take this course!
If you also took Chinese Ba, you know what to expect since it's basically the same. If not, I just have to say that the chinese department is amazing. They work really hard to make the chinese learning experience great. There are textbooks written specifically for this course, the teachers are top-notch, etc. IT's a lot of class time but the repetition really helps you learn.
Another great semester of Chinese! As all the past reviews for this class and reviews from Chinese Ba say Chinese is always great. It's a very structured class with lots of great support, materials, and teaching by the Chinese department. You always learn a lot and have fun.It might be annoying to go to class everyday and have to do some work for Chinese just about everyday, but it really will push you to practice. Good for procrastinators who need to small assignments to keep them on top of the material.
