Be prepared for 20-40 pages of reading in Chinese every week. Should have probably taken 140 or 150 before taking this class since the material is a bit dense.
This is a course you will walk away from wanting MORE
This course is a fascinating and comprehensive survey of modern Chinese literature, while also an excellent language course to the higher levels. If you have the chance and it's offered, take it!
Be prepared to WORK HARD (depending, of course, on your reading, writing, and speaking level) but also be ready to have an absolutely transformative semester!
A fantastic introduction to modern Chinese literature. The materials and classes are excellent. I would highly recommend taking this course over an advanced language course--much more interesting, and great for your Chinese reading ability. That said, it's definitely a time commitment if you want to get through all the material properly. I wish I'd had more time to put into the readings, but it was difficult to keep up at times.
This course will introduce you extensively to modern Chinese literary traditions. Beware of the intensive pace, however, and the relative shallowness of your understanding of the material.
This was by far the best Chinese class I took at Harvard! It's refreshing to use your Chinese to discuss literature instead of learning new sentence structures every semester. The teacher to student ratio is insane (3 professors for 5 students), both professors were very engaging and super engaged in the course (they organized a conference with Professor Wang's PhD students) and the readings we did were great literature. I really felt like I learned a lot and improved my Chinese. It's a very challenging class, especially if you're fresh out of 140 - be ready for a big time investment. If you're interested in Chinese culture and want a break from the other Chinese language classes, I highly recommend it!
This is an amazing class for anyone interested in challenging themselves to further improve their Chinese, without the rote structure of a traditional language class. Students have the opportunity to engage with a wide selection of modern Chinese literary works, as well as to spend the semester working on an in-depth independent research paper on a topic of their choosing. From focusing on mastering the material, you will undoubtedly find your language skills (especially when it comes to writing and expressing your ideas) naturally improving as well.
This is an incredible incredible class if you are looking to learn about Chinese literature. The class is incredibly well-done for students who want to get a basic understanding of the Chinese literary cannon. A great great course on this end. 
However, if you are looking/mainly interested in the language portion of the course, I would not necessarily recommend the class. There is an opportunity to improve your reading; however, this is not the main objective of the course.
