This class was ALWAYS a good time, which is quite a feat considering it's the first 9am class I've taken here, and you have to drag yourself to Vanserg. The teachers are lovely, caring, charming and fun and the classmates are great too. I had a hard time deciding to take this class but I didn't regret it at all.
Miss Liu is great, everyday of her class is interesting and engaging.
This course is amazing, the teachers are so much fun!
Chinese is fantastic, especially at Harvard. Do not fear the teachers or the class - fear/love the language and its intricacies. You'll be fine!
This class has significantly improved my Chinese. Liu Laoshi does not require much handwriting in the class (essays and written portions of tests are typed), which is nice at this level. It is not a difficult class, but prepare for the constant commitment (trek to Vanserg every morning) and steady flow of work (tests/papers/conversations every other week, homework every week, midterm and final assignments).
Liu Laoshi is an amazing teacher who makes class very exciting! She makes being in class a very enjoyable experience!
As long as you are willing to put in the work into this course, and be open to learning and practicing speaking in class, you will do well, and very likely excel.
This course really emphasizes practicality so everything you learn, from the topics to technicalities such as grammar, can be used.
It's a great class!
This course is a lot of work, but your Mandarin and spoken Chinese will definitely improve.
After taking this class, I feel confident enough to be able to use my Chinese in a professional setting.
You learn a lot of Chinese in this class, as you meet every day and do a lot of writing, and the classes are small (sometimes only 4 students in a section). More writing and outside reading than 130a. The teachers are so much fun. They're from China, so they are familiar with modern Chinese culture too.
I cannot recommend Chinese 130xa as it was taught this semester, but this was the first time the course was offered, and it will probably be better next year.
There is a substantial workload, but if properly approached, it will greatly improve Chinese skills.
It's a lot of work, but it's a great course.
Take this course - but it is very time consuming.
I loved this class. It was pretty difficult at first, because I hadn't taken any Chinese for the past 4 years or so; for a short time, I struggled with the material and sometimes felt like the class was too advanced. Now, looking back at "ke wen" from the beginning of the term, where almost all of the characters have tonalities written next to them because I couldn't recognize the words, I realize how much this class has helped me--I now can read and write so much more than before, and my speaking skills and overall vocabulary have improved too. I also now have more of an interest in Chinese as a whole (this was my favorite class actually). And I love the instructors!
If you can't finagle your way into Chinese 130 (non-heritage speakers), be warned that 130x has quite a bit extra tacked on to the 130 course load.
This course is a relatively intense course in terms of consistent work load each night. However, I can tell that I have learned the most in this class, and the time and effort have really paid off. It also helps to have parents or friends to practice with or ask questions.
Little stress and fun.  Take advantage of the Chinese language department and take the class if you can handle the busy work.
This course is a lot of work, but completely worth it.  You need discipline to learn a language, especially one as hard as Chinese, and this course gives you that daily push you need to get a lot closer to being functional in Chinese.  You get through some short stories by Lu Xun and Zhang Ailing, which are hard, but a great feeling once you understand them.  The teachers are really nice and very approachable.
A simply wonderful experience. I cannot stress how sweet our teachers are, and while the course may be difficult for many, it is well worth it.  I enjoyed waking up early everyday to attend my 10am class just for the amusing discussions with fellow students and our teachers.
One of the best communities to join, really hones up your skills
Gao and Ying laoshi are fantastic teachers who are not only enthusiastic about their subjects but also passionate about caring for their students. In terms of course  material, Chinese 130xa may be more or less challenging depending on your Chinese proficiency. Overall however, between essays, blog posts, weekly chapter assignments, and dictations, the course is fairly rigorous. You don't have to  be very advanced at Chinese in order to take this course. If you place into this course through the Chinese Placement Exam but don't feel comfortable during shopping week, talk to Gao  laoshi to give you a full evaluation.
A must take if you want to gain literacy! Loved it!!
I improved so much in Chinese 130xa! I am not a heritage speaker, so the class definitely required lots of commitment and time. However, the rewards are amazing. I feel so much more confident speaking and listening, and my ability to recognize and write characters has improved beyond belief. We had lots of overlapping assignments, and tests sometimes snuck up, but overall it was manageable. Definitely make friends in the class because you have to support each other. If you're a non-heritage student looking for a challenge, I'd highly recommend this course. I learned so much about Chinese culture and regional differences from my classmates. Not only did I get a cultural experience from Gao Laoshi and Ying Laoshi, but also from all my classmates everyday. If you're hesitant, shop the class! It's intimidating, but I'll tell you that you can do it if you work hard. I'm so proud of my progress and I can't wait to keep taking Chinese.
You will learn a lot in this course, but it definitely takes work as there is dictation three times a week. There are many more vocabulary words to learn within a short time. There are also many writing assignments, but this really helps with improving writing skills.
Great class! Gao laoshi and Yeh laoshi really emphasize improving writing skills, which is great for native speakers. The workload isn't trivial (memorizing characters for dictation happens quite often), but it also isn't as time-consuming as other classes.
Class is very fast paced, be ready to spend time.
It's an amazing class! The Chinese department never fails to disappoint!
Definitely take this class if you want to improve your Chinese vocabulary and writing abilities.
This class is really fun, but be ready for a lot of listening quizzes. Put in the time to learn the grammar and the class will be not too bad.
Make sure you keep up on your dictations, and it's a good idea to make study guides from the lecture notes throughout the year, as it will help for final studying a lot.
wonderful language class, gao laoshi and yeh laoshi are awesome :D class is quite a bit of work at times (tests and essays every other week and dictations every other day) but the results (improvement in chinese!) are massively worth it.
This is a great class to learn a lot of Chinese and use the new vocabulary you learn in engaging ways. The teachers are enthusiastic, and the class is really fun and interesting overall.
This was a great course, and you'll learn a ton of Chinese. However, sometimes it seems like you're never going to stop taking quizzes (usually 2 a week), and there were some occasions in which you had like 3 separate assignments due on the same day.
You'll definitely learn a lot more useful Chinese than you have in the previous Chinese courses.
I enjoyed Chinese 130xa immensely and found it quite effective in improving the quality of written and spoken Chinese, as well as increasing my interest in Chinese language and culture. Having taken Chinese Bx and 123xb, I felt that Chinese 130xa really stretched me with its frequent (two or three times a week) dictations, more difficult material, and well-designed essay prompts. 130xa took more time than Bx or 123xb, but in the case of 130xa, I spent most of my time on work that really helped to develop my language ability, such as essay writing and reading challenging texts, instead of the that is common in many language courses.Compared to Chinese Bx and 123xb, Chinese 130xa actually has fewer worksheets, and the exams are not bad (some thought they were harder than in Bx/123xb; I didn't think so). However, you actually have to study for the dictations and spend considerable time with essay writing to get an A in the class (whereas you previously might have been able to get away with less than your best effort).Lastly, the instructors are excellent; even if you don't have Gao and Yeh in the future, know that most of the Chinese language instructors are more than decent.
If you're interested in taking this course and you're NOT a heritage speaker, know that you certainly can (and should) take this class if you're willing to really push yourself. The expectations are quite high, but the course is a ton of fun and the workload is actually not that bad once you get used to the daily routine.  I've had to work harder in 130x than in any other Chinese course I've taken, but it pays off immensely. Your spoken and written Chinese - along with your overall knowledge of characters - will improve dramatically over the course of the semester. If you're deciding between this and 130a, SHOP BOTH OF THEM. Gao Laoshi is wonderful, and if you have Yeh Laoshi as a TF, you *need* to take 130x. It does cover the same material as 130a, so you wouldn't necessarily be missing out enormously in terms of course content, but 130x also has a number of supplementary readings and assignments, and the standards and expectations are overall much higher. If you're genuinely committed to learning Chinese while you're here, do 130x!
I think this is a really great class. The enthusiasm generated in class on a day to day basis is great. I also don't think the work is actually overwhelming if you just keep up with the daily schedule. Because there are always so many quizzes and tests throughout the semester, you're accumulating things you learn on a daily basis rather than cramming for everything the day before the final.
The class is tough at first, and the dictations are so fast that you feel overwhelmed, but you naturally adjust to the workload and the pace which the teachers expect you to work at. In the end, you really get a lot out of the course. I felt like my chinese has gone up a notch from basic vocabulary and history topics to actually being able to talk about literature and film.
You do learn alot, but be aware of the intense workload!
Take this class.  It's a bit more work but worth it.
You have to be able to get the word done. You will never have a break from Chinese
At first, I was hesitant about taking this class because I thought it was way above my skill level. I tried to switch into 123x, but I couldn't because the placement test put me in 130x. I'm so glad Gao Lao Shi didn't let me drop down! Even though it was difficult at first, my Chinese improved so much. The courseload is pretty heavy compared to the other Chinese classes, but as long as you put in the effort, you'll see the results in both your Chinese and in your grades.
It is a very well-taught class and the teachers are super nice and helpful
Only take this course if you're ready for a lot of work and a fast-paced schedule.
This class is just amazing. If you want to really expand your Chinese skills, take this class--it is a great opportunity to learn real Chinese from real Chinese teachers. Gao Laoshi (lecture) and Xu Laoshi (drill) are both excellent educators and are totally dedicated to helping students learn, from staying after class to answer questions to giving students huge amounts of feedback on the essays.
Even though I am a native speaker, I felt that this course still challenged me in terms of learning Chinese. Also, within the course of this semester, I feel like I have greatly improved my Chinese in terms of writing and reading, two areas I needed the most help on. The teachers are very helpful and are always available for help.
great class! I saw a clear improvement in my Chinese skills; my sentences are now more complex and sophisticated.
Don't be intimidated by the course. As long as you can understand what the teacher is saying in lecture, you will be grow to be able to write proficiently as well!
This course is pretty difficult and the vocabulary learned was sometimes archaic and didn't seem very practical. That said, the instruction was superb and I enjoyed learning the material anyway.
The teachers are really down to earth and funny. You can converse with them easily and they are extremely assessible (even online). They really want you to learn and the environment is just great.
Even for how good the language department is here, and in specific the East Asian languages department, this course stands out for being culturally relevant (there are movie and literature supplements), challenging but rewarding, and filled with interesting and engaging readings and discussions. The work itself is mostly put into preparation for dictations and tests/essays/oral presentations; there is very little busy work. If not for anything else, take this course for the teachers, who are absolutely amazing, patient, engaging, funny, and passionate about teaching.
You'll learn a lot, but it's a lot of work to prepare for class everyday (and you do have class everyday, Monday-Friday), so make sure you have the dedication for it.
If you want to improve your Chinese in general, this is a great course! There are a lot of written assignments since most people in the class tend to be fairly comfortable with speaking and listening already. The teachers are great! However, expect a steady stream of work (dictation every other day).
My favorite class this year. It's a lot of work but also very rewarding. And Gao Laoshi is awesome.
This class is EXCELLENT, if you are committed to learning Chinese and have a genuine interest.  There is a consistent workload, with about an hour or two a day (two dictations a week -- they took me about 30 mins to an hour to prepare for), four essays a semester (couple of hours), and weekly homework (two pages, maybe one hour of work).  The thing about this course is while it might not have the most work hours-wise, the work is consistent, so you know you'll always have at least a few hours a week.Gao Laoshi is excellent and very approachable and likeable. Xu Laoshi's drills are also very helpful for reinforcing the concepts. Because the class is small, you feel very comfortable participating, and get close to the teacher and students.
I chose to take this course rather than Chinese 130a, and I am very glad I made that decision -- the class becomes very tight knit, unlike 130a, and it's very well taught. You will come out of the course significantly more confident in speaking, writing, and for a non-heritage speaker like me, especially listening.
Very worthwhile.
Be prepared to work hard, but this class is definitely worth it. It might seem too difficult in the beginning, but it will get better as you begin to develop a rhythm. Also, the professor and TF are very available; they always get back to you quickly whenever you have problems.
Not going to lie, the beginning is rough. The dictations take awhile to study for in the beginning, and the double dose of essay and test every other week makes it hard to feel like you're on top of things. Learn the vocab on time or in advance. Read the weekly schedule! All in all, this class really improves your Chinese. Even better, the class attracts the nicest people, and it fosters great friendships. I won't be taking Chinese 130xb next semester because the workload is a lot, and I want to make time for other difficult classes. Sometimes it's hard to keep up with what's going on in class because all of the vocab is explained in Chinese, and then you never really figure out the difference between two marginally difference phrases. I suppose that's just the nature of the beast. Overall, this class comes with both highs and lows. Be prepared to work unless you're freakishly good at Chinese, in which case you should probably be in Chinese 140.
Phenomenal class-the instructors are both amazing and loveable. Grading is extremely fair with plenty of buffers. If you put in the hours, you'll get the grade.
Even though 130x is tough, you really do learn so much.
I highly recommend taking this course. Your Chinese will improve so much so quickly. The work was a little overwhelming at first, but you get used to it and it gets easier. Since the class is small, you get to know your classmates really well, and it is a lot of fun.
It's a good class
Increase your chinese skills!
Very well structured and prepared class. The study materials provided are excellent, but the tests can be very difficult sometimes.
make sure you're at the right level before taking the course
This class is an excellent tool for improving one's Chinese skills, whether in writing, reading, listening, or speaking. It will take a significant time-investment, particularly for the essays, but will be well worth the effort one puts in.
Be prepared for a lot of work: there are tingxie's every other day, as well as exams every two/three weeks.
This is an excellent class to take if interested in furthering Chinese language skills and learning about present-day issues in Chinese society.
This course requires a lot of time and work, but is worth the effort.
Only take this class if you are willing to work hard and really want to learn Chinese.  You learn a LOT, the instructors are wonderful, but it is not easy at all.
My Chinese improved a lot in a short span of time.
If you have a native understanding of the language, then most of the material is supplementary. If you do not have such a native understanding, then be prepared to spend some time catching up to many students.
You need to be willing to work.
- this class was very interesting and very rewarding; but it is a considerable time commitment and quite fast-paced.
that you should be prepared to do work, but it's all reasonable requirements, except for perhaps the essay due during reading period.
Be prepared to work hard.
Have to really want the citation because the class is a ton of work.
some people enjoy it a great deal, and you certainly learn a lot... but it's a huge commitment
This is like Chinese school, only extended, more drillers, and most definitely harder. Don't take if you're not serious about Chinese!
take this class! The professor is great and you will definitely enjoy this class
Excellent course, very well taught. You will be surprised how much much reading, writing, and speaking ability improves after one semester.
Work hard. This class is completely fun and amazing and you will definitely be able to get a lot out of it.
This class is perfectly tailored for Chinese students who are strong at speaking Chinese but may need some help with their reading and writing. I feel like one semester of Chinese130xa is comparable to eight years of previous Chinese schooling. I literally came into the course not knowing how to write a single complete sentence. I thought that the course was going to be out of my league, but the teachers were great in providing time and resources to help any student succeed. Overall, I had a great time in the course while learning a great deal of Chinese and I would highly recommend this course for anyone interested in furthering their study of Chinese.
Although the work load is significant (an essay and test every other week), the class is immensely enjoyable and certainly worth taking! The teachers are extremely friendly and you and your classmates will become close friends. The course really is better described as an experience, not a class.
Be prepared to practice the vocabulary frequently. In order to keep up and follow along from lecture to drill to lecture, you need to have done the required reading and practice at home first.
Don't worry if the class takes up a lot of time during the first few weeks. It gets a lot easier as you become familiar with more characters.
This course requires a heavy workload.
You should be prepared to work hard and have grown up in a Chinese family.
The course if fun and interesting, especially if you have an interest in learning Chinese.  I originally didn't think I wanted to take the course, but Chinese will be very important in the future, and given my background, it was a good fit.
The teachers are extremely fun and engaging. It is a nice break from having a large lecture class. Students become really close-knit and the classroom atmosphere is very inviting.
This is a tough class but if you were like me and you aren't fluent in speaking, don't be intimidated that other people are. They have weaknesses too (probably don't know enough characters in terms of writing). Either way, work hard and you will be able to keep up. There are two dictations a week and a lot of character memorizing. It takes a couple of weeks to adjust to the pace but once you settle down it is a LOT of fun.
Great class! If you are a heritage speaker, you MUST take this class! Don't be intimidated by the syllabus or by past chinese classes. The teachers of 130xa make the class very manageable while still learning a lot at the same time. Also sections with Yeh lao shi are the best and often leads to talking about fun topics like what are modern "hip" words
If you are looking to improve your Chinese as a heritage speaker (or non-heritage speaker), this is definitely the class to take! Liu Laoshi, Pan Laoshi, and Ye Laoshi are all fantastic professors and wonderful people. Their enthusiasm will make you love Chinese. Coming into the class, I was hesitant because I hadn't really spoken/written/read Chinese in years and was afraid that learning Chinese would become a chore again, with all of the work and assignments this class seemed to require. But you quickly get used to the pace of the course and the weekly assignments become natural to you, and all of the assignments are actually useful in reinforcing your grasp of the material. If you're rusty, 130xa will quickly brush up your reading/speaking/writing skills again, and you'll feel much more comfortable with the language!
Try to speak as much as you can in class, even if you feel that others are better at speaking than you are, because this is the main way you will have to improve your spoken Chinese.
This was a fantastic class. It was engaging and fun, and my Chinese improved a lot as a result of just one semester. I highly recommend this course to anyone considering taking it.
So, I actually took this class after starting last year with Ba and taking 120 at HBA. Needless to say, I am not a heritage speaker. This class was very, very tough, especially as I switched in 3 weeks late, but doable for my skill level. Liu, Pan and Ye laoshi's are all super sweet and were more than wiling to help me when I (frequently) struggled. The structure of the class is fantastic, and the mini projects and timed advertisements felt more applicable to the real world than my previous Chinese classes.  I've had a great time and I know my Chinese has improved-- what more can you ask for?
This was a good chinese class that didnt require homework everyday. Having said though, there always seemed to be an essay due and we often did writing tasks in lecture class. There were high levels of speaking and discussion and worked towards a more formal speaking and writing language. I enjoyed this class although the work could be frustrating at times, but was not difficult to do well. Teachers were supportive and fun.
Teacher is extremely nice, work is very manageable.
If you're not 100% sure that you want to continue with Chinese or pursue a Chinese, don't take 130xa. You won't make as much progress as you did in the first two years (or two semesters) of your Chinese studies, simply because you've already reached a competent level of speaking and writing. You learn more written Chinese grammar and vocabulary, but if you want to study Chinese to talk to your relatives or to do business, this course isn't really what you're looking for.
Liu laoshi da best!
