This is the only class you can take at Harvard to learn classical Chinese, so if this is a skill you want, then you should take the class. Lecture was sometimes unclear; certain vocabulary or grammar points were not always well explained in lecture. The instructor obviously knew the material well, but she would sometimes explain too quickly / get impatient with the student, and show her annoyance, which made the class uncomfortable. Section was often boring.
It's kind of challenging but also really rewarding and really useful if you're going to study pre-modern Chinese texts or have to read a substantial amount of Chinese literature.
The text material is really interesting, it's painless, and Mrs. Allen is awesome!
The course's nit-picking approach to learning Classical Chinese might seem annoying, but it is the only way to really learn how to precisely translate the language into English.
Very interesting and low-pressure. Great opportunity to participate and interact with faculty.
This course was a good introduction to literary Chinese.  If you have extensive background in modern Chinese, you might find that it moves a bit slowly and is not too difficult.  But the class is very thorough and helpful.
I think anyone interested in reading Chinese academic articles, fiction, poetry etc. would benefit from this class. It is also a good way to familiarize oneself with traditional characters if one is more used simplified.
This is a great class, where the workload is manageable but students learn a great deal. The emphasis is on learning the language and the texts, and not on inundating the students with tedious work.
Who wouldn't want to read about Zhuangzi debating the merits of life and death with a skull?
Be prepared to learn a large volume of characters and to be ready to use a dictionary for looking up new characters and compounds outside of class and homework.  As such, much of the class involves a great degree of memorization and identification and terms, and that's pretty much it.
This class lets you learn literary Chinese from its best sources, but it can get tedious and tiresome very fast.
It's very interesting, good teachers, you will enjoy the readings - but it's a time-drain because of the extra section hour.
This course is necessary, although if possible it may be better to test into 2nd year; 1st year is rather easy and a little slow for those who have some background already in classical Chinese.
Chen Zhang is a wonderful teacher.
This is the course to take to learn Classical Chinese.
It is very useful for anyone who wishes to work with classical chinese texts.
This class is very useful, but painfully boring. The readings themselves are interesting and useful if you are studying pre-modern China, but sometimes you end up hating them because you will suffer through the tedious process of translating them character by character in class, where many students come unprepared and stutter through simple sentences. The class will improve your reading skills in literary chinese, if you can stand the slow pace and stay awake in class.
This course is great! It expands your understanding not only of a different language but of a different universe of culture and thought!
no comment
An excellent class to explore classical Chinese through the reading of texts directly in a supportive environment.
This class, as a continuation of 106a, offers an excellent way to get acquainted with the nuts and bolts of East Asia's lingua franca.
Way more fun than you're imagining it will be.
Chen Zhang is a great teacher, and this class is an effective and fun way to learn literary Chinese.
One of most fun classes you can take in the EALC & language courses
It is a great introduction to both classical Chinese language as well and philosophy. You get to read things everyone should have read without it being a chore.
Wonderful continuation of 106a. The readings of authors such as Zhuangzi can be difficult to read, but they make you utilize your knowledge of the grammar (as the content alone doesn't always make a lot of sense).
This is a fabulous continuation of 106a, focused almost entirely on classical Chinese philosophy (as opposed to literature).  If you have any interest in East Asian thought, you'll love it!  Despite the inherent difficulty of the readings, the course is very manageable and Prof. Zhang keeps it lively and interesting.  Despite having avoided classical Chinese for many years, to my surprise I found that I thoroughly enjoy it, and I highly recommend this course as a complement to courses in modern Chinese.
Great course, great professor!
It's a great class - Chen is great and you'll learn tons about Ancient Chinese history and culture on the side.
It's more of a guided tutorial than a class, which will be appreciated by people with self-directed learning styles (me, for example), but may be found difficult by those who want more of a structured environment. But do you want to learn Classical Chinese? Ok, this will teach you. You will read Mengzi and Zhuangzi. It is very nice.
Chen is a joy.  You will probably feel like you are drowning in characters and half of what you are reading will seem like gibberish at first, but eventually you will be able to sight read Chinese philosophy!  Don't be intimidated if you can't understand the readings when you prepare them in advance--no one else can understand what's going on either.
Be prepared for a heavy workload.
This class can be difficult at time, but as long as you're having fun you'll still be motivated to work. Don't worry about asking stupid questions or things you just really want to know, sometimes those lead to the best and most insightful conversations.
Don't be scared of the subject matter- Professor Zhang is very good at coaching students through difficult texts.
