Only appropriate for those that want to learn everything about Chinese. If your goal is to learn purely practical language, this course may not be the best choice.
It's not an easy course, but you'll definitely come away having learned a lot.
If you want to do research or work in Chinese, this class is very beneficial. If you just want to improve your speaking, it may not be worth it.
I would recommend this course to students seriously interested in advanced research in Chinese, not as a logical progression in the Chinese 120-130-140 sequence.
This class will be THE MOST WORK EVER, but you will come out the other end with vastly improved written Chinese.
I want to marry Luo Laoshi! Or, at least, I would if I were a cute Chinese girl attending college somewhere in Tianjin.
This is Chinese boot camp, beware!  Take a look at example sentences in the textbook before embarking, if it seems like a whole new language, be prepared to work hard. I have never studied as much for one class in my life as I have for this one. What an exhausting but exhilarating experience. My Chinese has improved tremendously, I finally reached a new level.
Be prepared to learn a lot in a short time.
a tough rigorous course that demands much attention though topics can get boring after awhile
It's a lot of work, but is quite rewarding
If you are truly looking to improve your formal writing in Chinese, this is the class to take. At the end of a semester, you will write respectable formal essays in 1/4 the time they took at the beginning of the class. However, if you are looking for "advanced Chinese" generally, especially conversational practice and reading comprehension, these skills will be better developed in literature classes or in the advanced speaking practice class.
There is a lot of work, but, if you want to learn Chinese and you are at the right level, you will learn a lot of Chinese.
This course is incredibly useful if your area of study is Chinese literature or history AND if you plan to read scholarly articles/write academically in Chinese. I would not recommend it for students who simply want to keep up their Chinese language skills after 4th year.
The course is taught very well, but the subject matter is only relevant if you want to do extensive Chinese research; the conversational component of this course is present, but not the emphasis
You better be a grade-A FOB to get through this class.
The work necessary for this course should give students pause when considering this course. If you are taking this course with other time-intensive courses, you should seriously consider the time burden and your ability to handle all the work.
lots of work
It is really useful for introducing more sophistication into your writing and gives you so much writing practice that your essay quality will undoubtedly increase. Lots of chengyu emphasis, which is great (and what makes Chinese beautiful)!
Nothing taught in this course is applicable to real life. After taking this course, I do not believe my Chinese has improved by any significant amount.
Tian Laoshi is awesome, and the class lectures are, in general, very interesting. However, I don't think that I would take it again if given the choice, if run this way. Because of the lack of review and lack of testing, you end up learning a lot of material without actually understanding what you're learning, or going back to review that material.
This class is structured a lot differently than 140. The teacher moves really quickly. Also, for students learning traditional, the passages are (for the most part) all simplified. The class has a strong Communist China slant as well.
Chinese is great and rewarding and extremely difficult!
If you are interested in pursuing further research or coursework on sinology at an advanced level, this course will likely be of use to you. The articles we read were by excellent scholars and overall quite interesting. However, if you're just interested in improving your all-around Chinese ability, and don't want to delve into highly academic subject matter (e.g. classical poetry, art, history), you will find many of the assignments tedious, time-consuming, and not useful, and will be disappointed in your lack of progression in speaking ability.
It was good. The teachers were really lax about a lot of things--homework, attendance, exams... They expected quality, of course, but were understanding as long as they knew you had a positive attitude and typically paid attention.In terms of the content, it's a lot of interesting cultural stuff, but the focus on writing and writing strategies was weaker than I had hoped. There is a lot of vocab thrown at you that you typically never see again (but are expected to know at least for the duration of that chapter). While I know that I learned a lot (at least I'm better at writing without pinyin), I still can't figure out what exactly it is that I learned, or what I was expected to learn. I felt like my improvement of Chinese in this course was a lot less than it could have been, despite my having put in a lot of hours going over vocab, writing down notes on usages, and looking through powerpoints outside of class.Ultimatum: It's worth taking if you're not interested in the other high level Chinese classes (e.g. Business Chinese or the other content courses they have now) if and only if you (a) really care about keepin up your Chinese level, or (b) if you need classes for a citation.
This class is an okay option for high-level Chinese study, it isn't the hardest course in the world, but you may not come out having learned as many applicable things to Chinese culture as you might have in other options. This mainly consisted of dictionary-level idioms and vocabulary.
This is definitely the best course in the Chinese track I've taken to date. The readings are interesting, Tian laoshi is cool and awesome, and though you'll probably work harder than 140 you'll feel like you've learned more. If  you don't care about the humanities or learning Chinese beyond fluent spoken proficiency, there's no need to take this though.
It's an interesting, challenging class but it has a LOT of room for improvement.
The teaching materials are fascinating and you learn a lot of great proverbs. Teacher Tian is also great and his lectures are very entertaining. It's worth spending as much time as possible to prepare, because the pace is too fast in class for vocab to stick (unless you put in some hours outside of class).
The teachers are really nice and funny!
A lot of work needs to be put in to get a good grade, but grading of assignments/tests is easy.
This is a great class if you're interested in formal Chinese writing. You will be able to understand a lot more publications and news articles after taking this class. However, your conversation level will stagnate if you don't make sure to speak up in class.
A consistent load of work, but this course is what you need to take your Chinese to the next level.
If you want to push your limits and challenge your mastery of the Chinese language, then this is the course for you.
This class is less "practical" than 4th year.  It will definitely make you better at reading comprehension, but I feel like my speaking abilities (and some of my practical vocabulary) got worse.  Also, vocabulary-wise, it can be discouraging to move from fourth year to fifth year. Finally, check who is teaching it.  Tian laoshi is fantastic.  Tang laoshi was really good, as well.  Li laoshi was not very experienced and made this class frustrating at times for me.
Tian Lao Shi is a great teacher. He makes 150 very fun and understands his students' needs. He may seem a bit distant at first, but he is an awesome person once you get to know him. I would definitely recommend this course.
The class is good, but requires a lot of effort outside of class to incorporate the material into active use.
Does improve your Chinese reading level. The work is tedious and of limited value to your spoken Chinese.
lots of work
150a has a reputation for being crazily difficult and a huge jump from 140 but I don't think that is true. The format of the class is more or less the same and the teachers take you through the texts so you will always receive help. Another misconception is that formal Chinese is not useful, but from news articles, instructions manual for your digital camera, EVERYTHING is in formal Chinese. I think taking this class is crucial if you are serious about learning Chinese.
This class is really well taught and the teachers are really good and funny and well-knowledgeable. It's really useful for learning how to read newspapers and stuff.
Like any other language, practice as much as possible. The TFs will help you with that.
Because 150 approaches Chinese from a very different direction -- shumianyu, single characters, and many more chengyu -- you really will feel the progress in your Chinese literacy from this class.
It is difficult and requires attention, but it is a great course for your Chinese knowledge!
In my experience studying Chinese, it is rare to have the opportunity to focus on studying written Chinese in its various forms. This course provides such a chance.
