This class allowed for students to talk about interesting topics in a relaxed way, though I'm not sure how much my Chinese actually improved. Students who want to maintain their Chinese skills without expecting huge improvements should take this class. Zhang Laoshi was a fine teacher although at times she should have provided us with more instructions as to what she expects from the oral tests.
If you want some practice in speaking Mandarin, go ahead and take the class. The class is really what you make out of it. Very low workload, but you can work as hard as you want in preparing for the class, and you will have enough chance to speak in Chinese in a friendly atmosphere.
This is a great opportunity to practice conversational Chinese with your peers in a relatively low-stress atmosphere. This class requires less work than most of the other Chinese classes as you are graded primarily on your participation in class discussion.
Take it.
This course is not aimed at improving your Chinese quickly, but it gives you an opportunity to strengthen your basis in what you have learnt in the past. It is also a good class to balance out a particularly busy semester.
take it if you want a chill class (esp compared to the regular series eg 130, 140) that only meets twice a week, doesn't really have homework, and if you mainly want to maintain some of your chinese fluency. however, if you really want to improve your chinese, eg improve reading, writing, vocab, etc, you may feel lacking from this course.
If you want to maintain your chinese ability, but don't have the time (or the mental stamina) to take 140 this is an awesome choice. Being one of 5 students means you get tons of time to practice speaking and listening, and you are accountable for following the discussion and participating in it.
The learning environment is relaxed and with a small class, my fluency improved. The topics discussed are also interesting.
This course is actually great for improving your speaking skills (surprise surprise), particularly if you were someone that was always nervous to speak up in previous Chinese classes. It is also nice because you are watching real articles and movies. Also so much less work than any other chinese class ever.
This class is fun and low stress. It's also super useful, because these are the topics that you talk about everyday, and you learn how to speak intelligently about these topics in Chinese. Want to talk about race relations, religion, or politics without being super offensive? Take this class and learn about different cultures, and how to communicate with them in Chinese. Plus, this is the most fun you'll ever have in a class, reward all your hard work in Chinese, take this class.
This course is a great option if you want to keep up your Chinese, but don't have time to devote to one of the other classes. The level of Chinese spoken and taught will depend a lot on the other people who take the class.
Because the class is relaxing, you learn easier. Work is minimal. If anything, it should take about an hour. Despite some people taking advantage of an easy elective, if you participate and try, you can really maintain and improve your Chinese.
This class is really a breeze if you've taken any high-level Chinese course (150, etc.) I spent about 25 minutes on the class a week, total. If you just want to keep up your Chinese skills, then this is a way to do it while basically doing no work, although if one of the "content" courses (such as Chinese in the Humanities, etc.) had been offered this semester I would have taken it because it probably would have been more productive. Liu laoshi has a pretty strong economics/business bent (most of the texts are articles or essays on economic/political issues), which is fine since I feel like my vocabulary is a bit weaker on that side, but if you're more interested in the humanities then that is sometimes a little disappointing.
This class is a great way to keep up your chinese if you don't have enough time in your course load to take a normal chinese class. I thoroughly enjoyed it and it wasn't stressful at all.
This course will not only improve your spoken Chinese, but will also deepen your understanding of social issues, economic and political policies, and Chinese culture. Liu laoshi is a very committed teacher and it was a pleasure to take a class with her. I'll definitely be taking the continuation of the course in the spring.
This is a great class for just keeping up your oral language skills and a really interesting setting to discuss a wide variety of issues and events in modern day China. It was a fun way to use Chinese.
This course is the perfect Chinese course for students who don't want the huge commitment of 5-day a week Chinese, but still want to speak Chinese in a classroom setting. This class will help you fix your conversational mistakes, and give you great practice with conversational topics. Do not take this class if you want to really study Chinese and learn lots of new things.
This class is basically Chinese for lazy people.  It is a lot of fun, you will get to know Tian Laoshi, who is awesome, and you will get to know your classmates, and you will talk/learn about cool Chinese and American current events.  You will likely learn a lot about what is happening in China and perhaps get a new perspective on how young Chinese see the US.  It is a great class for all of this...but...your Chinese will not improve.  Unless you are VERY diligent and study hard on your own on the off-days, your Chinese will remain stagnant and may even decline.  There is simply not enough class time in the week and not enough speaking opportunities when you are in class.  Also, for advanced students, there is the added danger that your Chinese might actually get worse listening to all the other bad accents in the classroom.  Most of the time is spent listening to other students talk, which is fine if you just desperately need practice speaking, but really bad if you want to improve your tones.  Beware!  But that being said, it was a great class and so much fun, and very little pressure.  I enjoyed going every time and even looked forward to it!  Yeah Tian Laoshi!  He is hilarious!
Take this class if you want to practice your speaking. But be aware of the disparity among students' Chinese speaking level. Honestly, those who speak Chinese at home (or have advanced level of Chinese) should not take this class..
A good, easy way to maintain and improve language skills.
This is a great class to help you to "maintain" your Chinese language skill. It is demanding but it's also very enjoyable as assignments are usually very fun to do and the readings are on up to date topics that we can all relate to and could benefit from what we learn immediately.
If you want a low key Chinese course to maintain your conversational ability, this is the course that you want to take. It's not like the other hard-core Chinese classes where you have class/vocab quizzes everyday. Very manageable workload (superb as a fifth course). If there is one drawback, it's that the students come from very different backgrounds. You have students who have just finished Chinese 120,130,140, and 150, so depending on where you stand, you might be frustrated because not everyone is on the same level as you are.
This is only really if you want to maintain Chinese level...
