The course is rigorous but easy to do well in if you put in consistent effort. While some of the sentence structures are highly formal and therefore difficult to apply in everyday conversation, they do contribute to greater fluency and reading comprehension overall.
This course is very structured and organized, and the teaching staff is wonderful!
It's a great class with engaging and enthusiastic teachers.
Like many courses at Harvard, you get what you put into it. I know that if I had devoted more time to this class (beyond just completing assignments and preparing for dictation quizzes), that my Chinese would have improved tremendously. Instead, while my vocabulary and knowledge important Chinese issues grew, I do think that my conversational abilities declined.
This course doesn't require much to get a passing grade since the syllabus and grading scale is spread so participation and homework are a good chunk of your grade, but the more you put into the class, the more you'll get out of it. The texts are interesting and relevant, and if you take the time to practice and incorporate what you learn into your vocabulary, you'll make a lot of progress.
If you've taken other Chinese courses at Harvard, you'll know what to expect.
The Chinese language department at Harvard is phenomenal - from every level. Having taken Chinese Bx, 123xb, then 130xc at HBA, Chinese 140a was a breeze. You are able to maintain learning Chinese and grasp a new level of formal language. However, I made a huge improvement in 130xc at HBA and thus didn't get as much out of the course (but that's also as expected with the decreased time I spent in class and independently on Chinese). But either way, Chinese is amazing at Harvard - the teachers are so friendly, so caring, and so genuinely interested in helping you learn Chinese. The class is highly structured and Chinese is the "chill, fun" class that you have in your day.
Great course. If you've taken other chinese courses at Harvard, you know what to expect. If not, you should take it. Best organized course I've taken. Gao laoshi is the bomb.
Chinese 140a is a very different experience for those who have taken the accelerated heritage courses previously. There is emphasis placed on pronunciation and other fundamentals that may seem boring for those with more background / familiarity, and the material is very much oriented toward formal settings and usages. If you're looking simply to improve your conversational Chinese, and have little or no interest in studying formal Chinese, you may be a bit frustrated with this course. Otherwise, the teaching staff are excellent (as per usual with the Chinese department), and you will certainly learn as much through this course as the time you invest.
140 is definitely a step up in difficulty from 130, especially since you are now in the same class with heritage students, but you definitely learn a lot and the teachers are a great help if you're struggling
This class will make your day. I guarantee.
Set out enough time for this!
If you are serious about continuing your study of Mandarin, I would definitely recommend that you take this course. It mixes together a good balance of new grammar, formal writing structures, and conversational skills, and it's a great step toward fluency after Chinese 130. The teachers (like all the Chinese teachers) are wonderful, and the topics you discuss are interesting and relevant to China and its history and place in the world today.
It's much harder than 130 series! Because there is no 140x, you will be taking the class with other heritage students, who are much fluent than you are.
You won't be disappointed by this class, Gao laoshi does an excellent job teaching it.
This course is a great continuation of third-year Chinese. The course topic is slightly more advanced and specialized bordering on obscure, but what you learn is still very useful. Definitely take this course if you want to continue improving your Chinese.
very difficult course because time consuming and material is challenging.
You don't notice how much your writing is improving, but looking back and comparing my writing now and how I wrote in the beginning of the course, I can see a great and satisfying difference.
i recommend it if you are looking to improve your chinese
Once upon a time, there's a chinese class where people who already know chinese took and thought it would be easy. except not.
it's hard work but I learned a LOT
Wang Laoshi is excellent and funny, the student dynamic is great - just make sure you participate! Don't be afraid to contribute
Students should be aware that fourth year is much more difficult than third year, be prepared to work much harder.
The teacher is wonderful, the way the course is structured really keeps tabs on your improvement and forces you to speak lots of Chinese. It's a wonderful course.
Chinese 140a gives you the opportunity to learn a lot of Chinese and improve your reading tremendously, but only if you give it the time it requires. Otherwise, it's easy to float by, get fine grades, and feel a little bit frustrated with yourself and the course. So you should decide if you want to commit enough time to the course to make it worth the effort.
just be ready to WORK HARD. the rumor is that the spring term is much more interesting (reading material-wise).
Lots of work, but useful.
You definitely need to be willing to work hard, especially if you haven't been continuously learning Chinese for several years, but you will learn a lot and establish close relationships with other friends who are similarly struggling with how to write thoughtful, formal essays in Chinese, etc. :)
If you would like to learn how to express yourself critically concerning current events, this is the class for you. The teachers are wonderful, the workload is very difficult if you actually commit yourself to completing it all.
Only take this if you are very interested in the language
It's very time-consuming, but very rewarding.
It's an amazing class! After one semester, I went from illiterate to being able to read some Chinese newspaper articles. I definitely felt like I had a better understanding of Chinese culture, and I was able to have a better relationship with my parents!
Take it only if you have the time to commit to it.
You will learn a lot of Chinese. But, beware, there is a lot of homework.
Intensive reading/writing prep.
It helps raise your level of Chinese reading and writing; there is less of a focus on listening and speaking.
It demands a lot of tedious work. Take it only if you are genuinely interested in Chinese.
It's a lot of work, but you get a lot out of it!
Definitely take this class with Prof Wang! However, make sure you are fairly proficient in Chinese, and it is a LOT of consistent work.
This course is a great stepping stone onto higher level learning in Chinese. Not only does it introduce usages of formal languages, but it also discusses many central cultural, social, and politically issues surrounding China today. Tons of fun and great section leaders! The time you spend depends on your level of Chinese.
This course is as well taught and conducted as every Chinese course I've taken at Harvard. Yan Laoshi and the other teachers are helpful and generous with their time. The one but to consider is that this is a course emphasizing formal Chinese. I learned a lot, but my speaking and especially casual speaking skills did not witness much improvement; as a non-native speaker, I was hoping to improve on that front, too.
 
You should take this course if you are seeking to improve Chinese in formal setting.
Take this class if you're really serious about continuing with Chinese.
You will work hard, learn a lot, and get a good grade. Chinese at Harvard is a culture.
This is a great class! Definitely one of the must-takes at Harvard.
This is a great course! The textbook has topics that are very interesting, and all the teachers do a great job of engaging the students (in the language, in the discussions, even in the grammar!)
The Chinese language department is wonderful, this class is good but slightly disappointing after Chinese bx/123xb/130xab.  After the x-level courses, this class seems slightly impersonal.  The topics are also boring, a large chunk of the course is about history.
The teachers are amazing. They take lots of time to give you useful feedback on everything you turn in. They will do what it takes to help you improve.
Similar to other Chinese classes. Work hard and you can do well. Lots of memorizing new phrases/characters.
It's fun. Enjoy it, and it's really to your benefit to learn all the vocabulary and sentence structures. They are so useful in daily life.
it's pretty formal Chinese. not the most practical thing but it's a sweet class.
This course is different from the 130 series. Coming from the 130x track, the class is comparatively bigger and not as intimate. That being said, if you're looking to work hard to learn and be comfortable with formal Chinese, this is a great class.
Take this class if you like learning Chinese and want to keep on developing your Chinese. The teachers are super nice and you actually get to start reading texts written for Chinese people so the readings are a lot more interesting than the ones in previous Chinese classes.
If you've been taking Chinese at Harvard, it's exactly what you expect. Although expect the ration of native speakers to non to go up (a few who should be in higher levels but are taking the course for an easy A), and a few really great freshman. You watch more movies, and all of the text in the book are from actual academic essays which is kind of cool. There are a ton of words in each paper that are not included in the vocab (though you won't be required to memorize them), which can make it more difficult to get through each reading.
If you are deciding between taking 140 and taking 130 as a freshman, I think you can hump in if you feel you are almost at that level. The risk is well worth the reward
140 is a big jump in difficulty from 130 for several reasons - they mix the normal and the heritage track so you find yourself with some fluent Mandarin speakers, you have 3 dictations a week instead of 2, and the material in general is much more challenging. Nevertheless, the teaching staff is great as always and it's the best course to take after 130 if you want to continue improving your Chinese!
Intense Chinese course with much culture involved
While the class is the logical next step after the 130 level, there is a huge jump in difficulty.  This is due to several things: the X track (heritage track) is merged with everyone else, the class size is huge, and there are 3 lectures rather than 3 sections.  I think it is too early for the X track to be merged with the regular track, as heritage students and non-native speakers have different needs.  Furthermore, these different needs can't effectively be addressed in a class with over 30 people.  I felt as though I were taking Chinese in an overcrowded inner-city public school based on how crowded the room was.
It's harder than third year Chinese. Yan Laoshi is a bit sassy but we love her for it.
Take this class! Try it out and if you can handle it, take it! The teachers are incredible at making the Chinese apply to everyday life. The lessons aren't too difficult but they're all packed full of vocab and sentence structures. It's the type of class where you need to work on it a little every day but it's ultimately not too stressful. And you'll improve your speaking and vocab.
Work-intensive, very demanding, but highly rewarding!
I love Chinese class at Harvard, and Chinese 140 is an awesome class. That being said, it is significantly more difficult that Harvard's Chinese 130, and not just because the Chinese level is higher. I started studying Chinese at Harvard in Chinese Ba (I am not a native speaker), and I found this class markedly more difficult than other Chinese courses. I am SO glad that I took the class because I know that it is really improving my Chinese ability and is preparing me to someday reach full language proficiency. But I would say that if you aren't serious about Chinese or you don't care about not using it during the school year (which you should!), then shop this class and test it out critically before you commit to enrolling. Also know, however, that if you can put in the time and go and talk to the instructors, you will have the BEST support. The instructors are so phenomenal.
4th year is definitely harder than previous years, but, as always, you have an incredible staff supporting you.
This class is a lot of fun and a perfect continuation from Chinese 130a at Harvard Summer School. A must-take if you want to perfect your Chinese.
Take it! Chinese 140 is very organized and well taught.... some of the readings are very interesting as we now have the language ability to discuss more complicated topics.
chinese140a is really fast-paced and a bit tougher than all previous chinese classes, but is absolutely worth it if you put in the time
Chinese is the best language offered at Harvard. The teachers only want to help you -- they do everything for you, and it's quite apparent. The only issue I had with 140a was that it was a HUGE step up from 130b. They combine the heritage students with the regular class, and all of a sudden you are expected to understand words you have never been taught before. I was very lost through a lot of this course, and struggled more than I had in past Chinese courses, but throughout all of it the teachers were there to help.
It is a very difficult course that will require a lot of your time every week just to keep afloat. You will have 2 quizzes and a test or essay every week, plus a homework assignment, which means you'll have to be prepared for the class 4/5 days of the week. Additionally, you may not get the same level of speaking opportunities that you may be accustomed to in previous language classes (especially if you were in the heritage speaking track), as enrollment in this course was ~60 people this year.
There is a lot of formal language--that's the point. But, if you don't think that you'll necessarily need to write/speak formally, this might not be the class for you.
The Chinese department here is really enthusiastic and will help you learn everything that is assigned. The material in the course is noticeably more formal, though, and less useful in conversational situations. Lots of chengyu and your essay writing skills will improve a lot.
"Fourth Year" level Chinese is a tricky place to be in, because I think, in some cases (probably my case), you'd be better served to just live over there for a year. But if you can't, you have to find a way to keep your language level up somehow. Lei Yan and the other instructors are skilled, careful teachers, but the class has other problems that I think limit how effective it is at improving your Chinese.
This course made me a lot better/faster at reading. Harder than 130 because there is more emphasis on formal diction, but if you took 130a, there isn't anything you are unprepared for. I'm just such a big fan of this Chinese program. In 140, you get the same great teachers and the same great classroom environment!
Taking Chinese 140a was a good way to maintain my skills in Chinese, although I wouldn't say it helped me improve that much. We spent a lot of time learning questionably useful idioms, but at least having the opportunity to read, speak, and hear Chinese every day guaranteed that my Chinese didn't get worse. As always, the teachers are amazing and put a lot of time, thought, and effort into the course. I wish the teachers would be more harsh in correcting the students who, after 3 years of Chinese, still can't get basic tones and grammar right, as their failure to do so hinders the learning of other students in the class
Here's the deal. A lot of people may be wondering whether or not they should take this class to either a. Get that citation they've already taken 4 classes for (Bx, 123xb, 130xa/b) or b. to continue improving their chinese. For those people considering a, I will say that as a junior or a senior in this class, you will honestly hate waking up friday mornings to finish your essay/study and then rush off to class at 2pm. There is either a test or an essay every week. This class is a commitment. The good thing is that your "kou yin" is relatively better because you mingle with the 130b kids. You also no longer have mandatory individual sessions. It's a decision between - do i want to go out thursday nights/enjoy my other classes vs. do i want to continue learning chinese and get a citation. For those people considering b, I would say that, if you already have your citation, and if you genuinely want to be better at chinese, then just suck it up and take the course. This course will improve your chinese abilities and give you a more "formal vocabulary", which is pretty dope, but in terms of everyday speech that you use in China, 130b is good enough. Maybe 142 is a better option for you (conversational Chinese). --someone who took 130xb
Take this course!!!
This class is good, but there exists a dichotomy between the native speakers and the kids who are taking it starting in college, so that's new.  I felt that at this point, you're better off going to China to really improve.  I'm not really going to remember all the formal language and stuff that I learned in the class.  My speaking actually regressed since coming back from HBA this summer.
The teaching staff is so nice!! You'd be surprised how funny the course can be and how fun it is to learn Chinese.
It's fun. You read A LOT.
Fantastic instructors. First modern Chinese class I've taken that was equally educational and fun. The workload is a daily commitment but light. It was very mentally grounding to have this in my schedule.
This class is not quite as fun or as interesting as 130 series. The teaching staff is still great, and you won't see anything new in terms of structure of the course or assignments, but the curriculum is boring, and heavily biased toward being reading intensive. Prepare to be frustrated if you aren't a great reader.
If you're reading this, you're good at Chinese. But you want to be better yet, so you should definitely take this course. It's useful and fun and the teachers are wonderful.
If you're planning on taking this course, you probably more or less know what it is, and I'm here to tell you that you won't be surprised.
If you want to improve your reading and writing skills, this class is a relatively pain free way to do it. There is a good deal more work than previous levels and the content is harder, but the teaching staff is great and you will come away from this class with a new comfortability with reading formal articles  and writing short essays.
Not too much work with interesting and very relevant class discussions. Focuses a lot on formal writing and reading, maybe at the expense of speaking.
It is a lot of work. Think before you choose this course. It is the best course for increasing your Chinese after 130. However, I would recommend just studying harder in 130, unless you plan on living and working in China. You don't learn phrases you will be using daily.
Chinese 140a is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. The teaching staff is always very enthusiastic and fun to work with.
Excellent class, though people who have taken the 130x series might find this class easier than 130xb. Would suggest business chinese or another chinese class for heritage learners.
Be ready, work hard, and don't sluff off on vocab.
I really enjoyed the class, and I would definitely recommend it for anyone thinking about it. Classwork is slightly less than 130x, and you learn a lot of useful vocab/grammar.
great class! wang laoshi is zui hao de laoshi!
I love Chinese 140a! Like all the Chinese classes at Harvard, Chinese is challenging and time consuming, but really fun and rewarding. It is the class I look forward to most!
The course was taught at an easier level than the 130x series, but the class is so big that it made getting through the lecture component painful
If you've gotten to 140, you probably know that it's Chinese class - expect to work.  There are a lot of weekly assignments - a test pretty much every other Friday, and an oral exam on almost all of the remaining Fridays. A lot more essay writing than I've done in past Chinese classes.  That being said, it's really not a bad amount of work.  The Chinese department and teachers are awesome.  The grading is more than fair.  It did not feel like a particularly hard class.
This class is another fantastic continuation of Harvard's Chinese language courses. The staff is absolutely wonderful (although we've been informed that Wang laoshi and the sections leaders will probably not be returning next semester for 130b), the materials are great as always and section and lecture teach you so much about formal Chinese grammar and reading. Compared to the other Chinese courses at Harvard, 140a puts less emphasis on speaking practice and more emphasis on reading difficult formal texts that provide much more specialized vocabulary and topics than the previous courses. If you want to continue taking Chinese at Harvard after 130b, then definitely take this course!
At the beginning of the semester I was a bit hesistant about this the course (class every day in Vanserg is kind of rough) but I enjoyed every moment of it--it's a commitment worth making. Wonderful course overall: the teachers are really engaging and care about the students, the atmosphere in the class is relaxed and casual, and everyone else in the class was awesome too. It's kind of rough to have tingxies 3 times a week, but you get used to it.
great class if you're interested in bringing your chinese to a formal level. Moves quickly but lots of support and interaction in the course.
Great pace and a lot of different material covered. The instructors are fantastic
It really is a great class in terms of building Chinese skills. The teacher staff is amazing, and are always super helpful. Of course there is quite a bit of work involved, but that's to be expected in a foreign language course.
What's there to say about 140a except that it's as excellent as the other Chinese courses?
This is a very effective and well-run class, but just know what you are getting yourself into. In large part, you are going to be studying more academic, formal, newspaper kind of language, and as a result your speaking ability will increase only marginally. That being said, I am now much more comfortable reading newspapers, and if you've taken Chinese at Harvard you should know how to handle the workload alright.
You'll put in a lot of work but you will also get back a lot. The teachers are also wonderful.
it's tiring to have class every day and you feel like you whip through chapters without really internalizing the material. you get a good overview of formal sentence patterns and vocabulary, but you don't develop a solid ability to use them on the fly.
This class has done wonders for my Chinese. As an ABC, I had taken Chinese lessons since I was in elementary school and even spent time learning the language in China, but I have improved more quickly and dramatically in this one semester than I had in two or three years' worth of high school Mandarin. As with most language classes, expect to work hard and consistently -- it's best to spend time previewing each lesson so that you'll have the new vocabulary memorized in time for lectures. The workload is significantly heavier in the first half of the term than in the second, so it pays off to keep on top of essays, oral presentations, etc. right from the beginning. Professors Wang and Zhao are always there to help.
Chinese 140 is a very difficult, but also very rewarding class that demands a lot of work.
This class requires ALOT of work. Be prepared to put in time memorizing alot of characters, chengyus, and other random expressions you might not ever need to know in Chinese. It might be tougher if you're not a native speaker as well. You do learn a good amount of formal structure in the language; however, this is not the most necessary when dealing with everyday Chinese. There are ALOT of assignments so be aware of that as well. The class isn't for those who are looking for an easy language class. Having tests/essays almost every other week gets a bit annoying after a while as well. If you're looking for a class to challenge you, this is definitely one to take. Otherwise, I'd look elsewhere for another class.
If you've taken 3 years of Chinese at Harvard, 140 is definitely worth continuing.
For a non-native speaker it is not easy with a class half-full of individuals who grew up with a language background. But worth the challenge if you put in the time.
I came into this course fearing that my writing abilities would not meet the standard--indeed, on the placement exam I failed to come up with quite a few characters and had to substitute the pinyin--but in the end it was very manageable. In addition, the course material isn't too difficult, and both Wang laoshi and Zhao laoshi are happy to go over points of confusion. Overall, I felt my Chinese abilities increasing rapidly, after a summer of neglect, and I've found a new enthusiasm for learning the language, hoping to participate in the HBA program during this summer.
The instructors are very enthusiastic about teaching Chinese and make learning Chinese a fun and integrated experience. The grammar and vocabulary emphasized are relevant in modern Chinese.
It's a fun class, not so stressful, and you learn a lot of Chinese!
This class requires a lot of busywork, but that's the nature of language study. Put in the hours and you will get returns, especially in the quality of your written Chinese.
Keep up with the vocabulary and tingxie and you will get a lot from this class! It's also a great place to meet amazing people and make good friends! Definitely seems like a chill class during class but before and after class, you need to practice writing and speaking yourself. A lot of the preparation can make a difference in the long run.
If you want to improve your Chinese and practice it everyday, enroll in this class! The teachers are both sweethearts, but if you have trouble communicating in Chinese you may want to consider a lower level.
Very rewarding class
Great class, degree of difficulty seems slightly lower than 130x series
Chinese is great at Harvard. This class is good practice, mostly for reading Chinese, but you also get decent speaking practice. Not any different from other Chinese classes at Harvard.
Fun class, as you're finally reading a lot of "real" Chinese and have a large enough vocabulary to discuss pretty much anything under the sun. The busy-work component is way down compared to 130x, which overall makes the class less time-consuming, but the essays and tests are more frequent so you should be resigned to always having something due on your Fridays.
This class will increase your knowledge of Chinese so quickly that you'll be blown away. Grades are not hard to get if you actually do your work, and the class itself is engaging and fun. The students in it are awesome, and you'll actually get to have meaningful interaction with peers (which is hard to come by, sometimes). You should not be deliberating--if you like Chinese/want to improve your Chinese, take the class!
Such a great class. Your Chinese will improve dramatically if you put the work in.
Great class for native speakers to take, you will be amazed at the learning curve. In one semester I went from functionally illiterate (could not pick up a newspaper and get anything out of it) to truly proficient (can now pick up said newspaper and understand all the main points).
This class is at once academic while providing lots of real-life reading and writing skills.
It is a certain step up from Chinese 130b, but it bridges the expansive gap between a proficient Chinese speaker and a proficient Chinese reader/writer.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time looking up unknown words, and navigating the dynamic of having heritage students and non-heritage students in class together (heritage students at an obvious advantage).  I strongly recommend that this class be taken in tandem with literary Chinese, as several new grammar points, and the overall style of formal modern Mandarin, has its roots in classical Chinese.
harvard chinese classes are excellent in comparison with chinese teaching elsewhere.
This is an amazing class that will really strengthen your Chinese. you get out what you put in, so do your work, and you will not only improve your Chinese, but you will get an A. It's extremely rewarding.
For students that speak Mandarin at home, this course will probably not be too difficult. However, it is rather fast-paced and requires a lot of writing. For students that don't speak Mandarin at home, the essays, homework worksheets, and debate preparation will take considerable amounts of time. That being said, the professors are WONDERFUL, and some really lively discussions happen in section! TAKE THE CLASS! :)
If you can't be at HBA, CET-Beijing, IUP, ICLP, or possibly Middlebury doing intensive immersion classes, Harvard's program is probably among the best, so appreciate it. 5 day per week of classes, an attempt to integrate speaking, writing, listening, and reading, etc. The text books aren't bad either. I've done two of the intensive immersion programs above, to put this opinion in perspective. Given the constraints inherent to teaching languages in a non-immersion environment, this course is pretty good.
Be prepared to work hard, but the result is definitely rewarding.
I had to work very hard in this class, but the results are worth it-- I'm getting closer to being able to speak Chinese fluently, something I thought that I'd never be able to do!
Be prepared to write essays and know the material relatively well for the daily quizzes.
This course definitely improved my reading comprehension. My vocab library has expanded tremendously, as well as my reading speed. That said, one flaw of this class for heritage students is that it won't improve your speaking abilities very much because non-heritage students don't speak very quickly or w/ the best pronunciation, so you aren't surrounded by an ideal immersion situation. but this is probably an unavoidable situation.
It's a class that you really need to put steady work into everyday
This course is a solid semester of fourth-level Chinese. The teacher facilitates interesting discussions that can diverge from the text and also draws from different media, such as movie dialogue, to familiarize you with the new vocab and phrases.
Like most courses, how much one gets out of the class depends a lot on how much effort one puts in. This is especially true for this class, however, because it is extremely easy to coast through the class if one wants, without getting too much out of it.
The course material is not as relevant to conversational Chinese though.
I could recommend this course, but I would warn future students that it is a major time commitment and they have to have clear goals for learning Chinese (ie how it will improve your future career, etc.) to justify making the time commitment.
be prepared for a bombardment of homework, all of the time.
It's a lot of work, much more so than 130. But Wang laoshi is great and very good with lectures. You can't skip lectures anymore because otherwise, you might not understand the material completely, especially if you're not a native.
140 is a clear step forward from 130, with much more emphasis on formal speech and writing.  Be prepared to spend more time studying structures in addition to vocabulary.
It's a lot of work, but if you are serious about getting your Chinese to the highest possible level this course is a must. If you just want to be conversational, you can stop with 3rd year.
The workload is demanding.  The class is very worth the effort if you have enough time for it.  Material seems to go by extremely quickly in the first several weeks of the class but if you put in the work you can get used to the pace.
This class was very fun and rewarding, but it requires much time.
Wang Laoshi is an amazing teacher. The course really helps you to get much better at Chinese. However sometimes the course does throw a lot of material at you.
This course will take a up lot of your time, but the assignments and tests are consistent, so you will know what is expected of you from the beginning. The instructors are great and your Chinese will most likely improve.
It's a great way to continue learning Mandarin.
Formal Chinese is important.
This course is amazing!! The work is tough enough to help and make an impact, but not difficult to the extent that it overwhelms you every week, and certainly not every night, with work. The professors are also amazing and very insightful, patient and fun to be around. They make every class worth attending. Even if you may, for whatever reason, not excel in the class, you won't regret taking it. :)
Your Chinese will improve.  The teaching style is great -- never disparaging but always challenging.
The is the class to take if you want to improve your Chinese.
It's a lot of work, but the class is very fair and certainly will improve your chinese.
Study the texts closely; they are the best way to prepare for exams and improve reading and writing ability.
It is what it is.  If you want 4th year chinese, take it.
It's tough.
After the first few weeks, the course becomes extremely manageable
This course isn't as hard as you maybe think it is because there isn't as much hard memorization involved--you can memorize words just by breaking each character apart.
This class is a great time and as long as one is willing to put in some time every week, it's a wonderful experience.
This is an awesome class.
our instructors are so nice and they really help us
Amazing teachers, amazing class, but lacking in material.
Like most language classes, Chinese 140a provides predictability and structure, which can be a good change from other courses.
Wang Laoshi is wonderful! If you really want to learn Chinese, three years isn't even close to enough, so you best take this class.
Great class. must take it.
Don't believe the rumors that things get much harder after 130b - 140a is structured much the same as previous levels and goes at a similar pace.
If you intend to learn more about writing formally, this class will definitely help you. In terms of improving speaking and listening ability, it adds only slightly to this ability.
hard, fast-paced, but if you want to learn chinese..
It's difficult, but well worth the effort.
It is significantly more difficult than third year.  And the class dynamic becomes much more centered around the 80% of the class who are chinese and have some background, so that's different.
As a senior, this was one of the most rewarding classes I've taken so far. I highly recommend it!
This class is much easier than 130xa and a lot of fun. What you take away from this class depends on how much effort you choose to put into the assignments.
The class is rigorous but not overmuch, although meeting every day is a significant downside.  The teaching staff is excellent and the materials are engaging.
Amazing course!  Teachers are funny and pay a lot of attention to each individual student.
You will work very, very hard. However, the Prof and the TAs really care about the students and want you to do well. They are always available, and they really go out of their way to make class interesting and fun.
make sure you are comfortable learning new grammar constructions
Chinese 140a is a continuation of Chinese 130 but is more difficult because it deals with the formal tense.
This class is great because the teachers make it great.
Just make sure you're willing to put in the commitment. I basically only did chinese homework during the week since it was every day and caught up on other homework on weekends.
Take this course only if you are very self-motivated and set on learning Chinese.
My response to this item is conditional - I would "recommend with enthusiasm" to students who wish to improve their formal writing and reading abilities, which is the purpose of the class. However, I felt that I spent so much energy keeping up with the course material that my communicative ability did not improve, and thus if your goal is to communicate i would "recommend with reservations".
The teachers are very kind, knowledgeable, skilled at teaching, and fun to work with!  The texts are sometimes quite boring.  But the classes are still fun because the teachers have good senses of humor, and discussions are fun.  You will learn a lot!
The course is challenging but fun. All those daily assignments, essay writing, and tests all pay off in the end. By the end of the semester you feel like you have truly improved and learned a lot.
Wang Laoshi is amazing!
A must-take course for serious students studying Chinese.
This will definitely take your Chinese to the next level, but as usual, you need to go to class and section and put in quite a bit of work.
It's a lot easier than 130a
The teachers are great!
The teachers are awesome! They really care about you and they love to talk to you about anything.
Very good for Chinese speaking; this is the first time I have really felt my speaking, reading and writing skills improve in a Chinese course.
This class focuses on teaching you lots of vocabulary and grammatical structures in a very short amount of time. You'll blow through longish essays and passages each week, focusing on the vocab that the teachers emphasize. The teachers will skip over certain vocab words in the list or even unfamiliar non-vocab words in the text, so watch out for that. The teachers also try to teach you speed-reading in Chinese by making you scan a passage one paragraph at a time and then going through sentence by sentence. I feel like my oral fluency and comfort in conversational situations decreased, while my ability to read advanced passages increased and my ability to write at an advanced level remained about the same, as I noticed myself and my peers falling back on familiar, non-advanced vocab.
This class is not as good as its predecessors.  It is way less fun than Bx, 123xb, HBA.  Although the topics you discuss should be interesting, and you are really just learning more formal ways to say things that you mostly know how to say, this class was pretty painful.  The material (vocab, grammar, chengyu) is difficult to retain and seems pretty irrelevant.  I didn't see much improvement in my Chinese.
Study the review sheets and the grammar notes.
I really loved this class and it was the perfect continuation of Chinese 130. The grammar concepts can be difficult but the teachers in this class are extremely dedicated and make sure you understand the material well by the end of each lesson. Assignments were similar to those in 130 if not a bit more demanding. Gao Laoshi, as always, was incredibly enthusiastic and a fantastic teacher overall. Zhang Laoshi and Zhu Laoshi were also very helpful in section and provided thorough feedback on assignments. Take this class!
If you've come this far in Chinese, you will not be disappointed by Chinese 140! The teachers are fantastic, as per usual in the Chinese department, and the class covers interesting and nuanced topics like  and 
Just make sure that you check the upcoming weekly schedule IN ADVANCE on Sundays. If you do so, and you start looking at the texts and new words early, it will make you learn the material better and spend less time overall.
This class is awesome! I love the Chinese language department, and the teachers were great and helpful. They were also flexible and understanding.
This is a really good class, but the level is pretty high.
Definitely a big jump from 130a/b, but very rewarding! The topics of conversation become very real world.
This class is a ton of work, but to really learn Chinese, this is what it takes.  The teachers are fantastic and will help you at every step of the way.
Gao Lasohi is a fantastic lecturer and the class is fun. Even though it meets every day, I enjoy my time in 140.
Chinese 140a is an awesome course!  It has fantastic teaching staff that are very engaged and highly accessible.  I learned a lot and made many new friends.  I would strongly recommend this course to anyone thinking about taking it.
Take it, but know that it'll be kind of a pain. You'll be reading about social issues in China and random Chinese essays, so it's not gonna be super fun. I kinda messed around in the class and question how much I actually learned, but I think that it could be helpful.
This class is a good taste of what formal Chinese looks like. The teachers really care about the students and you won't regret taking it.
I am now able to read more in Chinese than I could before, but reading a newspaper article is still a bit of a struggle. The class is very well organized and the teachers are great.
This course definitely improves your written Chinese to a huge degree, but be prepared for quite a bit more work and higher expectations than in 130.
Chinese 140 is just like any other Chinese class, but you also learn a little bit about Chinese culture. It's a piece of cake if you're coming from 130x.
Stay up to date with the work, review a bit each day, and you really should have no problems!
I would definitely tell them to be prepared to do a lot of intensive work. A lot of the intensive work is beneficial.
