All the teachers are great -- Huang laoshi is possibly the nicest course instructor at Harvard! The material is interesting, but after spending hours going over the same thing (in class and in daily homework) you might get tired of it....
Yes
The professors and TFs were what made this course amazing. They were incredibly accessible and personable. We also learned an incredible amount of Chinese in one very short semester. My Chinese has improved exponentially. Even though the twice-a-week dictations and heavy courseload meant that a lot of time had to be put in, it's very much worth it in the end.
Practice every day. You will need it.
I thought that it was a good class; Huang Laoshi is really sweet, and so are Chen laoshi and Zhang laoshi. However, you really need to have a certain level of proficiency in order to take the class. If your parents don't speak Chinese to you regularly or if you're not exposed to Chinese regularly, this class is going to be VERY difficult for you. The course, though worthwhile in the end, is a SERIOUS time commitment, so if you're going to take the class, be sure you're ready to put in a significant amount of time.
It's a fun and interactive class, and the workload is large, but manageable.
Amazing class, amazing teachers!  If you've never taken Chinese at Harvard and were placed into 123xb, I'd definitely take it!  The teachers really do their best to help you succeed, and they definitely put you on the spot sometimes, but in a way that makes you learn without feeling scared of being called on.  I didn't like Chinese before because of that reason, and Chinese Bx convinced me to continue learning Chinese, and I definitely encourage you to do so too! :D
This class will take a lot of work. You get what you put into the course.
Demanding course, fast paced, a lot of work, but very fair. The teachers provide excellent feedback, are always there for you, and know everyone personally. One of my favorite classes so far!
Definitely take this course if you want to learn a lot of Chinese very quickly, but be prepared to find a way to do the busy work worksheets quickly so that you don't waste your time doing assignments that you won't learn anything from. You cover a LOT of material every week, so be prepared for this class to take up a lot of time, but in the long run, your Chinese does significantly improve.
This class is a lot more work than Bx because you are often covering 2 chapters per week. Dictations are also every week and sometimes twice a week, meaning that you have to study all the time to keep up. At the same time, because there are so many characters to memorize, it can always get overwhelming to the point where you end up forgetting a lot of the characters immediately after the dictations.
You need to put in a lot of time, but you will learn a lot and have fun doing it
Take it. Being illiterate in Chinese at the age of 21 -- especially when you are Chinese -- is no longer excusable. This course is well worth the effort.
An excellent fast-paced course to second year Chinese that is worth it if you already have a good grasp on the basics and are willing to put a lot of time into Chinese.
Lots of work everyday, with lots of volatility
If you are interested in improving your Chinese skills, this class will empower you with the tools to improve as much as you want. There is a broad spectrum of what people get out of the class and I believe it is a consequence of how hard you try and how invested you are in the course.
It is really necessary to 1) have the time to devote to really learning the language and 2) to already have a strong foundation in chinese to begin with. Otherwise, much of lectures and sections need a lot of work put in get to the same place as everyone else. That being said, Chinese 123xb is an awesome and well worth class taking.
understand that this means less time for other things, and that you will definitely not get as much time to really internalize the material. but you will cover a lot of grammar super quickly, and if you are able to use chinese in the summer/afterward at a slower pace this is a great class.
This is the best course to take if you are a heritage learner who frequently speaks Chinese at home but only know a few hundred characters. The pace is very fast and you will be really pushed by the professor and the TFs. However, if you are serious about learning Chinese, this is a great course to take. I have gotten noticeably better at Chinese since this course. Before taking this class, you should already be able to form basic sentences and know around 500 commonly-used characters.
Chinese 123xb is amazing! The professor and TF's are so helpful and its a very fun class!
Huang LaoShi, Chen LaoShi, and Zhang LaoShi are all amazing! They are so funny and they really want you to do well. It is an awesome class!
This class is a lot of work, but it's completely worth it. You learn so much, and Huang Laoshi is an amazing teacher who really cares about her students. The TFs are also great and very helpful! The class does move quickly, so you need to stay on top of things (specifically, make sure you study the characters and vocabulary, as there gets to be a lot, and sometimes you end up not having enough time to learn them all).
Take this course if you have a true interest in understanding Chinese culture and history, and expect to spend a lot of time learning grammar on your own if you do not have a strong sense of spoken Chinese already.
You learn a lot of Chinese in a very short period of time. Definitely take Bx before or else it will be difficult to adjust to the speed. If you took Bx, it's probably about 1.5 times the workload, but twice the speed. Don't take this with other difficult classes.
Not for the faint of heart. However, if you are looking to study Chinese in an accelerated program, either to go to HBA or to major, this is a great class to take.
It's similar to Bx, but much more work. Same pros and cons - the teachers are great and try to make this a fun and relevant class, but the assignments are sometimes tedious and unhelpful. Their tactics really regulate the way everyone learns Chinese, and sometimes I wished I could just skip the homework and create my own more effective way of doing homework. Still, I learned a lot, and at a faster and busier rate than Bx. The course book is great, if you want to self-study Chinese.
Be sure to have a very good background in Chinese speech and understanding.
If you are really committed to learning Chinese and know you will have a lot of time to spend taking on essentially a double workload from this class, then take it. The teachers are very helpful and diligent and the class is a lot of fun, but at the same time it requires a large commitment.
Not only a wonderful language class, but a great, rewarding class in its own. You learn a lot about Chinese culture and have the opportunity to interact with the teachers on many occasions, which is really great-- especially the festive and delicious end-of-term dinners at Huang Laoshi's!
It's tough but as long as you're willing to work, it's a completely manageable course load. Teachers are amazing and it's such a wonderful cultural experience.
This class was probably my hardest class I've taken at Harvard, but the most rewarding and practical! I spent 2-3 hours every day doing chinese homework, so be prepared to work extremely hard. But if you put in the effort, you'll learn so much. And Huang Laoshi and Chen laoshi are fantastic! They make classes fun and interesting and are really care about us!
Be prepared to do a lot of work, but in the end, you'll have a lot of fun and realized you improved a lot! Very useful. You can feel the improvement within you as the course progresses.
I lOVE it!
Chinese 123xb is a great way to learn all about Chinese culture and language. It is a lot of work, and can be frustrating, but the teaching staff is excellent and you really get to know all the people in your class. As long as you are prepared for a lot of work and character memorization, this class is extremely rewarding.
It is an excellent class taught by wonderful teachers. Not only will you learn a lot, but you are entering a community that really cherishes learning and the Chinese culture. You get to experience something wonderful through Chi123xb.
If you take this class seriously, you will see tremendous improvements in all areas of your Chinese; however, the course includes daily homework that often takes the form of boring, repetitive worksheets (as would be expected for a low level language course).
Take this class! It'll be your favourite of the semester, guaranteed :)
This class takes a lot of time and work, but it is a very fun and productive atmosphere. You'll learn a lot. Don't be afraid to ask questions and make comments!
I would not recommend this class if you already have many other commitments. This class will be time consuming. If you want to do well, then you will have to put in at least 15 hours a week or more. If you took Chinese Bx, expect around double to triple the workload per week, even if the first few weeks may be relatively light. In terms of difficulty, it will be a degree harder than Bx in every aspect, but this class is certainly doable.
This is one of the best and most fun intensive classes that you will enjoy! In addition to the intensive work and study, you'll also meet a ton of great people of diverse backgrounds and there is a community that one just doesn't find in any other department!
TAKE IT It's the best class ever!!!
This class was probably one of the best classes I've taken in the 4 years I've been at Harvard.  Huang laoshi is such a fantastic teacher and person.  She really cares about your development and makes class super enjoyable.  It's a lot of hard work, but it pays off in the end.  If you're on the fence about this class, just take it.  I shopped it twice before finally taking it and now I regret that I didn't start Chinese earlier.  The walk to Vanserg is far, but you know you need the exercise. Not only is 123xB the best thing that will ever happen to you, taking Chinese at Harvard is just phenomenal in general. All the TFs and professors are amazing no matter what class you're in.  Start early!
Get homework done early, study more than you think you need to for tests, and enjoy the awesome teachers. It's a very fast-paced course (even moreso than Bx), but it's doable if you put the time into it. Coursework involves daily homework, an essay about every two weeks, a test about every three weeks, and a presentation/project. Only take this class if you actually have time to put into learning the language and only take it if you have a listening/speaking background, but beyond that, it's a very good course with an excellent professor.
The coursehead is amazing!!! You will learn so much.
The class is A LOT of work. I would not underestimate the amount of work you will have -- about one to two hours every night, and it doesn't really relent. You have essays on frequent on intervals, but the upside to all of this is that, well, you learn a TON of Chinese, which is great! I really enjoyed the cultural component of the class and I feel like it's really wonderful for heritage speakers to learn about their own culture. Not to mention Huang Laoshi is a fantastic teacher, and she lets you go to her house at the end of the semester to eat great food.
Take this class if you really want to learn Chinese.  You learn so much about the language and culture, and I feel like it will stick with you.  However, this class does take a lot of time outside of class, so be cautious of that.
One of the most fulfilling courses I have taken at Harvard. Huang Laoshi continues to be the most engaged and fun professors I have ever had the pleasure of learning from. The class demands a lot, with almost 2 hours of work per day including weekends. The sheer work is numbing, however it is all worth it in the pursuit of truly learning and building a strong foundation in Chinese. You have a ton of fun in this class and make great friends as well. Highly recommend taking this.
In general, this class is very fun, and the faculty that teach the class is very nice. You get to learn more about Chinese cultures and customs, and you learn to debate different topics in Chinese. However, the coursework does take up a lot of time, more so than Chinese Bx. You can really tell the faster pace that the course in being taught at.
Huang Laoshi and Chen Laoshi are hands down some of the best instructors of any course Harvard has to offer. They are not only passionate about what they teach, but are also very engaging and open. The environment they facilitate in lecture and section is a fun and relaxed one, and they are also very easy people to approach during office hours. If you have to take Chinese, you are in good hands.
Huang Lao shi will welcome you with open arms to take this class and it is truthfully the one class I have taken so far as a freshman that provides the most supportive communities in and outside of class. The peers you'll meet come from similar backgrounds so it is easy to relate to them. Huang Lao shi will become your mother away from home and will give advice on many topics in class. She will also invite the whole class to dinner at her home at the end of the semester! Though it may seem like a hassle to have to walk to Vanserg everyday, I don't regret the extra time because I really was able to improve my reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills in addition to meeting some really cool and fun classmates.
Huang Laoshi is super nice to us. If you had taken Chinese Bx, you should definitely continue taking this course.
You'll have homework every day but you can definitely see how it is helping you, and it isn't remarkably difficult so don't worry! The teaching staff are always ready to help and the small size of the course makes it extremely accessible for individual students
Be prepared to invest a serious amount of time and effort in this class--it's an intensive that aims to teach two semesters of Chinese in one. If you're willing to put in the time and effort, you'll notice substantial and rapid improvement in your Chinese-speaking ability, and the teaching staff are some of the nicest people ever.
Chinese 123xb is a seamless continuation of Bx; however, in using a new textbook with cultural articles, the course is even better organized and you learn much more from 123xb even though you learn a lot from Bx. It is a ton of work--expect to spend many hours studying and reviewing. But if you put in the effort, it is not only fulfilling but also lets you meet a truly awesome and talented community.
Way too much work, especially in the second half where we rushed through all the materials and I wasn't able to thoroughly grasp all the materials.
Its a very good course, just time consuming.
Be prepared to have some of the best foreign language teachers you'll ever have.
Great class, take it if you're interested in learning chinese!
Take Chinese 123xb. It's not that much more difficult than Bx but is definitely more time consuming but a lot more rewarding. This course not only taught me the language skills in Chinese I badly need not to be an illiterate ABC, but also taught me to appreciate my heritage and be a better person (and made me a dozen or so good friends). You'll get to bond with the teachers and other students in the class really tightly by the end of the semester.
This class is amazing! Huang Laoshi and Li Laoshi are the nicest teachers ever! I highly recommend this class to any heritage speaker who wants to see their Chinese language abilities literally improve right before their eyes!
Excellent Chinese course, great teachers who are very enthusiastic and passionate
Be willing and be prepared to put in a solid 2 hours a day outside of class. The workload is palpably more than Bx (faster pace, more vocab) but can be manageable if you diligently devote time to mastering the material. This class is fantastic because of the teachers: Although somewhat intimidating at first, Huang laoshi is really great and really devoted to helping her students improve their Chinese. Take the effort to go to office hours and get to know her and the drill instructor better. The best part of the class has been getting to know the teachers and classmates better. Albeit time-consuming, group projects are great for forming friendships. Bottom-line: Be prepared for more work and to diligently put time and effort into the class, but it's totally worth it!
Take this class! It is a lot of work, but it is well worth it. I walk out of this class with such a greater understanding of both Chinese culture and language. It doesn't hurt that you make a ton of friends, and the teachers are absolutely amazing.
It's tough, really tough, but really fun and awesome. The course head is really very competent, and so is the outgoing drill instructor. This class was not just a class, more of a family. Also, be prepared to see very close and friend group and cliques form. Also, the teacher does play favorites a bit, but she is very fair.Also, you really need to know your stuff coming in. If you have any doubts as to your preexisting knowledge, or to how much time you have for this class (which is a lot), then go to a lower level.
This class is much harder than BX and will be a lot faster. Still very much in the same format as BX but requires more time and more memorization. The final was really difficult. Also, you'll be expected to put much more time into presentations than in BX, as Huang laoshi has developed a preference for videos over skits, which increases time commitment from the student's perspective.
Don't get behind on your homework!
Definitely take this class. Huang Laoshi is the most enthusiastic and fun teacher, and she really makes you appreciate learning Chinese.  There is more busy work than in Chinese Bx, but it's definitely doable and they're always willing to help out if you start struggling!  You learn so much more than you do in Chinese Bx and the projects are always so much fun.  It's definitely a class worth taking.
This class is by far one of the more rewarding classes I have taken. The teachers are greater but the people are greater. However, be prepared to work your butt of. This class is challenging but it is definitely worth it. Take it if you can.
Very useful for learning practical Chinese
Huang laoshi and Li laoshi are wonderful teachers and are extremely helpful. However, don't get behind on homework! The translations especially help with test preparation, and making up the assignments take a lot of time.
Superb class if you are serious about studying Chinese. It will require a lot of time, but the amount that you learn is incredible.
If you want to improve your Chinese, take this class! I absolutely loved it and am so glad I decided to take it. You will learn more in a semester than you would have ever imagined, and the teachers are two of the best teachers I have ever had who truly care about how you are doing inside and outside of the classroom. It can be challenging at first especially if you haven't taken Bx, but is manageable as long as you keep up with the work assigned.
There's undeniably a lot of work in the form of daily assignments that can easily pile up. Nevertheless, the materials and the course staff do a wonderful job to see that the micro-efforts come together in the end and promote a stronger reading and writing skill set.
huang laoshi and li laoshi are awesome! my chinese language skills and understanding of chinese culture have drastically improved. this class is a lot of fun and you can make many new friends through group projects, but be forewarned - it is quite a bit of work at times
Good class, but a lot of work. If you really want to improve your Chinese, take this class. But the workload might affect your other classes, so schedule wisely.
You should definitely take this class! The teachers are amazing and treat us as if we were their kids. They care about our learning and also about our lives outside the classroom. It was the one class I really looked forward to all semester.
Absolutely great course. Huang laoshi and Li laoshi were a dynamic and fun teaching duo. I always look forward to waking up for class at 10am because both of them. Because both teachers really try to get to know all of their students, they really become people you can count on for anything. Also, the end of the semester party at Huang laoshi's home is great!
You learn so much Chinese! I really felt like my Chinese improved so much, and I am now more appreciative of my Chinese background. The class is not hard, but you have to be dedicated and spent a lot of time, but it's totally worth it!
This course is very rigorous, but you will emerge from it with much more advanced and polished Chinese language skills.
Great class! Must take!
This class has a lot of work, and you will definitely hear that a lot from people, but honestly, it's not as bad as people say it is. It is doable as long as you keep up with your work. Do not slack off early in the semester because each lesson builds on characters learned in former chapters, and it's very convenient to be able to recognize characters without looking them up. You also learn a ton about chinese culture and traditions, which is pretty sweet. I definitely recommend taking this class if you want your chinese to drastically improve. Huang laoshi is awesome, and she brings a lot of enthusiasm and humor to the course.
Be prepared to work really hard in this class. The amount of effort you put in is the amount you will get out of the class. Still, Huanglaoshi is awesome!
it is so much fun. it will be a lot of work, but you will love it. huang lao shi is absolutely amazing.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YYSLEq-Cjmw&list=UU6BR3BNtuVNX3YDn_EzH9Ng&index=1&feature=plcp
This is Chinese for Chinese Kids Who Don't Read Good. If you fit that description, TAKE THIS CLASS. You will not regret it. Huang Lao Shi is dynamite, and you will absolutely love her. You will work your butt off for this class, but it is so so so worth it. Don't disgrace your ancestors. Take this class.
Fantastic instructors (though I don't think they'll be around next year) and will take you far in actually being able to speak Chinese. I would say that grammar instruction can feel fairly rushed, just because so much new stuff is being covered each week, but otherwise, this has been a wonderful class and I've learned so much. Also, you definitely will make new friends, thanks to all of the group projects and social opportunities afforded by the instructors.
This course is one of the best courses I have taken here at Harvard - Huang laoshi is one of the best teachers you can get. She is extremely good at running an engaging class and despite the heavy workload she manages to make the learning experience very rewarding. You will develop strong connections with the teachers and they make you feel so at home. There is a lot of bonding between teachers and students and I met some of my best friends in this class.
This class was a fun way to learn Chinese very quickly. It is a very fast paced class, but the teachers are very capable and accommodating.
it was a really difficult class for me, but TAKE IT it's worth it
Take this course with Prof. Huang because she is amazing!
Chinese 123xb is the natural progression from Bx. The format of the class is essentially the same as it was in Bx. If you liked Bx, it is most likely that you will enjoy 123xb as well. The same, however, applies if you didn't enjoy Bx. The most important difference is the course load - the amount and level of vocabulary that is required of students to learn definitely increases.
Chinese 123xb is a really great course. Take this if you took Chinese Bx and really want to improve your Chinese skills. We go beyond speaking about our college life and learning Chinese into more Chinese culture and bigger ideas like holidays, marriages, the one-child policy, names, the Great Wall, etc. The teachers are fantastic and really care about you.
be prepared to work hard
This is a really special and great class, but ONLY if you have time for it. Beware. Do NOT fall behind on the homework. Do NOT think this is an easy class, if you have not had any experience learning Chinese before. Do NOT take this class if you are on the fence. It's an all-or-nothing situation where you don't get anything out of it if you can only get part of the work done.
It's tough but the teachers and students in the class make it worthwhile. You'll have a great time if you take this class, but you will also need to work hard.
Lots of work, but definitely worth it. You learn and retain an insane amount of Chinese within a short period of time. Plus, Huang and Xu LaoShi are wonderful and you make a lot of new friends! Huang LaoShi invites everyone over to her house at the end of the semester to play MahJong as well.
It was a great class, and while it can be difficult and have a lot of work at times, overall it's a very rewarding experience.
Chinese 123xb is a great course to take, even if you've already fulfilled your language requirement through Bx. It's a great follow-up to Bx and teaches you a lot more about Chinese history and culture, which makes the course in general a lot more meaningful. It felt like a lot less rote memorization of Chinese characters and grammar structures and we actually were able to discuss more intellectual topics (i.e. the One Child Policy, Chinese education system, disciplining children, etc.)
You'll get what you put into the class. If you work hard in this class, your Chinese will improve greatly!
HUANG LAOSHI IS THE BEST
This class takes full advantage of the heritage background of students. Especially when learning about culture (mostly food!), we would learn something in class that I only understood at a superficial level. The teachers are always amazing, and be prepared to put in work and time to really improve. If you do, there is no doubt that your Chinese abilities will see a great increase.
You need to invest a lot of time if you want to do well but the community of friends you make is worth it. The teachers are especially dedicated to your learning and are willing to help whenever. There's always laughter in every class.
Take this class! Huang laoshi is an outstanding, compassionate, funny lecturer and Xu laoshi is the nicest person ever. My Chinese speaking, reading, and writing skills improved a lot. The workload isn't too heavy, and you get a lot of feedback on your work. I genuinely enjoyed coming to class every day. The entire class is like a family!
Solid language course. You definitely end up with greatly improved writing and reading skills. There's a lot of constant, daily work that can sometimes get a little dull, but that's the nature of language courses. It is a very relaxed and friendly atmosphere, but sometimes you feel like you're being treated like you're back in grade school at times when the teachers have to tell the students to stop talking to each other.
I loved it.
Lots of work, but the work is not challenging.
BEST CHINESE TEACHERS EVER!!!! Take this class. You'll gain a better command of Chinese and you'll have a painless time doing it. I feel like I got to really know the teachers really well. Huang laoshi also always invites all her students to her house for dinner and its always a great time. Taking Chinese has been one of the highlights of my year.
If you want to improve your Chinese, this class is a  MUST take. Your Chinese will improve tremendously. That being said, it is quite a bit of work and will take up a substantial chunk of your schedule. However, the teachers are so amazing and helpful. Both Huang Laoshi and Xu Laoshi are extremely accessible and very helpful. They truly care about their students and often go out of their way to improve the learning experience.
This course is tough, but extremely rewarding. It teaches you to express yourself in Chinese on a much higher level.
Be prepared to work really hard for a long period of time. The teachers will extend deadlines and overlook assignments if it gets overwhelming, but you need to keep up with the work anyway in order to learn Chinese, or any other language, properly.
Chinese 123xb is awesome!  This class is a great follow-up to Chinese Bx, it has more culture and more complex vocab and sentence structures, but I think it's doable.  It might be kind of hard if you didn't take Bx, but if you have a good language background you'll probably be fine. Oh it's kind of annoying that it only counts as one semester for citation, when it is the equivalent of two regular semesters but oh well, worth it!
Alike to Bx, this class required alot of work and constant attention but was so enjoyable and classtime was effective and the teachers and classmates so friendly that it was worth the trip to Vanserg everyday. Teachers were supportive and wonderful. Alot of vocab and articles to learn each week, the pace is quite fast but at a good, challenging level.
Lots to learn, very fast pace
Class was great - I learned quite a lot of new grammatical structures and new vocabulary. Furthermore, I can understand simple Chinese essays and write more complex sentences.
The teachers will evaluate your Chinese level to place you in the right class, but 123xb requires a lot of time and energy. You'll have to make sure you can devote these if you want to get the most out of the class.
If you want to learn Chinese and you have a good background, or if you took Chinese Bx and want to continue on, definitely take this class! Huang and Xu Lao Shi will teach you so much! Plus you will get Chinese food and candies at random times.
The class is significantly more difficult than Chinese Bx, and the pace is very, very fast. If you miss even a bit, you can get behind really easily.
Note: 123xb is my first Chinese class at Harvard, so I have no knowledge of how hard this was relative to Bx or any other class. This class was just so fun! I really enjoyed going to class, and I felt that I learned a lot of Chinese this semester. We also learned a lot of Chinese culture and some history, which I really appreciated as well. We had homework virtually every day, but they were very lenient in their deadlines and are constantly willing to help out whenever we needed it (extensions, homework help, etc). One thing that I found to be missing in the class is grammar. Although we learn a lot of sentence patterns that help with our writing skills, I felt that we did not have a solid grammatical foundation. As a student who learned Chinese colloquially, it was pretty hard to translate what I usually would say into correct, effect sentences in essays and worksheets. However, don't let that one, single gripe deter you from taking this class. I really enjoyed that class and would recommend it to anyone who took Bx or is placed into this class!
You should definitely take this course if you have a decent command of spoken Chinese. It's such a good class!
Definitely a greater courseload than Bx, maybe 2-3 hours more a week, but class is much more enjoyable with students and teachers closer and topics discussed more interesting.
I recommend this class to Chinese students that's scored a 4 or 5 on the AP Chinese test and has some formal training in Chinese.
This course is rewarding, but a lot of work. You have to be prepared to do (we did 3) oral presentations pretty quickly, longer essays, and the class is much more history and culture based. That being said, the class is really fun because everyone truly gets to know each other and of course the sections are always fun, but the class is daily homework and always little things to do, especially during test time. It was worth it, but you have to be willing to do the work for the class.
It is a rewarding class because you might find yourself spending time on the assignments while your other friends are doing something else but it really is worth the improvement in your writing and listening skills. One thing to be warned of is that sometimes instructions for take home recordings or assignments can be a little unclear but besides that, I would recommend this class without hesitation. By the end of the semester, you will feel like you have gained a tiny family in Vanserg!
Would definitely recommend to anyone who wants to learn Mandarin. It's a lot of work (mostly in terms of class time, since it meets every day), but the instructors really care about your learning, and you can actually feel that you're making progress every week of the semester. Definitely helps to be a heritage speaker (as the course name suggests), and to have attended some Chinese school in the past. I relearned a lot of Chinese (literally nine years worth of Chinese school) that I forgot in middle school and beyond during the class, as well as plenty of new vocab and sentence structures. I can see it being a huge time commitment if you're either not very fluent, listening wise, or have never learned to write characters, but the resources are there.
Great and fun course with a fabulous teaching staff. Workload can get heavy near the end of the semester, but overall you get to learn a lot about Chinese language and culture.
Just do your work and keep track of the assignments. It's a very light and enjoyable class as long as you know what's happening. 10/10 would recommend.
Awesome class - Huang laoshi and the TFs (Shao laoshi and Gong laoshi) are incredible, and clearly put in a lot of effort to make this a fun and interesting class. Highly recommend continuing with this after taking Chinese Bx - you'll be amazed by how much your Chinese continues to improve over the semester!
Amazing courseHuang laoshi so clearly cares about your success and is a such a bubbly and kind person. You definitely learn a large amount of Chinese and will probably discover a hidden passion for learning more.
The teachers are wonderful (Huang LaoShi invites you to her home for Chinese food and mahjong!)
Take this class! The teachers are absolutely amazing -- some of the best I've met at Harvard -- and your Chinese really does improve by the end of the course, especially reading ability (for me). There's a decent amount of busy work, and a lot of classtime (5 hours a week, plus time walking to/from Vanserg), but totally worth it.
Definitely harder than Bx, but still a great learning experience with a great group of people. I would recommend if you're looking to further your language skills, as I feel that my vocabulary improved more during this semester than it did during Bx.
This class is a lot of work, but definitely worth it. The teachers are super enthusiastic about Chinese and also very encouraging. They push you to do your best but are also very understanding about how busy everybody is and try to accommodate for that. You will learn so much by the end of the semester and this class will push your Chinese ability to the point where you will be able to comfortably read essays and converse about Chinese culture.
While Chinese 123xb requires a fair (but reasonable) amount of work, the class was immensely enjoyable - by the end, I got to know most of my classmates very well. Put in time to review each chapter before you start the next one, and you should be good. While grading is slightly ambiguous, by the end, you'll probably end off with an A-/A.
This class will give you an incredible opportunity to improve upon your chinese language skills. While this class is definitely a commitment, it is enjoyable and not too difficult. The teachers definitely want to see you succeed. I would definitely recommend taking this class!
A great chance to improve language skills quickly and learn a lot.
Amazing course with amazing teachers. I often looked forward to classes. You will learn a lot if you put the time in and build great relationships with the teachers and peers. However, if you aren't willing to put in the necessary time to learn, you'll leave the course feeling like you did a ton of busy work without gaining anything. If you are really invested in learning Chinese, this course is second to none.
Hard and lots of work, but pretty easy to get good grades if you dedicate the time. In the end, I felt rewarded for taking the class and I can notice my skill in Chinese has improved.
This is an incredible class, not only to improve your mandarin speaking, writing, listening, and reading ability, but also to make great friends. It was so easy to bond with both classmates and teachers, and I honestly looked forward to coming to class every day. Having 5 hours of class per week can be a bit of a strain on your schedule, but it makes all the difference consistent practice with your speaking. The homework volume is considerable but the difficulty/stress level is very low. Overall, I felt that this class helped the most with improving my speaking and writing level, and I would recommend it without hesitation to any heritage Chinese students who eventually want to become fluent in their ancestral language.
While it is easy to not put time into the class and get average grades, you would be selling yourself short if you do not give it the extra hour every time you sit down and do work for this class. Chinese is a life skill and when learnt properly will go a long way.
This class is like family. While it can be challenging for people with little previous Chinese experience, I have never heard of anyone regretting taking it. Huang laoshi and Xu laoshi are truly there for students, going above and beyond to help them learn and grow in every facet of their lives. Not only did I feel my language skills improving, but I also noticed that we were being taught valuable insights on life, such as how to balance academic and personal goals, how to approach our own ethnic and cultural background, and how to understand our familial and personal relationships. As an upperclassman in the class, I also felt like I got to know many underclassmen and share with them my experiences and insights, as well. It is a true community that learns and grows together in this class -- something that you cannot find in any other class at Harvard.
You will find a sense of family in this class that I it very difficult to find at a place like Harvard. The professors are honestly the most dedicated teachers you will meet and they really invest in each student. The class does move faster than Chinese Bx does, so be prepared. But overall, the class was not a significant source of stress as long as you keep on top of the daily assignments. My written Chinese has improved dramatically, and I am now able to write essays of 1500+ words, something I could not have done at the beginning of the semester.
It was really helpful that I took this class after having done Chinese BX in the fall, especially since the same teachers teach Chinese BX and Chinese 123xb. The workload for this class is moderate, but it is taught at a really quick pace. On average, we went through 3 lessons every two weeks. (For each lesson, there's an article that you have to read and understand, as well as around 50 new Chinese characters to learn.) But again, if you've taken Chinese BX in the fall, you would already know a good portion of the characters - it would really help to have that foundation. The homework doesn't take too long, but on weeks with projects (presentations, recordings, essays, etc.), I find myself devoting a good chunk of time to complete those.
Although this class is a lot of work and is challenging, the teachers are very good and you meet a lot of friends in this class. You also learn very interesting things about Chinese culture that can connect you to your heritage. You most importantly will see your Chinese language skills improve very quickly.
This class was definitely challenging and time-consuming (it's accelerated!) since I didn't come from a very strong Mandarin background at home.  It's fairly fast-paced, and you have to put in regular time throughout the week to keep up with material (we usually cover two lessons per week): this class is much more challenging and time-consuming than Bx. Keep in mind that there are usually two dictations per week (Monday and Friday), homework due on MWF, in addition to several oral presentations, essays, and tests/midterms spaced out through the semester.  But all that being said, I learned a tremendous amount of from this class--grammar, writing, and about the culture/history of China-- and gained a new (Chinese) family in the process: you will make a lot friends from this course you would not otherwise given its small size and wonderful teachers (huge shoutout to Huang and Xu Laoshi!).  Especially relevant to heritage Chinese speakers, we learned about the origins of our Chinese names, about views toward elders in China, and about dating/marriage in China.  All of this has helped me better appreciate and understand my heritage, and is relevant even to those without a heritage background.  Take this class!
This course is intensive, but the lectures are fun, and the intensive nature allows one to truly immerse in a Chinese-usage environment and learn the language well. Be prepared to put in lots of work for the class; it is also definitely most appropriate for heritage learners.
This Chinese class is an absolutely wonderful class. Huang Laoshi and Xu Laoshi are the bomb. We are really all like one big family. However, it is very easy to fall behind. Also, I feel that it is really easy to miss points. There is a huge discrepancy between the students who have gone to Chinese school and the kids who never have. Unfortunately, I never went to Chinese school so honestly, it was really hard to measure up to my peers at times.
A lot more work than Chinese Bx
Huang and Xu laoshi are the best. You will learn so much from them--about the Chinese language, about Chinese history/culture, about your heritage and personal story. They are so invested in your learning, so as long as you are put in the work, you were take away a lot from this class in terms of tools and knowledge.
Hands down one of the best classes I took this year. It's hard but so rewarding and it's one of the few classes that I actually looked forward to going to.
