It's a very good class.  Prof. Zhou and the teaching staff are awesome.
Painless, fun, but probably won't learn much about regeneration.
This class is very low on time commitment, but provides a clear picture of what research in the field is like. Not a common mix. Definitely recommended.
Very interesting material and really exciting experiments.  :)
Very relaxed class, you get to do cool experiments. The staff is great. You spend basically your Monday afternoons in class doing the lab, but then there is almost no work outside of class.
Since this was a first-time offered course, there were definitely some bumps along the road when it came to protocols or the success of various labs. However, SCRB 162 allows you to preform really amazing experiments that few undergraduates have the opportunity to do at any other school. The teaching staff is great - they're really down to earth and easy to talk to. By the end of the semester though, you'll never want to look at an axolotl again!
This was a great class to take your understanding gained in SCRB10 and see how it can be applied in a hands-on atmosphere.  I really enjoyed the class.
Fantastic overview of regeneration in model organisms. Be prepared to get your hands (actually gloves) dirty from the get-go. Performing axolotl limb amputations, mouse surgery, and skin preps in class is an awesome experience. Also if you take the class, put a lot of conceptual thought into your final research project, you have the chance to do something awesome and an incredible set of resources open to you.
You will gain exposure to a wide range of new experimental techniques, and the course staff provides a ton of resources. However, this course requires a lot of time- much more than the 4 hours it advertises.  Expect at least 5 hours on Mondays, and an additional 2-3 hours over the course of the week.  Also, don't wait until the end of the semester to work on your lab notebook.
Overall, SCRB 162 was a fantastic, hands-on laboratory-based course. Students gain a much stronger understanding of regenerative biology and the important model organisms used in the field through direct, hands-on experimentation. Although several of the experiments did not produce positive results, the process of experimentation was also very meaningful. The most time-consuming parts of the class were the final project (designing and performing individual experiments) and putting together the laboratory notebook.
Fantastic class. The main project to design and create your own regenerative experiment was great and provides an experience which is offered by very few other Harvard classes.
SCRB 162 has been my favorite class so far at Harvard. We did some great experiments and I learned a lot, plus the teaching staff is great!
Organize your experimental work flow in your head before beginning work. Also like all science prepare for those experiments to fail. A lot.
An unforgettable adventure into the experiments that helped establish the field of regenerative biology. You learn the difficulties of having success in science and the value of thinking outside the box. It would be a shame to go to an institute that can offer this course with such an amazing professor and not to take it.
Great course, very engaging!
The class is really easy, and requires almost no work. The labs themselves are cool, and the class is structured so that students present a paper, there is a lecture, and then you do the lab. The lecture component of the course, which is supposed to be 10-15 minutes, often times runs for 45 minutes to an hour, however which needs to be fixed. Be prepared for the Professor to talk more than he needs to.
You get to perform a lot of awesome experiments, sometimes they take a lot longer than you'd like but the results (if you get positive ones) are really cool. Make sure you keep up with your lab notebook and participate during chalk talks!
I would take this class again in a heartbeat for the chance to work with axolotls. There are some very cool experiments, and you read some quite interesting papers. Administratively, the class is a bit less organized than one could wish for, but scientifically it's on point. I designed a final project that was very challenging to actually carry out, but Professor Zhou and the TFs were really great about helping me with the various technical aspects and providing encouragement in the darker moments. If you take this class, I would start thinking about your final project pretty far in advance so that you can determine what is actually feasible to do.
This is an awesome class that gives you some unprecedented opportunities to do vertebrate surgery.
Great class; lots of interesting experiments and discussions are also very fruitful. Professor Zhou snd TFs are always willing to help. Final project component is also very exciting and gives you the opportunity to apply what you learned in class.
The course is VERY lab heavy . if you do not like papers or lab, then do not take the course. With that said, the self design experiment is the best part of the class and you will have FULL independence. If that is your thing, the take the course.
The material is so interesting, and the experiments are really cool. Unfortunately, this class is so poorly run that it really takes away from the experiments. Professor Zhou rambles on and on, and you can barely hear him most of the time. The class frequently runs over and you typically have to go in multiple times a week to check on your experiments.
This is a really fun class as you get to work with lots of different model species and perform really cool experiments.  It's not very well organized though and grading is very unclear.  You never know where you stand.
This course is great, especially if you get it with a small class size (probably best around n=8 or n=10).  Individual attention is key for some of the more difficult experiments, which require a lot of manual expertise that undergrads just don't have their first time doing an experiment.  The TFs/instructor are very knowledgeable and helpful, and if you put a good amount of work in you'll get a ton out of it.
Definitely a gem of a course! It's an extremely small class (~7), which is surprising given how great it is. This is THE class if you want to do hands-on experiments involved in Regenerative Biology. All of the experiments were extremely interesting and performing them gives you a real sense of what SCRB research could be like. What other classes would you get the chance to do axolotl blastema transplantations in? The teaching staff is great as well! Professor Zhou is extremely knowledgeable and always willing to help while both of the TFs are very helpful during the experiments. They're all amazing people as well and given the small size of the class, you'll get to know everyone really well. They even brought in coffee and donuts for us on days when the experiments were supposed to take the full class time (most classes don't run the entirety of the 2-6 scheduled). Such a great class, definitely recommend if you're a SCRB concentrator or just interested in the topic.
This is great course with access to an amazing professor! I definitely recommend it because of the small class size and the unique lab experiences
This is a really interesting class that offers you the rare opportunity to perform surgery and experiment on live animals (zebrafish, mice, and axolotls). In this regard, it's a once-in-an-undergrad-career opportunity. Furthermore, the staff, especially Joe (the professor) really want you to learn and succeed in this class. The grading is very fair, but make sure to stay up-to-date on your lab notebook. It'll become overwhelming if you don't.The only downside however, is that the lab space is rather disorganized. Often, the equipment that you need for a lab will not be ready or there aren't enough for the class. If you can tolerate some wasted time and disorganization, this is an amazing class!
Take this course!  The labs are a ton of fun and the teaching staff is incredible.
Amazing class with such great experiments.
This course looks amazing on paper and during the first couple of weeks, it will be. After the teaching staff settles in and the course starts to take shape you'll realize it really doesn't have a shape. It's very disorganized and poorly planned. Lectures go for way too long and are unnecessary and there's no guidance on how to perform the experiments. The TFs will do very little to help you outside of what they're absolutely required to do (no office hours for example). My advice is that you don't take this class; look for a better SCRB elective.
You don't need a strong background SCRB research. However, the seniors did tend to be a little bit more prepared for the presentations and the midterm.  If you can, save this for your senior spring.  This class was so interesting and did a great job exposing you to (and giving you hands on research experience with) all the different types of model organisms.  The class isn't too demanding if you are passionate about the subject matter and, when you're in class, show great enthusiasm.
This is a nicely paced course that really teaches a lot of important regenerative biology techniques -- now I feel more confident with the experimental techniques we used (like working with axolotl regeneration, creating of axolotl blasters, working with planaria/ zebrafish, culturing cells, etc.). It is mostly a student presentation, questions, a small lecture, and the rest of the class is doing laboratory work! It's very hands on and fun!
Put a lot of time into the in-class presentation. Joe notices the effort you put into it and greatly appreciates it. (Plus, if you understand your article well, it's usually a good jumping-off point to get started brainstorming about your final project.) Also, be sure to work hard on the lab notebook -- include *all* information humanly possible.
AMAZING COURSE! Accessible for those just beginning or those advanced in their stem cell studies. Wet lab work is performed every lab course, and the large chunk of time just flies by with the breakdown of student "chalk-talks", lecture covering the background and significance of the day's experiment, and then time to perform various significant experiments with Professor Zhou and the TFs circulating around, available for assistance. Honestly, one of (if not) my favorite courses so far at Harvard-- every course you learn about another significant finding within the world of stem cell research. Additionally, for those newer to lab work, you get to learn a myriad of new lab skills, working with planarian, zebrafish, axolotl, TC, and even mice! Highly recommended course! Just stay on top of your lab notebook and take detailed lab notes so you don't have to write it all at once-- the course also helps you develop this great habit for future researchers!
