Professor Musunuru is, let's say, a control freak. Although he hired some fabulous TFs, he barely allowed them to do anything. The course was, then, less helpful then it could be because I only had one form and one way in which the material was taught. The TF office hours became my best friend because I could have things explained to me in a different voice and a different way than Prof. Musunuru's. In a way, he figuratively disrespected the TFs by disallowing their active participation in their own sections and by literally disrespecting them in class.
This is a great course if you can get it! Kiran is a wonderful lecturer/instructor, and the course really rewards you if you work hard at it.
not much of a time commitment and you learn a lot
Great class, effectively conveys the basics of many biochemistry topics.
SO great! Really. A low-stress biochem class where you learn a ton. Kiran is awesome, a great teacher, really funny, very relatable. The class involves cookie monster (and mini competitions for real cookies...). You'll get to know people in the class, too, which is always a bonus.
This class is the best way of taking biochem at Harvard. Lectures and problem sets are straightforward and the exams don't try to trick you. Kiran is very accessible and does his best to help you and answer all your questions.
Still a biochem course, but the course staff do as much as they can not to make it harder than it already is
Great course!! Super straightforward and well-organized. Everything you need to know is covered in the lecture slides/transcript/lecture and the material is interesting. Despite a two-hour long section, the patient cases and practice problems are actually really fun. Best premed course at Harvard by far
This is a fantastic class! Kiran is an incredibly caring professor. The course expectations are very straight-forward. If you put in the required work, you will do well. It's also surprisingly interesting. By the end, you'll know a lot about how metabolism works (which is actually cooler than it sounds).
This course is somewhat boring, but you'll learn biochemistry without having to complete a lab component. Furthermore, the tests are mostly based on the problem sets, so make sure you've memorized all the information on the problem sets before taking the tests.
Take this class if it's still being offered as Scrub 25X and with Kiran. It is superbly taught and the grading schedule is a breath of fresh air for pre-meds.
Very interesting, easy course.
Good for the MCAT but I mostly memorized, didn't learn.
Everything about this course is professional and fair. I felt extremely prepared for exams and when Professor Musunuru went around my section (and every section) and named every student in the room w/o errors, I knew that this class was a gem.
Fantastic class to take! You will be able to work on real patient cases that allow you to apply what you have learned to real problems.
Fun, pretty low time-commitment class. Section was great as Prof. Musunuru attended every section, and the format mimicked medical school case studies that emphasized deeper thought and making connections. Psets and exams were more about quick recall, but it was a pretty fair class in terms of assignments and grades.
Unbelievably well structured and clear. I always knew what was expected of me and how i was doing in the course. The patient cases are meticulously created and are excellent teaching tools.
SCRB 25 is a very straightforward and fair class, and a more interesting way to get your pre-med biochem requirement than Chem 27, I think.  Kiran spends a huge amount of time making the class run smoothly, giving you lecture slides and transcripts and videos outside of the scheduled class time. It's also nice only having one lecture a week, normally, as the course has only one lecture and section each week. Overall, I recommend the class a lot, and this is someone who prefers problem-solving to strict memorization, which is what this class entails. An organic chemistry background helps, but you probably don't need it to succeed.
SCRB25 with Kiran was great! He really cares a lot about his students and it shows in his teaching. I enjoyed the one lecture per week and one section. This course has a low workload but you can get a lot out of it if you try to synthesize what you are learning with your previous coursework like LS1a and Chem 27.
This class is great! I loved the lecture and section components very much! Kiran does a great job in making what is a very complicated concept very simple to understand! You really feel like you master biochem by the end. Additionally, the section was probably my favorite part. With patient cases, Kiran makes what can be a dry topic sometimes really relevant to life and all of our futures (most of us in this class are pre-med or at least going into a biomedical career). Overall, Kiran is probably the best prof I've had at Harvard and I think everyone should take a class with him at one point. He is available any time for you and really likes to connect with his students.
A painless way to get the biochemistry pre-requirement out of the way. The teaching staff was cool and really isn't trying to trick you. the exams were fair and the problem sets were quick. The material was dry, though. I think there should have been two lectures a week (at different times) to avoid an information overload that inevitably happened each time you sat to watch a lecture. After all, we did learn two lectures in one sitting. If they had been separated, there could have been more time to incorporate patient cases to make the material more relatable. My biggest concern with the class was that it was just boring at times. The material was dry. It could be spiced up a bit with more engaging lectures.
Great course for what it is. It can feel tedious at times but really the material is solid and you do learn a lot (even if most of your learning happens before the exam)
This course is not very painful, but lectures were incredibly dry and the material was not overwhelmingly engaging. That being said, the professor devoted a ton of time and energy to the course and if you are into biochemistry, it's not a bad class.
great biochem class, not too difficult, good prep for new MCAT
This class is fairly straightforward. The tests are pretty much just like the psets so if you study the psets and practice problems really hard and kind of understand the material behind them, you'll be fine. I also had a friend in the class and we compared our answers for every pset which helped a lot. We would always notice a few small errors in each other's psets so we could correct those before submitting them.
Very straightforward, material is not the most interesting but is taught in a clear way
Engage in the course assignments and you will do really well. Teaching staff is incredible helpful, you don't need any outside materials. Kiran is so nice!
To just focus on the problem sets and practice problems while studying for the exams. Utilize the TFs office hours and Professor Musunuru's office hours.
easy to do well! teaching staff really cares about you performing well, trying to make pre-med life easier.
Kiran is a fantastic instructor, and though biochem is a dry subject in general, he brings it to life with the patient cases in section!
This course is a wonderful supplement to Chem27. While Chem27 focuses on the tiny details, this class covers the big picture. The combination of teh two reinforces overlapping material but also brings together two different understandings of the biochemistry in the human body. I don't think I would have been so successful in understanding the human body component of biochemistry without this course, as enzymatic chemistry tends to be the focus of Chem27. So, I highly encourage you to take this course with Chem27 or after you have taken it! It is very helpful in preparing you for the MCAT and Professor Musunuru is an absolute treat to learn from in lecture and section! Material can be dry in lecture, but that's because Kiran has to dump so much information that you need to learn. The sections are the best parts of the course, applying what you learned to real clinical cases. It is the best real-world application of an undergraduate biochemistry education that I've experienced at Harvard so far.
Pretty chill class. Great to get the biochemical requirement fulfilled for premeds, but also good if you want to learn about the medical applications of biochemistry.
I thought that this was a great course and it was not time demanding but you can learn a lot.
Section is great and lectures are clear.
SCRB 25x was a really great biochemistry class. Lectures at times were dry, but that's expected for the subject material. Section was much better, since the patient cases, while difficult, are extremely applicable. The teaching staffKiran and the TFsare very available. The problem sets really solidified conceptual understandings, and the exams were very fair. Highly recommend if you need biochemistry for medical school!
I didn't realize how interesting this course would be when I lottery for the class. You learn so much and the information is presented in a really interesting way via patient cases and relevant, straight-forward questions. Kiran is probably one of the most supportive professors I have had at Harvard and will make sure that any changes in the class so not hurt your grade.
SCRB 25 is a really excellent class. It provides a never-boring introduction to biochemistry by studying the workings of metabolism. In learning this material, you will find that it elaborates and adds a great deal to the things you've learned in LS1a/LPSa, LS1b, or LS2. Kiran is an extremely dedicated professor, more dedicated than any of the science professors I've yet had at Harvard. He led every section and happily answered every question. This is a really great class for pre-meds and non pre-meds alike looking to learn about biochemistry.
You should stay on top of the material. It will seem like the first midterm comes out of nowhere, as there is a lot of information that must be digested quickly. The best way to study is to constantly and repeatedly redo practice problems and problem sets.
this class is awesome! Really cool material that could potentially be extremely difficult, but with a pretty chill work load (considering it's biochem). The sections are really informative and Kiran is very involved which is awesome.
Good for intro to biochem
Kiran is the best.
This is a terrific class. It's really too bad Kiran isn't teaching it in the future. He is extremely devoted to the class. He teaches every section himself and learns every student's name. The material is clear and not too difficult, but you leave knowing a lot about human metabolism.
This class is an amazing way to learn biochemistry and really synthesize the material.
Generally painless way to knock out a concentration/biochem requirement. Your grade will reflect the amount of effort you put in. A ton of memorization is required for exams.
Incredible class - Kiran does a spectacular job organizing his lectures and handpicking the case studies for sections. The material is presented so very clearly and the exams test your understanding but do so in a very straightforward manner. One of the few courses that is structured in a way that promotes learning without the stress of nitpicking over grades.
Great course if you need biochem it's the most painless way to do so.
Well-organized and you learn a lot of biochem. Not too stressful
This class has great resources and the material is very well taught. It is also an extremely helpful class to take for students preparing to take the MCAT. However the format of the exams (multiple choice/short answer) and the overall grading scheme of the course (95 and above is an A) leaves almost no room for error. Study the practice problems and the problem sets well to make sure you do well on all the assignments.
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard! If you are interested in medicine, you will love this class. The patient cases are so interesting and they make what you're learning feel relevant. Kiran is awesome.
This is the easiest way to get your biochemistry requirement done
This class is super chill and helpful for the MCAT.
Great course in foundational biochemistry! Review lectures and go to office hours and you can get a lot out of it.
Definitely one of the best courses I have taken here.  Amazing professor really made the course worthwhile though I don't know what it will be like without him.
This is a wonderfully run class. Everything is very clear and the 25x format is super chill. Kiran is always present at section and gives extremely helpful feedback. If you do the work, you will understand the material and do well.
Kiran is funny and explains biochem very clearly. The course is incredibly organized and there are many opportunities to test yourself with the material (psets, practice problems, patient cases) and learn the material (live lecture, transcripts, slides, etc). Great way to do biochem requirement!
this is a great class for premeds and it helps prepare you for the mCAT
The course is doable and enjoyable, but the high concentration of premeds and the structure of sections make the course feel competitive.
This class is great- one of the easiest pre-med classes I have taken and I still believe I learned a ton from Kiran. This course does not have unrealistic expectations and the tests are all very fair (literally straight from practice problems and psets).
The best biochemistry course on campus. The course teaches challenging material but Kiran lays it out so clearly and concisely that it becomes incredibly easy. SCRB 25's section was one of the best I've encountered in a science class. Applying course concepts to real life cases is incredibly interesting and rewarding.
This is a straight-forward class that requires minimal work most weeks, but, if you have a tough time memorizing information quickly (like me), it will become a significantly greater workload the week or two before exams. The class is purely memorization based except for case studies introduced in section, which synthesize the information to some degree. Sections are the heart (and most fun part) of the course- lectures are pretty much just sources of information and are not particularly engaging. Overall, if you need to learn biochem for the MCAT, I strongly recommend taking it. Otherwise, there are more exciting classes in the life sciences out there.
This class is amazing! Likely the best of all the pre-med requirements
This is a great course. Unfortunately, Kiran won't be leading it anymore. But overall, great lecture and section components. Problem sets were pretty easy. Midterms were pretty much straight from the problem sets and practice problems. Definitely a great course for its low workload and ease of grade.
Everything is so straightforward and there are no surprises, so as long as you take the time to learn everything, you'll be rewarded.
Outstanding course. The course materials are second to none. Kiran is second to none. One of the best & understanding professors on campus.
Get ready to memorize a lot of random facts. Orgo familiarity helps. Otherwise, manageable workload
