THIS COURSE WAS HANDS-DOWN THE BEST COURSE I'VE TAKEN AT HARVARD. Professor Arlotta is absolutely incredibly and generates so much enthusiasm for the course material, and the discussion-based format of lecture really teaches you to think differently
This course is great course, but the tests are a bit difficult so definitely shop it!
Paola is a great lecturer; the concepts in this class will make you think about neurobiology and the plasticity of our brains. Not very rigorous assignments and the midterms are very SCRB 10-esque.
Thinking class with a low workload for most of the semester. I learned a lot and found it to be very enjoyable. Course staff was great and accessible. NOT a good class for your typical frosh or sophomore. If I didn't have research background and undergrad tier background in neuro + scrb I would have found it to be much more challenging to engage with the course material. But anyone with the desire can pick up the background material quickly at the start of the semester and get a lot out of this class
This is a great class! Professor Arlotta cares deeply about the course and about her students. The course material is super interesting, and the teaching team really work together to help students think through science and experiments and big ideas. Definitely my favorite class this semester.
Wonderful class, very interesting material, super engaging & energetic teaching team. You learn how to think like a scientist - applying experimental techniques to answer questions. Exams are fair and based on experimental design rather than memorization. Labs are awesome too!
They could've appealed to the non-scrub concentrators more.  This course was supposed to fulfill a neurobiology requirement but the course assumed a lot of prior knowledge that wasn't clearly explained in class. It wasn't enough to offer a class outside of the normal class time to go over the basics.  The course shouldn't fulfill a neurobiology requirement if the exams do not test neurobio knowledge but instead scrb knowledge.  The material was very interesting but other courses offers a lot of the same neurobiology knowledge without the exams. If you are a scrb concentrator then you will like this course.
Having a good background in SCRB is essential to doing well in this course.
This class is awesome! The teaching staff is amazing, the lectures are super interesting, and the labs are incredibly cool. Definitely take it.
One of the best classes I have taken here. A great combination of lecture and discussion about incredibly interesting topics. Professor Arlotta is great. I want to be her when I grow up.
Incredible course. Professor Arlotta is incredible and very open to free thought
This is the coolest class I have ever taken and I walked out of the class being a better critical thinker and more willing to feel comfortable with challenging myself. Professor Arlotta, Simona, and Ryoji are all really supportive so don't be afraid to ask questions! Definitely take this course!
Paola simona and Ryoji have more passion than any other teaching staff I have ever met. They really make this class enjoyable and accessible. The lectures are some of the most interesting I've ever had at Harvard. I highly recommend this class just to better understand the cutting edge science in regenerative and neurobiology.
Unless you already do research in neurobiology and know a lot about research methods this course will be unbelievably frustrating to you.
