Ask questions! Fernando is always willing to consider other parts of science that we don't talk about in the course specifically. I learned a lot that translated to my other courses and my lab research and helped to develop my critical thinking skills a lot more than the other courses I have taken thus far.
This course has been the most fulfilling class I have taken in college. It was very hard for me. But we read interesting cutting edge papers weekly, and I left the course feeling like I could actually understand them. Also, the weekly presentations helped me get over my fear of them. Dr. Camargo is fantastic and really wants the students to learn the material.
This is an awesome non-lab based class. The breakup of 50% lecture and 50% paper discussion is perfect for learning a ton of material while picking up the important analytical tools on the way. Take this class!
One of the best SCRB courses in which you will get to learn about and discuss hottest topics and pathways in stem cell biology
A strength of this course is the emphasis put on experimental design and problem solving instead of straight memorization of facts.
This course was a very exciting and interesting introduction to the field of regenerative biology; it included a lot of reading of papers that are seminal within the field, and went over a lot of incredibly interesting and clever techniques that I had previously never encountered.
Good class, could benefit from a bit more organization. But the professor and tf were all very approachable and happy to clarify anything that was unclear.
This course is amazing. Prof. Camargo is a very clear lecturer. He has an almost encyclopedic knowledge of the field. Also, the guest lectures are amazing, and you get to meet some brilliant researchers.If you're interested in regeneration and/or stem cell biology, this is a must take course.
This class is so so good. The material is fascinating. The small class size really facilitates discussion, and Fernando and Alyson do a really good job of guiding discussion with interesting and challenging questions. The paper discussions are engaging and really help you get better at critiquing bio papers. The workload is light, basically just reading 2 papers a week (~15-20 pages). This class will make you significantly better at thinking about biology (and science generally). Take it take it take it. It's fantastic.
This is a great survey of the field and is the best upper level out there! Take this class for a more intense SCRB 10 (aka SCRB 10 on steroids or with mutated YAP)! Beware, it is hard and requires you invest time in it.
There is not a lot of support for undergrads built into this course. There were essentially no practice problems which made studying for exams a bit more difficult. The course material is fascinating and you will learn a lot; however, I definitely don't recommend if you are trying to boost your GPA
This is a fun course that does a good job of exploring topics within regenerative biology at the level of basic concepts and both landmark and current research. Would recommend.
Great course, intersting topics, good discussions!
Very interesting subject and Fernando and Stephanie are obviously super knowledgeable and facilitate pretty good discussions. The guest lecturers are usually pretty interesting but it's not always clear what the most important (and testable) takeaways are. Could definitely use more support in terms of practice problems for the tests but was overall a good class.
This is a really solid SCRB class and you should definitely take it. Professor Camargo is great and really good at taking apart the papers discussed in the class to highlight their strengths/weaknesses. There are also some really cool guest lecturers.
Professor Camargo is very approachable and cares about the students. The course, however, presumes a intermediate to advanced stem cell biology background and often offers very little support in covering the basics that you may not have learned in earlier classes. If you're ready for this course, it's low-key but otherwise be careful.
This class was very interesting (and not only about limb regeneration) and expanded my knowledge of experimental techniques. It also helped me become better at reading scientific papers and presenting/discussing them. It helped me become a better critical thinker when it comes to experimental design. Great class and not a terrible workload. Fernando is also a great professor and really cares about his students!
