Professor Hsu is one of the best professors you will ever have. She is engaging and really knows how to explain difficult concepts clearly. This course is great if you want to learn more about how the SCRB10 concepts can be applied to medicine and treatments! Highly recommend this course as a must-take before you graduate.
This is a good class and has potential to be super cool. The teaching staff is great, super energetic and excited to teach. The class moves pretty slowly and the material is sometimes not very challenging. The workload is super low, basically reading a couple stem cell papers every other week. If you're looking for a chill, not very hard class, this is a good one to take. Again, the material is cool, but it was covered at a very basic level and thus didn't feel super fulfilling. The small class size is nice if people actually talk in class. The times we got good discussions going were probably the times I felt the most engaged and challenged in this class.
This is a really interesting course. You learn a lot about cellular cooperation and how this helps to keep your tissues and body functioning properly. Prof. Hsu is a fantastic lecturer - it's really easy to learn from her and to understand the material she's presenting. She does a great job of facilitating conversation and getting you to think deeply and critically about scientific experimentation. It was also nice to have a few guest lecturers. Prof. Scadden only taught 3 lectures this year, but they were interesting and he also did a good job of engaging with us and getting us to talk.
Great class because it is laidback and low work but interesting material. Ya-Chieh and Bing are awesome. It reminded me of a much more painless version of SCRB 10. No psets, midterm and final are fair (open notes! multiple anwers can be correct, just defend it!), two presentations are pretty easy and kind of fun, and that's all the work there is.
Ya-Chieh is a wonderful instructor. Her lectures are extremely engaging, and the class really allows you to think critically about experiments and their results. The class touches upon a broad scope of topics (e.g. asymmetric division, skin, cancer, etc.). I really enjoyed the course!
This is a very interesting class, but very challenging if you don't have an extensive SCRB background already.
The class is well designed and Professor Hsu is not only knowledgeable but also caring. She knows every individual student and is always open to talk. With regards to the class content, the things we discussed and learnt are all cutting edged and of great interests in the field. Overall, this is a very great course that I would strongly recommend to my classmates and friends!!!!!!
One of the best classes I've taken on campus so far. Ya-Chieh is an amazing teacher and the material is so so interesting.
Great class! The material is fascinating, and the teaching staff is incredibly kind and helpful. It's also wonderful to hear the guest lecturers speak about their amazing research.
This is an amazing course! Ya-Chieh and David bring in unique perspectives to the research process and the medical field, and it was overall a very enjoyable time! Ask as many questions as you can! There is so much to learn from them. Plus every student in the SCRB department knows that Kaitlyn is the kindest TF who is willing to help you at any time.
This is an absolutely incredible class; wonderful (and warmly taught); would highly recommend
I really enjoyed this class, primarily because the teaching staff were so friendly and welcoming. They seemed to truly care about teaching us the skills and information we needed to be better scientists and critical thinkers, and often de-emphasized the nitty-gritty details that I generally hate. Sometimes the expectations for us as students were not entirely clear, especially for the midterm and final, but I think that was a result of the course being so new and I think that this will improve greatly moving forward. Overall, great class!
Low workload, fun material (though disjointed at times). Ya Chieh is a wonderful person and professor and Kaitlyn does a good job of helping run the program. Scadden came for about 5 lectures. I personally would prefer of Ya Chieh just taught it all. Try to get to know all of the teaching staff because they are all great people.
Solid SCRB course and the professors and teaching staff are great. But didn't learn much that I felt was useful or you wouldn't have also learned from other courses. Final project was also a bit contrived and grading is not entirely transparent. Would recommend with these reservations.
Beautiful class! It builds on a lot of the concepts you learned in SCRB 10 (I wouldn't take it without SCRB 10, but no other background is really needed), and the material is really interesting. The class had really minimal work but was super approachable and I at least learned a lot and thoroughly enjoyed this. Highly recommend!
Very good class, reflects the soul of HDRB department. It focuses on you learning everything, not exams and grades. Some parts might feel a bit repetitive if you already have taken many other upper level SCRB classes (I took it senior spring).
I'm really glad I took this class, especially because it was a new class this semester. The professors are great- Dr. Hsu is very knowledgeable and enthusiastic, and really brings a great atmosphere to the class. Dr. Scadden is also an engaging lecturer. The material is interesting and challenges you not to just memorize information but also to think about how it applies to issues such as disease.
