This class is amazing! Rich is such an amazing professor and really cares about the students in the class. No homework only 2 quizzes, 2 group lab reports, and a final project. But everything is really fun and really easy to do well on. Rich also has a bunch of guest lecturers who are really amazing, accomplished, and interesting people. Awesome class. Highly recommend.
This class is great and Dr. Lee is wonderful. Not only is he engaging, but he is very interested in knowing the students.
Great class, one of the best ways to fulfill an upper-level SCRB requirement. Get lunch with Rich as often as possible, he's a great guy so he offers to get lunch after almost every lecture.
A gem course in the SCRB department. Relatively chill but you also get to learn a ton about things that are so relevant to everyday life. Rich is super enthusiastic about getting to know his students--which is always a plus. Highly recommend!!!
Really laid back, interesting course with a great professor
Well-taught class with great faculty. Professor Lee really cares about his students and wishes to interact with all of them.
TAKE THIS CLASS! best class hands down that I have ever taken here. And it is such a conversation starter and you know so much more about things you should just know about.
TAKE IT!!!! Seriously do whatever you can do to take this class. Clear your schedule, and don't schedule anything right after class so you can go to lunches with Rich. The material is so interesting - you learn all about diabetes which is so important in health right now. And even more importantly Rich Lee is the greatest professor you will have. He cares so much about his students and really wants to get to know you if you come to his lunches. Take it!!!
SCRB 175 is a great class if you love learning not only biology, but how biology is tied to the world more broadly. Dr. Lee is fantastic and super nice, and makes himself unbelievably accessible to his students, considering that he's also a practicing doctor and runs a super successful lab. Very low workload - throughout the semester, there's two exams, two labs you have to do some prep for, and the biggest piece is the project, which takes places over the course of the entire semester. There are also a ton of guest lectures, and you'll learn about everything from the drug market to patent laws.
Dr. Lee is really great and the guest lecturers are all very interesting. The first half of the course will be on the boring side if you've taken biochemistry, and the second half might be if you've taken a drug discovery/biotech oriented class, but if you'd like an introduction to both those subjects, this class would be great. I think this class also works better as a smaller (less than 25) person class, and it was quite a bit bigger this year, so that might be something to take into consideration if you shop it.
TAKE SCRB 175! Even if the topic seems narrow at first glance, it's amazing how applicable knowing about glucose metabolism is to other areas of science/daily life. I really didn't understand how the body fuels itself and how diabetes works, and taking this class totally changed that in a fun, interesting, and not too difficult way. Rich Lee is an amazing person, great lecturer, and a friend to his students. It's worth taking this class just to get to know him.
TAKE THIS COURSE!!! It's seriously great. Every single lecture is exciting and the information you learn is relatable to life. You get to hear from some really interesting guest lecturers. Professor Lee is so smart and his passion around the course material makes everyone really interested. If there is one science class at Harvard I would recommend, it would be this.
Have a meal with Dr. Lee. It is great for him to get to know you. The material on diabetes is really fun to learn. I would also tell them that he doesn't like answering too many emails. Also, since there were no formal office hours, you have to do a lot of self studying.
Rich is a wonderful professor who does a great job of making the material engaging and reminding you that it is really relevant to everyday life. There is no time when you're pointlessly memorizing things, but instead you're understanding the different levels of how glucose affects life. Definitely recommend it as a class to take if you have a lot on your plate and would like minimal work with great returns. The guest speakers are also wonderfully candid and great to hear from. The group project was an awesome alternative to having a final. You really learn a lot about what it takes to get an idea from thought to fruition (how hard it is!). Rich also has breakfast/lunch with every student at least once during the semester which is cool too.
This class is a gem.  It was interesting to me because I felt that all the topics were extremely relevant - metabolism is a part of everyday life, and diabesity is a literally massive problem in the United States.  I enjoyed the readings and most topics in the class, so if you find that your interests are aligned as well, then think about taking it! Get to know Rich and see how much you can learn in this class.
SCRB 175 is a great SCRB class!  Rich makes a real effort to get to know everyone and it really pays off.  It feels like a small class even though it isn't.  The material is very interesting and you really do learn a lot.  The group project is long but if you work on it regularly it's pain-free!  The guest lecturers (a lot as the semester goes on) are SO interesting!
I liked this course. I thought the workload was very appropriate. There are only two labs and they were pretty painless and interesting. The exams were also fair. The group project was great and I thought working with my group was really fun. The material is interesting (diabetes, obesity, policy, patents, drugs). It'd be a great class to take as a concentration requirement for SCRB or just as an elective. Rich is really nice and makes a great effort in making the class an enjoyable learning experience.
This class has a pretty light workload and presents some interesting facts here and there, but it is hard to see what ties the whole class together or walk away feeling like you truly learned a lot.
Please please take this class. Rich Lee is one of the best professors I have ever had and I learned so much! It is a super interesting class that will really change a lot of your conceptions of many things!
Excellent class. You learn so much and the class has a very low workload.
This course is a great class to take if you want to have a broad understanding of the diabetes and obesity issues in the world. It's a low workload, with two exams and a project that lasts the entire semester. You are assigned partners and get a chance to meet people you might not know otherwise. The class is mostly students who are interested in medicine, because it deals directly with the issues facing medical doctors or people developing medical treatments. We have guest speakers such as two patients of Prof. Lee, Prof. Melton, Prof Lee's brother who is a lawyer speaking about patent law, Venture capital investor, and drug development. These speakers help put the material we learn into context. It works well for your group to meet more frequently throughout the semester. Take advantage of Prof. Lee's willingness to meet and give feedback. Start reaching out to people early on in the semester if you'd like their help with your project idea. A realistic and smaller scale project is better than one that is too idealistic. You should spend a good amount of time preparing and checking over your pre-labs and labs, as they can be graded with attention to detail. The exams are not too difficult if you have a good grasp of the material. You will need to remember the section problems and their answers to do well on the exams.
This class is a great comprehensive way to understand glucose metabolism disorders. I would highly recommend taking this for your SCRB course requirement or even an elective
Take this class for Rich. Great teacher, really cares about his students.
Professor Lee is the best! He really wants to make sure his students are enjoying the course and I certainly did! I loved the interdisplinary aspect of this course. It was cool getting to understand the material through so many perspectives and the guest lectures at the end of the course were interesting! The lab component built on my understanding, and the final group project, though it took a lot of time because my team members were highly involved, was overall a good experience. I learned how to work with different people, and the group project built on my understanding of the topic. Getting to see what all the other teams were working on was also fun. Also, definitely go on the lunch meals with Professor Lee! Get to know him because he's so kind, and his stories are interesting!
It's an amazing class!
Final project is a lot of work but also lot's of fun. You learn a lot while doing it.
This is a great course if you're interested in learning about diabetes and related conditions. Rich does a great job of keeping the class interesting and relaxed.
You learn a lot about endocrinology and public health issues; get to have lunch with an awesome professor!
This was a fantastic class with a great overview of a variety of fields that you would not learn otherwise.
This class is absolutely amazing. It is the best class I have taken at Harvard, and that is all because of Rich. He is an incredible person and professor and he is really there to help us succeed - he really just wants you to learn and do well. I can't put into words how much this class has changed me - I wish there were more classes and professors like this at Harvard.
This class gives a wide-ranging view on the subject of diabetes - it is very interesting, and Dr Lee is absolutely amazing!
This course is great for both science and non-science concentrators. Rich is an incredibly knowledgable and supportive professor, who will introduce you to the fascinating world of glucose. This is an especially relevant course considering the global obesity epidemic occurring today.
Really great class - content itself is quite interesting and not too stressful. The atmosphere during lecture is usually on a light, low-key note. Really interesting guest lectures and patient visits. I came away with a much deeper and nuanced understanding of medicine and diabetes.
SCRB 10 at least.
This is a very interesting class--you'll learn a lot, especially from doing the group project!
I love this class. Rich cares so much about you and what you are learning both as a student and as a young adult who is heading into the future. A+ class. Great for understanding science and medicine in different arenas: law, business, etc.
Take it if you are interested in how the science of glucose works in the body, and how the way our society is structured affects health in ways relevant to glucose (ie: diabetes and obesity). It has a hard science component, and also a more public-health oriented lens if you are interested in that. The work load was manageable for me, and I was taking another SCRB class with this one, as well as applying to graduate school. The exams are really fair as well!
Rich is great! This course is super chill and very informative. The lecture slides are very helpful.
Dr. Lee is someone you want to take a class with. He is one of those professors who genuinely cares about his students. The course material is also really interesting, you learn about glucose from a variety of different perspectives (medical, society, biotech, disease). With metabolic diseases like diabetes and obesity becoming more and more of a problem in our modern world, this course is a really foundational course, for pre-meds and non-pre-meds alike. There is also a lab where you get to work with mice! Would definitely recommend.
This is a great class to take. Dr. Lee is fantastic and cares so much about his students.  I learned a lot about diabetes, obesity, and approaching scientific research and medicine more generally.  We had great guest speakers.  It wasn't an overwhelming amount of work and the expectations were fair.
A great class with a professor who truly cares about his students  he'll even "require" you to get lunch with him once! This level of dedication is truly unprecedented. The course itself is great, lectures are engaging, you get to do two labs with mice, and here's some "kick-butt" guest lectures.
Terrific class!! Rich is so enthusiastic about the subject matter and really tries to get to know everyone. Also, it's just called "Glucose" but there are so many aspects that it covers - from the basic biology through drug development and patent law. It's crazy!
Rich is amazing
This course was amazing.  Professor Lee is the nicest professor I have had at Harvard.  The course went at a perfect pace.  Everyone felt comfortable asking questions both in class and in section.  The atmosphere was just wonderful.  The material is not difficult, not easy either but really interesting which makes everything easy to remember.  TAKE THIS CLASS! I wish I could take it again it was that great.
This is one of the best classes that I've taken at Harvard. Rich Lee is a wonderful professor that really takes the time to get to know his students (grabbing a 1:1  meal or coffee with him is required in the semester!), while really bringing forth great breadth and depth of knowledge in biology, medicine, and innovation. The lab component is minimal, relevant, and enjoyable, and the exams were both very fair and actually a really great way to "tie up" the course. Be mindful that there is a semester-long project that will require a significant time commitment, but it's actually a lot of fun and you get to receive a lot of feedback from Rich.
Low work intensity course and the labs can be very interesting, but be in touch with the TF about the exam, since material can sometimes be unpredictable . Still overall rewarding course, and I learned a lot about how glucose is important in so many different avenues.  Hopefully future courses will work on making lecture more interactive. The group project was very fun!
Great lectures and interesting material. The grading is a bit tough by the TF but otherwise a great class.
Take this class! It's a relatively low workload class where you can learn about some really important issues and science that has important applications. The final project was also a lot of fun - quite a bit of work, but a really good experience. Rich Lee is also a great professor and makes himself really accessible to us.
The cool thing about Dr. Lee's  class is that you get to learn about a wide range of different topics through the lens of something specific - glucose. The most valuable things I gained from this course were: a deeper understanding of types 1 and 2 diabetes, experience working with mice in lab experiments,  knowledge of clinical trial design and the drug development process, and experience working in a group on the final project. More so than any professor I have had at Harvard, Dr. Lee is genuinely excited to get to know and help his students. It is refreshing to see someone so committed to helping undergraduates.
The course isn't hard at all though it is a bit disorganized in terms of what is covered in lectures. For a class on glucose metabolism, we actually talked relatively little about glucose regulation and metabolic disorders that involve glucose processing. Half of the course involved guest lectures from other fields that sometimes felt kind of random--but they were interesting nonetheless. Rich also has lunch with the students at least once a week after class, which I thought was nice and a first in my years at Harvard. The lab component wasn't particularly interesting since I don't think there is much to learn from the experiments we did--I can think of more interesting experiments through which the students could learn something novel instead of just looking at the effect of insulin on blood glucose, and diet on insulin effectiveness. Overall, it's a good class in terms of workload. I didn't do any of the readings (didn't find them interesting since they didn't offer anything in addition to the lectures--just reviewed ideas covered in lecture) and I did well in the course so if the readings remain the same, you can get by without them. For exams, memorize the slides. For the proposal, working in a group setting was the hardest part so if you have a good group, shouldn't be a problem. If you want an easy senior year class, by all means, take this class. But if you're looking to learn interesting and new things that are inspiring, I would look at one of the other SCRB classes.
Great class, rewarding not too difficult, plus Dr. Lee is great mentor.
This is one of those classes you come to Harvard to take. Dr. Lee is hands down the best teacher I have encountered yet. He got lunch with the class every week after lecture, made a point to get a meal with each student individually, and is just a genuinely nice person who is invested in the well-being of undergrads. He is also a fascinating person and very accomplished researcher with plenty of interesting things to say about his own research. The course material is very interesting- it is less technical then I had expected and more about obesity and diabetes than about glucose itself, but I thought every lecture was fascinating. There are also some great guest lecturers near the end of the course, and the mouse lab was a lot of fun. To top it all off, the workload is low and grading is pretty fair. All in all, this is a very relevant and worthwhile course, and I could not recommend it more. It also gave me some good dining hall conversation material.
Get to know Professor Lee and Sze.  They are really helpful.  Start the project early and really try to think through your first proposal.
Prof. Lee might be the friendliest professor you've ever met! The lecture material covers a broad and multidisciplinary range of topics, from the biochemistry of glucose metabolism to the societal impact that diabetes and related maladies have had on us. Definitely worth shopping.
This class has an incredible depth of topics from the developmental biology of the pancreas to biotechnology venture capital. Make sure you are on top of the readings and the assignments of the class as they can accumulate if they are not taken seriously. Overall this is a wonderful course that really shows you how research, medicine, and business come together.
Take this class to understand obesity and diabetes from many perspectives and to interact with a professor who cares about his students.
This course is very well taught and is extremely interesting and relevant to current health issues in the US and the world.
The class incorporates many interesting perspectives on glucose and its role in the body, however I'm not sure how much I ended up learning in the class that I hadn't learned in other classes that had covered metabolic diseases. Still, Professor Lee is very friendly and took the time to have lunch with our class after almost every class all semester. Try to get as much feedback on assignments as you can because you might otherwise get slammed for things you didn't know you had to incorporate, or for minor formatting things.
An absolute gem of a class! You will learn so much throughout, and Prof. Lee and Sze are fantastic. They both really make an effort to get to know the class individually in a way no other class I've ever taken did.
While this class may definitely seem like a great way to fulfill a SCRB requirement, or an easy elective, it is not. Glucose definitely was not difficult in terms of the material presented, but it was very poorly organized and the expectations for exams, lab reports, and the project were not laid out clearly at all. The information was definitely interesting, but studying for the exam was difficult because it was not made clear exactly what you would be tested on. Rich and Sze (the TF) were great people, but I cannot say they were the best educators. Rich hosted class lunches every Monday and Wednesday, and this was great as we were able to get close to and develop a relationship with the professor outside of class, but beyond this, I can't think of any single great point about this class.
This course is the best.  Rich and Doug are outstanding teachers and people, and they push you to think about the subject matter on several different levels at the same time in a way that most Harvard classes do not.  It doesn't require too much work except for when big assignments roll around.
This is a well rounded course that will introduce you not just to research in a field that will soon grow exponentially but to many of the aspects other than bench skills necessary to be successful in medicine and molecular research. The professors are excellent but demanding. This class really makes use of Harvard's resources.
The course gives an excellent overview of diabetes ranging from biochemistry to law. If you're looking for a focused, science-oriented class, this is not it. Also, be ready to work with a group not of your choosing for the final project.
Great class, professors are fantastic, learned a lot, covered some of the same things early on in the course as later in the course, exam questions are sometimes somewhat random and unexpected, lab reports are not very useful, first lab was good to do second lab seemed redundant
Reasonable workload, fantastic teaching faculty, and a lot to learn from the course. Exams can be hard to prepare for given that the course is new, but will likely improve next year. Highly recommended for anyone with an interest in learning about glucose and diabetes from scientific, technical, medical, and political points of view.
The dynamic duo, Melton and Lee, are amazing lecturers. I highly suggest this class if you want an introduction into the complex disease of diabetes. Guest lecturers this year were mindblowing ranging from the ex-president of Novartis to a patent lawyer (consistently on the top 50 lawyers in America) with 4000 lawyers in his firm. We also had two diabetes patients come in and relate to us their experiences- this patient interaction was very touching, perhaps the most memorable experience I've had in a class this semester. Highly recommended-
This was a great class with enthusiastic professors. It has a very interesting interdisciplinary approach that worked well.
This course is a great broad-spectrum course which offers a great view of how product development occurs and how the scientific background provided in other courses informs downstream elements often not covered in science classes. The guest speakers are excellent. The course suffers from none of the kinks and disorganization normally expected in a course's first year, but instead belies a great deal of organization, effort, and planning.
This course provides a holistic and realistic view of scientific research and medicine in diabetes, covering from the molecular mechanism of the disease and its epidemiology to patent law and pharmaceutical business related to diabetes treatment.
This is a great class regardless of whether you're interested in nutrition and obesity, stem cells, or drug development! And the professors are wonderful and always engaging.
This is a great course and teaches you things about science and medicine that most undergraduates don't know.  There are also patient visits which are really exciting and put the course material in context, and really involved labs that give you experience working with mice.
If you are interested in diabetes or how to apply stem cell biology to disease therapy at all, take this course. Amazing professors who will tell you about their cutting edge projects in the field, awesome talks by diabetes patients, easy and reasonable assignments and tests.
Perfect opportunity to learn about glucose, a molecule so relevant to our society, from two amazing researchers/lecturers in a small, seminar environment. Reminder of why I pursued science at Harvard!
