It requires a lot of reading, but it is definitely worth taking. Professor Macklis is enthusiastic and engaging.
If you like to get to know faculty and like discussion based classes definitely take this class. It is taught in a very different way to your typical lecture class, but you learn a tremendous amount.
This course was one of my favorites throughout my college career. Prof. Macklis is a fantastic course head - he explains things clearly, makes the class as Socratic as possible, and really pushes the students to come to a deep understanding of the material that culminates in a cool final project to integrate ideas together in a really exciting way. Prof. Macklis makes it a priority to teach how scientific ideas exist in the context of other related discoveries, technology, culture, and sometimes entirely separate fields. Hes stellar at showing students how to be a real empiricist with ideas and always take the step of thinking about how one could test their beliefs. The class is centered on big conceptual frameworks for what can go wrong in the central nervous system, and what ways, inspired by nature and otherwise, might be able to fix those things. Rather than handing students a laundry list of transcription factors, small molecules, or other incomprehensible acronyms to memorize, this class is about becoming a scientist. You will come out from this class with a deep understanding of the motivations and mechanisms behind central nervous system repair/regeneration, as well as an understanding of what its like to dive deeply into the history and progression of a field to truly understand its present state, and where its headed in the future.
This was a very interesting course with a manageable workload. Definitely try to do the readings before class, because it makes contributing to discussions and understanding the material presented by Professor Macklis much easier. The final project and exams were difficult, but the grading was very fair.
Professor is an expert in his field and structures his classes such that we are exposed to expert, nuanced information. Final project was a bit difficult to work around due to unclear requirements, but teaching staff is very supportive. Alex and Kadir are both fantastic!
Take this class! If you are at all interested in the history and current state of research in the field of neural regeneration, you will not be disappointed. Professor Macklis is extremely knowledgeable and passionate about the topic, which really shows throughout the semester. Although the course is not very demanding in terms of workload, you definitely leave class feeling like you learned a great amount. Think of it like your weekly casual conversation about neural regeneration, except with a pioneer in the field leading the discussion.
This is an excellent course for anyone interested in neuroregenesis. My enthusiastic recommendation does come with one caveat however. This course does not baby it's students, rather, you are much more independent in the learning process. You are expected to do the readings, and if you don't (we all have those weeks sometimes!) you'll be pretty lost during the discussions. That said, if you keep up with the readings and pay attention to what is being said in the class, you'll find that this is one of the most interesting and exciting courses in SCRB/Neuro. Professor Macklis is INCREDIBLE. He's clearly exceedingly good at what he does, but more importantly, his approach to teaching is just awesome. He prioritizes creativity in the scientific approach, but never compromises on the rigorous burden of proof that the modern scientific community holds. He's also just extremely kind and generous with his time and I have had extremely meaningful conversations with him over the semester. If for no other reason, you should take this course just to get to know this amazing scientist and wonderful person.
Although the material is really cool, Professor Macklis' conduct does not always feel fair. He sometimes made me feel very shy and unable to participate. I wish the classroom environment had been more inviting.
The class has interesting material, but lacks structure. Oftentimes you can feel lost and grading can be unpredictable because you aren't sure of the instructions. Nonetheless, the small size of the class is nice and how much you take out truly depends on how much you put in, especially in this class. There are also interesting and insightful guest speakers. Ultimately, I recommend it with reservations.
With a bit more structure, this course would be a home run.  Despite the overly laid-back feel, leading to disorganization and a bit of unnecessary stress, this course provides a fantastic, in-depth look at modern, present-day research in the field of CNS regeneration from an expert in the field.  While some lectures can be a bit dry and repetitive, the course does add some nice touches like guest lectures and patient visits.  The final project and the two midterms are really all that is required in this course, so it's a good course for a heavy semester.
This class sounds interesting but is actually kind of fluffy. I wasn't sure how to study for any of the midterms or how to prepare for the final project. My group was criticized harshly during the final presentation, and I felt the criticism was unfair.
If you like learning about the frontiers of neuroscience and regenerative biology through reading papers and discussing them, this is the class for you. It is heavily reading and discussion based, with limited structure otherwise. Professor Macklis is fantastic at providing scientific context, facilitating discussion, and guiding the trajectory of the course. After this course, you will fully appreciate the complexities and challenges in the CNS regeneration field, and you will be challenged to think outside of the box to devise new research strategies in your final project.
This class is heavily based on experiments, something I did not know going into it- working in a lab or taking SCRB classes previously is a huge advantage.
Take this course if the subject matter interests you and you will absolutely not be disappointed.
After taking this course, you'll understand so much cutting edge research that's being done on issues such as spinal cord injury and ALS. It does a great job of introducing the latest literature, bringing in background, and explaining of some of the classical experiments. Prof. Macklis is enthusiastic and encourages out-of-the-box thinking. He also brings in some fantastic speakers, including a Travis Roy (spinal cord injury patient) and visiting professors who share their own amazing research. Come prepared to ask questions and to take some intellectual risks.
Fantastic class!  You will learn not only a lot about the central nervous system but also the many ways to approach the tricky experimental problem of regeneration.  The emphasis is on helping you find the right questions rather than memorizing solutions--you will definitely come out of this course a better scientist.
It is a discussion based course which is great. But just shop it and make sure that Prof. Macklis has a better gameplan for this year. Sometimes it was really hard to follow him. If he can make sure he gets a more concrete lesson plan for every lecture, I can see this course being an amazing course again!
Incredible course with very cool material and an even better professor. No reason not to take this class
This class was split into two very different parts. The first half feels slow and like a lot of review for most students. That beings said, if you can get through the first half - the second half is extremely interesting. I loved learning about current approaches to regeneration. I also loved the final project - it was fun and allowed my group to think of really creative ways to tackle real problems in the field.
Unfortunately the worst SCRB class I have ever taken. I will never take another.
If you're a SCRB person, you may find this class a little tedious. Many of the concepts were introduced in SCRB 10. If you're from neuro, this class is great for you.Do the readings only if you have time.
I found the class interesting and learned quite a bit about neurobiology and the regenerative restrictions to it. It is most beneficial when you can do the reading.
There is A LOT ( too much) development(1/2 the class). The exams are typical SCRB exams and the class was always rushed. If you have no neuro background (no MCB 80) it would be very interesting. For others, the 2nd half of the class may make it worth it (the techniques for repair and regeneration were awesome) just be prepared for the beginning. Macklis is nice, he seems to go off on tangents a lot and has some problems with time management. There was a lot of reading, the second half was interesting enough that you would want to read it. We also ran out of time for cool things (brain machine interface) while focussing a lot of other experiments that were repeats of earlier work with a slight change.
If you have an interest in developmental/regenerative/general neurobiology and are willing to do all of the readings and be prepared to actively participate, this course can be for you, as it was for me, one of the best course experiences at Harvard. The material is exceptionally interesting, Dr. Macklis is a fantastic and extraordinarily knowledgeable instructor, and the type of scientific thinking that is fostered is really, truly valuable. An overall amazing experience, I was sad for it to end. One of those golden mixtures of interest, challenge, and fun.
This is one of the best SCRB/neurobiology advanced courses for undergraduates out there.  Not only do you learn about the history behind the contemporary work on mammalian CNS regeneration and repair, you read the cutting-edge of what is currently being done to address such problems.  The final project of the course really frees you to go wild with your creativity to solve an important neurological problem of your choosing.  This project was definitely one of my favorite academic assignments in my Harvard undergraduate career.
I personally really enjoyed this class and got a lot out of it. The material is very interesting and the course tried hard to get students to think scientifically about the concepts in the field and engage with them seriously. However, I think you need to put in a lot more effort than is expected to get something out of it. You don't have to technically do too much to do well grade-wise. The exams aren't challenging, there aren't that many assignments during the semester itself, you don't HAVE to do the readings, and the final project is pretty easy to enjoy doing. However, if you choose not to do the readings and not to participate in class, you're not going to learn much and I think the course will feel like a waste of time. Lectures can also be pretty frustrating. Macklis is absolutely brilliant, but he repeats stuff a lot and at the beginning of the course, it can feel you've spent a month and a half on introductory material. If you're not interested in the material and not putting forth the effort to learn something, you will be very frustrated.
The material in this course is undoubtably fascinating. The course is slightly unorganized, but I definitely think this course is worth taking.
It is only at the end of the year that you realise just how much you have learned and how much you have been shaped by this class. You will discover so many fun facts you didn't know, or begin to questions things you considered fact before. Professor Macklis is one of the most engaging teachers I have met, he really cares about this class, how you feel about it, and how satisfied you are with the way the course is run. It's a good class, you should take it!
Excellent class that focuses on concepts and ideas more than detailed facts - definitely take it if you're at all interested in CNS development/regeneration
Macklis is very approachable. Little to no memorization required, not a very taxing class. Some interesting papers. Sometimes lectures can be slow and redundant.
I'd recommend the class: it's fun and you learn a lot; especially  about experiments. Prof Macklis and the teaching staff are really friendly, and it's not too stressful.
you have to come into this class ready to play your part.  no dogging it in the background.
It's cutting edge material presented in a way that will stay with you for awhile.
very good course and fun as well!
Not as fulfilling as I had hoped.  The midterms aren't bad.  Mainly just knowing what kinds of experiment you could set up.
Really interesting way to look at the past and future of research in neuroregeneration and repair.
This class is interesting only if you are interested in development and the nervous system.  It is very low-work though.
This course is a fantastic overview of what is currently known about nervous system development and repair.  The material is challenging but it is also very straightforward and well-presented.
SCRB180 is an interesting class - I would break it down into four modes: developmental biology, neurobiology, stem cell biology, and experimental design. I would not universally recommend SCRB180. Sophomores would probably benefit the most from the class--I imagine it would be a nice change from big lecture courses, and the class certainly touches upon many relevant scientific topics and issues. Students who lack extensive lab experience would also benefit from the introductions to many techniques. I would not recommend this class to anyone who has taken LS2, MCB80, other neurobiology electives, and works in a lab all together unless he or she is just looking for a comprehensive review.
I would only recommend this class if you're interested in the material... not as just an elective. But if you have interest in regeneration of the mammalian nervous system - don't miss this class, it's a must!
Great class. It has its quirks and it kind of disorganized but hte grading is fair and the teaching staff is generally nice. That being said, make sure you find ways to participate in class
One of the best advanced neurobio courses
This class presents a lot of very difficult information in a way that makes it much easier to understand. It also really gets you to think about how to solve problems in the nervous system. Very good class.
This is a pretty easy way to fulfill a requirement. The science isn't overly vigorous, but it's an enjoyable class.
SCRB 180 is an awesome course with an awesome teaching staff. If you would like to learn about the cutting-edge research going in in nervous system repair and regeneration, you will undoubtedly learn it from the best in this class.
Although I was intimidated by the class format at first, I really grew to love the class, and I'm glad I took the class. I've learned so much from taking the class that I would not have been able to learn from reading a textbook or some papers. I would definitely recommend taking this class if you can!
I really enjoyed the class - Professor Macklis did a great job teaching it.  It gave me a chance to take my knowledge from SCRB10 and apply it to a narrow field.
Amazing class- if you would like to know cutting-edge material about one of the most perplexing fields of study (as well as potentially most lucrative), then this is the class for you. Every class revealed more of the story of neurodevelopment/attempts and experiments to repair the nervous system. We also discussed key problems in experimentation/implementation of repair strategies.
A great introduction into the challenges posed by neurodegenerative disease and the potential ways to overcome them. Also a very easy class.
The material is very interesting - you develop a "toolkit" for therapeutic approaches to treating spinal cord injury/ALS and then learn about different ways these have been put into practice.  Very up-to-date information and very cool to learn about!
This was a really great class to learn about injuries and some neural disorders!  The class was very up to date and current in the field.  Some of the topics/techniques we learned about were only published months before.  MCB80 would be helpful, but non-biology majors I'm sure would do fine.  They just may need to keep up on laboratory techniques that this type of neural research utilizes, as the tests focus on using these techniques.
It's a great in-depth look at neuroregeneration, and Prof. Macklis is probably the best guide you can have to the historical and current research.  The guest speakers and the outside dinners are a big plus.  Although the class is a large seminar at 30+ people, that's way better than a lecture. It's a lot of material but not too stressful -- don't worry about the exams, but start trying to figure out the scope of the final project early on, because you're basically given a free rein.  Overall, highly recommend the class.
This class challenges you to take what you know and to ask new questions, which is a little different than the typical science course. To do well, stay on top of the section readings and broad concepts (axon growth and guidance, overcoming axon inhibition, neurogenesis) and make full use of the faculty and their expertise!
Jeff is a great lecturer, and you will be reading the best primary literature and discussing the most current research with a leader in the field. The class can be a bit repetitive in the beginning, but really comes together in the second half when discussion repair and regeneration. It will be most helpful if you have previous lab experience.
This is without a doubt the best science course I have ever taken at this school. It is very enjoyable and you learn cool stuff.
Professors Macklis and Arlotta are absolutely fantastic professors. Their passion for the class, the material, and students was front and center for the entire course. You'll definitely learn information that is at the forefront of Neuroscience. Be prepared to think critically about experimental design and and methodology.
The class is great, you'll learn a lot, and the professors are warm, knowledgable, and stimulating.
Excellent class. Recommend highly for anyone with any interest in current neurobiology research.
Very challenging course material but graded very easily & your hand is pretty much held throughout.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.  As a disclaimer though, I am doing work in regenerative neurobiology, so I naturally find the material very interesting.  However, I think that this still a great course for anybody to enhance scientific critical thinking.
Great professors, great for people with no knowledge of neural regeneration as it basically starts from the beginning.
SCRB 180 is a different kind of science class. If you are willing to think critically and use a problem solving approach to fix tackle difficult regeneration problems, you'll really enjoy this class. The professors really encourage you to think outside of the box and ask questions, which is very refreshing. Sections weren't the most interesting, but lectures were never boring being both informative and creative. I really liked the guest lecture by Miguel Nicolelis on brain computer interfaces. The class isn't work intensive, but it is "thinking intensive." Professor Macklis and Professor Arlotta are a great team and very supportive; take it! You'll learn a lot and have great time.
Unlike many introductory science courses, this class focuses on teaching students the big ideas and ways of thinking rather than to memorize the details. The professors are working very hard to improve this course. The readings are necessary for background knowledge, but are not necessarily directly relevant to the course material. The primary papers, on the other hand, are very important and useful to learn. The exams are a test of thought process rather than memorization. This is definitely a unique course, and you won't regret taking it.
a great, fun class, don't be scared if you haven't taken SCRB 10 or MCB 80!
This course is an incredible opportunity to learn about regeneration in the context of the nervous system.  Be ready to speak up in class, be creative, and think outside of the box.
This is far and away the best class I've taken at Harvard. Macklis and Arlotta are among the very few professors who realize that it is possible to teach WITHOUT assigning impossible amounts of reading and then reiterating it robotically for 3 hrs/wk. Far from it, they made the class engaging, the workload was completely manageable, the final project was really fun, and I learned a lot. It's refreshing to take a class where you don't have to memorize all the minutiae that you'll forgot the day after the exam anyway. Instead, we were encouraged to focus on the big picture, and I ended up learning a lot more with less stress. To sum up: This is a WICKED AWESOME CLASS! TAKE IT!
The course material is interesting, and if you have a solid foundation from mcb80, it's a great class.
There will be some topics that you may not understand as well as your peers in class, but there will be others that make sense intuitively that you can grasp onto and examine in great detail with success.
this is a great class -- tons of learning and thinking, minimal busywork and memorization. if you are at all interested in neurobiology, you should take it!
SCRB 180 is a great class.  Its a really engaging way of thinking about some of the scientific challenges of the future in a collaborative setting.
I'd say 3 things:-You'll learn a lot from this course, you'll see what an excellent course at Harvard is all about.- You'll get to develop a nice interaction with two brilliant Professors.- TAKE IT!
Take this class.
This is a great class. If you are interested at all in regenerative science, I highly recommend this class. You will learn how to think like scientists at the cutting edge of this field.
This class is has some very cool material. Interview with Travis Roy is good. Profs and TFs are all great people. If you pay attention and speak up in lectures you'll do great.
best class at harvard! it's a more paper/experiment based course. really pushes your critical thinking skills. professors and teaching fellows are really really awesome! they care a lot about what you actually learn and not about the grade. not like your average upperlevel mcb/scrb class. really unique and memorable!
Absolute best class I have taken at Harvard. Professors are amazing, course material is fascinating...any interested in Neurobiology should take this class!
It's a very fun course if you are a science person
SCRB 180 is taught in a discussion-based format, and it allows students to take responsibility for their own learning.  I enjoyed learning about the cutting edge of regenerative neurobiology from two leaders in the field. Both Professor Macklis and Professor Arlotta take interest in the students, and present past advances in the field along with pressing questions while encouraging students to be creative and push the limits of research.  We were also treated to a talk from Travis Roy, who became a paraplegic in a hockey accident, and learned about possible cures for many diseases and conditions.
For upperclassmen.
very interesting. a very different way of thinking compared to other courses. uses imagination
Speak up if you want to get a good grade! It also seems to be the only way to get any attention or sense of being openly remembered by the professors in class.
I was really unhappy with the course at the beginning of the semester; it didnt turn out to be the class I expected. However, I commend the teaching staff on really improving the course as the semester progress. It should be a much more solid class next year.
you'll definitely be engaged and challenged in this class!
Professors Macklis and Arlotta are a blast to work with and you learn some really fascinating things about revolutionary developments in neuroscience.
It was refreshing to take a science course at Harvard that really focused on thinking "outside the box" and on the big goals and logic behind the material, rather than memorization of a lot of molecules and proteins. The class has a very broad, strategic approach to the problem of CNS repair and regeneration, and it will really challenge you to think about what scientists know and what they don't know in new ways.
This class is a thinking class.
If you prefer your science classes to entail more than a list of things - definitions, experiments, facts - to be memorized and regurgitated, take this class.
If you are a neuro concentrator and are at all interested in developmental or regenerative biology, this is a must-take class.
this is a good class for those who want to learn about stem cell and regenerative research, though you should be prepared that this is not your typical, organized lecture course. large emphasis is on discussion, class participation, and coming up with your own experimental design. this was the first year taught, so the course was very unstructured at times.
If you are particularly interested in knowing few aspects related to neron regenerationMajority of grades will be participation based
This is a high level class taught by two of the top people in the regenerative neurobiology field.  Don't think you can breeze through memorizing things.  This is a class about thinking and solving problems.  how you get to your answer is the whole ballgame.
