Dr. Melton will change the way you think about biology and will challenge you to critically examine discoveries that you took for granted! An amazing course for everyone that wants to understand the wonders and the limitations of contemporary developmental biology.
This course requires you to read 2, 3, or 4 (usually lengthy) papers a week and then meet to discuss about them. You also have 4 written assignments and a final project. During class, Prof. Melton asks students questions about the paper and the whole time there's an uncomfortable pressure to answer right. Although I did enjoy reading the papers, I did not really look forward to class. Additionally, the assignments were not very clear as far as what was expected and were graded very unforgivingly. I would spend many hours on the assignments and then it turns out the Professor was looking for something completely different. I think the course was a good idea, but was not organized the right way.
I would tell students that this class is difficult but the most rewarding class I have taken at Harvard.  It is extremely interesting and really pushes you to think in a critical way and to think much more deeply about scientific literature, data, and the scientific process than you ever have.
It may sound like Melton is asking trick questions but most of the time he's not. There wasn't much guidance on how to write the papers, but they get easier to write after you do a couple.
An amazing course that really teaches you how to process primary literature.
The volume of work is not great, but you feel great pressure to perform well.  If you like Prof Melton and his style, he is fantastic.
This class is very interesting and I learned a lot. The class is a lot more writing than I anticipated and the level of difficulty of the assignments was high and often caused me much more stress than a lot of the other classes I was taking! Professor Melton demands high quality work and it is a little terrifying to not measure up to those standards. That being said, it was a great chance to challenge the way I think about science and learn to speak and write more clearly about scientific methods. I think the first time around there were a lot of kinks that will hopefully be worked out for next year. Professor Melton even told us that he learned a lot from the first test run and he has a lot of ideas about how to improve the class for next year.
You have to take this class.
It's a great way to get you to think like a scientist when you read paper (read it critically and skeptically). Readings are important papers in developmental biology, which can be a problem sometimes because you'll have to read papers from the 50s or earlier, which are written much differently than how we're used to today. The assignments are definitely. manageable, but the directions were confusing, but he may change a lot about the assignments by the next class.
I learned more from this class than any other upper-level SCRB elective I've taken so far. Unfortunately, Professor Melton has high expectations and a hard grader. I hate to put so much emphasis on grades when I have learned so much from this course, but as a pre-med, I do care quite a bit about maintaining a high GPA
you should DEFINITELY take advantage of the opportunity to be in a small seminar class with a leader in the field of developmental biology and your classmates (potential future leaders in the field)! doug is awesome!!! also i was really impressed by my classmates - everyone was so smart and unafraid to ask questions and challenge each other. be prepared to participate every class, which is what i like - you i will never fall asleep, and i often left feeling excited and curious.
This class is a fun discussion class with occasional short essays. Be prepared to be cold called. Intense thinking will ensue every time, so don't go to class unprepared or too tired.I would definitely recommend this course for those people who want to learn how to read scientific papers.
This was one of the best and most thought-provoking courses I have ever taken. Professor Melton is the most amazing and knowledgeable discussion leader/teacher.
It is an incredible opportunity. Professor Melton is inspiring and I have the utmost respect for him. It really made me think about things that I thought I knew from SCRB 10 at a much higher level of complexity and understanding. In hat same vein, this course is much more challenging than SCRB 10, if not in content - in assignment. It asks you to synthesize your own ideas and if taken very seriously can give you important skills for life and your future career.
I loved loved loved this class. It was a great way to get to know Doug Melton, one of the most influential people in developmental and stem cell biology to date, and to know your peers. The papers you read are amazing and so integral to a foundational understanding of your concentration (if you're an HDRB concentrator). They really changed my way of thinking about experiments, taught me to both give the author some benefit of the doubt but have a critical eye, and taught me to appreciate the elegance of some experimental designs.
I loved this class. Prepare to read intensively, and in depth. It will not be a simple regurgitation of facts, but more of an analysis of the content of the papers as well as an analysis of the way the paper itself was written. What's great is that you don't learn just about what happened in these famous (or infamous) papers, but you learn what went into making this paper, how to evaluate for yourself if a paper is legitimate, and what kind of questions should be asked. Not only that, but you could say that this class is 2 hours inside Doug's head. You get to discuss (hear, and propose) awesome ideas that are based upon the papers read in class, and just see what Doug has to say. Often times you'll be asking questions that have no answers, but are so, SO cool to discuss. Take this class.
The unique point of view that Prof. Melton offers on the subject matter is an invaluable addition to your scientific studies.  Even if you are not a SCRB concentrator, this course will generate genuine enthusiasm about biology and the history of science.
Come with an open mind, ready to be shaped by Prof. Melton! SCRB 110 is an incredible opportunity to engage in the literature that set the foundations for developmental biology. Granted, some of the papers were difficult to read (e.g. because of the writing style), but it was nice to get acquainted with them - almost like a history lesson! You will become comfortable with never truly knowing the correct answer, but also become more capable of grappling with such uncertainty!
A strong background in molecular and cellular biology and developmental biology is absolutely necessary for this class. This means having thought about or worked with these topics at a higher level than SCRB10. A familiarity with lab procedures and experimental design will give one an edge when reading the assigned papers. Finally, superb writing skills are essential for success on the essays.Take this class, but be prepared to work!
It is such a privilege being able to take this class with Dr. Melton -- the class feels like a seminar in which we get to have an inner look at Melton's thoughts and ideas. Every week you read foundational and important scientific papers from a specific topic (pluripotency, reprogramming, maternal effect, etc.) and then come to class ready to discuss and answer tough and unanswerable questions. Melton is not afraid to cold call randomly, but as long as you have read and thought about the papers, it won't be too harsh. If you want a small, seminar-like class with ~15 other people in which you discuss the basics of developmental biology and the huge vast space in biology that is still unknown -- I highly recommend taking this. (The class also involves writing three scientific essays and a final project, but no final!)
the grading is very tough so do not worry if you are not doing great on the papers! go to kaitlyn's office hours she is very helpful
I loved this class - it was great to hear Professor Melton give context for these milestone papers and guide discussion to think deeply about scientific evidence, bias, how to ask the right questions, and how to cut through the noise to reveal the truth. I also loved all the tangential conversations about water bears, genetic thought experiments, and moral considerations - they were as valuable, if not more than, the structured discussions about the papers. I'm sure this will be one of my most memorable classes at Harvard.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard.  It's an amazing opportunity to sit in the same room as a world renowned scientist and not only have him question you about your beliefs, but also question him.  Every class is engaging, thought provoking, and really informative.  If you have any interest in science, especially the evolution of developmental biology, this class is a must take.  It's not easy, and grading is VERY tough.  But it's worth it.  Also, Kaitlyn's the best TF you'll ever have at Harvard.  Go to her office hours every week as they more than prepare you for the class discussion.
Great course; if you liked SCRB 10 and would like a deeper understanding of how developmental biology progressed throughout the 20th century, this is a great class.Doug Melton really makes you think about things you never considered before, and is overall a great professor. The only thing is that the class REALLY DEPENDS on you and your peers to keep the conversation going; don't expect to come to class and just sit there because if that's the case then nobody will get anything out of the class.
This is one of the only classes I've taken in which you have the opportunity to discuss some of the biggest topics in developmental biology with one of the most intelligent and knowledgable scientists in the world. It will make you think about science in a totally new way!
Prepare to get wrecked on occasion, but this course is worth it. I think if you come in with an open mind, you'll grow to deeply enjoy the experience. It's very different from other science courses here; this class is not so much about building knowledge but more about learning to communicate effectively.
This class is probably best for second semester seniors. For me, the most difficult part of the class was contributing enough to class discussions, as a major component of the grade is participation. However, the papers are all really interesting and definitely ones that anyone interested in developmental biology should read at some point, and Professor Melton is very good at directing the discussion and making one think about the papers in the context in which they were published, rather than the knowledge or techniques that we have since developed.
This class pushed my thinking more than any other course I've taken at Harvard. Professor Melton is absolutely wonderful at facilitating a difficult but fruitful discussion (and his asides are always amusing). The material can be a little daunting at times, but Kaitlyn hosts office hours before class that are AWESOME. She clearly answers any questions and explains any concepts that you may have had trouble grasping, leaving you far more prepared to engage with the class discussion. As you're going through and doing your readings, always keep the big picture in mind and that will take you a long way. The essays are particularly challenging and it is at times hard to know exactly what is expected, but Kaitlyn is also available to meet individually and run through a paper with you if you need extra help. All in all, a great course that I highly recommend taking.
I don't think this class is for everyone.  The cold-calling/discussion style did not bother me (although sometimes I felt that certain students monopolized discussion) but I know that other people felt uncomfortable with the style of class.  Also, the grading is hard, but it does provide an opportunity to really improve upon writing about and discussing scientific papers that I have not found in other classes where I could get by with sub-par writing as long as I got the scientific facts right!
I'd give the course a B/B+. It wasn't well thought out and the discussion always strayed from critically analyzing the papers we read for that week. Professor Melton is obviously very smart, but puts little preparation into each week, assuming that his genius alone is good enough to teach with. Learning requires structure and guidance which this course does not provide. You will learn how to writing scientific paper summaries and critiques which are graded very harshly, but actually teach you something. They were the most worthwhile part of the course, not the seminar itself. Also, 35% of the grade is participation and the TF will be marking every comment you make and putting it into one of three categories. So I would participate not because you love to participate but because someone is breathing down your neck (I believe this led to a lot of bad participation that reminded me of high school). I recommend with many reservations, but Prof Melton is someone worth getting to know and is personally a very interesting and knowledgable person. The seminar tends to be about 20 people, which is way to big as TFs are calling for sections of 12.
This class was great. It's basically a 2 hour discussion of whatever papers were assigned that week. Prof. Melton is brilliant and does a great job leading discussions, and the students who choose to take the class create a dynamic learning environment. It's not meant to be an easy class so you can't just coast through it, but the workload is manageable and interesting. It's a great way to touch on many of different aspects of developmental biology, and it's really neat to actually read old significant papers.
The course content is as interesting as it comes. Being able to interact with a member of the scientific community as prominent as Professor Melton is an opportunity that doesn't present itself frequently, and I highly recommend taking this class if you can. Office hours are very helpful in promoting understanding of the readings. The writing assignments are not numerous and really help one develop one's scientific analysis and writing skills. With that being said, the grading of the assignments is on the harsh side making good papers receive mediocre grades. The amount of participation expected is also incredibly high. Read the papers, be prepared, and don't be afraid to ask questions. Take this class if you can. You won't regret it.
Very interesting but you will struggle for a good grade
Must be comfortable participating in class, which equates to saying the first thing you could think of and which may or may not translate to anything meaningful for discussion (in often cases, the latter). Expect more assignments to be added as the class goes on. Be VERY comfortable with being VERY uncomfortable. Take this course if you want to walk away every day asking yourself why you took in the first place and not knowing what you were supposed to learn that day. Go to office hours, because they're pretty much mandatory and not helpful. Don't even raise your hand when you're going to speak, just blurb something out since the same people get called on all the time. If you're not comfortable being questioned in front of the entire class and having your soul crushed when you participate, don't take this class.
Take this class if you can! It truly embodies what science is all about. I learned how to read, critique, and discuss scientific papers, under the guidance of a world-renowned scientist. The small classroom experience and interactions makes this an engaging seminar. Doug is brilliant, and is an expert at guiding beautiful discussions. If you are an HDRB concentrator, this course will teach you what HDRB really is all about above the level of SCRB10.
The class is interesting, but it is important to know that Melton has VERY high expectations of students but isn't too great at communication what those expectations are. However, he was receptive to feedback and this improved throughout the course.
