This is a very interesting course, and the material we learn is relatively new and still developing. That said, it is pretty research-oriented (e.g., research techniques, experiments, etc.). I think that is incredibly valuable, but you should know that before enrolling, especially if you don't like research (or if you love research). I did not find the class easy, but there are resources available (office hours), and the lecture notes are very thorough and helpful. However, know that the tests will probably be different from anything you've ever taken. It's a lot of experimental design. You can't just regurgitate information; you really have to understand the core principles and techniques (especially the cre/lox and tet systems!!!). Don't get too hung up on minor details, though some of them do end up showing up on psets and exams. Just take the course seriously and put in the work - it's a really valuable and interesting course!
SCRB10 has hands-down been my favorite class at Harvard. Biology courses have a bad rep for being focused on making you memorize information you could just look up in a book. SCRB10 is the exact opposite. It has made me a more critical and creative thinker and problem solver. Rather than asking what role a specific gene plays in a pathway, most of your assessments will ask you to design an experiment or genetically engineer a (hypothetical) mouse to solve a real-world problem WHICH IS SOOO COOL. It is by no means an easy thing to do at first but I think SCRB has really made me a better student and a better scientist. Also the teaching staff is fantastic! Bill is hilarious and super accessible to students, especially because he is also the HDRB concentration advisor. All of the TFs are super interesting people who are teaching because they want to be and not because they have to be. I don't think I could have had a better experience in this course -- and that comes after I had been disappointed by lack-luster introductory bio courses freshman year. The course material is also SUPER INTERESTING and definitely the future of medicine. Also if all of the things we thought we about stem cells today turned out to be false, this course will still have been worthwhile because of how it taught me to think about research.
SCRB10 is a great course to learning about stem cell biology and wonderful to determine if you would like to concentrate in HDRB. It really solidified my interest in HDRB as a concentration and is a great class in terms of material, lecture, and section. The midterms are brutal though, make sure you study everything in depth and know the key conecepts. The midterms are too long. Psets are few, but difficult in getting completely right as the questions are open ended.
The course had two incidences of very inappropriate behavior, on the part of the course heads. First, during a lecture on puberty, they presented us with a picture of a pregnant 5 year old girl, to show that puberty is sometimes triggered early. While they warned us of a graphic image, they did NOT warn us that it could be emotionally triggering. I can't imagine how it would feel to be a student with a history of sexual abuse or rape and see that image, when I, as a person without a history of sexual abuse was quite disturbed. The lecturer passed over it very quickly, said something about "how unfortunate" it was that some man had had sex with a five year old and moved on with the lecture. The second incident was on one of the practice finals. A question contained significant unnecessary background material into a (implied) Nazi doctor who did human experimentation to "increase the birth rate of a particular race" and then continued the experimentation in a South American village. Though it was implied the course did not condone such things, and looked upon them as despicable, it is not material that should suddenly appear on an exam or a practice exam. For those students who are not white, or who are female, having exploitation pushed into your face is alarming and would disrupt the pace of test taking. As far as I can see the detailed background was completely unnecessary, and there are many other ways they could have asked the question they were testing on. I hope the course will respond to this feedback by taking measures to be more sensitive to such issues. Additionally, it has been found that
This is a great course. As someone not studying biology, but studying another science, I learned a ton about Stem Cell bio and feel confident about the stuff we learned. The course involved very little memorizing - its all about understanding concepts, which is a great model, I think. The lectures are interesting and insightful, and section is solid.
Definitely take this course if you are the least bit interested in stem cell / developmental biology.  It will give you a taste of the field without being too involved or difficult.
The majority of those who take this class are strongly considering concentrating in HDRB, so this class is required.  If you're a potential HDRB concentrator, it's still an interesting class.  The psets and exams are challenging, so it's important that you have a solid grasp on the material.
This course is really interesting, well taught, and well organized. The exams are a bit challenging, and you should develop a really thorough understanding of the lab techniques and how to design experiments. It's a bit of a demanding course, but I'd highly recommend it.
this is seriously the best class you will probably take at harvard
This course teaches you how to think scientifically (and critically), introduces you to cool material, and has an incredible teaching team. Hands down the best course I've taken so far.
Very interesting topic, but a challenging workload.
The class teaches you to think in a new way. Great introductory into the concentration and all lectures are based upon the experiments that lead to the discovery of whatever concept the lecture is about. Bill and Susi are the highlights of the course. Bill is a fun guy who enjoys teaching! Susi helps a lot by running the class and she gives great review sessions before the exams. She also makes the course so much easier for us by recording the lectures via voice recording and typing up notes for every lecture. Eggan is cool when he's there but he is only there for about 1/3 of the course. Bill is great outside of lecture too!
SCRB10 is an awesome course. It's by far the best science course I've taken here at Harvard. Many students come to Harvard with strong science backgrounds, and most courses offer a more detailed treatment of material that students have been already exposed to. Not SCRB10- it's all new material that's fascinating and also at the forefront of cutting edge research. The teaching staff is wonderful - Kevin is a great lecturer and a brilliant scientist although it's quite obvious that his time is primarily focused on his research. Bill, however, is amazing. He's a wonderful person to speak to about science and life, and a funny guy.A great part of this course is that it's not about memorization of facts and information but rather interpretation of data and experimental design. However, conversely, that does have a downside in that the exam questions are vague and often it's difficult to decipher what the instructors are looking for.But all in all, a great course!
This is a great class.  The material is fascinating and very intriguing.  However, there seems to be a disconnect between the professors and teaching staff.  I wish it were a little more organized on what the students need to know.  The midterms are very stressful because of little time to complete them but the rest of the course is great!  I would recommend it if you are considering a concentration in biology.
I will tell them that this class will help them learn so many things that we hear about medicine and medical research in the world today and do not know how they work.
I really like the course material. The content we learn is actually very fascinating and effectively introduces students to current cutting edge research. That being said, the exams are pretty challenging. If you're used to memorizing content for exams like most other bio classes, be prepared to change your studying method. This class does not focus on the factual content, but rather your ability to design experiments to test certain hypotheses (which is pretty hard especially under a time crunch during exams).
This is course is hard - get over it - but it's incredibly rewarding. You may not get that A or A- that you are dying for, but SCRB10 provides you with some of the most useful bio-science tools in the business. My favorite course that I've taken at Harvard. Also, Bill Anderson is an incredible professor. Get to know him!
Turn off student-mode for this course. You're not in a normal class, but almost at a threshold between a course and laboratory work, in that you'll want to be thinking in the researcher mindset, with a keen critical eye.
As a disclaimer, I took this class as an IB concentrator taking it for mid-level credit. I think it is a very well-taught class. Bill Anderson is an AMAZING lecturer, and Kevin Eggan's research is fascinating. The material is interesting and lectures are engaging; but the tests are pretty challenging because the emphasis is on experimental design, NOT material retention. The psets are hard too - treat them as take-home exams more so than a weekly pset, because there are only 3 and they are graded and weighted similarly to midterms. But overall, awesome class, would recommend!
The class material is extremely interesting, however be prepared to learn a new way of thing. Honestly, learning this way of thinking, designing experiments was very difficult for me. I'm taking O-chem right now and I thought O-chem was way easier. But definitely a good class if you want to go into research in the biosciences.
This class was the most amazing course I've taken at Harvard. It is not a ton of work because they don't give you stupid grunt work. However, it is not an easy course the exams and psets really make you think and test your understanding of the material. Bill is amazing. This course completely convinced me to concentrate in HDRB.
If you have any interest in biology and would like to learn about a brand new field from the scientists who essentially invented it, then SCRB 10 is perfect for you. Each lecture is beautifully laid out and so interesting, and it's such a privilege to learn from Kevin, Bill, and the wonderful TF staff.
LS1a, and if you don't haven't taken LS1b, like myself, you will struggle. You have to be cognizant of your lack of background, especially on genomics, and be proactive seeking extra help. Make sure to focus on experimental design. I got the exact same advice from upperclassmen last year, and they were right. The nick-picky details are less important than the experiments that are discussed in class. Make sure you know them cold.
Really hard but really interesting. But super hard to prepare for the exams
SCRB10 deals with much more interesting topics than LS1a or LS1b, but it also significantly more difficult. The tests and problem sets are often really frustrating because the hardest part about them is trying to figure out what the question is getting at. The teaching staff says that they understand that questions can be answered in different ways, and that you will receive credit for correct answers that don't match the answer keys if you explain yourself. That was not really the case. However, after requesting a re-grade it was possible to get points back for correct answers they hadn't put in the key. That being said, the majority of the lectures are interesting and sometimes engaging. You learn a lot about experimental methods and how researchers think.
The tests are super hard, but the material is so interesting that it's worth suffering through it.
Make sure you master the Cre and Tet systems! These are critical for all of the problem sets and exams, and they are the foundation of other experimental tests too. Make sure to utilize office hours, as Bill is amazing.
SCRB10 is a great class to take whether or not you're thinking about HDRB for two reasons: 1) it teaches you to think like a scientist AKA design experiments rather than just become a (temporary) storage room for science facts 2) you get to meet Bill Anderson, who is the GREATEST LECTURER OF ALL TIME and overall amazing guy/mentor.
This class is hands-down the best class I've taken at Harvard! It is definitely difficult and it's not easy to study for this class, but the skills that you will have learned by the end of the course will surprise you. The course also does a great job at de-emphasizing memorization and focusing on application, though you shouldn't be fooled into thinking that there is no memorization involved. To be successful in the course, you should re-do all of the section problems before the exam and put in a good amount of time going over your mistakes on the practice exams. Don't waste time memorizing pathways, and instead focus on learning the applications of techniques in different situations, especially how to apply Cre-lox and Tet on/off! Bill is absolutely amazing, really helpful, and accessible, so be sure to go to his office hours and get to know him.
This is an amazing class with fascinating material even though it is very hard to do well on exams.
Take this course! I absolutely loved this course from day 1-- it was very similar to LS1b and LS1a so it's not a far jump from these courses. This course teaches you a different way of thinking -- you'll need to learn the skills for problem solving and experimental design, but these are good skills to gain from this course. This course is also just so so cool -- you talk about stem cells and really recent scientific development and other interesting topics like aging or regeneration or enhancements! I was wary about continuing to pursue the scientific field before taking this class but now I know I want to go into the scientific field a bit more in depth now! The prof. is great! This class is perhaps one of the more challenging classes I've taken, but I don't think it's impossible -- the professors don't stress brute memorization but instead knowledge of the most important concepts and then ability to problem solve / design experiments. There are three psets, some writing assignments, and a couple of exams. It's not horrible and I feel like the teaching staff really wanted me to do well. Take this course!
Best introductory Biology class!
SCRB 10 has some of the most interesting material, and does not require too much work from you. However, the grading is still pretty hard.
Unless you are willing to study your ass off for the midterms and the final, don't take this course. The types of questions they ask, such as designing an experiment, require a lot of practicing in their type of thinking.
It's one of the best basic science courses at Harvard.
Definitely a good intermediate biology course if you are interested in HDRB or stem cell biology at all. This class will teach you to think more critically about how to go about designing experiments. The class is challenging but very rewarding.
you will work very hard to get above the mean for exams and problem sets and will probably still not get a great grade
You will learn lots of interesting things in this course! But be prepared to work very hard on psets and for exams since the material is as challenging as it is interesting.
challenging
This class is very different from other introductory classes I've taken. There is a great emphasis on experimental design and how to think of experiments in addition to learning new concepts.
This is one of the most interesting courses I have ever taken. I absolutely loved the lectures and really looked forward to attending them.
SCRB10 is a must-take class! All the lectures are really interesting and Bill is such an amazing lecturer! It's somewhat difficult to get used to the types of questions they ask on the test, but Bill and the TFs are always super helpful in office hours and the section handouts are good for practicing.
Although lecture material is interesting and the professors are great, other aspects of the course need improvement and make me hesitate to recommend it unless you're set on HDRB. Having research experience is a definite benefit for this class. Otherwise, it felt very abstract to learn in depth about very specific research techniques while having no lab component to the course. While it was interesting to learn about experimental techniques during lecture and how they're being used in stem research today, having to answer questions on designing experiments with these techniques we've never conducted felt very contrived, since real life research is so much more complicated than what a short answer question can offer. Exams and problem sets were very difficult, partly because of challenging concepts but largely because of the way questions were worded. It was hard to predict what Susi the preceptor, who writes all the questions, wanted exactly in her answers, especially for some questions that were very vague or hinged on the interpretation of one word. Grading on problem sets and exams was very harsh if you misinterpreted the wording or explained your answer in a different way, and often seemed to test how well you understand the wording rather than whether you understood the material. Not all of the teaching staff was good. Some of the TFs are really great, but others were not devoted to the course and don't really know what's going on most of the time. Susi the preceptor is very harsh, doesn't answer questions in a helpful manner, and is not very supportive or kind towards students. Lecture notes are helpful. Practice problems are needed to do well on exams, but I felt there were not enough in preparation for the midterms. Cramming for exams is NOT recommended!

Nonetheless, lecture material is interesting if you're into developmental biology and stem cell research, and Professors Anderson and Eggan are both very enthusiastic and helpful. They're not really involved with the class assignments (psets and exams are all written by Susi), but they're very accessible to talk with about all sorts of related topics after lecture and during office hours.
This is a very interesting class, but it is very tough. The exams require you to think creatively, as you design experiments. They also don't give you enough practice problems to do well in understanding the concepts.
Amazing class
SCRB 10 definitely pushes you to think about biology in a way that you might not have done before. It emphasizes experimental design and application as opposed to memorization, which I thought made it far more interesting than any biology class I'd taken in the past. Bill is a wonderful lecturer and explains things extremely clearly. My one complaint is that I didn't feel TFs were super available to answer questions I had about problem sets. Some are more literal about the restrictions on not giving the answers away than others, so definitely find the right TF's office hours to go to (I had Julie and found her to be more helpful than most).
First of, this is an AMAZING course! You learn some of the most interesting material in biology and a deeper appreciation of the field. 

Some positives of the class
-you gain a lot of relevant skills in biology research (experiment planning, analyzing research papers, problem solving)
-you are exposed to a wide range of topics (regeneration, aging, development)
-Bill is an awesome lecturer!
-questions can be really fun

negatives
-you can get really frustrated at pset/test questions
-Cre vs CreER will be the bane of your semester
-this is not the easiest class grade-wise...
Not a cakewalk and evaluations are often frustrating, but this material is compelling and worth the struggle.
I enjoyed SCRB10 but I found some aspects of the course challenging. The teaching staff expects you to be proactive about your own learning - they will not guide you through learning like they do in LS1a and LS1b. You should make sure you are very careful about timing on the exams. It helps to study every week or every other week so that you do not forget the material and so that studying for exams and doing problem sets is easier.
This class is quite difficult, especially because the exams are way longer than they should be. The psets take 5-10 hours as well.
SCRB 10 is an amazing class. It doesn't just teach you facts about biology but it shows you how to solve problems, set up experiments, and approach scientific papers.
SCRB10 is so far my favorite class at Harvard. Two weeks into the class was enough for me to be completely sure that I want to concentrate in HDRB. Bill Anderson is THE MAYOR. He runs this town, and it's beautiful.
To not take it. This class only makes you feel horrible about yourself and your ability to learn science
Not a conventional biology course. Learning question and exam formats early on would be beneficial.
it is a challenge but very interesting
If you really pay attention and get into the material and lectures, you'll find that what you are learning is very, very interesting! But the structure of tests and section problems makes it hard to ever really know if you answered correctly
This is an incredible opportunity to learn about what's happening at the forefront of the scientific world. It has real world application and will almost certainly blow your mind at one point or another.
This class was amazing. It was extremely difficult, but it was amazing. You will never get bored in lecture (it's stem cells, how can you?!). The material we learned was so incredibly interesting but the hard part is this class tests on your ability to respond to a scenario using the techniques we learned, so it's not something you just cram for; you really have to know what the techniques are and when to use them and how to combine them. That being said, it all comes together by the end and I'm really excited to continue on as an HDRB concentrator!
It's very interesting but very hard.
Take this class as a gen ed, its biology, but its fun.
The teaching staff is great. If you're mildly interested in stem cells, leaving the class you will thoroughly enjoy stem cells.
The material is very interesting, but the assignments and exams may be confusing and make you extremely frustrating.
Such an interesting course. Not hard if you put the time into it. The problem sets and tests are definitely doable. The teaching staff is wonderful and very approachable.
The grading in this class is very arbitrary.  There was a ridiculously short amount of time for the 1st midterm.  They mostly emphasize experimental tools rather than tiny details about each developmental process you learn, but hey they like to throw those in sometimes too.
This class is REALLY experimentally based. It is very hard to study for this--it's more like you get it or you don't, which is frustrating. Sometimes the midterm answers will be really vague, and it's hard to know what they're actually looking for. Content is really interesting though.
Don't focus on details learn how to use the scientific tools/ technology to designs experiments. Become very comfortable with designing experiments, which is a very different way of thinking than most are used to.
Learn Cre! And remember, when in doubt...Cre.
Take SCRB 10, HDRB concentrator or not! SCRB 10 has been my favorite biology / science class ever! Bill Anderson and Kevin Eggan are great and have super interesting discussions in lecture and in office hours. The class is focused more on critically thinking about what are interesting problems in biology and how can we answer them, rather than memorizing names of proteins - because of that, I feel that I truly grew in my ability to think analytically, and that this class will stay with me for years, rather than dissipating into the recesses of my memory. Section is also great and really helps with the lecture material - there's a lot of support in the course and friendly TF's, and every lecture is so incredibly interesting! You will not be disappointed in this class - one of the highlights of my whole semester.
This course will help you decide what concentration you want to take in the biologys. Definitely shop this class. It is definitely a lot of work, but certainly worthwhile
The exams are hard, but the lectures are very interesting.
Not the easiest class to deal with in terms of grades, but doable if you are willing to put in the time to figure out the assignments.  As an intro to the HDRB concentration, I definitely think it is worth it to take this class.  The material is very interesting and you will leave knowing many ways to make mice glow!
This class is not easy but it is one of the best science classes I have taken at Harvard so far. In the past I've often felt that there was lots of busy work and things were unnecessarily difficult. I did not feel that way about this class. Everything you learn is extremely relevant right now. All the work is to help you learn the material and to make you think in new ways, instead of just giving you something to do. The material is not easy but I found it so interesting that putting the time in to understand it was not a problem.
As long as you've taken LS1a or LPSA, and LS1b, you should be fine.
Make sure to ask questions as soon as they arise because a lot of the times they will not simply work themselves out. This is mostly a result of needing to know exactly what is being asked of you and how to respond to experimental design questions.
DO NOT TAKE THIS IF YOU ARE NOT HDRB. I'm honestly really interested in the material (stem cell development and uses, developing HSCs in vitro, etc.) but was honestly disappointed with my experience with the course. My TF was bad, kind of condescending and patronizing. I think she knew I was nonHDRB and had a problem with that or something. When no one would/could answer a question in section, I was cold-called several times. I am the only one in the section to have this happen. Also, there are not enough evaluations to ensure that you are keeping up with material. Instead of 3 big psets, why not give a smaller pset each week or every other week? Not sure what the rationale was for cramming the psets together. I think Bill and Kevin are fine. Bill basically runs the course, and having more Kevin Eggan would have been cool. I think the best lecture all year came from Kevin's discussion of enhancement toward the end of the year. Also, this class is 95% premed, which is basically a cult. Get used to nonstop talk about chem17 and other premed horrors. Yawn. It also makes the class kind of cutthroat which kind of sucks for a cool class. Some improvements should be made. It's fine for HDRB concentrators, but as a nonconcentrator, I cannot recommend this class.
This course is challenging, but tests you in a new format that changes the way you think about science. Far more engaging than standard freshman year biology classes. The content feels very relevant to modern science, and by the end, you will likely have a good understanding of the essentials of stem cell biology. Even if you don't want to concentrate in HDRB, this class is definitely worth it. Ensure that you are solid with the cre(er)/lox system and tet system as they come up in class!
Obviously if you are doing HDRB you'll have to take this course.  Can be really interesting at times, might have been better if I'd had a better section leader.  Problem sets are really hard- you need to work with a lot of people.  I alternated between feeling like this course was tedious and hard and being fascinated and excited by what I was learning.
best class
SCRB 10 is the best class I have taken at Harvard so far. It gives you the tools to be a better critical thinker, rather than forcing you to memorize countless facts. What you learn in this class can be applied to all future biology courses you take. Take it!
In order to get the most out of SCRB 10, I would suggest going over the lectures notes both before and after lecture. Before lecture, take a quick look at the uploaded lecture notes without the annotations and then after lecture, read through the annotations to make sure you understand everything. This is very important because it prepares you for future lectures, and prevents the hassle of trying to cram for an exam that you cannot cram for by virtue of the subject matter. I would also suggest getting comfortable with the cre-lox system as soon as it is introduced.
SCRB10 will definitely help you grow as a researcher and teach you experimental methods that are widely used in science. The problem sets took time, but as there are only three, the balance with difficulty level is fair. I would definitely recommend this course to those who have little background in research. Bill is an amazing lecturer and puts in a lot of effort into this class (he graded our writing assignments!).
The subject matter is really interesting, but the exams and assignments are tough, with the exception of the writing assignments. It doesn't have lab and the time required isn't bad, but you have to put in a LOT of extra work to actually do well. It's hard to do well in this course.
I loved this class, even though I was pretty bad at it, because the material was so fascinating. Knowing how stem cells work is pretty sweet. No lab, but there's a decent focus on understanding/applying experiments. A lot of the exam questions are things like "design an experiment for this scenario" I'd recommend it, even though it's not easy
Be sure to understand the Cre Lox system early, and the Tetracycline systems immediately after they are introduced. 

Find a study group. Don't work on this alone. The questions are tricky and require a lot of critical thinking, which is best done in a group.
Don't get jittery during midterms. Read every question carefully. Don't write paragraphs.
If you want a course which will challenge you and teach you how to think, this is the course for you! Bill Anderson makes this course phenomenal and this was the first course at Harvard where I feel like I really learnt to think critically in a way that I hadn't before.
Take this class if you are interested in concentrating in HDRB.  I thought the material was interesting, but decided that the concentration was not for me as I am more interested in different aspects of biology. Nevertheless, I thought it was a good experience and required me to think in a different way. It's very experiment-based and requires you to apply the material rather than memorize it. Don't focus too much on the small details, focus on the bigger picture.
This is a little unusual, but I had no biology background and took this to fulfill my SLS requirement. Stem cells continue to blow my mind, the assignments focus more on logic than on memorization of biology facts, and there is a lot of support. If you're willing to work a little harder on basic bio and have any interest in stem cells, take it as an elective! I got a lot out of it.
This course is fantastic and teaches you to think critically about problems and propose solutions rather than just learn facts. Form a study group early and review material often.
This is a hard class not because the material is too challenging but because it's hard to answer the types of questions they ask.  It gets better as the semester goes on, though.  Bill and Kevin are incredibly responsive to students' feelings about the course, though, and they changed the format of sections and worked harder on directing the questions in response to conversations with students.
Take this class. I took it as a Junior and loved it. Wish I had taken it sooner!!
This class is by no means perfect but the content of what you're learning is so fascinating that it's completely worth it.
I thought this was a great class overall.  The material was very interesting and Professor Anderson was great. If you have any interest in developmental bio or genetics, I would definitely recommend taking this class. However, studying for this class can be difficult.  The only study materials you are really given are the annotated lecture slides, which were only provided for some lectures, so TAKE GOOD NOTES during class. There are also no lecture videos, so, unlike a lot of classes, you actually have to go to lecture.  Also, in addition to knowing the concepts presented in class, make sure you have a very solid understanding of the research techniques and experiments presented in class; the exams are almost entirely based on designing experiments.
SCRB 10 is amazing!  It is by far the most interesting class I've taken at hard.  There was not a sing;e lecture I didn't enjoy.  The teaching staff is amazing, and it is clear that they care so much about the class.  By the end of the semester, I think that Bill knew practically everyone's names which is unheard of in a lecture class.  The only thing is that the tests are really hard and don't seem to be cruved at all (because there are a few kids with a ton of lab and SCRB experience that would throw off the curve).  The problem sets are also very difficult, but there are only 3.  Be prepared to devote an entire week to each pset and find a good study group to go over them with.  Go to Bill's office hours as much as possible.  Besides being awesome to talk to, he gives answers and information often necessary for getting an A that isn't anywhere else.  While the TF's are helpful in terms of concepts, they aren't helpful for psets because unlike Bill, they are not allowed to say any of the answers.
I think this is an amazing intro course - perhaps one of the most practical and eye-opening biology courses I've taken. It's focused less on memorization (we're often discouraged from doing this) and much more on problem-solving and understanding published papers. The type of problem solving the class demands is highly applicable to work in the lab - after taking the class, I feel much more equipped to design my own experiments. There were also some very thought-provoking questions - both ethical and scientific - that Bill and Kevin posed to us about the possibilities of stem cell research. Really made you think about the impact of the work that's currently being done in the field - left me very hopeful for the future of stem cell therapeutics.The only part of the course I felt was lacking was the support system. We never had a review for the final. It was often frustrating to check psets with the answer key because the answer keys would be really skimpy - shorthands notation, incomplete answers, some that would literally say "Accept any reasonable answer", etc. These seemed to be answer keys for the TFs to use, rather than answer keys that were geared towards helping students understand the material. Office hours with Bill were really helpful but I can't say the same for some of my TF's office hours. They're very reserved about revealing any "hints" for the problem sets, so as a result, it's difficult to discuss the subtleties of the pset questions during office hours. I think it would have been beneficial to have office hours be a time for students to think about the question and ask whether they're thinking the right way. The comments on our psets aren't very detailed and the answer keys are, as I said above, not as complete as they should be.That said, I think the course is still a must-take for someone who is interested in experimental design. The workload really isn't too heavy. There are only 3 psets, 2 very short essays (summaries of science papers), and a final. The material is challenging but very rewarding!
SCRB 10 is a good class if you have previous research experience and background with experimental design. It can be very challenging for students who do not have these skills as they come only with experience. Nonetheless, the lectures are very interesting, presenting new research discoveries and major breakthroughs that have led to our current understanding of life and development.
This class is amazing!! If you're thinking about being an HDRB concentrator or just enjoy bio definitely take this course!!
Best class so far at Harvard. Advice: Focus on experimental design rather than pointless memorization. Do a lot of practice thought experiments. Note - You can't cram for this class, so plan accordingly. But again, don't let that scare you away from this class. This is SCRB 10 - aka, the future of the human race.
This is a great class!  Bill is fantastic and is very responsive to student feedback.  This class isn't so much about memorizing a bunch of pathways and names; it's more about utilizing experimental concepts (i.e. Cre and Tet systems) to solve problems.
This class is very different from previous science courses in that you really need to understand how to design experiments. With that in mind, the most helpful and beneficial way to succeed in this course would be to understand every experiment mentioned in class so that you could use those procedures to answer exam questions. Understanding Cre-Lox, reporter constructs vs. fate mapping, and pulse-chase experiments were some of the most critical experimental protocols to understand.
This course requires you to be paying careful attention during lectures as there is no textbook, and only some lectures provide lecture notes. Many of the concepts taught are very new, so it is importantly to keep up with the course material. There are not that many practice problems to prepare for the tests however.
It is such an up to date and fascinating course.
This class has a great range on stem cell biology content. However, the organization of the class is not the best.
This is an awesome class and BIll is the man! I really loved taking this, and if you are interested in how the body develops and repairs itself you should definitely take this. There are not very many resources to help with studying, but Bill holds a ton of office hours and is always available! Take this and concentrate in HDRB!
AWESOME COURSE! If you're interested in stem-cell bio, this is the place to start. Fair warning about assessments in this courseL the exams are hard as are the PSets and it's really hard to get in the 90s in both of these things. "Just keep swimming" throughout the course and don't worry too much about the grading.
This is a good class to take if you have any interest in developmental biology, even if you are not a SCRB concentrator. Make sure to go to lecture because they are not videotaped and Kevin Eggan doesn't annotate his slides.
Make sure you understand the experiments and how/when to use them. If you truly understand those, you will do great. Go to office hours and get to know Bill; he is a great professor.
I would recommend this class to anyone who is curious about how to design and think about SCRB experiments. The class also touches on interesting ethical questions related to enhancement technologies, and makes you realize how close we already are to some frightening but intriguing new regenerative technologies.
This class is a bit all over the place. Lectures can be interesting but the stuff on exams has nothing to do with what you learn in lecture. Just focus on learning the things like cre lox and teton tetoff as the exams ask you a lot about designing experiments. Sections can be helpful but honestly you either click with it or not. Unless you're SET on HDRB, I would say you're wasting your time with this course. I really did not enjoy it and have switched my concentration from HDRB.
I absolutely loved this class. Bill Anderson is an incredible lecturer who genuinely cares about his students. This class really solidified my desire to concentrate in HDRB because of how fascinating the material was, and the real-world applications that are focused on throughout the course. Make sure you focus on how to design experiments to answer scientific questions and focus on how researchers problem-solve in order to design their experiments. Also, going to office hours (Bill's or your TF's) is a definite must in order to really solidify concepts/experimental design stuff and to talk through the most important things to know (because A LOT of information is included in lecture). Overall, I would highly recommend this course. It was fun, informative, and taught by some amazing individuals.
It's a great class, and may rope you in to the HDRB concentration. Also the workload is not too bad for a premeddy life science course. Ask questions in section, don't just sit there like I did for the first half of the semester. I was much happier once I started participating.
SCRB 10 is a truly life changing experience. Cannot recommend it more.
I loved this class! You learn a lot of great material and it's all very accessible. The exciting part about what you're learning is that it's very relevant to what's happening in science, and stem cell science right now. You'll read newly released papers that employ all the techniques you've been learning about in class - and that's a very satisfying feeling. You'll come away having learned a lot from this course. Also, I absolutely love Bill and I'm sure anyone who takes this course in the future with him will too! He's an awesome professor who gives phenomenal lectures, and puts in a lot of time and effort into his work.
If you are interested in learning more about the field of stem cell and regenerative biology and are considering concentrating in HDRB, this is a great class to take! It introduces a lot of the interesting projects going on right now in the field and gives an overview of the important biology and techniques to know if you want to proceed on to higher-level SCRB classes. The subject matter is very intersting and Kevin and Bill do a beautiful job co-teaching the class!
This class is very interesting and a great intro into HDRB and SCRB. The biggest piece of advice I could give is to take good notes because the lectures aren't recorded (yeah, I know, it's a struggle) and Kevin doesn't release annotated notes even though his slides do not make complete sense on their own.
Bill's lectures are great and his office hours and annotated slides really make the material easier to understand. The class has a lot of information to cover, so it is very easy to fall behind. In the beginning the instructors really emphasize that SCRB 10 is a different type of class (ex. more about problem solving that it is to memorize). It isn't really that bad, though. I think it's a pretty good introductory course.
This class forces you to think as a researcher and provides you with the tools necessary to conduct experiments though it's still unclear how these tools could actually be applied in a real lab situation. Also, because I didn't have lab experience prior to taking this class, I felt like I struggled more than other classmates who have some basic lab experience. You have to stay on top of the material but mostly focus on the how to apply tools in certain situations and don't worry as much about the material. Because there are only 3 psets throughout the course, you have to make sure you're not slipping behind on the material and make more use of your TF. A group to work with on the psets is extremely helpful. The psets can feel overwhelming. The exams mostly focus on how to apply tools as opposed to memorizing key information.
One of the most interesting classes you will take as an undergrad.  I strongly recommend it if you have any interest in learning about cutting edge stem cell biology.
SCRB is like the cool Bio department. We actually learn about interesting things. For example, we learn some of the truths behind fairy tales. We learn what created cyclops, giants and 3 headed beast in nature. We learn about sport enhancement drugs and how to modify our children to be genetically "superior". We discuss the morals behind taking drugs such as caffeine and Ritalin and whether or not cyclist should be allowed to use EPO. You are also given the knowledge to create these drugs. You will learn more applicable knowledge than you ever thought possible. If you like learning about things that leave you in aww at the end of lecture take this course. If you just want to be presented with boring material to study and memorize like most premeds- be prepared to die. You actually have to think in this class, not just plug and chug from your memory. Professor wise: Kevin makes you connect a few dots and spends lots of time on cool material that isnt tested but is fascinating. Bill just gives you what you need to know, great for premeds who don't care about the cool side to this amazing field
You will definitely leave this class feeling like you have learned so much! I can honestly say that I learned more in the class than I have learned in any other course throughout my Harvard career thus far. At times the class can be very difficult because you may feel as though everyone around you gets the material and you are the only one who doesn't. Just realize that many of the people who seem to know so much have worked in SCRB labs before taking the class so don't make that deter you from staying in the class on continuing on with HDRB! The class requires a lot of handwork and requires you to think in a way that you have never though before but it is extremely rewarding by the end of the semester when you can look at a problem and quickly figure out what experiment you should design to test your hypothesis!!
Be prepared for a different exam style, it is difficult to learn how to best study and prepare for these exams. Do not worry too much about all the details discussed in lecture, it is more important to focus on the experiments and understand them well.
It is an interesting class but the tests are tricky!
You learn SO many cool things. It is heavily based on experimental design, which is new for many of us, but you get better at it. It is a great class for learning how to read scientific papers -- I feel more comfortable picking up a scientific paper now. But it was difficult overall, partly because of this new way of thinking we had to adopt. You learn about classic experiments and new projects going on in the field, all so cool. Professor Bill Anderson is an amazing teacher.
Great class with a fun teaching staff. A class that you wouldn't be able to find elsewhere.
i'd say i hope you're good with experimental design
SCRB10 is overall a fantastic class. First and foremost, the material presented in this class is incredibly interesting. SCRB10 gave me a very strong and detailed overview of many different areas of stem cell biology, collecting my previous knowledge of the material and coalescing it into a formal body of knowledge. I loved the fact that its focus (as reflected on the exams) was very experimentally based and less of remembering tidbits of obscure biology knowledge like so many of its competitor sophomore biology classes (i.e., MCB52). Still, the strongest aspect of this class by far is Bill Anderson, my favorite professor and one of the best lecturers I have ever seen. In addition to presenting the material in an incredibly interesting and innovative manner in class, Bill's "breakout" sessions (where he asks the class to solve a series of experimental questions) are very useful for driving the theoretical material home. Bill also cares more about the performance and livelihood of each and every student than any other Harvard professor has encountered before.
The professors are awesome, and the material is VERY interesting.
Be careful if you take this class! The complete lack of course materials is really difficult to work (or not work) with.
Honestly, I think the only reason people really enjoyed the class was because they wanted to fit into the role of somebody who is an HDRB concentrator. The material wasn't that interesting but it also wasn't super boring. I would say the class was ok.
You'll be exposed to quite a few new things in this class. It's definitely worthwhile and even exciting at times. Go to office hours if you want to do well on the psets.
Be prepared to work and go to office hours
SCRB 10 is a great introduction to the field of developmental biology, with a sharp focus on human biology. If you are even remotely interested in HDRB, you should definitely give this course a try! Lectures are very varied and cover many different systems of the body, the teaching staff are great, the material is interesting and engaging, and the class asks you to think critically about experimental design, asking you to design experiments to put hypotheses to the test yourself!
Great course. Take time to learn experiments though.
THe SCRB 10 material is very interesting and the teaching staff is great! The best advice for this class is to keep up with the material throughout the semester. It is especially important to review the experimental techniques you learn often because it is very important to be comfortable with them for the problem sets and exams.
Take this class. I do not find it the most fair and it is not an easy class. However, you will learn things that are imperative if you want to do research.
Great class that really does an amazing job introducing students to the field of developmental and regenerative biology. Lectures were thoroughly enjoyable and definitely interesting in both delivery and subject matter. Only three problem sets and three exams the entire semester, which is good because it means a light workload, but is also bad because getting things wrong can definitely very negatively affect your grade.
SCRB 10 IS FANTASTIC!! The class is organized with a huge emphasis on class participation during lecture, which truly makes the course unique for a larger lecture course - definitely take it!
I'm sure everyone else will comment on how amazing Bill and Kevin are as teachers. But what really made SCRB10 the highlight of my semester is how the material really inspired me to look into the current literature to get a fuller picture of the field. It was great to be able to talk to Bill and Kevin after class about some random thoughts that had popped into my head during lecture. Problem sets are challenging and entertaining. Tests are somewhat similar to problem sets in that way. Being in a lab will definitely make the class much easier, as you will have already had some exposure to the key concepts.
This has been my favorite course at Harvard. I greatly value the fact that the head instructor knew my name (along with most of the rest of the class) within 2-3 weeks of the course's start. There are ample resources at your disposal to succeed in this class and to help you get the most out of the concentration this class makes available. The class size is the best out of any intro class I've taken and both instructors are masters in the field with a ton of experience and great interest in each person's success.
-challenging course with exams that are more based on experimental designing
This course is a must and I don't want to scare anyone, even though it is beyond extremely interesting, but it is very difficult. The PSets take a long time and are graded extremely harshly....as felt by the majority of the students. But you do learn so so much that it does pay off. The exams are quite difficult with around C averages but again, the overall point of the course is not to give you a C, it is to teach you, with Bill and Kevin and your TF staff do so very well.
This course definitely challenges you to think in a new way. It's a very interesting and rewarding course in the sense that you learn to think about questions and problems in a more creative way as you design experiments. However, that said, it's definitely a challenging course. Definitely think more in terms of experimental design than memorizing specific facts.
I love the focus of this class. This was the first class that I've ever been challenged in and that's why I'm concentrating in HDRB now. I admire that we focus on experimental design and less on memorizing biological facts. It was very hard for me to adjust to this type of learning, but looking back it was worth it. I have never done so poorly on midterms in my life, but I have come away with a good understanding of the field of stem cells. The material is so engaging and the lecturers are the best. Take this class even if you are remotely on the fence.
This class is really interesting, and I'm very glad I took it. The class requires a lot of work and you have to be willing to get help and make sure you understand everything as you learn it.
It's difficult but you will learn a lot.
Focus on experimental procedures. This is key. The small details really don't matter.
This course is the best course I've taken at Harvard College. If I had taken it earlier in my time here, I would have switched to the HCRB concentration.The course focuses on how to use experimental techniques to answer questions in developmental biology. It does not focus on the particular details of biology, though of course these facts are important for the course.The teaching staff really cares about putting together quality teaching material, including exams, problem sets, section notes, and lectures.  Also, Bill is hilarious, Kevin knows how to dress to the nines, and they both really care about their students. Office hours are invaluable in both learning more about the material and in getting to know the instructors.To do well in the course, it's important to pay attention during lectures - don't rely on the annotated lecture notes alone. Rather than focusing on jotting down every detail about particular metabolic pathway, focus instead on understanding the big picture, why experiments were conducted the way they were, what the researchers hoped to learn, and how they interpreted their results. Focus on problem solving techniques and how to apply those techniques to different problems more than on the particulars of any one problem situation.
Great course in terms of material. Grading needs to be fixed for me to recommend with enthusiasm
Many of the teaching staff very much want you to learn and enjoy SCRB.  I've never found a class with more interesting material and is a very good starting point for what I believe to be one of the best concentrations.
Interesting and useful information about where biology is headed in the coming years. This class is very manageable (coming from an underachieving pre-med). It was honestly enjoyable to learn about all of the revolutionary experiments in regenerative biology - most of them quite recently.
make sure the TFs are providing practice problems, and make sure they actually attempt to answer the problems before they are given to us to do.
SCRB 10 is the closest thing to a perfect class I have encountered at Harvard. The material is fascinating, and in no other class will you be able to delve into subjects as varied as cloning, stem cells and their generation from differentiated adult cells, genetic modification, genetic techniques used in labs, aging, human development from before fertilization until birth, and genetic defects. I was honestly excited to come to almost every lecture. Kevin Eggan and Bill Anderson are both great lecturers, and their passion and personal knowledge of the material really shines through. There are some flaws in this class, namely that the lecture slides are poorly annotated and that you therefore really need to take notes, but that's minor in comparison to how great this class is. It is true that this class isn't for everyone: if you like rote memorization through extensive studying for tests in which you regurgitate studied information (and I knew someone like that who ended up dropping the class), this class may not be for you. The emphasis is very little on what specific genes or morphogens do (barring a few very important ones), and more about how you can use the experimental techniques learned in class to come up with experiments to find these things out. You will see examples of experiments in class, but you will be asked to come up with your own experiments on tests, and this requires a good conceptual understanding of the material as well as the ability to think logically and creatively. The workload is low; the only assignments were 3 problem sets, a paper of a few pages, 2 midterms, and a final exam. This does mean that your grade depends a lot on these few assignments, but they don't grade too harshly and if it's clear you understand the material you will get good grades. Do yourself a favor and take SCRB 10.
SCRB 10 is a really really cool class that will give you a nice introduction to developmental and stem cell biology. However, it's probably unlike any other biology course you've taken thus far in that the material that's actually taught in the class is secondary to learning about and developing a toolbox of scientific techniques. In that way, it's much more of an application and problem-solving based class (i.e.- figuring out which techniques to use and when to use them) than you would probably expect. This undoubtedly makes the tests rather difficult, but at the same time you learn an awful lot about techniques which could be really relevant to you if you're considering a career in research or the sciences. It'll probably be difficult, especially at first, but I really believe you'll find it worth it!
This class is very difficult but so interesting! It is worth the hard work and you will really enjoy getting to know the professors and fellow concentrators.
Just remember to understand all of the experiments in the class, and you'll do fine.
Much more efficient to go over the experiments than brute memorization.
It is really hard.  I don't understand experiments.  Tests are vague.
A fantastic introduction to a fantastic concentration: I highly recommend both SCRB 10 and HDRB to all life sciences students considering studying biology at molecular/cellular/organismal levels.  And for non-HDRB concentrators, SCRB 10 is a great introduction to thinking and problem solving in the life sciences.
This class is awesome, lots of fun and you learn a lot. Just make sure you understand how to experimentally design things and put time into understanding the developmental processes.
SCRB 10 was super interesting--I really enjoyed it! The lectures were great because all the material is so interesting and so timely (we learned about papers that had been published only a few weeks before!). Because all the information is so new, this means that there is no textbook where you can look up information that you might have missed in lecture. Since they do not post annotated lecture notes or lecture videos, if you miss something in lecture it is VERY hard to catch up without either working with a study group or going to lots of office hours. The tests also definitely take some getting used to, as they are not about memorization but are more about application of knowledge. Sometimes it feels like the grading can be a little subjective because of this.
This course teaches extremely interesting material, but it is very poorly organized in general.
This course convinced me that I wanted to concentrate in HDRB. It is a different mindset than the brute force memorization of many other classes. You have to be quite clever in your answers, and most of the test questions involve you designing a experiment. Therefore, there is definitely an adjustment period. Bill Anderson, is an absolute gem at Harvard, and the best professor I have yet to have. I have never ever met someone who was so dedicated to his students. If you email him, he gets back to you in minutes, and he always makes time for you outside of office hours. His lectures are clear and interesting, and he genuinely wants everyone to understand the material. Unlike Kevin Eggan, this class is his top priority. That is not to say Kevin is bad, his lectures are interesting and engaging as well, but he definitely is a step below Bill. Also, small note: there is no textbook, as the information is so recent, so that can be a weird adjustment for traditionalists. All in all, take the class for the very interesting and cutting edge research and information, and for Bill.
While the material is extremely interesting, the course if poorly organized and often discouraging
I would take this class even as an elective. You learn about growth hormone (which CAN make us taller and ARE relatively safe), how The Pill works, in vitro fertilization, and crazy experiments where they sewed two mice together to connect their circulatory systems. Bill Anderson an awesome person to get to know too! Though many found the grading to be rough, this class taught me to think in a different, analytical, creative way and brought me up-to-speed on the newest ground-breaking research. If you do take this class, I would study for the exams by re-listening to the lectures (which you should record) and taking notes. Then get together with a study group and make up possible exam questions from each lecture ahead of time that you can quiz each other on.
I found it extremely difficult to study for SCRB 10. Designing experiments is helpful for studying, though was sometimes not entirely enough. Recognizing patterns for using particular experiments could be helpful.
This is a very interesting class, although it can be difficult to prepare for the exams. There is no textbook and the lectures aren't recorded, so ALWAYS go to lecture, and office hours when you can.
SCRB 10 is a great course that covers a wide range of interesting topics--take this if you are considering a concentration in HDRB. Lectures are engaging, but you have to take detailed notes since none are provided and they are not recorded. The workload is not too heavy (only three problem sets), but how problems are phrased and what you are expected to know is often nebulous.
This class is a must for any student who is interested in stem cell, regenerative, or human developmental biology. It is a vey comprehensive overview of fundamental concepts, and the professors do a very good job of preparing you for further study and coursework in the field. Lectures are very engaging and informative. The class also emphasizes critical thinking in an experimental context, so the exams tend to ask questions that require you to apply the concepts you have learned in class to experimental design.
Take this class if you're at all interested in science. It will broaden your perspective of working in any scientific field.
This class is challenging, but the material is also very interesting. It was neat to learn about what's being done right now in these fields. The most important thing for me was to record lectures because there is no other way to get the material presented. When they talk about different papers and experiments being done and they're being done by members of this department, it's pretty neat.
This was a great course! It was really fascinating, and you learn a lot of cool stuff. The biggest downside is that it is HARD. It is unlike other science courses; it is much more than basic fact memorizing. This can come unnaturally, but coming up with experiments/analyzing them is a very useful  skill to have!
You will learn a lot in this class. It really gives insight into developmental biology techniques. In addition, Professor Eggan even involves some moral and philosophical questions (on occasion) about the ethics of stem cell bio. I really enjoyed the course and learned new things everyday. The only downside which many students do not like is the history and specific examples of experiments that demonstrate a certain developmental success or failure. Sometimes it is hard to put into context why such experiments are important or not and if one needs to memorize the experiments.
If you are even considering the HDRB concentration take this course! You will learn techniques and concepts that build the foundation for a future in experimental biology.
Everone should take this class.  Kevin Eggan, and Bill Anderson are funny, inciteful and enthusisatic.  Every class is a fun class.  You do need to study tho.  Make sure you understand the reasoning behind why every experiment was done, and be able to apply techniques to new situations.  This class requires you to be clever.  I loved it!!!!!
The material is so cool, but the exams will get you down.
SCRB10 is a class that teaches you how to think. While it throws a lot of really cool material at you, it's the concept of applying these ideas that are most important and that is a skill that I think every person needs to have, no matter what field of study.
It will change the way you think about creating and recreating life.
A lot of memorizing, but the content is interesting/pretty foundational for neurobio. If you don't have to take it/only want some knowledge of neurobio, then this class might not be for you
This class is a phenomenal introduction to the world of stem cell biology, and to experimental thought processes.  It really does do a good job of covering all the material on the syllabus.  Just make sure you know the tests and experimental approaches to problems well because that is what's tested.  The professors also care a lot about the class and it shows.
If you want direct exposure to a constantly evolving field that is NOW and cutting-edge, take SCRB 10.  You won't regret it.  The material you learn will open your mind to the beautiful possibilities in regenerative medicine.
P sets should be graded more on a genuine effort being made than on getting the specific answer that the answer key has. It seemed more as though the -psets were really take-home exams and that caused TF's to be extremely hesitant to help when I had conceptual questions. Instead of being a fun and creative learning experience the psets became stressful.
This was an awesome class that made you change your way of thinking and submerged you in a scientific world that is filled with riddles to decipher.
This class is incredible. Kevin and Bill are amazing instructors. You need to review the material every week so that you don't get behind and be sure to understand all of the experimental techniques taught in class. What makes this class incredibly complicated is if you do not fully understand the experiment that presented and then you get to the final trying to think how they work. Know well how they work going into the final and the midterms so that you can really be able to think of the puzzle you need to work out in designing the experiments. It is a class that has left me incredibly excited for the future of stem cell biology and made me proud to be an HDRB concentrator!
The lecturers are excellent leaders of their field. The material is interesting. The majority of the lectures focus on experiments/research.
SCRB 10 was a very, very interesting course! Make sure you have all of your experiments DOWN. Knowing how to apply them in the context of questions will help more for the midterms than studying the lecture slides repeatedly will.
This class is truly unique. Your brain is exercised in different ways to solve problems in this class. It feels like solving puzzles.
This class is hard in the beginning, because it is something that most people have not studied before, but it is amazing! It gets easier very quickly, and the lectures are awesome!
This class was great--it ended up being my favorite class I have ever taken--and this is coming from someone who was not sure they wanted to even take this class. The class really taught me how to problem solve in an effective and intuitive manner
The course's material is very interesting and the professors do a great job lecturing and maintaining student interest. The main issue with this course is the assessment portion (i.e. problem sets and exams) as questions asked are often vague and answer keys seem somewhat arbitrary from the student's perspective - partial credit on answers is almost non-existent and is a common point of frustration among a number of students.
Perfect for an SLS gened. Not too much work, fascinating material, and a strong background in bio is really not necessary.
I think this may have been the best class I have taken at Harvard so far. It is very smoothly run and the content is incredible intriguing. Bill, one of the instructors, is the reason why this class rocks. He puts a ton of time into preparation and he really gets to know the students. Kevin Eggan doesn't do quite as much but at least he dresses nicely. Anyways, you should definitely take and look forward to this class.
Most likely, if you're looking at this class, it's for the HDRB requirement. You have to take it, and honestly it's a super interesting class. Sometimes the grading can be frustrating (nit-picky), but overall I learned so much that will help me in future, upper level SCRB classes. Also, the professors are great. If you're looking to take this as an elective, I might suggest a different SCRB course (or a different biology course), as this class is very technique/application based to prepare students for future SCRB classes.
Make sure you spend a lot of time understanding how experiments produce results. this class is not so much about experimental results, than it is about how those results were found. take time to understand cre-lox and tet-system. these will be recurring themes for most of your time in SCRB 10
Loved every lecture. This is definitely not LS1a or LS1b. Don't let those two ridiculous courses ruin your image of the life sciences. The assignments are very engaging and you will make many friends throughout the course of the semester. Shows you an introduction to HDRB and will most definitely want to make you concentrate in this amazing subject matter.Bill and Kevin are badasses and have made everything about this course wonderful. They completely pulled me into the HDRB concentration after just a few lectures. LOVED EVERYTHING. Though you must put in the time and working in a lab simultaneously can be very useful.
If you are a HDRB pre-concentrator with previous lab experience, you will love this class even if it is a bit disorganized and the course materials are insufficient for you to learn on your own. SCRB10 was definitely my favor class this semester. Professor Melton and Professor Eggan are fantastic lecturers. I recommend attending Luis's section. He cares about his students a lot, even though he does not move through concepts quickly. The main weakness of the course, it's disorganization, stems from the preceptor. She missed meetings with students and didn't respond to emails in a timely matter. Furthermore, she was aggressive and unforgiving about giving back points on graded assignments and listening to student's concerns. If you can make the most of the other resources the course offers, you will be in for a wonderful experience.
This class is worth taking for the lectures alone. The topics covered are truly fascinating. That said, the part where you work on psets/take exams was frustrating at times, as grading practices were unclear and the difficulty level varied from week to week. Be prepared for a possible headache.
A class with a lot of potential - lecturers are all top of their field, topic is extremely interesting/cutting-edge and very applicable to the real world. however, this class needs to be better organized overall.
SCRB10 is fascinating and exciting- a unique opportunity to learn fundamental themes in developmental biology from some of the field's most distinguished minds.
Topics are fantastic and tests focus mainly on application of experimental methods.
The course material is awesome, the developmental and regenerative capabilities of the human body are amazing.
This is a great class. It focuses more on teaching how to solve problems than memorizing facts. The course material is very interesting and cutting-edge.
Very interesting material.  I enjoyed this class thoroughly.  Some of the material just wasn't very clearly taught though.  It depends on how you think.
It's a lot of work but interesting material. It's difficult to study for because there is a right and wrong answer but it's not always clear exactly what the question is asking because you're not being asked about facts, as much as about how you think.
It's a really cool and great class but it's pretty challenging at first. It will take some time to get used to the questions.
this class may seem easy at the beginning but really speeds up during the 2nd and third parts of it. andy's lectures are confusing so definitely try to record those. never skip class because the material on the ppts alone sometimes don't make sense without context provided during lecture. this class is hard. work on psets in larger groups to do well and really try to do well on those since each of the 4 are 5% of the grade. the 2 midterms were fairly easy but the final was a doozy so be prepared for that and don't feel bad if you do badly on the final. focus more on the techniques and when/how to apply them rather than on every fact. also, they say you don't need to know this but try to memorize what each tf/morphogen/protein is involved in--it helps in exams. also, in psets, jonathan takes off the most points because somehow, he always gets the question that needs really specific answers. really really try to do well on those psets. it's integral to getting an A.
The most important moment in your life was when you gastrulated.
This course was harder than I anticipated, but still extremely interesting and fun, because of the students in the class. I always found myself talking about what I was learning in SCRB outside of class. Be prepared to work a LOT on problem sets and in studying for exams.
This course is why you came to Harvard. Access to three professors (only two of whom, sadly, are good lecturers) who dominate the coolest field in biology, the chance to study with brilliant, determined, helpful, and hard-working peers who are great study partners, and the chance to get in on the ground floor of stem cell biology! The course itself is not memorization-based at all; most of the problem sets and exams are either based on 1) Propose an experiment to test this hypothesis or 2) Interpret these experimental results. This class, if you take it - WHICH YOU SHOULD - marks your graduation from high school/LS1a-style memorization to real scientific thought. A study group is 100% necessary, you can not survive without one.
This class has awesome material and even better professors. The TF's are all very smart and know the material/how to teach it.  Lectures are extremely interesting to go to.  There are times when the class might seem disorganized but the material is so worth it
SCRB10 is a really interesting time and worth learning. You'll find that the class will focus on a few tools of molecular biology (lineage tracing and Cre/TetOn/Off being two of them) and use those for A LOT of the questions in the class. The material is fun and knowing it helps you really understand the origin of mammals. It also helps one debunk a few of the ethical dilemmas and issues that surround stem cell research. I will warn you however that the class is frustrating at times, because for learning the material, not enough resources are provided. If you're shopping the class and a book is not required, get it it anyway if it is recommended. Beware of what this class might do to your grades. I've heard that it's graded very strictly and the curve is not very generous, although there is a curve. If you have to take it, you'll probably like it. If it's an elective for you, tread with caution as you approach this class. It could be a maker or a breaker for you. Best of luck!
Unfortunately how well your section TF is determines your grade so if you are stuck with a TF that does not teach well try to attend another TF's section.
It's a very interesting course. A little disorganized in general and somewhat challenging to get used to though.
SCRB 10 is an amazing course.  The lecturers are great, the course material is very interesting, and the workload isn't bad.  I would definitely recommend this course.
A really great class with energetic and interesting professors! SCRB 10 is not like other science classes that focus only on memorization. Instead, it forces you to figure out how to solve developmental and regenerative bio questions. The problem sets were difficult, though there were only 4 and very little other outside work. The only downside to the class was that a bunch of people were already working in developmental labs and thus, already knew a lot about designing experiments and some of us were kind of left behind.
amazing class, gets better every year!
SCRB10 is the reason I am not an HDRB concentrator. The concentration wasn't even on the map for me at the beginning of the year, and I took the course as an elective out of interest in stem cells. Phenomenal course, would gladly take again.
This course is awesome. I would highly recommend it even if you aren't a HDRB concentrator. Melton, Eggan, and MacMahon are all really great. Macmahon's lectures are kind of hard to follow sometimes so ask your tf if you're confused. Section is invaluable. Avoid Dongdong at all costs! Form study groups for the psets!
This class really makes you think like a scientist. The material is fascinating, and the professors are the premier scholars in their fields. Lectures, though, are not recorded, and annotated lecture slides are not provided. This makes it exceedingly difficult to keep track of all of the information expected of us, especially because the lectures have an almost alogical sequence. Great material - give the class a few more years, and I'm sure all of these issues will be resolved.
This class is amazing. I am concentrating in Chemistry, and although this course counts toward the concentration credits, it really doesn't have much to do with what I will be doing in the future. Nonetheless, I am SO glad I took this course and I got so much out of it. You're a fool to not AT LEAST shop this course.
Take this course! Even if you are not a science major, take this class Pass-Fail - just take it! It changes the way you think and approach science and the world.
Be prepared for a new style of learning in this class. The whole course is centered around conducting experiments, so if you are new to the lab world, this can be a tricky skill to get used to. Other than that, subject material was fascinating and lectures were a pleasure.
While at times the grading can be frustrating, SCRB10 is a fascinating class in which you will learn a lot about developmental biology. Your scientific mind will be honed and cultivated with little regard to memorizing mindless details (like in mcb80). You'll notice how much you learned when taking other science classes or when you're in your own lab. I've never taken a more relevant class at Harvard, not to mention that the professors are at the forefront of their fields.
the material is really interesting and the lectures are pretty good. some can be a little dry. section can be good if you get a good tf. it's not an easy class though
The readings aren't necessary, and I wouldn't buy the textbook.
This class teaches AMAZING material. Although at times it was disorganized, you will remember the material because it is just so cool.
Fantastically interesting course
If you don't HAVE to take this course, think twice. It requires a lot of additional studying and work, which is sometimes difficult to anticipate, and you're often in the dark because you don't always know what the TFs are thinking up for the p-sets and exams, and if it even slightly mirrors what you're studying. Because the course is so new compared to other science classes, it seems to be far less organized behind the scenes, and, while interesting, could be a lot tougher than its seemingly light workload implies.
The professors give interesting lectures, but it is easy to get overwhelmed.  Make sure you go through the lectures after words.  Definitely record the lectures and make sure you fill in any spots you may have missed.
Take this if you are a pre-med.  The course has the pre-med mentality.  This means if you want a course where you can learn to think like a biologist, i.e., like a researcher, you must take the 100-level courses (and somehow pray that you will be done with this course ASAP).  That said, the material was fascinating.  More emphasis should be placed on the precision of language and logic in thinking through biological problems though.
Fantastic course. The professors are beyond brilliant and the subject matter is endlessly fascinating. You won't be bored in lecture, and if you're like me, you'll often leave awestruck. Be prepared to type fast, though - the lecture slides are not sufficient for study for exams. You'll need to rely heavily on what the professors communicate. ESPECIALLY for Andy's lectures. Just type down everything he says even if you don't know what he's saying. Trust me. Section component of this course was a little frustrating, and exams were a little unfair, but overall a great course full of brilliant students. Group work is necessary for problem sets - you won't want to do them on your own.
I would recommend it very strongly, because developmental biology is just such an interesting field and you get to learn a lot about very interesting experiments and techniques used to prove different hypotheses. It is a good mixture between learning the biology, such as signaling pathways and the developmental process, but a lot of it is about how scientists have been using/finding stem cells, and its potential applications. It is not taped, however, and it teaches a lot of new techniques so I would make sure that either you could record lectures for review (as some of my friends did) or use the textbook or science papers, and your TF as a resource. I really recommend this class though!
try to only take it if you are very interested in regenerative biology or want to concentrate in HDRB
This is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. It is a privilege to have Eggan, Melton, and McMahon (all giants in their fields, nbd) lecturing. The material is really well presented in their lectures and they constantly remind you why we are studying something and what the implications of studying said material are. It is supremely humbling to google a subject being addressed in class and seeing your professors among the top hits. Aside from the superstar professors, the material itself is fascinating. After one week of SCRB10, I decided to become an HDRB concentrator. This class is so awesome.
You learn about stem cells and all and it's pretty cool. But, the class structure is not very good, the atmosphere is intense, and some students have worked in labs so they definitely have an edge. That said, this teaches REAL science and its applications in the real world.
It's a really interesting class. Lectures are great.
THIS IS AN INCREDIBLE COURSE.  Seriously, though.  It has been my favorite course at Harvard so far.  The professors are very engaging, approachable, and exciting.  I learned a whole heck of a lot and enjoyed every bit of it.  I would say that having an MCB52 background was helpful, but not necessary.  The teaching support is also very good.
Great lectures, awesome professors, no lab. Definitely take this class!
It's a very interesting class but be prepared to work hard and form lots of study groups for the psets.
The class itself is not very structured so it is expected of students to figure out and comprehend the concepts basically by themselves. It also draws from a lot of experiments and lab techniques so a strong background in the lab serves as an advantage to students. The problem sets are unclear on what they want in their questions and often I found myself frustrated since they would detract points from my answer since it didn't seem specific enough in one aspect. In other words, they become randomly specific in their grading which often made me feel confused about how specific I was to answer future problems on p.sets and exams.  The material is great though and you really learn about development about the human body and the biological pathways that serve development. It would just be strengthened as a course if it had a bit more structure.
Focus on the concepts and not the details. Read all section materials from all section tfs.
This is a great introduction to stem cell biology. The class is less focused around memorization and more on conceptual and empirical understanding. Plus, you are taught by leading professionals in the field who are very accessible and willing to talk to undergraduates. You may not end up with the grade you want at the end, but you will definitely leave the class more knowledgeable.
This was my favorite class this semester. It is awesome how you are encouraged to learn and apply fundamental concepts in new situations (e.g. designing assays, evaluating experimental results and proposing a hypothesis) rather than having to memorize too much material. You should definitely form a study group to work on psets together and really take advantage to learn from some of the leading researchers in the field. I definitely feel that I am a better critical thinker now, and am heavily learning toward concentrating in HDRB.
The professors and course material are excellent, but the organization and the rest of the teaching staff could have been far better.
Fantastic course, for both concentrators and non-concentrators. Everyone should know where we currently stand in terms of understanding stem cell biology and its impact on medicine.
While the material in this class is interesting and the professors are some of the giants of the field, the class still has many flaws. The lack of any reading material at all is problematic because you have know way to supplement the knowledge learned in class (even just lecture notes would help), and because some of the lecturers move quickly, it is easy to miss important points. Furthermore, the grading on psets is somewhat arbitrary as it is difficult to tell whether they are looking for detailed or more vague and generic answers to questions, and no comments are given to know why your answer was wrong.
Try not to miss a lecture because there is no course material other than the slides
This class is extremely rewarding, but be prepared for the tests, which often do not test the material that you expect. The exams are largely process-based, focusing on different assays and laboratory procedures rather than testing your memorized knowledge. It is a bit jarring at first, but once you learn to study the right aspects of the course then you'll see things fall into place (e.g. it is useless to memorize the mechanism of tyrosine kinase signaling, but it's important to know how you can prove in a laboratory setting that a certain transcription factor is important in, say, limb growth). Just a side note for people who are thinking of taking this along with lifesci 1a: The course description cites concurrent enrollment in lifesci 1a as its only prerequisite, but the course actually expects some prior knowledge of lifesci 1a and 1b. Not much, but enough that you'll have to do some catch up work.
This class could be the best class at Harvard, but the presentation of the material is so poor and the materials given to students are so limited that it becomes hard to do well. If you decide to take it anyway, be prepared to deal with a lot of condescending, arrogant classmates who love the sound of their own voice......only take if you are hardcore into the material and willing to do a lot of outside extra work and are willing to sacrifice your pride and work with the other people in the class who like the smell of their own farts. Loved the material. Hated the presentation and the students
Be prepared to digest a LOT of material in each lecture.  There is also no textbook or lecture notes or videos of the lectures, so if you miss any lectures you need to have a buddy to help you (the lecture slides are posted but they will not be enough, trust me).  It's a very interesting intro class and will give you a general sense of the field, so I would definitely recommend it if you're thinking about HDRB.
This class is really interesting- if you're interested in stem cells or cutting edge experimental methods, this is the class for you. However, you have to be prepared to work without a book or taped lectures (which can be very inconvenient). Prior experience in labs and knowledge of stem cells and experimental methods would give you a leg up (I had neither, so I felt at a disadvantage). The teaching staff is very supportive- reach out to anyone you'd like!
This course is so interesting for anyone even remotely interested in human development and regenerative medicine. It doesn't require a great deal of work, but it does take time for understanding and comprehension.
It is a great class. The professors might not have too many office hours but the material definitely outweighs all of the cons.
This course is useful for a general introduction to stem cell biology.
I would recommend the course if they are interested in concentrating in HDRB.
Ok here is the thing about this coarse, it is pretty easy which is a good and a bad thing it is good because on the one hand it is easy but on the other hand the means are really high that makes it hard to know what you are getting
This class fairly unique among science classes in that it focuses on approaches to problems and experimental methods for attacking them.  The material is cutting edge, it's not out of the ordinary for lecture to include something that happened last week.  The professors are fairly spectacular in their research, and are generally good lecturers as well.  It is a good class, but the lack of structure can be frustrating.
I wouldn't recommend it as a straight up elective. It's not interesting enough unless you're passionate about science.
This is possibly the only class I've ever taken where I was never tempted to miss lecture or fall asleep during lecture - the subject matter was interesting and the professors were very enthusiastic and engaging. I'd be surprised if you took this class and didn't wind up wanting to concentrate in HDRB.
The material in the class is fascinating and at the forefront of science.  However, it's very hard to test one's understanding of many topics in the class.  Therefore, exams don't necessarily represent one's understanding of the topics.
Easy class just pay attention
I took two biology courses this semester, one of which depended on rote memorization and one of which depended on critically and creatively thinking about the topics covered.  SCRB 10 was the latter.  Instead of teaching me to memorize facts, it taught me how to do science, and as a result I am strongly considering changing my concentration to HDRB this coming semester.
Very interesting material.
I learned to think like a scientist in this class, as well as learned about the frontiers of improving human health. Taught by the top professors in their field with examples and information from the boundaries of science. Great class.
This class in unreal. The professors are all at the top of their fields and the material can one day change the world.
If you are interested in any kind of life science, take this class. Even if you have no intention of concentrating in HDRB, take this class. You will not regret it. You will get a world class introduction to the field of stem cells and regenerative biology. The workload is not particularly high and the professors are amazing. Problem sets and exams are based on critical thinking and analysis, rather than pure knowledge of specific details. By far the best class I have yet taken at Harvard.
The class might appear unorganized at times so don't hesitate to go to your TFs or Bill with any questions.  In fact, I found my TF to be the most helpful.
This is the best class I have taken so far at Harvard.  You will not be disappointed.
I would tell them that this course is very unique even at Harvard.  It is a class teaching about cutting edge science.  It encourages innovation and participation and is taught by giants in the field who are very committed to undergraduates.
This is an amazing class. The professors are really great, and their lectures are extremely engaging and thought provoking. I mean... you're learning from professors who are in Time Magazine or Nature (or People's Magazine) who are going to cure diabetes or Lou Gehrig's disease. It's great to just hear what they have to say.Given that, you may not want to take this course unless you're an HDRB concentrator. It's a very different way of thinking. It's not at all a regurgitation of facts like Life Science 1a. You have to apply genetic principles, information, etc. It's much more of a problem solving class than just listing things you've memorized. But if you'd like an introduction to stem cells and the like, this is a great class for you.Oh, and you cannot do this class unless you work in a group. Keep that in mind.
SCRB10 was a great experience, and it taught me to think in a very different way than I am used to.
Interesting lectures with the triumvirate of stem cell biology: McMahon, Melton, and Eggan. Problem sets are really manageable. You need luck for the section discussion to be exciting. All in all, a great course though. The cutting edge of science is here.
Its fun! You have to pay attention in class though because the substance of the material comes from the lecture and not from the slides and also there is no book. I would recommend recording the lectures so you can go back to it if needed.
Interesting material but slightly disorganized.
I loved, loved, loved this class!! The material was fascinating and while it was a lot of information and did require a significant amount of time, it was completely rewarding. It was so cool to be learning about such cutting edge science. We would literally be presented with papers in lecture that were going to be published tomorrow or something. Also, the professors are just all so amazing in their own right. Definitely take advantage of the chance to get to know them, because they are all doing amazing research and are so open to getting to know students. Take this if you are at all interested in developmental bio!!!
The class itself is great, and it's great to be taught by some of the greatest minds in the field. If this is a field you're considering, take the class. The material presented is very interesting, but be wary as the course is somewhat unstructured.
You have to take this class.
A truly fantastic course if you're at all interested in stem cells, regeneration, or developmental biology. All three professors are the best at what they do. I could tell they truly loved teaching the material and doing so in a simplified and understandable way. SCRB10 made me further proud to be concentrating in HDRB and really covers material which has a huge amount of potential as far as research goes. Lectures always seemed to fly by I think because I was simply always in to them. I've never said this before, but SCRB10 is a must-take class for anyone interested in science and likes learning about awesome things. It helps a lot if you somehow record the lectures so you can listen back on things later.
Everything may seem overwhelming at first, but it's really not that bad once you get into the material and can figure out the key information of each lecture.
Although the course suffered organizationally, this was to be expected due to it being the first time the course was offered. The professorial staff was unmatched. Professors Melton, McMahon, and Eggan are superstars in their respective fields and it was an honor in every sense of the word to be taught by them. Most of the course material, especially later lectures, is incredibly interesting and on the forefront of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology. Be forewarned, however: there are very few review material provided. If you miss a lecture, they is literally no other way to learn the material unless you have a friend teach it to you. Lecture slides are not detailed and no lecture videos or notes are provided.
This course gives a very nice introduction to the department. Given the strength of the professors and TFs (and Dr. Anderson), this course could potentially be amazing given a few years.
Unfortunately, you have to take this course if you would like to continue with the extremely interesting subject matter that is regenerative biology. I just hope that in future years the class is conducted better than it was in its premier year, because before SCRB 10, I had never taken a class where I wished I could study or learn more about the material, but couldn't due to the utter lack of reference materials.
It's an interesting course that is definitely worth taking. However, you'll need to put work in to learning the material. Also, don't skip lecture since everything you learn is from lecture.
The professors do not care about the students and exert no marginal effort outside of class.  The course material is non-existent outside of the lecture slides with inadequate information to prepare for exams.  The material is definitely interesting but you should proceed with caution regarding this course.
Only take if interested in material.  Maybe wait a year or two until lecture notes, practice prolems are more organized.  Definitely take if you're going into the major.
This is the future of science and this class is a material example of the rate of progress.  I'd recommend this to all pre-med students and anyone interested in how life works.
The professors in this course are among the top experts in the field. This field brings together some of the most intelligent rising scientists, and if you want to surround yourself in the company of intellects than this course is for you.
This is a great gateway class to all kinds of fields in developmental biology. It will definitely wet your appetite for the kinds of topics that you might pursue in advanced courses.
Try reading the research papers cited in lectures, and ask questions when you don't understand.
This is the cutting edge. And the class will get better because the people running it care about it. Pre-requisite: Know what a transcription factor is. The class overlaps with, but complements MCB 54 in some topics (in particular Alex Schier's lectures). Since there's no assigned reading, skimming through some of the highest-impact papers published by members of this department in the last five years greatly enhances background understanding.
Skip this class. The stuff you learn doesn't compensate for the unnecessary pain that comes with it. Take a class with a textbook!
Required for HDRB concentration.
it tries very hard, but is rather messily put together... unless you have a strong interest in the subject to begin with, better wait a few years before taking it
It's got some start up problems because it's new but it's really great and will get better next time.
Lab techniques are the most important thing to know for tests.
This class was remarkably well organized, even in its pilot year.
The material and teaching staff are great, but some of the kinks that come with it being a new course need to be worked out.
pay super close attentions to lectures and take as many notes as possible even if you dont understand what is being said. try to get adriana as your tf. be prepared to have to get midterms regraded.
If you're almost certain you will concentrate in something relating to stem cells and development, take it. This is not an elective class.
It's cutting edge and interesting and has great lectures, but there's no reading or frequent assignments to reinforce the material, so unless you already have some background in similar subject matter, it might be hard to grasp.  I'd also say that it's a bit of a methodology course, which became clear as the course wore on but was not immediately evident.
This course is different from any other science course I've taken.  The exams did not require you to regurgitate facts or answer questions similar to problem sets.  The exams really challenged you to use the general concepts you learned and apply them to experiments of your own design.  I think this class teaches you to think like a scientist, meaning you had to design your own experiments and interpret data that did not have a simple, practiced answer.
I would say that one's level of success in the class depends highly upon taking one's own initiative to learn the material by dissecting the lectures after class and talking to TFs about how one is expected to answer pset/exam questions.  One must clearly understand the goals of the course and the overarching themes of each lecture to do well.
It is wierdly difficult but worth it.
This course is taught by incredible people. furthermore, the course material is fascinating. But the class has some major organizational problems. I would recommend this class strongly to people interested in the subject matter. But unless the changes to the organization are made, i think people looking to take it as an elective might be scared away.
This class was so good that i changed my major because of it.  Enough said
this course is too disorganized and the exams are too difficult to be taken as an elective. it's hard to know what to expect on the exams and often do not reflect what we learned in lecture. the curve is harsh and although the course website says that the only prereq is ls1a taken concurrently, there is actually an assumed knowledge of mcb52 and mcb54.
Don't try to memorize all the details. Enjoy the lectures and instead try to understand the general concept.
You have to be prepared to be resourceful to learn and understand this material. While it is a good and interesting introduction to developmental and stem cell biology, it is often frustrating and difficult to adapt to the type of learning that the teaching staff expects from you. Take this course if you are interested in stem cell biology and aren't afraid to devote the time to it when exams roll around.
If the structure becomes more organized, it was be an amazing class
don't take it as an elective
Be prepared to go to Office hours and do a lot of independent work organizing the material in a comprehensible way. Be able to apply knowledge instead of just memorizing details.
this class isn't really about the information, but applying what you learn to experimental situations; although the information you learn is interesting
This is an amazing opportunity to learn from enthusiastic professors who are at the top of their field.
SCRB concentrators have to take it and it is a good introduction to the field (you learn a lot). But some lectures are confusing as hell and it is so unclear what is going to be tested.
This is a confusing class, but can be rewarding if you find the material interesting.
This class provides a wonderful introduction to the subjects of human development and regenerative biology. The incredibly interesting material makes up for the few glitches in this new course.
Very interesting material!
It is helpful to look up the papers that are referenced in the lecture slides, especially for problem sets. Take extremely careful notes during lecture, and regularly ask your TFs to clarify on information introduced in class.
