I would tell them that this class is one that deals with real coming problems/ethical issues in science.  It provides incredible knowledge of new technologies and causes us as scientists to think about the consequences of making these kinds of advances once they move beyond the laboratory.  The class is also fun and engaging.  The professor is fantastic and you will not find better TFs than Bill and Ray.  Also, in our class the group of students was very impressive and led to great discussion.
This class was fantastic - the lecture combined with the very open and involved format of the sections made this class one of my best experiences at Harvard.
This is a very hard course. It will ask you to think VERY abstractly as well as REALLY integrate your knowledge of both the science and humanities of SCRB. If you are simply looking for a "B" in a scrb class with minimal work, then choose this class. But if you want to get an "A," you will have to put in A LOT of work.
The class lectures are a bit disorganized. You may find yourself dozing off in lectures, but the sections are definitely intellectualizing stimulating. The material makes you think of new aspects of science and the society that you would not ordinarily talk about in other classes.
Great uppler level SCRB class with phenomenal TFs
SCRB 187 is a fun, not too demanding class that is a perfect way to fill a SCRB elective and meet the Gen Ed requirement for ER. The only work for the class is a 3-4 page paper every three weeks and a 6-8 page final paper. No exams or p-sets! The class has weekly readings, but the only ones you actually need to do are the ones the TFs send to you by email each week. You can probably get away with not doing those ones, too. Section is really fun, too. I was lucky enough to get Bill, who is also my advisor, as my TF. He makes a comfortable atmosphere for learning and it was cool to get to know him better. Dr. Hyman is also really nice, though his lectures can get a bit boring sometimes. Also, though the course has a scientific basis, it's really concerned with the ethics of certain scientific practices or choices, so don't think that if you haven't had neuroscience you shouldn't take the class. Overall, no matter your background, the class is a fairly painless one that you'll probably enjoy.
The most interesting course I have ever taken. Changed the way I thought about drugs, mental illnesses, accountability, etc.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. Professor Hyman is incredible and the material is so interesting. The papers are short but make you think and the sections are awesome. Absolutely take this class!
Take this. This class is a unique opportunity for science concentrators to approach interesting scientific developments with a realistic grounding in current affairs and ethics, which is all too often ignored. The workload is lighter than some science courses, though the papers require considerable thought, but that allows you to delve more into the work (rather than be overwhelmed by a heavy workload and ignore it)
The class requires an understanding of somewhat in depth biology, but approaches this information from a unique and ethical perspective.
SCRB 187 is a gem of the SCRB department and perhaps the best way I could imagine to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement for students with a scientific background.  The class was engaging and Professor Hyman is a phenomenally stimulating lecturer and conversationalist.  Take this class!
Great discussion-based class! You will be discussing issues you never thought existed in a thorough, meaningful way.
This is a great way to fulfill the ethical reasoning requirement if you're a science concentrator. The workload is relatively light and the paper assignments are great for making you think about issues related to stem cell biology
Take time to consider the essay topics, and start them in advance!
This class has been my favorite at Harvard thus far. I STRONGLY recommend taking it. Dr. Hyman is an absolute genius, the lectures and sections were super interesting (not just someone talking at you). I had never taken a neurobiology or psych class before this, and I didn't find that to be a problem. The readings are totally manageable, and so are the assignments. Take. This. Class. Especially since now it counts as ethical reasoning!!!!
This class makes you think about the future of science and medicine in ways you probably will not have encountered before. By making you think critically about your beliefs and values, it really forces you to better yourself and improve your opinions. Great course, would recommend for all science concentrators.
Think outside the box, debate controversial issues that touch on ethics and philosophical beliefs. Section is not only amazing with a debate style discussion, with arguments back and forth -- similar to a trial proceeding, but also the topics are revolutionary and simply cool (with cognitive stimulants to memory erasure drugs).
This is a very interesting course for potential researchers to realize that the work they do does have important ethical implications.  There is a very good balance between hard, technical science and ethical discussion.  The section discussions are also very thought-provoking.
A gem! This course is well organized, clear, and not overly demanding. The material is extremely interesting, and the way we engage the ethical topics is THROUGH the biology (it's not just pie-in-the-sky ethical jabs). Hyman is a marvel of a lecturer, and the sections were not like previous sections I've had---onerous and painful---but built upon the lectures and explored the topics.
Good course and a good way to fulfill an ethical reasoning course especially for science concentrators
This class was one of the best I've taken at Harvard. The material is fascinating and the discussion sections were excellent! You'll get to think seriously about ethical issues that are relevant to scientists, and learn a lot about how scientific advances change ethical questions or create new ones. Definitely a class you should consider if you're a science major or interested in science!
One on the most engaging courses I took at Harvard. Hyman is a remarkably talented individual (not to mention famous!), but he is also such an approachable guy that is easy to get to know. Also the free candy in the class is definitely a highlight. And the fact that the class only meets 2 times a week makes it a manageable, yet fascinating course. Take it even if you are not a SCRB or Neuro concentrator FOR SURE!
take this class. it challenges you to think about the ethics of treatments beyond their use in treating patients.
Awesome class!
Though the first few weeks are meh, the topics really pick up pace and are incredibly engaging! One of those courses so unique to the Harvard experience and make this institution worthwhile. Section can make or break this course.
Grading is very inconsistent, but if you're interested enough in the material, that might be okay.
This course is an excellent way to fulfill ER.  The material is interesting, as are the discussions associated
The science in this course is rigorous, but the ethics are given short shrift. Don't take this course until it embraces philosophical and ethical debates at a deeper level.
I loved this class! The teaching staff were great, and the material is so engaging if you are prepared to listen and discuss. There is science involved not to learn the science, but so that the ethical dilemmas, the possibilities and the future of those can be adequately understood. I loved my experience in SCRB 187 and it will probably be the only SCRB class I take and happy about it!
Try to talk to your TF early and often about paper expectations.
Section was amazing, but lecture really didn't add anything to the course.  Neither were particularly applicable to the papers, but the papers were still a lot of fun to write.
amazing course material, but sometime stagnant and repetitive. If you do take the course, definitely take advantage of office hours and prepare for writing assignments early.
This course is very good, as it really dives deep into the important ethical considerations and issues that arise as the fields of biology, computer science, and medicine expand their frontiers to realms previously unknown. It is an excellent course for science concentrators, specifically those in biology
This is a great course. It will really make you think about the world we live in and make you recognize the ethics of decisions you probably have never though about before. It doesn't require a lot of your time and if you put the effort into the papers you can get a lot out of the class.
The lectures and material are quite engaging. Section is a bit constructed though and the teaching staff is particular about what sort of essays they are looking for.
SCRB 187 is the best way to fulfill your ER, especially as a science concentrator. Section was extremely thought-provoking and hte workload is totally manageable. THe papers were also intiguing to write and Dr. Hyman is one of hte collest people at Harvard. Take time out of your schedule to meet with him because he has fascinating stories to tell.
This class will really push you to think about potential ethical issues with biotechnological developments from a number of different perspectives. If you do the readings and participate in sections this class can be very rewarding.
Very easy to take - but also so useful in understanding where brain therapies are going in the future
Bill Anderson is one of the finest TFs at Harvard. No science required to take this class AT ALL. Don't even bother going to lecture - Hyman is a damp squib not worth your time. Also Danielle Reny is a smokeshow
There are a lot of assignments.
Take this course! Professor Hyman is a great lecturer and the section component is always fun and engaging. The work is very manageable and the material (bioethics) is extremely interesting.
Excellent course with one of the best professors at the university
Keep up with the readings and really get into the section discussions--the topics are always super interesting!
Engage in discussuons!
This class was super easy, but it was really boring unless you know the bio
Great class in general.  The only thing I didn't quite like about it was the way we were instructed to answer the essay questions.  The topics for the essays were great, but VERY difficult and unresolved questions, and yet we were told to pick one side and completely stick to it, which is a hard, if not actually undesirable, thing to do with such a complex topic.
Everything is so subjective about grading in this course. It's just essay after essay, after essay. This is NOT a SCRB class and BARELY a science class. It is ER.
The class was a bit unorganized and I really didn't feel like I learned that much. The lectures did not really have much to do with the papers so felt like every paper required a lot of additional research. The cases that we talked about in
This course introduces fascinating topics, but lecture is a bit boring. Other gen-ed's have more exciting professors and teach students more information.
Steve Hyman is brilliant- please, please take this class. The papers are very manageable and, as a science concentrator, I never had papers that I relished writing before this class.
SCRB 187 is a great class. The professor is GREAT! and it was an honor to be in Bill Anderson's section. I already knew he was a great lecturer from SCRB10, but this semester I got to see what a really great section leader he is. The papers were hard, but I thoroughly enjoyed writing the papers. A great way to fulfill a Gen Ed and a concentration (if you're HDRB) requirement.
The course material is great, and really gets you thinking about the ethical sides of technology. Grading can be tough to get a hold of, however. Once you get what they are looking for it becomes more straightforward.
Section (with Ray) is what made this course for me. I don't get much out of the big lecture hall Q&A stuff, so I often skipped lecture. The assignments were nice, all 3-4 page papers so you can write something interesting without breaking your back. Section was always a lot of fun, and kept me engaged with the material throughout the course.
Pretty laid back and you get to learn about a lot of cool treatments/technology in the realm of neurobiology. There are only four papers (not including the final) that are short and straightforward but are graded kind of harshly. Lectures are pretty science heavy but sections are just chill debates about whatever topic was last touched on in lecture.
This class will literally blow your mind
This course will change the way you think about everything including yourself and your mind.  Don't miss the chance to take it.
While this class does not require an absurd amount of work, it does demand deep investigation and thought into salient issues in modern bioethics, with a particular emphasis on the intersection of neuroscience and ethics. Hands-down one of the best taught, most intellectually challenging, and most enlightening classes at Harvard.
this was a pretty low-workload, really interesting course. professor hyman clearly cares about the material which makes lectures great.
A good class that makes you think about various ethical issues. Hard to quantify exactly what you learned at times, but it definitely does make you consider these ethical issues with greater depth and breadth than before. Prof. Hyman is great, and the sections are a nice avenue for discussion, too.
Professor Hyman's lectures were incredibly engaging not only is he hilarious and insightful when presenting material, but the way he does so really forces you to think about the ethical implications of the studies and technologies he presents on. Discussion was well-suited to this course and there was tons of opportunity for it both in lecture and in section. There are a decent number of readings but they are all very interesting and suitable for both science and non-science concentrators (though I'll say too that I was impressed by how much actual science was taught in this course!) Pretty low-commitment course time wise (only one lecture and section per week, 4 page papers every few weeks) which actually leaves you time to do and think about the material from reading and lectures rather than killing your interest with busy work.
Take this class!!!
Best way to fulfill Ethical Reasoning requirement. The sections are structured which keeps the conversation interesting and helps time go by really fast. Professor Hyman's lectures are engaging and usually end with some discussion. Readings are not too bad/long and the material is interesting. Great class for anyone interested in SCRB, neuro, or science policy.
This is a pretty cool class. Section is often dumb because people just say "Well, I feel it's wrong that..", but it's great that you explore ethically unambiguous topics while staying grounded in what is scientifically possible.
I'm so grateful that I got to take this class, regardless of the ER credit. The papers are no walk in the park, but they are quite interesting to think and write about. Sections is excellent, so long as the group's dynamic is strong and engaging. Good luck with the lottery!
This class really made me think outside of my normal, scientific comfort zone. It compelled me to look at the ethical dilemmas of these scientific topics that we hear so much about during school and in the media. Without this class, I feel like I would be half a scientist when I emerge from Harvard - you need the ethical basis to truly understand these issues and research as a whole. Professor Hyman was a fantastic lecturer, and he was always available to talk if I had any questions about the reading or lecture. Bill was also wonderful - he was able to expand our knowledge during section, and I really appreciated the dedication and energy that he brought to the class. Overall, I would recommend this class with enthusiasm. It may not be as easy as a normal General Education class, but it is absolutely worth it.
Fairly easy course. not too many assignments but feedback on those assignments weren't great (i.e. they won't tell you how to get those 5s unless you go to office hours and ask). Don't really have to do readings except for the ones for section. don't really have to attend the lectures either but the lectures were good nonetheless. great way to fulfill ER. not really sure why this is a scrb class instead of a neuro class--so if you're doing this for the scrb advanced req, I would recommend something else.
Throughout this course, I engaged with topics that were relevant, morally and ethically ambiguous, and downright fascinating. Finding order and reason in the midst of ethical quandaries was exciting, and well worth every minute.
PHENOMENAL.
Professor Hyman is a brilliant lecturer, capable of facilitating an open, engaging debate in a lecture hall of 60 students. The topics covered are engaging, fascinating, and you'll find your own opinions continually challenged.
The assignments aren't that hard, but it is definitely useful to meet with your TF beforehand to go over your ideas. THe lectures can get kind of boring, but they go out of their way to give you things like food and treats. Don't let the department fool you, this is not a SCRB class and almost no science background at all (other than understanding what controls are...) is needed.
This is a fantastic course- one of the best I took at Harvard. Professor Hyman brings valuable perspective to neuroethics topics and has first hand accounts of how these issues play out in policy and science today. The readings are fascinating and lectures are a great combination of information and discussion. Section is taught via small debates, which is fun and engaging. The assignments (and grading) are taken seriously by the teaching staff, but doable and interesting. I highly recommend this course to science and non-science concentrators interested in ethics and science!
This class was very interesting because it made me approach ideas of the natural sciences very differently.  I appreciated the emphasis on morality as opposed to the explicit focus on mechanisms of the brain, and discussing issues like deontology and utilitarianism was eye-opening.  I think this course is very helpful for people that aspire to become doctors in the future because it makes you think more carefully about how decisions can affect people in a manner other than a strictly medical one.
The class touches are fascinating topics but are wishy washy about all of them. There was not enough guidance to write the essays satisfactorily.
This is an interesting neuroethics course with a great teaching staff. All the materials and assignments are good, but not outstanding. HDRB concentrators and non-science concentrators alike will enjoy it. Far better than Justice or LS60.
This class is AWESOME.
This class will change the way you think about human neurobiology and make you aware of neuroscience's broad societal implications. SCRB 187 focuses a lot on intellectual debates and discussions about ethics, so be prepared to think critically about morals, ethics, and societal values. For those who are very hard-science focused, this class will seem abstract and difficult to comprehend at times, but that is all part of the important learning experience. Although the papers in this class are short in length, they require quite a bit of critical thinking and logical reasoning. Overall, this class is great for anyone who is interested in the intersection between neurobiology and social science. It is also ideal for anyone who is interested in but has limited previous exposure to ethics and philosophy.
Be prepared to think!
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Every single lecture and reading was super interesting. Professor Hyman is an amazing teacher, and he is clearly passionate about the issues being discussed. Sections and short paper assignments really encourage you to take on new perspectives to think about extremely difficult ethical questions. I highly recommend taking this course to fulfill the Ethical Reasoning requirement (or just as an elective!).
This is the kind of class that Harvard needs to have more of: based on cutting-edge research, future-oriented, and provocative. SCRB187 gives you a chance to engage with recent findings on the mind and brain from an ethical perspective. It's a large enough class that there is diversity of opinion, but small enough that you won't feel lost in lecture. Section is enjoyable, and is a chance for you to discuss and debate interesting topics in a smaller setting. There are occasional dry spells in lecture when we delved into mechanisms and specifics about the brain, but they're more than worth it.
take this. it is interesting, well taught, fun. if you are interested in psychiatric illness, neurobiological diseases and want to explore some really interesting ethical aspects of them, TAKE IT
This was an exceptional class with an exceptional teaching staff and professor. The course was amazing in weaving together the disciplines of neurobiology, stem cell research, and ethics to portray the growing challenges that these new technologies may not only help us address, but that they raise. If you can get into this class ( There is usually a lot of demand). I would highly recommend it.
Very interesting bioethics class.  Loved the focus and the way that Professor Hyman ran lectures. Overall, not a burdensome work load and a very painless way to get the ethical reasoning requirement out of the way, especially for science concentrators.
Best Ethical Reasoning course. It is actually interesting, the assignments are fun, and the teaching staff is awesome!
AMAZING! This class is incredible and makes you think in wonderful ways. Best class I've taken at Harvard! TAKE THIS
This course is amazing. I never thought I would find an enjoyable way to fulfill an ethical reasoning requirement. The workload is also extremely low. The entirety of the work I did for this course consisted of four 3-page papers and one final 6-page paper that were both mostly opinion-based, so not much research was required. There is also reading but you really don't have to do it. Not to mention the topics are really interesting and will challenge the way you see identity and neurobiology. I can't say it enough -- take this course. Take it.
Lottery this class until you get in. You won't regret it.
sections are very gimmicky, grading is very hand-wavy, and the assignments are all super convoluted. material is inherently interesting, and hyman is an awesome guy/professor.
This is an enjoyable way to fulfill ER, but it isn't a science class.
Although the professor of this course was very sincere in his dedication to the material and facilitating discussion about neuroethics topics, the class itself was not as interesting or engaging as I thought it was going to be. The short papers were confusing (in both topic and how to write them) and I would actually have preferred in-class or take-home exams instead of the short papers, because I don't feel like they utilized what we discussed in class much. Sections were debates which became tedious and fraught with tension at times. The professor dos bring sweets to every lecture (which was always nice to receive) but ultimately I feel like I came out of this course learning little.
Here's the breakdown of the course: half the lecture is spent on introducing new concepts/studies, and half is spent on discussions. Everybody participates in a debate during section on topics relating to law, responsibility, use of brain-enhancing drugs, etc. I really liked the class, especially section, since it got me thinking about multiple points of view on many different topics. Contrary to many of my classmates, I also really enjoyed the section on determinism/existence of free will. This course will get you thinking about many of these topics and spur a lot of interesting conversations. HOWEVER, beware of the essay assignments. They can be graded quite arbitrarily (as in all writing classes, I guess), and count for a significant portion of your grade.
I found SCRB 187 to be very interesting and the topics are important to think about. However, I did not get very good feedback on my essays and the sections were very repetitive.
It's so cool - you learn how to think of things from different points of views!
Good gen ed to satisfy your ethical reasoning requirement, but the prompts (both in section and for essays) can sometimes be frustrating if you're looking for an actual real-world dilemma that is currently being looked at- they would sometimes tend towards really implausible or far-in-the-future topics.
I would highly recommend this class to anyone with an interest in science who has to fulfill their ER requirement. Viewing ethical issues through a neurobiological lens gave me an interesting perspective on many issues that are current and relevant today.
This course was a great way to re-examine the nature human conscience and really toppled all of my assumptions, and it was an amazing way for me to think about the ethics of our biologically constrained existence. The staff and sections were amazing! I was really avoiding fulfilling my ER requirement, but this was the best possible way for me to do so, and I loved it!
There is a lot of pre-med arrogance that skews these course evaluations a lot lower than they should be.  Yes, it's a writing class and grading can be subjective, but I know people who literally cannot write a thesis statement correctly who are surprised that they might get a B+ in this class.  I'm a non-premed MCB concentrator who was shocked by how little anyone paid attention to the comments they got on their papers and instead denigrated writing itself/the grading system.The paper assignments are interesting, section discussions are difficult and can get a bit too abstract for me but were ultimately interesting.  Lecture can be dry but the material is really good.  Overall an easy class if you know how to write a 2 page response paper - great for senior spring.
This class does not have a large workload. However, the essays that we write are short and it is a bit more difficult than initially anticipated to write shorter ethics papers.
Definitely take this course!!!! The course material on brain ethics is very interesting and engaging. Even readings are soo good.
This is an excellent course to weigh the advantages of technological development with the potential ethical pitfalls associated with things we take for granted as parts of our everyday life, like artificial intelligence. The readings are very interesting, and section provides a great opportunity to reason through arguments with peers in a way that also develops an argumentative style for the papers. Highly recommend.
This class is an extremely interesting ethics class, particularly for science concentrators. Discussions in section are great (particularly if you get Gabe as your TF), although lectures can be quite dry. The workload is very manageable with biweekly 2-page essays and a final paper
Great class.
Great course (especially for SCRB concentrators to get a double count 100 level and gen ed). It is very interesting to see the ethics behind a lot of the research that many of us are going to do in the future. Dr. Hyman is a great lecturer. Gabe is a great and caring TF that does so much for his students.
The papers are difficult but really force you to think about ethics as it relates to biology. Section is similarly difficult but rewarding
The time and effort you put into the course will not necessarily be reflected in your grade.
This is a really enjoyable class, and is a great way to fulfill a Gen Ed. The topics covered are hugely relevant, especially for anyone considering going into healthcare or medicine. Each weekly section is structured as a debate, so if you enjoy active participation and critical thinking then it is a blast.
Steve Hyman is brilliant, and the course will make you think. Excellent for SCRB concentrators.
The course seems to really have taken into account past feedback and worked to make the course more accessible and less arduous. The assignments were engaging but not painfully hard, and grading was fair.
This class is brilliant because it discusses ethics in a context that matters. Issues of bioethics and neuroenhancement are already knocking on our door, and I fully believe this course helps you to understand them
you will learn stuff. but it'll be random and incoherent. all three parts of the course are seperate and useless together. section you wont get anything out of. take the easier stance that the TF leans towards.
TAKE THIS CLASS! It is definitely one of the most satisfying courses I ever took. The topics are fascinating, and, if it doesn't powerfully impact your perspective on life, it gives you plenty of things to think about. Section is amazing (especially Ray's) - definitely the best part of the course. Don't let yourself be intimidated by the essay due every two weeks - it's pretty short, and the topics give you plenty to talk about. You don't have to do all the readings to succeed, but you should do it nevertheless - they're really interesting. My final comment is that you do not need a very strong neurobiology background - it's mostly an ethics focused course. (Oh and also there's candy.)
The writing assignments for this course are difficult and the teaching staff has high standards. It is interesting and definitely a relatively painless upper level SCRB.
This course is awesome. Great introduction into ethics in the life sciences, and focuses on some of the most philosophical questions there are, including what it means to be human, and who science and ethics intertwine in different ways.
This class is incredibly interesting and well taught! I think professor Hyman does an amazing job explaining the science and then balancing the ethical issues that he truly want discusses with students. I learned how to think about health issues in a completely different manner.
The topics we discussed throughout the course were very interesting and relevant, and it was especially interesting being able to hear Professor Hyman's perspective on controversial issues such as memory editing, as he was the former director of the National Institute for Mental Health. The assignments were also interesting, but it was difficult to really make a cogent point in two pages. Debating issues from different perspectives in section was useful to my understanding of the topic as a whole, and I think because the sections were pretty small, everyone was able to contribute to the discussion.
An incredible course that is easy and while the lectures are INSANELY boring it is easy to  do well and all the TF's are brilliant.
This is a really great class for any life sciences person who needs to fulfil their Ethical Reasoning requirement. It's a class that makes thinking about ethics accessible to life sciences, and you are not expected to be a philosopher in your papers, but just have to make consistent, logical arguments. You can totally do well without previously having taken any ethics, as long as you can think critically and logically.
Professor Hyman brings cookies or chocolate to every lecture. Section structure is probably the best I've had
This is a great course with great teaching staff. Unfortunately there was very little connection between the lectures and section, which was very off-putting. It felt like all of the information that was actually being evaluated (through assignments) was learned in section. It would have been nice to incorporate more of the science learned in lecture into the assignments.
Go to office hours to learn more about philosophy! It's not covered very comprehensively in lecture, so make sure to talk to your TF/course staff.
Great course that pushes you to consider scientific breakthroughs in a new light. Lottery until you get it!
This course is a lot more philosophy-oriented than lectures would make it seem. You will learn a lot of neurobiology, but your assignments and section work will revolve around the etical issues surrounding these science interventions.
This has to be the best way to fulfill ER. You get to improve and practice your argumentation skills in a safe environment, listen to an incredibly influential voice of neuroethics (Professor Hyman), gain an exposition on a wide swath of cutting-edge findings in neurobiology, social and cognitive psychology, and be introduced to basic philosophical concepts. Even if you've already fulfilled ethical reasoning, this class is worth it.
The class does a good job of raising questions about the implications of new research in neurobiology, but at times it does feel like the class doesn't go enough in depth into the science. The sections were helpful for teaching different topics in philosophy.
This is a fine course, and good for ER if you're a science concentrator. Kind of a lot of writing, and essays aren't graded super easily, but since the papers are short it is never unmanageable.
Absolutely amazing class - everybody interested in life sciences should take and marvel at the sheer awesomeness of neuroscience discussed
This class is a great and easy way to fulfill ER as a science concentrator. You talk about a lot of really interesting topics that are actually relevant for the future. If you need ER and you can get into this lottery, TAKE THIS CLASS! Sections are basically debates every time, so if you're not a fan of that then that may be a problem. But as a science concentrator, this ER seemed like the only really interesting gen ed for me, and I am so happy I took it.
The lectures are very engaging and interesting. I learned a ton about ethical issues in the field of neuroscience. However, it is more about science than philosophy, so if you are looking for a rigorous philosophy class, this may not be for you.
Really interesting class. There is a bit of a disconnect between lecture (mostly science) and section (mostly philosophy and ethics), but the material overall is mentally stimulating and interesting. Would really recommend!
This is a great ER! The material is interesting, the workload is light, and Hyman is an awesome professor! The sections are in a debate format, which keeps section engaging. To top things off, there is only lecture once a week, so this is an awesome class to satisfy ER!
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS unless you are extremely dedicated to the material.  The lectures were often quite boring and repeated material from many introductory neurobiology and psychology classes  Additionally, the entire grade for the course was based on just a few papers that were graded very arbitrarily by TFs with no experience in humanities/ethics papers - just science papers.  I was even told that basing an argument on our Constitutional rights isn't a strong argument.  Additionally, points were taking off my paper because my TF read the prompt wrong and the staff wouldn't give me the points back.  This class is graded way too harshly for a Gen Ed, especially considering that you don't learn much new material in the class if you have a brain science background but will not be graded like you are in other science classes.
This is a great class for science concentrators looking to learn about philosophy and ethics. The assignments are challenging but short and the lectures are interesting and engaging. Don't expect this to be an easy gen-ed course, but if you are prepared to put effort into fulfilling the ethical reasoning requirement, I would definitely recommend it.
great way to fulfill ER credit if you are into science. just be aware, writing 4 papers throughout the semester, even though they are short, can be overwhelming.
This is a nice chill class where you write about bioethics. The sections are dry because the format is the exact same pretty much every single time, but the assignments are decent.
The topics are very interesting and should be things to think about. I don't really like the structure of section because many of the debates during section force students to take really polar perspectives, but in reality, the closest solution often requires being in the middle and taking a little bit of both perspectives. Thus, having students take the stance of either one side or the other is very pointless to me. Furthermore, paper topics are interesting but the readings given for each paper clearly points the students towards a specific answer which means students don't really get to share their own opinions but instead have to write an essay based on what "correct" answer is implied by the readings even though teaching staff insists there's no "correct answer". Choosing to challenge yourself and argue for the "wrong" side only results in a lower score, so it will not get you any brownie points. I don't like this because it trains students to write a paper based on what he/she thinks the teaching staff is looking for, and not based on what he/she actually believes regarding the topic. So heads up, write the "Correct" answer to get a good score.
This class is not a SCRB class. It is a philosophy class and there are several papers. Do not go in thinking it's a science class. It's an ER class.
Great class. Section was amazing--it's rare that a 1.5 hour section feels too short. It consisted of discussing (and arguing!) highly interesting topics like "is it ethical to take cognitive enhancing drugs without any medical problems?" and "are treatments that change someone's personality ethical?" Lecture was great, too; Hyman is a funny and engaging teacher, and, again, the material was fascinating. The papers were tough (and the prompts were sometimes a bit unwieldy), but there were only five of them (four + final paper), so the workload was very manageable. This class changed the way I think about a variety of subjects relevant to my life and is among the most interesting classes I've ever taken at Harvard. Take it!
This is a good course if you need it to fulfill both a concentration/secondary requirement and a gen ed, but otherwise you can probably find much better ethical reasoning options. The lectures are really slow and boring even though the material is fascinating. The grading across TFs is highly variable. Not much work though because the readings for lecture are pretty much unnecessary and the papers are fairly short (you do 4 4 page papers and one final 8 page paper)
There are four assignments in this course that are very modular so that you do not need to synthesize concepts learned in the weeks prior to complete these papers. In that sense, this course was light in terms of workload because you are not necessarily evaluated on all the readings (only a strategically selected few). Many of the ethical questions are quite intuitive, so everyone can always contribute. However, there is very little support for improving writing in this course. For many of you, this will be the first time you will have to address philosophical issues, which is actually harder said than done. Although there are many office hours, feedback given after each assignment, and even a general rubric, there is generally not a specific reason why you got an extra point (out of 20 possible) deducted. As a result, it is very hard to figure out exactly where you went wrong on a paper. You will only receive relatively vague advice on how to improve, so part of this course is spent trying to figure out what the instructors "look for" in the papers. This leads to people often just crowding office hours prior to the assignments because there is very little other forms of concise guidance to help with writing strong papers.
This is a FANTASTIC course! If you get it, definitely stay!! You really won't regret it. The lectures are super interesting. Professor Hyman is a great lecturer. Also, treats are usually distributed in the middle of class. Sections are SO much fun! You get to really think about your beliefs and form arguments. You learn how to defend a position in section discussions and the paper assignments. This is a wonderful class with a low workload and low stress - and it's actually really fun.
The lectures and readings are dense, but not entirely necessary to be successful in the class. Just make sure you grasp the general concepts explored in each lecture and pay attention to section, which is the most helpful for the papers. The section debates are also interesting.
This is a pretty good course. When I first read comments, I thought this course was really gonna make an impact and be super interesting, but what I found was that while the material itself was interesting, the class was not well structured and the professor was boring. It is not a difficult class, but the TFs were inconsistent in grading, so some sections were harder than others. The assignments felt removed from lecture. Even the professor knew lecture was boring! He has to give us food an hour into each one.
I really enjoyed the discussions about ethical questions in this course, especially in section.  The lecture is a bit unrelated and bio heavy, but this course requires no biology knowledge for success.  It also teaches you to write succinct arguments.
If you do science, TAKE THIS CLASS. It will make you question so many of your choices, it's great. That's what college is about anyways.
The essays are meant to be reflections of your thought rather than traditional reading/quote based assignments so it is more important to think about the ideas and use the readings as a guide rather than trying to stick solely to the recommended readings.
Professor Hyman is very qualified to be teaching on this subject and cares deeply about students learning the reason why the questions posed in the class are ethical dilemmas. It's very difficult to think of what the true answer is to a relevant ethical issue, which makes the papers very interesting. Lottery early and be persistent if you don't get it the first time around!
This is a really good class, and all it requires is an analysis of pressing public health issues that are very interesting to think about
This class is awesome. It can be easy to not engage with, but the more you dive in the more you will get out of it.
It's a very difficult course. Don't let the seemingly low workload fool you. It is very time consuming and alot of readings. The essays are graded on a very vague grading scheme making it hard to improve.
You get chocolate during every lecture! That's just one example though of how the teaching staff really cares about making it an enjoyable learning experience. Section is almost always in the form of a debate about some neurobiological/moral example that stems from the readings and lecture. It's nice to take a class where you're actually encouraged to talk with your peers.
The papers are graded really harshly and they are the only grades you get....
Start the papers early, even though not given much time to do them. Go to office hours!
Don't take this course, it really has the idea of being very interesting, but it is honestly not in the way it is structured. If you do take it, go to class and FOCUS on being engaged!
What I appreciated about this class is that you did not have to have a philosophy or SCRB background to participate, learn, and do well in the class. I also really appreciated the debate style of section! Although there were a few people who used it as a shameless opportunity to flaunt their debate background, for the most part it was a good learning opportunity. From time to time the paper or discussion prompts were perhaps too pared down but nevertheless it made for an interesting time poking holes into the assumptions of the prompts. Low stress (manageable work), high reward senior year class, and the teaching staff was solid.
Great class! You explore tons of interesting questions.
This was and will most likely be my favorite class at Harvard! Lottery for it! Also if you get a chance to talk to Professor Hyman, he is a pretty cool guy!
The lecture readings are not really necessary, and the graded assignments are based more on philosophical reasoning than on hard science. That being said, it's a really interesting course if you put in the time to do the readings, pay attention in lecture, and participate in section. Sections are really engaging and fun. The assignments - 4 short philosophy type papers - are graded pretty harshly, so make sure you start ahead of time. In terms of time commitment, the course isn't bad, and it is also interesting and enjoyable.
The lecture component of this class is no good. Its just Prof Hyman railing on about the latest medical treatments with little to no application to actual ethics. I was very disappointed with it. The section component, however, was great but only because I had a fantastic section leader. Mollie went above and beyond to facilitate great dialogue in class and make sure we were all comfortable and participating. While this course is one of the less painful ethics courses, its not great. But, the course workload itself is fairly light. You have four 3 - 4 page papers all semester and one 6 - 8 page paper as a final paper.
The paper prompts were usually interesting as were the section discussions, but the grading was completely arbitrary. My grades were all over the place and there really seemed to be no reason why. I also don't think this class is an easy A like it has somewhat of a reputation for. Lecture is also kind of a waste of time that you really don't need to pay attention in.
Yes the class fills both the ER and upper level science requisites--but you'll enjoy your time at Harvard more if you choose courses that interest you in both categories separately. The papers often felt graded arbitrary, and there is very little learning that takes place vs. simply using rhetoric to convey certain ideas.
The course is interesting and allows you to discuss, explore, and critically think about a lot of new technologies and ethical issues. It's a fairly decent workload - with just 4 3-4 page papers and a 6-8 page final paper (no exams).
It's an okay course. I really only learned stuff in section, and enjoyed the debates there, but did not particularly enjoy lecture.
This class is truly a gem. If you look at the material and the amount of constructive feedback you receive on essays from the wonderful TF's, then this class should not be that difficult or time intensive. It's one of the most interesting classes I've taken at Harvard and has truly inspired me to pursue bioethics as a potential career.
Take this class if you can! It's a manageable course in terms of readings / assignments. You'll also learn a whole bunch about really interesting material that are pertinent to our changing scientific and technological world! You'll learn how to be a good, argumentative writer, a good public speaker who knows how to defend his / her opinion with facts and reasoning, and you'll learn a whole bunch about relevant and pertinent scientific topics that are rocking or will be rocking the scientific world! Such a gem of a course and a pleasure to take!
It's not as easy as people say if you aren't a paper-person. They grade very subjectively and if you don't write the way they want you to (or take the stance they want you to) you lose points. Know what your TF wants you to say (go to OH) and then write exactly what they tell you and you'll do well. I got a lot out of sections and really enjoyed them.
A good Ethical Reasoning class for science people. Low workload and low stress, although essay grading can be very tough depending on your TF. Lectures aren't always the most riveting but section discussion is actually interesting and gets you engaged.
I had been waiting for two years to take this class and it didn't disappoint at all. The section component was fantastic and Hyman is arguably one of the best lecturers at Harvard.
Great class, p chill. Really gives you the opportunity to think about a lot of interesting topics.
SCRB187 is awesome! Work hard on the essays and actively engage in class discussions. The topics are really interesting, and I don't know of a better scientifically grounded ethical reasoning class.
Super interesting class; not necessarily an easy A per se, but relatively chill and you'll learn a lot.
really interesting ethical topics surrounding neuroscience. well organized with good lectures. four 3-5 page papers plus a 6-8 page final paper. a great gen ed if you're interested in neuroscience, drugs, technology.
