This class was amazing!  I learned so much - I now feel confident reading any paper relating to stem cells, cloning, or regeneration and having a strong grasp on the material.  We focused a lot on experimentation and techniques, which was useful and interesting.  Overall, it was a fantastic class.
Take it! One of the most memorable and well-taught classes I've taken at Harvard. You learn a lot.
I'd give my left arm to know the secret of regeneration.
very little work, great professors, fascinating materialcaveat: see if they set up grading standards for students to see this time
great find! this class is one of my favorite biology classes at harvard, and i've taken a lot of them
The class definitely helps with those working in labs because it teaches us the mechanisms and thoughts behind many of the techniques we perform in lab.
Not well organized, but still a good continuation of scrb10.
This is a great class if you have not taken SCRB 10.  If you have taken SCRB 10 it might be a good idea to look at the other SCRB classes in order to maximize your learning.
The material is interesting and Dr. Scadden, Dr. Hochedlinger and Bill are very knowledgeable. Just be aware that there are not many practice problems, so be prepared to practice thinking critically during class, in section and on your own time.
I would tell them that this is a fabulous class if you want to learn more about designing experiments and about techniques.  If you liked SCRB10 and want to learn more about the more modern, cutting edge topics, this class is for you!
Focus on learning to critique papers/experiments
Very interesting class, but not easy. Should be familiar with biological terms and assays.
This class, while well taught, does not introduce many topics not previously covered in SCRB10. It's not a particularly demanding course, and will help you learn how to critically read and evaluate scientific papers, but will not expose you to many new topics.
Challenges you to understand core concepts and techniques. Don't waste time with details, but know the background topics.
make sure you know and understand the material thoroughly.
A lot of it is taught in SCRB10 and it's going to be changed a lot to adapt to the new SCRB courses being made.
A very good course.  Strong lectures, interesting subject material.
Be prepared for a science course that has little foundation and which teaches you the same thing lecture after lecture, just through a different lens/example.
Interesting class with little work. If you have any interest in stem cells definitely take this class.
This course will be one of the most interesting that you take in your time at Harvard. The professors are some of the smartest people you will ever meet. Bill cares so much about his students, and it creates an atmosphere in which you want to learn as much as you can. You will not be disappointed.
a great course, take it. you will learn how to think.
This is a fascinating course, but there isn't a lot of guidance along the way, so your grades can be all over the place, which is hard to deal with.
Bill is awesome.
The lecturers provide complimentary expertise, are immensely engaging, and have structured the course in a very effective manner. Professor Scadden's "open" style lectures (on ethics and therapeutic directions) were an excellent forum for discussion amongst the class as a whole.
You learn a lot about stem cell methods and you feel very comfortable reading the literature after.
This class is a good follow-up to SCRB10, but it get more in-depth with experiment design, which is helpful for those considering research.
This class is fairly easy, but the midterms/final can be tricky because it's hard to predict what they are going to test. Take SCRB 10 before taking this class for good preparation.
form a study group to talk over the experiments
Good introduction to stem cell biology, but most of it was review.
this course makes a great followup to SCRB10 because it further engages you the the subject matter and integrates discussion and paper reading, while building experimental skills
This class needs to be better designed to accomodate students of different science levels. The availability of the professors and TFs are pretty much non-existent except for Bill Anderson, who is amazing.
Take this course only after taking SCRB 10. It is interesting, but sometimes I feel as if the tests were unfair/vague. There isn't a lot of specific knowledge one must memorize for the test; only broad concepts were needed to succeed.
if you can go for a lab class, try for that.  scrb 125 does teach you a lot about assays and such, but seems a little too similar to scrb 10 still
This class is a great introduction to stem cell biology and the atmosphere of the class is very personal. The teaching staff is extremely friendly and makes an true effort in teaching.
The lecturers are great and Abby was really helpful!  Take it!
As someone who did not take SCRB 10, this class was interesting because the material was entirely new.  This also made it a bit more challenging, especially at the beginning when I was getting up to speed.  But overall the course is a good overview of stem cell bio and a great way to improve your ability to read and analyze scientific papers.  Grading is nice and lenient and really the only work you have is reading papers (aside from studying for exams).  Very manageable class.
The material was great! I learned a lot, especially about the up and coming field of regenerative medicine. I would have preferred not as much overlap from SCRB10 though.
This class is absolutely incredible! It allows you to learn how to read papers critically and gives you a very solid foundation in all of the topics covered. Make sure that you read the papers ahead of time and give time each week to think about the experimental outlines in the paper. PAY ATTENTION to the figures in the papers. Sometimes the figures speak more than what the paper argues and can give you a clue as to whether the papers are actually showing good experimental outlines!
Lectures and exams are straight forward. Section did not produce thought-provoking discussions and I don't think I am any better at reading scientific papers.
I highly recommend this class to students who want to get a solid introduction to the field of stem cell biology. It's definitely worthwhile especially if you have taken MCB 52/54 but have no introduction to SCRB yet. I was able to read a lot of the most important papers in the field critically while learning all of the basics in SCRB knowledge and experimental concepts.
Take this class if you're an HDRB concentrator and you want more background on the topics covered in Scrb 10. There aren't any problem sets, and the exams are very reasonable (and this is coming from an underachieving pre-med).
This course was so awesome. I learned so much and feel a lot more comfortable reading scientific papers. It was really low time commitment too. I spent about 2-3 hours a week preparing for the literature reviews but it was worth it.
Great class on stem cells. There's some overlap with Scrb 10, but it was worth learning from Hochedlinger and Scadden, researchers at the forefront of the field. Papers were really interesting and the TF was great. The small class size resulted in an intimate atmosphere, which was nice. There are no lecture videos, and the lecture slides weren't very helpful (they weren't annotated). There weren't enough practice problems for the exams. The exams are written by the tf, so make sure you have a good one before you enrollChris taught this year and he was great.
This is by far the best course I've taken at Harvard. Dr. Hochedlinger and Dr. Scadden are amazing professors. The only course I would look forward to attending on Mondays and Wednesdays.
If you want an in-depth understanding of stem cell biology and reprogramming, this class is fantastic. SCRB 10 is really important preparation for this course. The professors, Hochedlinger and Scadden, are leading authorities in the field, yet were incredibly approachable. I had a fantastic experience in this class.
This course really teaches you how to think and talk about science in a way that no other class does. It's rigorous and fun, and really requires a lot of preparation.
Class is pretty easy, definitely take it! You learn a lot! And even though the syllabus looks very similar to SCRB 10, you really take time to learn about the experiments and stem cells.
This is a great class if you want to learn about how read scientific papers and design experiments. think of it as an advanced version of scrb 10. it is very interesting and the level of critical thinking you acquire is invaluable.
I think this is a great course to take as a SCRB concentrator, since it gives a good overview of the stem cell field without intense assignments or exams. The exams are also very application-heavy, but not unfair.
This class will teach you how to discover all the things that you took for granted in SCRB 10. It will absolutely develop you critical reading skills for science papers. Not much work at all. Highly recommended.
SCRB 125 was a good class, not particularly difficult and also not particularly amazing. Luis was a capable and understanding teaching fellow who definitely knew his stuff, but I did wish we received lectures from Konrad Hochedlinger and David SCADDEN more often. I found the critical reading review sessions really helpful in my ability to read and pick out important info from science research papers, but a lot of the class was a repeat of SCRB 10. I would recommend this course if you need a SCRB elective that won't be that difficult of an addition to your schedule but not if you want your mind to be blown with love for stem cell biology.
If you have taken scrb10 then you are well prepared for this class!
This class is like a continuation of SCRB 10 and it really adds to your understanding of what you learned. The lectures were always very interesting and the workload was very manageable. The tests were also very fair. I would recommend this class if you are looking for an elective or a course to help fulfill HDRB concentration requirements. Great class.
Luis won't be around next year but he was fabulous as a TF. He is one of those rare TFs that not only understands but acts to address the inadequacies of biology tests. His exams were well written and had such clarity that it was actually clear what we were supposed to write, whereas other classes it would essentially be an exercise of "guess the answer key". The grading is fair and the teaching staff is quite laid back. A good entry point for non-HDRB people interested in some SCRB. If you have taken SCRB 10, you shouldn't take this class just for the easy A, because who wants that.
Take this class if you want to get better at reading papers.
This class is a great way to expand on SCRB 25. The material is very interesting and reviews of the scientific literature are very helpful.
