Please take this class if you are interested in medicine/stem cell biology and like discussing these tings
This course was amazing!  What a wonderful and rare opportunity to interact closely with stellar faculty, actual patients, and interested students.  Don't change the seminar format of the class.  Limiting it to 14 people allowed each of us to ask many questions, which was great!  George is a wonderful scientist and it was a thrill to learn from him and his colleagues.
The class is one of the few opportunities (or perhaps the only one) that enables science students to sit down and talk with the corresponding author of seminal papers in stem cell research about their thoughts of the papers and views for the future of the field. The teaching staff effectively conveys how scientific advances can lead to improving patient lives, making the class material seem very relevant.
an amazing course, my favorite class at harvard
most worthwhile class of my senior spring
you'll need to read lots of papers
One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. If you are interested in stem cell biology and disease, the class offers a simply amazing experience - top quality lectures and discussions, direct interaction with faculty, clinical experience, and very stimulating and informal atmosphere. The trip to Longwood is definitely worth it (and the class meets once a week anyway).
This class is totally worth the bus ride to Longwood!  And if you never wanted to do stem cell biology before, this class will totally change your life!
This class exposes you to a huge range of topics. It was a great class.
I thought SCRB167 is exactly the type of class that the SCRB department needed to have in order to take the basic science taught in SCRB10 and apply it to the world of medicine.
Interacting with the patients is a unique experience that helps you really understand the diseases.
By far, one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Make sure you engage with the papers, patients and guest lecturers to get the most out of this class and really get your innovative though going.
This class combines science and the pathos of the struggle of a patient. It is absolutely worth taking.
For anyone interested in medicine, it's great. You really do get to explore many facets of stem cell 'therapies' while grounding them in the real life experience of patients.
Best class ever taken. Great for learning about the patient experience as well as underlying science.
This is an amazing class because you get to learn about the role of stem cells in different contexts and get to meet very unique patients; however if you do not have a strong background in molecular biology you should either make sure you get a ton of support throughout the course otherwise you will not get as much out of the course which could be frustrating.
If you have the chance, take this class! I've never taken a more unique class at Harvard and I wish that there were a greater number of courses modeled after this one.
If you make the effort to be fully engaged with the professors, the lecturers, and the science, this course will be one of your favorites at Harvard.
This was the best class that I have taken at Harvard and I would strongly recommend that anyone interested in disease research or practicing medicine try to take it. It is 100% worth going out to Longwood and the teaching staff and the guest lectures are absolutely incredible. You will learn about a lot of diseases or fields of research that you had never thought about being interested in before.
This class is great.  Seeks to inspire students to critically think about unmet clinical needs.  It also teaches students how to interact with patients, as many students aspire to be physicians.
Good class to connect stem cell research and disease. But it may not be as intellectually stimulating as I thought it would be, and some lectures were unsatisfying and didn't have much substance.
some of the papers are kind of hard, but the patients were amazing.  it would be helpful if some sort of rubric was given for the grading of the papers.
This course is the most relevant course that a pre-medical student or hopeful scientist can take at Harvard.  It perfectly connects students to the real-life faces of pathological disease and teaches them to think creatively about ways stem cell science and translational medicine can intervene.
It was a great class! The patient presentation were the best part of the class --- would take it for that alone! The lectures were always stimulating as well.
This was the best class that I've ever taken at Harvard. You have the opportunity to hear from the best scientists around. The patient stories are incredible. The entire teaching staff is dedicated to making this course the best it can be. They've done an incredible job. Take this class if you're in the HDRB major. Even if you're not HDRB, take this class if you have any room in your schedule.
"2 papers, 2 presentations" - sounds easy right? It can be, but this is the kind of class where you get out as much as you put in. Don't go in expecting to put in the minimum, this is not the course for that. This is the course where you work hard because you love the material and the patients, not for an A.
This class is extremely interesting and interactive, especially good to take if you are considering a career in medicine because it so heavily emphasizes clinical translation of research and the more human sides of disease. I liked having a different presenter and different patient presenters every week- it made the course interesting and gave us the opportunity to hear directly from experts in each given field.
This class will make you stretch your abilities and that is a good thing. It is challenging but well worth it. You will learn so much and in a positive way, not just through regurgitation. You will be an environment of mutual respect and the professors treat you like colleagues not just students. It was such a worthwhile experience.
This class is amazing! It really affirmed my desire to enter medicine, and offers such unique opportunities to connect with so many different experts in various fields. Most importantly, though, we learn so much from the patients, who bring such a unique component to the class.
This was one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. It challenges you to think differently and more deeply than any other course. The professors are amazing, and you'll learn a ton from this class.
This is a fantastic class that presents biology in a new context and with a new perspective.  The ride in to the med school can be long, but its worth it.
This was the best class I have ever taken. I am a science major and an active volunteer, but never before had both of my interests united in one room.  Every lecturer is fantastic and really open to questions, while every patient shares a compelling story.
The most fulfilling experience I have had at Harvard. This course presents an amazing team of leaders in the field of stem cell research. Outside of field conferences, such a team can literally only exist within the biological research-rich area of Boston, and within the confines of a university that attracts so much talent such as Harvard.
The best course I have taken at Harvard!
This is an AMAZING class--one of the best I've taken at Harvard. The subject matter was incredibly interesting and having patient visits made it all the more real and applicable. The readings were always cutting edge and incredibly interesting and having different top biologists lecture each week on their specialty made for a great class setup.
Wonderful mix of science paper reading/analysis, patient interaction and student discussion. One of the only classes in my major to bridge my interest in clinical/translational science. A defnite must for those interested in medicine!
This class will change your life and the way you think about human biology, stem cells and science.  This class has reaffirmed my interest in basic science research as well.
This is the best class at Harvard! Enough said.
Amazing course and an extremely timely one. You really do feel like you're on the cutting edge, and the small seminar format was really helpful for enabling everyone to get to know one another.
A fantastic class!
Take this class! It's probably my favorite class that I've taken at Harvard. Lectures are really interesting, and the papers you are assigned to read are generally pretty interesting as well. The midterm/final paper is challenging but you'll learn a lot doing it. The entire teaching staff was really great, and you'll also hear lectures from other leaders in their fields.
This class is so incredibly amazing, especially if you are a student aspiring to go to medical school. The patient visits are so informative, and really put the material that you are reading about in context. George Daley and Len Zon are INCREDIBLE professors who are so brilliant and have so many interesting perspectives on the future of the field and where it needs to go, while also being explicit about the limitations. Willy is such a friendly and great head TF, and always willing to talk to students. Anne Cherry is an AMAZING teaching fellow. Unfortunately I don't think either of them will be running the course anymore, but I'm sure they will enlist similarly awesome people to be teaching. The assessments that they grade you on are also read by both George Daley and Len Zon, so you are really getting good feedback from the best of the best! And going through the process of writing the assignments was very intellectually stimulating. Overall, this is an AMAZING COURSE!!!! If you are considering it, definitely take it!
It's a great, enjoyable, low-workload class. The professors and TFs are great and easily accessible.
Amazing staff, in particular willy!
I LOVED this class. I learned a lot, but it was low-stress. Section was fun and interesting. There are lots of readings, but they're doable. The papers were hard, because you have to come up with your own experiment addressing an issue in stem cell biology, but there are many resources to help you. Towards the end of the semester, going to the med school for class was annoying. It sometimes took over an hour to get home in rush hour traffic.
This was a fascinating introduction of what is currently going on in the field of regenerative medicine.  The papers were an interesting way to probe a scientific idea you may have conceived in class, and the presentations were helpful forums in which to learn how to present science papers and clinical topics.  The workload was also reasonable.  Unless commuting to the medical school is highly problematic for you, I highly recommend this class.
This class was very interesting in that it covered so much material.  It really helped me learn to read papers and present on topics, along with organize my thoughts into a coherent work.
Please come prepared to do a lot of reading, but to learn a lot from it
If you are interested at all in stem cell biology, this class gives a great overview of a lot of different topics. The guest visitors are really interesting but the best part of the class would have to be the patient visitors. Take it!!
one of those harvard classes that really opens your eyes - this class turned stem cells from a concept into an actual biological solution for me, as lectures illustrated how all the things we learned about stem cells could be used in real-world applications to cure or alleviate horrendous diseases. in addition, the patient interaction part of the course was pivotal to stimulating my interest in medicine, as we learned about their experiences with the disease and their interactions with the medical system as a whole. could not recommend this class any more.
The patient visits are what really makes this class worthwhile.  When the TFs give their time to help you on papers and presentations, really take advantage of it.
This course provides a good coverage of the stem cell field, especially as it relates to translational research and patient interaction. Don't expect very deep insights into stem cells, but the opportunity to meet and talk with patients is very rewarding, especially for premeds - it's different from shadowing, but very interesting. Do the readings, even if you don't need to. Definitely do not need to have taken any SCRB classes prior.
Hands down the most fulfilling experience I have had in a Harvard course.  Each week is devoted to a particular ailment with an hour lecture on the disease and current therapies/research/future developments in the world of stem cells aimed at improving therapeutics.  Then there is an hour with patients, which is the highlight of the course - being able to actually interact with patients dealing with the disease you just learned about.  Going to Longwood for the course makes it unique, as well.  Phenomenal, must-take course for anyone interested in being a doctor.
This course is the best in the SCRB department! George and Len are superstar professors that are really invested in teaching undergrads the material and getting them to think like physicians. This course differs from others that may focus tangentially on medical applications because it reorients the student to think like a physician-researcher. The papers and discussions in section fueled continued interest and provided a useful alternative means to get at the material from the ground level, and the guest speakers (physicians, researchers, and patients) were fantastic.
Take it!
The patient visits were the primary reason I enjoyed this class. The range of experiences recounted by the patients was truly amazing. The guest speakers were also great and provided appropriate review articles to read prior to the lectures. The only real assignments in this class were the midterm paper and final paper. Readings were provided each class that were discussed in section, and each student had to present two papers throughout the entire semester. If you have any interest in regenerative medicine, especially through the use of stem cells, you should definitely take this course.
In terms of science content, this course is not revolutionary within SCRB in that there may be a lot of overlap with concepts or specific topics. But the patient interaction makes this a must-take for those considering careers in research or medicine. The stories are inspiring, humbling, sad, joyful, hopeful.
Truly a hidden gem for pre-meds at Harvard. Having exposure to patient testimony, as well as listening to a coveted guest speaker panel led by Drs. Daley and Zon is a must for those planning on applying to medical school, and have space for this in their schedules. Well worth the commute to HMS every week.
This course is absolutely one of the best courses I have ever taken at Harvard. The focus on patient interaction as well as clinical research solidified my grad school/med school goals because I found myself so engaged in the course every week that I know this is something I am passionate about. If you don't have extensive knowledge about stem cell bio or the research techniques used within that field there will be a bit of a learning curve, but you will absolutely pick up the knowledge and walk out of the class much more knowledgable than when you went in. The class also really doesn't require much work, but do the work that they assign you well (readings, presentations, research proposal) so that you yourself benefit most from the class! The professors are also fantastic. Basically, everything about this course is awesome and I wish I could take part II of it next semester but, alas, a part II does not actually exist.
This class is life changing! It is the best class I have taken at Harvard, and I would highly recommend it to anyone interested in medicine. A background in basic stem cell research methods is helpful, but the readings and lectures in combination with the patient interviews will teach you so much about science as well as bedside manner. It is impossible not to get something out this class in some capacity.
Definitely one of my favorite courses at Harvard that provides a translational perspective and reaffirms my desire to be a physician scientist.Both the science aspect looking at disease mechanism and treatment as well as the clinical aspects with patient visits are covered.The patients themselves were also an inspiration.
This is probably the best class I've ever taken at Harvard. Every week you're taught by the leading researchers in the disease field you study that week, and then you meet a patient who has the disease/had the stem cell treatment you learned about. The Zon/Daley combination is amazing - they're intellectual powerhouses. This course only reinforced my interest in medicine and stem cells.
Possibly the best course I have taken at Harvard! Unique opportunity to engage with a variety of medical professionals and patients.
If you plan on going into medicine, you absolutely should take this course. It is the perfection bridge between what you learn in SCRB in how it applies to health care. If you take the class, try to come to each lecture with questions in mind. Also try to budget an hour before and after class to travel to the med school.
Be sure to do the readings and participate whenever possible. You learn best in this class through active participation.
Best course I've ever taken at Harvard!
TAKE THIS CLASS! The best class I've ever taken at Harvard.
Loved this class! Not only are Dr. Daley and Dr. Zon great, the speakers and patients they bring in give incredible examples of how stem cells can be used in real life. Whether you're an HDRB concentrator or just interested in the subject, this course is great for everyone.
The patients are the best part of the class. It's also pretty chill.
This is a fantastic class--one of my favorites I have taken at Harvard so far! It is a little bit of a trek to get to the med school, but it is definitely worth the trip. Hearing from the patients is INCREDIBLE, and I felt like I was exposed to such a wide array of diseases. Definitely take this class!
If you want to know why the purpose of school and research, then take the course! The patient visits will motivate you to study harder, and harder, and harder! It is also great to hear from the experts of the fields!
This course is absolutely amazing and reaffirmed my desire to be a doctor. Having patients come in and talk to you is the absolute coolest thing about the class. You get to see the science in the stem cell application but also see the clinical aspect when talking to doctors and patient guests.
This class is AMAZING. Very cost-effective class (learn a ton from lots of interesting guest speakers while putting in little time), the section leaders are awesome, and you get to spend time at HMS.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard by far. It only meets once a week, and don't let the shuttle ride to the medical school deter you. It is totally worth the drive. Every week, we got to listen to world renowned scientists describe their work and talk about a certain disease. Then a patient would come in and describe life with the disease. In the final hour, we break into smaller sections and talk about current research that is being done in the field. It is such a cool course, and I learned a ton about regenerative biology! Must take class!!!
This class is a gem. Fairly low workload, and every week you learn about a new disease and meet a new patient. Get Julie as a TF, she is the best I've ever had. Section is great, it's small and personal, and you just get to chat about cool new science. The class as a whole has a great atmosphere, as George and Len make it very chill, so you can focus on learning instead of being stressed that you'll get cold called or something.
This course has been one of the highlights of my time at Harvard so far.  It's a really unique class; the ability to not only cover a variety of diseases but also hear from and talk to patients makes it more than worth the trip to the med school.  George Daley and Len Zon are two really great professors as well, and are very accessible outside of class.
Though this class has a very small workload overall, be wary of the papers as they are graded difficultly.
Amazing course; the theoretical and practical side of stem cell therapies.
Great class and you learn a lot of information on the very broad scope of stem cell biology! I would highly suggest finding a way to take notes in this class while still paying attention to what the lecturers say. This is one class where you don't want to spend so much time trying to write down everything and not pay attention to what is actually being said.
100% kickass class with cool guest lecturers and incredibly inspiring patients. The class did a great job of unifying traditional basic science research with the clinic.
Amazing, you'll learn about real medicine.
Fantastic class. REALLY teaches you how to read and discuss scientific articles. Material is all interesting. Guest speakers are awesome. You learn a lot!
This is a great class. you really learn a lot about medical conditions from top researchers and the field. In addition, you get the unique opportunity to meet patients who have had these conditions and learn about their personal experiences. take this class and you won't regret.
This class is amazing. Take it at some point during your time here at Harvard. The combination of lecture+patient interaction+academic papers in section gives you an all-encompassing snapshot of a different disease every week. The patients are wonderful, the lecturers are the best in the field, and section is a really great way to learn about experimental design and how to analyze a paper. This was by far my favorite course of the semester.
DO EVERYTHING YOU CAN TO TAKE THIS CLASS. This is the best class I've taken at Harvard by far. Professor Zon is a giant in the field and super committed to the students. I stumbled upon it in my search and am so thankful that I found it. There are just no other classes like this one- each class has a patient visit and unreal speakers. It's quite relaxed and incredibly inspiring. You'll meet leaders in the field and see what each advance has translated to on the patient side. If you're a scientist of any kind at Harvard you just can't miss out on this class. I also took it while traveling for grad school visits and they were very understanding and since it's not cumulative the work load is so manageable.
The midterm/final paper is like writing a grant, aka A LOT OF WORK. But the patients you get to meet--for sure their stories will change your life and give you so much prospective. Doing the papers was worth it, in exchange to hear from the patients.
This is probably the best class I've taken at Harvard. The commute on the M2 was well worth it! We got the chance to hear not only from amazing lecturers, but also from patients who were willing to share their experiences. Section itself was reasonable, with only two required papers a week for reading, and two presentations throughout the semester. Because we weren't tested on the material covered in lectures, I think this class was the first time I was able to simply sit down and enjoy a lecture for how interesting the material was as opposed to worrying about remembering minute details. I would highly recommend this class!
This course is one of the best classes at Harvard. It is the only course that actually teaches you what it might be like to be a doctor. At a university focused on theory, this course actually lets you apply your knowledge of biology to real cases. It also lets you understand the patient perspective in a way that no other class will. Take this course!!!
Absolutely amazing, unlike anything else at Harvard
Find four hours on Tuesday. Take this course. As a sophomore, I was definitely in the small minority of a course full of juniors and seniors. I'm exceptionally glad I took it this year -- I found it a useful survey of stem cell function across multiple organ systems, and the course will help me focus my further studies on systems I found interesting (blood, lung, gut, muscle). You truly get a feel for the state-of-the-art regarding stem cell research and therapeutics. That being said, there are strong reasons to take the course as a junior or senior. I am lucky enough to have experience reading primary literature -- to the sophomores interested in the course, make sure that you've taken another course taught through primary literature or that you have experience through lab, etc. While I found myself immensely more comfortable with primary literature by the end of the semester, the first few weeks were definitely more work-intensive for me. Seek help from your TF! Often! They're truly excellent scientists and can help you understand anything from specific metrics to experimental rationale.
A really inspirational course. You attend lectures about research topics related to a given disease and then hear from patients who have experienced the disease. The course also provided many interesting glimpses into how stem cells can be used in research and in medicine.
This class was absolutely incredible and inspirational. I learned so much and also felt so many emotions taking this class.
Take this course! The patient interaction element single handedly makes this one of my favorite courses. It takes all the seemingly random information that we've learned throughout college and makes it relevant because people are directly affected by it.
The patient exposure you can get from this class is exceptional. Having the chance to interview them and learn from their experience puts all of your pre-medical coursework in such an important context.
Awesome course with patient exposure.
I would not call this an easy class, but it is still a great experience. Take this class if you want to be challenged and take your engagement with scientific materials to the next level. Even though the teaching staff is there to help, the class requires a lot of novel independent thinking (the paper presentations and the midterm/final paper), so be prepared for that. That being said, I still got a lot out of the class and would recommend it if you feel prepared.
This is a great, eye-opening course. Don't let some premed tell you the midterm and final are too hard and you won't make an A jump in feet first and let some of the greatest lecturers take you through a wild series of patients and diseases. Work hard, read the papers, talk to your TFs, and this will be one of the best courses you take. Be prepared for some weird self-congratulatory comments from other people in the class ("Thank you. so. so. SO. much. for sharing your story. *tears up* It is just. so. inspiring. to hear from you. I can NOT express. how thankful I am.") that will sound eerily similar each week, and perhaps a little disingenuous after a while.
SCRB167 is the epitome of what HDRB is about. If there was one class other than SCRB10 that is essential for the full experience of this concentration, this would be it. You read the latest scientific literature surrounding a scientific field, see the cutting-edge developments in therapies, and interact with inspiring patients who have those diseases. It isn't a burden of work either, it is a lightly-loaded, incredibly interesting, well-run class that anyone interested in the intersection of science and medicine should definitely take.
One-of-a-kind course that is highly recommended to anyone who cares about biological sciences and helping people. Cannot stress that enough. Meeting patients in person is an invaluable experience you rarely encounter prior to having to make the decision to apply for medical school-- DEFINITELY TAKE THIS COURSE IF YOU ARE AT ALL INTERESTED IN MEDICINE!
This was a really cool course that brought together basic science research with the human side of biological systems and diseases. Zon and Breault do a great job steering the course, and the guest lecturers are all fantastic at translating their work to undergrads. The trek to the med school campus means that you have to block out all of Tuesday afternoon for this course, but it is absolutely worth it.
This class is truly a hidden gem at Harvard. It exposes students to both the research world and patient care. The guest lecturers and patient guest speakers made class very interesting each week. Not too much work, and you learn so much! This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard, and I highly recommend it if you are interested in research and/or medicine.
This course is made by the exposure to patients; I do not know another undergraduate course at Harvard that offers that. On the basis of that part of the class alone, I would recommend this to any stem cell-oriented pre-med students.
Great class for pre-meds because you learn about stem cell diseases and then get to talk to patients with with those diseases - the class definitely humanizes the conditions we learn about in HDRB
Take this course. Just do it. You will not regret it in the slightly- such incredible material, patients and teaching team
This is a great class! Would highly rec for sophomores who are trying to figure out what parts of the field they are most interested in.
This class is wonderful. You definitely learn a lot that you can't in other classes. The grading, especially for the paper, tends to be too harsh, however.
This was my favorite class in the SCRB department so far excluding SCRB10. This class will make you appreciate the time and effort you put into SCRB10, SCRB20/MCB60 because you get to apply your knowledge in a genuinely productive manner: midterm and final papers as well as presentations. Definitely worth the commute to Longwood every Tuesday afternoon.
The weekly reading isn't always that great, but the material presented in lecture is wonderful. Be prepared to block off about 5 hours of time (3 hours of class plus  a little under 1 hour each way on the M2). That's a lot of time, but is is WELL worth it for the chance to learn from leaders in their field as well as from patients. The patient narratives are incredible and a uniqe experience that I am so grateful for.
THIS WAS THE BEST CLASS I HAVE TAKEN AT HARVARD!! I highly highly recommend it to anyone interested in medicine and research. The course lets you interact with patients every week, giving students the rare opportunity to ask patients anything about their disease/lifestyle and learn from their experiences without having gone to medical school. The course also puts you in touch with amazing lecturers who are leading researchers and are willing to answer any questions you may have. I was able to tour an IVF facility led by one of the guest lecturers later in the semester. Finally, Dr. Daley and Zon and all the TFs put in so much time to make sure the course is as good as it can be and really inspire the students to think deeper and come up with their own research ideas.
Take this class! honestly one of the best classes i have taken at harvard. the patient interactions are amazing. george and len are very accessible, eager to interact with students, and amazing leaders of the field. the section component is great in teaching you about how to critically think about scientific literature. highly recommend this class to anyone who is considering a career as a physician, scientists, or both
The opportunity to hear leading researchers in their fields lecture on their work followed by conversations with patients is incredibly special and a tremendous learning opportunity...hands down one of the best courses I have taken.
This is the coolest class I've taken at Harvard. I never interact with patients in my day-to-day life, which made Tuesdays a very special occasion for me. I am the type of person who needs research to be motivated by a real life source, and this class provides more than enough examples of that.
Great class - you get to meet some very inspiring patients who are living with a serious condition and actively fighting to increase awareness and research funding for their conditions. It is truly a privilege to be able to take this class with two professor-physician-scientists who are at the forefront of their fields. This is a class that touches on each body system briefly, though, so don't expect very depth-oriented lectures.
I learned how to do a literature review and developed my skills in reading scientific literature. Those are the two most useful skills I learned this year!
The class has a lot of great components such as the patient interaction piece and the lectures with experts from different parts of the stem cell field. It was also very rewarding having the chance to design a novel use of stem cells in a disease and you certainly learn a lot from the class from reading so many paper throughout the course. However, the assignments can also be quite frustrating as it wasn't totally clear what was expected of us before the midterm and final papers, and having to read two papers (one basic research and one translational) a week is not a trivial work load.
The trip to the medical school is long, but worth it. It is only once a week so just block out an afternoon and take the class. At the bare minimum, it will teach you some stem cell biology and how to read papers well. But the more you put in, the more you get out of this class.
Very great class. Especially enjoyed hearing the stories of the patients every week -- highly recommend this class just for this part. I did find the paper components to be more difficult because there was not much guidance for them throughout the semester.
LOTS of patient exposure. Something rare for undergraduate classes. Midterms were graded quite harshly yet we weren't given any expectations. I found the presentations quite enjoyable and found myself learning a lot about what it takes to be a good presenter.
