This course offers a great introduction to stem cells, both theoretical and practical.
This class is such a great opportunity. It allows students to actually work with human embryonic stem cells. The professor and teaching staff are very approachable and do a great job creating a relaxing atmosphere while still helping us get work done. The small class size was also great - we almost had a one to one student to faculty ratio. Any student interested in stem cell research would have a great time in this course.
very nice course, interesting materialbut you may need to go the lab several times a week, sometimes in the weekends
This course was my favorite course of the semester.  No other course I have taken allows you to make embryoid bodies, stem cell colonies, fat cells, precursors to pancreatic insulin-secreting beta-cells, lots of neurons, cardiomyocetes (heart cells), intestinal gut cells, induced pluripotent stem cells, chemical screenings, and immunostainings all in one course. The course emphasizes work with stem cells more than tests and book knowledge, and it is well-taught. I can't recommend it enough.
Great class, just be ready to devote time outside of class to it
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard! A truly unique and incredible opportunity.
Be prepared to spend lots of hours in the lab. Especially on weekends.
It's one of those classes that you actually enjoy going to class (not because of clickers/ attendance credit).
This will be the best science class that you take in Harvard. Seriously.
Superb introductory class to stem cell lab technique. Enjoyable and taught by great TFs and professor. The skills I learnt in this class ultimately got me a summer job!
This course was very disorganized, which unfortunately translated into a lot of extra work and time wasted on the part of the students.
This class is awesome if you like working in lab. You will learn an incredible amount if you have little background in the field of stem cell biology. You should have at least some background with SCRB, HDRB, or MCB courses before enrolling. Overall, a very good course with very hardworking TFs and a humorous professor.
You will not regret taking this course. It takes a lot of work culturing cells outside of class, but the results are incredible. Not only do you get very valuable experience working with stem cells, there's also an amazing thrill in creating beating heart cells.
The laboratory experience offered by this class is incredible.  I would recommend this course, especially to those who have not had the opportunity to work in a lab before, as the techniques learned are useful in any laboratory environment.  However, the instructor tends to have favorites and sets and creates an opinion of you early on that is difficult to change, so make a good first impression!
This class is one of the most rewarding classes you can take at Harvard. The hands-on knowledge you will get out of it is invaluable. You'll get to do some of the same experiments as those at the forefront of stem cell biology research. It is a big commitment to go into the lab outside of class once or a few times a week to do cell maintenance, etc, but it's fun and is much better than doing problem sets. I would highly recommend this class because of the truly amazing things you will get to see in lab, like beating human heart cells and human neuronal structures.
This was a great course. Really a lot of fun and a great chance to learn practical and useful laboratory skills if you've never had research experience. You will certainly have a mastery of tissue culture by the time you are done! Also, Professor Cowan is great and the TFs are two of the nicest people I have ever had the pleasure of encountering.
This is my favorite course ever taken at Harvard. Take it if you can. Amazing Professor and TFs.
You get to bond with your lab team; do your lab notebook ahead of time. Once you finish an experiment, write it up in your lab notebook.
SCRB 165 will change your life. If you're at all interested in doing actual lab work with stem cells and working on the cutting edge of developmental biology - take this class. But be aware that if you want to be successful in it - you will have to donate A LOT of your time to going into lab outside of class.
This is a very time-consuming course
this is a great class! light workload, interesting, and fun! very different from other courses that you will take. take advantage of this while you can - this opportunity to actually grow and maintain ES cells and differentiate them into cardiomyocytes, neurons, endoderm, etc. is hard to come by at other universities!
It's a great course, especially for those who have not had lab experience previously.  As mentioned, future students should just realize they will spend many days in lab tending to experiments--that's where the bulk of the work will come from.
It requires a lot more time than you expect, so make sure you know that you'll have to set off a lot of time outside of class to trek up to NW labs and back once or twice (or maybe more) a week.
Go for it! It's a fun course, and you'll learn a lot about lab work and research
This is such a fun class!  A warning to seniors: you will have to put in more work than you initially expect.  But it will be worth it!
This class is incredibly fun and interesting for anyone who is interested in stem cell science.  If your science background is not as strong you will likely have to work harder than your classmates, but it is definitely doable.
this class is amazing! coolest class i've taken at harvard -- where else do undergrads get to direct the differentiation of human embryonic stem cells? how bout make human beating heart cells? i learned a practical lab skill in this class and had so much fun. seriously, seeing those heart cells beat was one of the highlights of my year. awesome, awesome, awesome. also the tfs tim and robbie are super cool.
This course is a phenomenal opportunity to use the most exclusive resources of the Stem Cell Biology department and to learn from some of the most experienced researchers in the field.  It provides a significant amount of cell culture training, and it provides someone with the opportunity to experience the excitement of a stem cell biology lab and the beautiful results and some difficulties of the research.
Overall a unique and amazing experience.
Be aware you have to come in to take care of the cells outside of lab time so be prepared to go to lab 3-4 days of the week. Keep up with the lab notebook cause it's really long! Try using the program ImageJ to merge pictures, it's easier than photoshop.
This is honestly the best class that I have taken at Harvard. Take this!!!! It doesn't matter if you are a HDRB concentrator or know nothing at all about the material. This class will teach you about some incredible cutting edge experiments and you will actually get to attempt them yourself.  Chad is the best professor I have ever had and makes the class so engaging and fun. The TFs bring cheese and snacks to every section.
This is by far the most enjoyable class I've taken at Harvard. Chad and the TFs were amazing, and you get to do real experiments that were recently published and are applicable to the concepts covered in class.
Hands down, the best course I've taken here.
This class is just an amazing class, and is by far the best class I have taken at Harvard. I can't even begin to tell you how much I learned in SCRB 165 this semester. I had no lab experience to speak of at the beginning of February. Now, just two months later, I am familiar and comfortable with working in a lab and with common and essential lab practices and techniques. During that short time, my group and I were able to successfully make beating heart cells and motor neurons from pluripotent stem cells (how cool is that?!). In addition, we learned how to keep a lab notebook, how to write a review article of a scientific paper and how to write a research grant. There are a fair number of large assignments, and you should expect to come into lab 1 or 2 times a week (for an hour or so each time) beyond the scheduled lab period, but that shouldn't deter you at all from taking the class. If you can stay (relatively) current on your lab notebook, then it isn't a big deal, and Chad and the TFs (Tim and Ole, who are the best) give you lots of help and guidance with the assignments. In addition, the teaching staff really really wants you to do well. They are there to help and aren't at all looking to squeeze you for points, like many other professors do. Chad's lectures were really cool and interesting as well and gave us new perspective on and interest in the field. Chad is absolutely THE MAN - interesting, cool, kind/understanding, and really inspiring. Tim and Ole are incredible TFs who do so much for the course and really want us to succeed. They are always there to help and are great teachers, especially in the lab, where they have so much patience and are really effective at teaching difficult techniques. Overall, I am so happy, and feel so lucky, to have had the opportunity to take SCRB 165. Ignore comments stressing how much work the class is, because the work really is manageable and it's work that you won't even realize you're doing because it's enjoyable and interesting. JUST TAKE THE CLASS. I promise you won't regret it.
Significant time commitment but so worth it!
If you are considering a future in stem cell biology you MUST TAKE THIS COURSE BEFORE YOU GRADUATE. Even if you have no previous lab experience, you will adapt quickly. Dr. Cowan is an incredible teacher and you will perform what are possibly the coolest experiments of your life, including making beating heart cells in a dish. This course will show you a taste of what true lab life if like. There is a significant level of independence, so be ready to spend A LOT of your free time taking care of your cells.
This is the best SCRB lab class offered! Prof. Cowan and the TFs are the best! Be prepared to go into lab on your own time quite frequently, but the work you do is not difficult at all and the assignments are very low-stress. You'll get to learn and do many of the things you read about in other classes. HIGHLY recommend taking it!!
A pure gem of a class within the life sciences departments.
This has been my favorite SCRB class that I've taken so far, and while it requires extra time in the lab outside of class time, it is entirely worth it! You'll get to do some really cool differentiation experiments and work with an amazing group of students, TFs, and professor. You learn a lot about stem cell biology while working with the cell cultures and get to differentiate many different cell types, including neurons and cardiomyocytes. You should definitely take this class, you won't regret it!
Amazing opportunity to learn and practice lab techniques that you may not have the chance to do anywhere else. The subject matter is incredibly interesting and you feel like you are learning skills you may actually use one day. Just make sure to allocate enough time in your schedule to go to lab to take care of your cells everyday.
Dr. Cowan is simply out to teach an awesome class! You also are finally able to see many of the experiments described in SCRB 10 in real life
I can confidently say, as a sophomore writing this, that this will be my favorite class I take at Harvard. The Prof is incredibly personable, the TFs have great tips, and the group sizes for lab work was ideal. Additionally, the work that we do is invaluable for undergraduates and the techniques we implemented are cutting edge. Plus, how many other undergraduates can say they made beating heart cells in a dish this year?For any potential hdrb concentrators, this is the class that you wanted SCRB10 to be.
Literally the best class I have ever taken. The course staff is astounding, and they really try and hard (and succeed) to give the students a great experience. By the end of the class, you will have solid tissue/stem cell culture skills and a great (for an undergraduate) understanding of how to manipulate stem cell cultures. The excitement that this field generates in the students is tough to put in words. The class was just really, really goddamn cool.
This class does take a lot of outside hours in the lab (an additional 3-4 hours per week) but it is totally worth it. I can't think of another class that would let students work with stem cells and do the differentiation protocols we did. Our lab group was able to get beating heart cells in the dish! We actually saw beating cells. in the microscope. That pretty much made my entire semester. Also, Chad and the TFs are so helpful, and they make the material engaging and stimulating. At the end of the semester things pile on heavy with presentations and paper, but the class teaches some very practical lab skills that I am so glad I have learned.
SCRB165 was my favorite class of the semester by far. Chad is a really great and interesting lecturer and is very accessible outside of class to talk about the material or life, and he really wants to know the students well. The lab component was nothing short of incredible - you get to make everything from neurons to beating heart cells, and you really get to understand the processes behind them (if you try). The TFs were also very helpful and accessible, even willing to come and help at random times on weekends. This class can be pretty free-wheeling, and what you get out of it is directly related to how much you put into it. You could get by in lab and on assignments without really knowing the science behind what you are doing, but to really benefit from the class it is good to have SCRB10 and a strong background in molecular biology (MCB52) under your belt and to do a lot of outside research.Make sure you keep up with your lab notebook and get a head start on the final paper! Also, the midterm is much harder than the psets.
It's an awesome class to learn about techniques used in stem cell bio! Seeing the cells you made are incredible. Warning though - definitely know that you need to go into lab at least once or twice a week outside of class, and do your lab notebook early!
This class is really great. You learn a lot about stem cell biology in class and in lab and conduct relevant and applicable experiments. The teaching staff is very approachable and the class was a great experience.
This is easily the best course I have taken at Harvard.  Chad and the TFs put a lot of effort into the class, and it shows.  It is a fantastic way to practice doing research with a team, and really teaches you to evaluate your own research and make adjustments.  I looked forward to lecture every week (most people got there early!), although that might have been because there were always snacks. Chad is a great lecturer and very friendly; he does a great job of making complicated information very accessible to the whole class.  The only downside is that the lab component requires a good chunk of time outside of class, and the lab notebook is a tedious if you leave it until the end.
Very hands on course. You will get to try so many different things that you will not normally get to try in any lab you join - just out of sheer diversity of experiments.  Chad is a great guy to talk to about the class and future plans.
TAKE THIS CLASS.  I was really unsure about declaring HDRB after SCRB 10 but this class made me love SCRB.  Chad is a wonderful professor and is super nice and approachable, and the TFs were amazing and available 24/7 to help us with lab problems.  This is one of those classes where there is no busy work and you reach the end of the semester and have learned so much.  Start the lab notebook early (if you still have the black-and-white microscope camera, know that photo editing takes forever) and you'll be fine.TAKE IT TAKE IT TAKE IT
If you are able to spend some hours a week in the lab then this class is great! I think everybody really enjoyed the class and the teaching staff is amazing. It really is a neat class. Don't feel intimidated if you have no prior experience in a stem cell lab.
be prepared to spend a lot of time in lab each week
This class was so much fun! The lab component allows you access to cutting edge protocols in stem cell biology. It is challenging that someone in your group has to come in every day, but it is worth it for the amazing results you get in lab. Work load is decent, with frequent check ins with Chad throughout the semester so you know how you are doing. A very fun class that does a great job of building a community amongst the students.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard! Definitely take it! The professors and the TFs are all super helpful and make the class and lab super interesting! All the labs were really fascinating and you truly learn a lot from the class. I had never worked with stem cells before and it was really cool to be able to work with them!
If you are lucky enough to be able to take this course, you definitely should! It is an incredible and truly unique opportunity to apply the concepts you learned about in SCRB10 and witness how, for example, stem cells can differentiate into beating cardiomyocytes in a dish with a few weeks of directed differentiation! The TFs are amazing and very patient, and will probably save your life on multiple occasions and hopefully become your friends! Dr. Cowan is also very knowledgeable and approachable, and generates a lot of enthusiasm for the material. All in all an amazing class! You will not regret taking it!
The class gives you the opportunity to use stem cells to grow neurons, hepatocytes, beating heart cells in a dish, etc., so it has the most exciting lab component of any course at Harvard; you get valuable experience in cell culture techniques and common analyses like immunostaining; the TFs (Tor and Leo) and Chad are totally amazing - very cool, kind and helpful; taking care of your cells outside of class can be quite time-consuming though depending on your group
This class is amazing. You make motor neurons and beating heart cells and the TFs are amazing. Assignments are not too hard and the midterm is fair. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
Will take up a significant amount of time, but is very laid back overall and intended for you to learn more than to evaluate your performance.
This class can get time consuming especially when you have to go to lab to work on several projects, but I definitely learned a whole lot about differentiation and cell culture work! The teaching staff are also boss.
