This is an amazing chance to have in-depth discussion about cutting-edge discoveries in immunology with science legends (and legends in the making). By the end of this course, you shouldn't just be able to understand immunology research articles with the best of them, but you'll be asking questions like: Do I trust this data? What else could this mean? What experiments should have been done/could be done? Put in the work (i.e. struggle to understand the readings) and you will be rewarded.
A great way to further your study of immunology and to get better at critically reading and presenting papers!
Make sure presentation is the only thing you have to worry about that week. Contact TF to go over your presentation so that the facts are correct. Ask TFs for help rather than go searching for the answer in reviews on your own...
Jack is a great guy. He'll ask some pretty hard/interesting questions, but it's okay if you don't have an answer. He's jokes are sometimes actually funny.
This is a fairly phenomenal course with great readings every week (barring a few) - it is tough subject material though!
This is an excellent course on immunology, provided you have some basic background. You will get the most out of this course after taking MCB 169. The guest lecturers are hit or miss, but 90% they were hits. You read the latest research papers, and talk about the latest advances. Whether you want to buff up your paper-speed-reading skills, or just want to learn what's going on in the world of immunology, you can't ask for anything more.
Take this course if you're interested in studying immunology. Don't underestimate how much time it will take to create a good presentation. Take MCB169 first.
Be prepared to think critically
This class is all about reading and presenting papers, and it's hard to find another class with as engaging a format. Do the paper readings and participate in discussion, and you'll get a lot out of it and learn about some cutting-edge immunology.
Guest lectures are good. Paper presentation was fun and so was the discussion.
This is a great class in terms of material and workload. A wide range of diverse topics in immunology are covered so you really have an opportunity to expand your knowledge of the field, especially after a class like MCB 169, which is very much focused on memorizing the basics. The workload is also extremely manageable, only paper reading and a couple of presentations. My one caveat is that the actual class period can be very dull at times; it can be hard to focus on some of the drier topics and presentations, especially over a two hour period.
This is a great class! Take it if you are interested in immunology.
I HIGHLY recommend this course. The teaching staff consists of some of the most brilliant minds in biology and you learn so much from this course. The course load is manageable and the topics are very interesting. Take this course!
You should be very interested in immunology if you take this class. If you didn't take MCB 169, you will likely be lost much of the time, but you can still take a lot away from the guest lecturers' talks. The papers are great, and you can read them no matter what your knowledge level is, but you might have to spend some more time getting comfortable with all the immunology terminology. Professor Strominger is fantastic -- he makes really insightful comments and tells great stories!!!
This class was AWESOME. It really gets you think outside of the box, think critically about scientific papers, never take things at face value, and hone in your scientific mind.
SCRB178 is an amazing course in the SCRB department. The papers you read will help you understand how the field of immunology has progressed, and Dr. Hoggatt has such a wide swath of knowledge that it's breathtaking. He's always available to meet you outside of class, and has experience in the biotech/pharma industry as well. Superb class, great, engaging teacher, and lively discussions make this a must-take course before you graduate!
You don't need MCB169 to take this class. But don't take this if you are looking for an upper level class just to "get by" in. It's unique in its ability to teach students ACTUAL science and clinical medicine, and having students who weren't willing to engage with the material will be disappointing in such a student-driven class. Jon is an amazing prof, and every conversation I have with him makes me more passionate about immunology.
Take this class if you are excited about immunology research. If so, this is a super laid back class where you get to bask in Hoggatt's immense knowledge while becoming an expert in a few immunology topics yourself. Overall great upper level course.
This class had a tough lottery, and for good reason. Lottery for it, and take it if you get it. Each class is two student presentations. The only work required is reading the papers that the presentations are on, presenting two papers yourself, and a 7-10 page paper on the first paper you presented. It's one of those low work/high reward classes, as it really teaches you how to kick butt at presentations, while picking up some awesome immunology knowledge along the way.
You learn a lot about how to give effective presentations and make good powerpoints. Otherwise, you get out how much you put in- ie how much you engage in other people's presentations.
SCRB178 was an amazing class that taught me so much not only about important advances in immunology (historically and present-day), but also about how to make effective presentations, which is not something that is focused on in many other science classes. How much you get out of this course really depends on how much you put into it. The background knowledge that people have of immunology varies a lot in the class, but as long as you are really passionate about this subject and are willing to spend time on understanding concepts that you may not have previous grounding in (for people who haven't taken immunology courses previously), this is a great course for you. You should definitely take advantage of meeting one-on-one with the professor or TF to discuss ideas/get feedback on your work for your presentations and final paper (Professor Hoggatt and Sarah were both super accessible and happy to meet one-on-one).
Take this course! It is largely student-run and in journal club format, and honestly it's going to help you so much no matter where you end up. You learn how to present and critique and become confident in your questions and opinions.
This is a fairly chill course that allows you to engage in depth with a few papers on the hot topics in immunology. Work is just concentrated around your two presentations and a final paper. Jon is a great professor with interesting insights.
Not too much work on a weekly basis (reading papers and peer evaluations), you learn a lot about where the field of research has come and where it is going. Two huge presentations and a final paper, not much guidance at all but on the other hand a lot of freedom. Learn useful presentation-making skills.
SCRB 178 is a great class! The course is centered around student presentations about journal articles, and students present during every class period. However, even though the class is sort of student-run because of the presentations, Professor Hoggatt always leaves ample time for discussion, during which he poses very creative and thought-provoking questions to the group. I learned a great deal of immunology from these discussions, and Professor Hoggatt's expertise as a scientist is clear. Also, before you sign up for this class, please keep in mind that creating the journal club-style presentations is time-consuming (even though there are only two of them per student) and the expectations are rather specific,. That said, I think putting the time into these projects is ultimately worth it -- learning to speak publicly about issues in science is empowering, and it's certainly a practical skill to develop!
Take this class! Fascinating readings, lots of room for creativity, you will learn how to communicate and present within science and learn from the knowledgeable and chill Prof.  Hoggatt. You will enjoy it. Great small science course.
Absolutely great class if you want to know about immunology basics, the state of the field, and where it is headed.
This is a great class that doesn't demand too much of you but you find yourself learning more without even knowing it. The more you put in, however, the more you get out. Read the papers and follow the conversation, it will be more interesting that way.
Great course. Very relaxed course in terms of workload. Jon is a great mentor in terms of presenting on material and is constantly available to help you with anything at all. Highly recommend as a SCRB requirement course.
You don't need to have taken an immunology course to take this one.
This class is a good combination of learning effective presentation techniques and examining important/potentially important immunology papers. You'll definitely get more out of it if you have taken MCB 169, but MCB 169 isn't necessary to do well in the class. Professor Hoggatt is great, and the class in general is quite enjoyable and not an undue amount of work, so I would definitely recommend it if you are interested in immunology.
This is a really fun class and John is really helpful if you need help getting started with your presentations.
If you are really interested in immunology, you will likely take this class anyway as it is one of two undergraduate immunology classes. If you are coming from MCB169, this course is very different. The amount of learning you do will depend on if you read the papers every week and ask questions during presentations. Be sure to prepare your presentation far in advance. You may feel a bit let down that you don't learn more immunology directly in this class, but it is at least a good review of essential topics from MCB169.
Not much work, and a very interesting class to take as an upper-level SCRB course!
This class taught me how to give effective presentations. Now my powerpoints kick butt. I feel like I truly gained a valuable skill from this class.
Journal club style class. Very interesting and great way to learn from your peers.  There was little feedback throughout the course so it's hard to know how you're doing.  Two presentations on scientific papers and a final paper on the "New tracks" paper on how that paper will change field of immunology.  Class is very lowkey, super interesting and a great way to supplement your MCB 169 immunology class.
