it is constantly evolving to adapt to the newest scientific knowledge
Very interesting topics!
learn about epigenetics from the ground up
This class involves a lot of reading and analysis of primary literature, but you will come away with a strong understanding of the field. The problem sets and exams are practical and minimal. There's a large emphasis on group discussions.
Highly recommend. Comprehensive and up-to-date, with extremely well-selected papers to read for discussion. It's an imperfect but unmissable class for all MCB/SCRB concentrators.
The course is very memorization-heavy and many of the facts you will have to memorize for tests (such as names of subunits of protein complexes) are things you will probably never remember and could look up on wikipedia, so that feels kind of pointless. However, the course does a very good job of giving you a solid background on the current state of the field of epigenetics and its history, as well as the methods that are most often used in the field. I expected more of an emphasis to be placed on development and was disappointed to find that only one or two lectures really focused on embryogenesis. Most are on the details of methylation, demethylation, chromatin modifications, etc. and felt like they could have been somewhat condensed in order to focus more on development, which is what the course description implies.
This was hands down my favorite class this semester. Since taking SCRB10, I always had this vague notion of epigenetics and this course really allows you to learn so much about the topic, which is pretty darn cool! Alex is also an AMAZING teacher, in that not only does he give thoughtful, clear lectures, but he also helps lead paper discussions, which was my favorite part of the course because he encouraged us to think about  the material in in-depth ways.
I highly recommend this class. It covers interesting material, has a good balance of breadth and depth, and Alex and Camille are great. The paper discussions are interesting and stimulating. There is a good balance between covering the fundamental framework of epigenetics and providing interesting applications/implications in cancer, development, reprogramming etc. The expectations are very reasonable and you should take away a lot about the molecular mechanisms by which DNA methylation and histone modifications regulate gene expression. Also, if you happen to be doing epigenetics research a lot of it is very relevant, practical knowledge.
This class is excellent if you are trying to understand how to use epigenetics in your research or how to understand some of the most difficult concepts in stem cell biology. Beware though, Alex's slides are really cluttered and difficult to study from, and so it will make studying for this class very painful.
This class is interesting if you are passionate about epigenetics, but it gets a little repetitive and loses its novelty after a while. That said, Professor Meissner is incredibly knowledgeable and I learned a lot about some very useful scientific techniques that I may use in the future.
