This class is a good way to fulfill the biochemistry premed requirement in a very painless way. The materials available help make things very easy to succeed.
Amazing course materials. There were practice problems, lecture videos, lecture slides, and, get this, lecture TRANSCRIPTS, all posted online. The slides alone were detailed enough to study from, but having the lecture transcripts were really helpful (means you can just control find for that tiny detail that was mentioned in class but you just can't remember). All classes should have these transcripts, in my opinion.
If you've taken Chem 27, there is some overlap in terms of material, but the emphasis in SCRB 25 is in the biological context of the pathways rather than on the arrow pushing, so, at least in my experience, it was still worthwhile taking this class. While there is a lot of material to memorize, the psets and the tests are very straightforward and not difficult to do well on if you put in the time to learn the material and the class doesn't require a significant time commitment except the week or so before a test. Professor Musunuru's lectures were very enjoyable, although he isn't teaching the class next year. Overall, I would recommend this class to students looking for an introduction to the major biochemical pathways in a fairly low-stress environment.
The only intro/medium level science course I have taken at Harvard that I felt actually gave me the materials that I needed to study and succeed with the coursework.
If you are going to take the MCAT, take this course. I have yet to take the MCAT, but the course is designed for it. The section is not conventional as you work in small groups. Kiran is so dedicated to the course the he attends all sections, which is amazing! There is such a wealth of practice problems to help you prepare for exams and, also for the MCAT. The best premed class I have taken.
Professor Musunuru does an incredible job making the dreaded subject of biochemistry as relevant and engaging as possible in this class. The curriculum is very well planned and thought out and will definitely be helpful for the new MCAT. With it's 3 midterms, drop one policy, SCRB 25 is a relatively painless way to fulfill the biochemistry requirement for medical school. The section component is also very innovative and engaging in that it focuses on patient cases and clinical applications of the basic biochemical principles taught in lecture. Overall, the course is designed to help each and every student understand basic biochemistry and succeed in the class.
You'll learn a lot!
Easy course (this year), with very welcoming teaching staff and very accessible resources (lecture notes, scripts, problem sets).
Good overview of biochemistry, high volume of material.
Kiran is GREAT. He has put together an awesome class and works extremely hard to make sure everyone is getting the most out of it. The material is dense, but the problem sets are manageable and the teaching staff is fantastic. The exams are fair and Kiran makes sure you are well prepared. Highly recommend this class.
Professor Kiran Musunuru is an absolutely awesome person. He is an amazing instructor. This class is probably the best pre-med course I've taken at Harvard. I did not enjoy organic chemistry and so at the start I was nervous that I also wouldn't enjoy biochemistry, but I actually really enjoyed the subject. Its really cool material since you are actually learning about the disease. Its also great preparation for medical school and the problem based learning method that the course uses in section is a good way for most pre meds to figure out whether or not they like that learning style. Exams and problems sets are all very fair, but the class does require that you invest time into learning the material. The teaching staff does not try to trick you and if you put in the work you will see the results. Overall, great class!
Great class!
Kiran is proof that God loves pre-meds and wants us to succeed...SCRB 25 IS LITERALLY THE BEST BIOCHEMISTRY CLASS YOU COULD POSSIBLY TAKE AT HARVARD. Kiran is such a thoughtful, caring professor. He is the only professor I know who knows the name of EVERY SINGLE STUDENT in a class of like 80-100 students. He brings cookies to sections for everyone and constantly adapts the course to make it better for students. He rotates between the sections so that he can teach each one and get a sense of how students are responding to the material. Lectures: ARE OPTIONAL. This means you can enroll in a class that technically conflicts with lectures because lectures are all pre-recorded withe lecture scripts posted so you can read word for word what he says with each slide (unlike other LS classes where the slides are just unhelpful pictures and you have no idea what's going on)Problem Sets: Started out as 30 questions then because it is a new course and doesn't have practice exams yet, he made the problem sets like 70-100 questions but they served as REALLY GOOD exam prep. The questions weren't that bad--mostly multiple or short answer, but they accurately reflected everything we needed to know for the exams. The answer keys also always had references to the lecture slides in which the answers could be found, which makes it really convenient for us to go back and learn from our mistakes without having to hound through hundreds of pages of notes.Exams: Incredibly fair exams. Out of 3 midterms, you can drop your lowest one and if you feel comfortable with your grade, you don't even have to take the last midterm.  The first time I've ever walked out feeling confident and like I got to apply what I know. Unlike most science professors, Kiran doesn't feel the need to demoralize us by making the exams way harder than problem set questions. I know the fear is that students won't push themselves to learn beyond the material needed for the exam, and I know I can't speak for everyone, but personally, I found that people (myself included) still went to office hours and review sessions to ask big picture questions and delve into the details of metabolic processes. It doesn't make us less curious or inquisitive, in fact, knowing that the exams will be fair makes me feel more encouraged and willing to learn whereas in other LS classes, I sort of resign and give up because I know that no matter how hard I study, the exam will be impossible anyway. Review Sessions and Office Hours: GO TO THEM. Kiran outlines big picture processes and compares/contrasts concepts during review sessions. This sort of synthesis is incredibly helpful for understanding the material and doing well on the exams. Kiran is also so so kind about extending office hours and meeting outside of scheduled office hours and offering career/life advice. He's a really cool person--get to know him! TFs: Are also amazing. They are really patient and willing to stay past scheduled office hours and respond to emails promptly. They're really enthusiastic about the material and are cool because most of them are recent graduates who are really chill. They help guide you to the right answer without giving vague unhelpful responses or blatant answers. Section: Is pretty great because, as mentioned above, the TFs are awesome. Patient cases are really hard, and I often had no idea what was going on, but the concept of them is really cool because we get to apply what we know about the molecular mechanisms to try and try to diagnose the patient/understand how they manifest as physical symptoms.
TAKE THIS COURSE. Kiran is amazing and I promise that you will not regret taking this course. The material is interesting and taught in a way that is easy to learn and retain. Don't get me wrong, it is a tough course, but the way it is taught makes biochem really fun.
This is the best class among all the pre-med requirements at Harvard. Furthermore, Kiran is one of the best professors you will encounter at Harvard. It's rare among the pre-med requirements that you really feel like what you're learning and pouring so much time and effort into is directly relevant to med school or being a physician. Kiran, being a cardiologist, is very aware of this fact and brilliantly ties in patient cases to every week's lecture material. It's amazing to see just how applicable basic biochemistry knowledge is in real patient diagnosis and treatment. The material is not incredibly easy but you will be motivated to work knowing that what you're studying will benefit you later on in your career. Also, Kiran is fun, funny, and enthusiastic in lecture and that always helps!
This is a wonderful course. It makes biochemistry interesting and the patient cases in section really engage students in the material from class. I cannot recommend it more highly. Kiran is by far one of the best professor's I have had at Harvard. Take this course!
This would be very helpful for med school - especially the MCAT. Take it alongside Chem 27 and your understanding on biochemistry will drastically improve. He is an excellent professor who takes students' recommendations very seriously, and you will likely be heard if you have any suggestions.
This is an enjoyable and pain-free way to learn the foundational basics of biochemistry. The teaching staff is great and everything is very fair. It isn't too difficult, though in a more rigorous class you could probably learn more. However, I am now confident in my introduction to biochemistry and I understand fairly well how human metabolism works.
SCRB 25 has been one of the best SCRB classes I have taken.  Lecture and Section were always interesting and fun.  Kiran is very easy to be around and very funny.  Lectures and sections with the TFs were spent laughing and learning, as classes should be.  The material is was completely knew to me yet I was able to understand it very well with Kiran's amazing teaching style and my TFs wealth of knowledge.  The class is not challenging if you attend or view all the lectures and tests and problem sets are very straightforward.  No reason to be worried to take this class if you keep up with the lectures and engage in section discussions.
Definitely not that hard, but also definitely not that interesting. Good for getting a requirement
Students should petition to have biochemistry taught by Kiran in the future. I can't imagine that anyone can do a better job than he can.
Kiran is an awesome professor and does a great job to make sure that the students do well in the course. He listens to feedback and actually makes changes to the class structure in order to make sure that students are learning the material. The midterm exams are fair and comes straight from the lecture materials. The patient cases that we go over in section also are really interesting and contribute to learning the material in a different way.
This course does a good job of giving you a basic background in biochem. The MCAT is changing in 2015, so by the next time this class is offered the utility will be quite apparent if you're premed. The material is pretty interesting , and the course is structured so that you have a solid base of knowledge by the end. The sections are based on working through cases (you're given patient data and asked questions that lead you through diagnoses), and it's a fun way to apply the knowledge from the week. Take advantage of the fact that the lecture videos are online, because Kiran goes through a lot of material quickly. Speaking of Kiran, the cookies he orders from a shop in Maryland (he used to work at Johns Hopkins) are great; he gives them out in section at the beginning and end of the semester.
This is a relatively easy class that you can take to fill your biochem pre-med requirement. The grading is extremely fair and Kiran is an absolute legend. 95%+ is an A with the mean on exams being ~90% percent. If you don't know any biochem, this is a great class.However, I already took the MCAT (pre-2015), and most of this class was a review. If you already know some biochem, this class isn't for you.
This is the best option to take Biochem you will have. Whether you are a pre-med, SCRB concentrator, a mix of the two, or neither, you will find that this course is a perfect mix of accessibility, entertainment, and challenging material. Professor Musunuru is the most down-to-earth professor I have met to this day - it is obvious through the amount of work he puts in that he prioritizes students learning the material. Consider yourself lucky if you are able to take a course in which he is at the helm.
This class is AWESOME!!!!  Prof. Musunuru is hilarious, a great speaker, and a fair test maker.  The exams were not too hard, I learned a TON that will be helpful for the MCAT and for med school, and sections were case studies so they were actually really interesting.  One of my favorite pre-med classes at Harvard so far.
It was the pilot class so there were some changes midway through and they'll likely continue to make changes. Overall I found the course material super interesting and the cases made it applicable to real life (and medicine). Kiran was a fantastic professor and the teaching staff were all super available and helpful. In its current form, all you have to do is memorize to do well in the class.
Professor Musunuru really cares about students' opinions, and the class on the whole is very well taught! Especially love the case studies that we do.
If you need biochemistry for pre-health like I did then this is definitely the course to take (especially if you were terrified of MCB 56 like I was). The course is brilliant and interesting. It made me like the subject! The problem sets and exams are as fair as you could possibly ask for and if you do the problem sets you'll be completely fine on the exam. I can think of no reason why you would not want to take this course. It's fun, it's not deathly difficult, and the teaching staff is wonderful.
This class was a great way to learn about a notoriously dry topic!
This was one of the best courses I took at Harvard (and I am a non-science concentrator). Kiran is a great lecturer, all the materials are available online or in person, and sections are taught in case format. The teaching staff is incredibly accessible and supportive. Problem sets and exams are interesting and very fair. What you get out of this course is definitely based on what you put into it (go to office hours!), but you can learn the information in many different formats, all of which are offered by the teaching staff. I cannot recommend a course more highly! You will learn biochem and have a pretty good time doing it.
This class was easily the least stressful while I was taking 3 other science courses--I don't think it's offered again, but if it is, definitely take it. Kiran cares a ton about the course, and it shows in how much time he devotes to the class. You won't remember anything six weeks after the course is over, but that's the nature of biochemistry.
Biochem is the greatest premed class to take IMO. This class forms the foundations of modern medicine... if you're a cardiologist and you don't know that statins inhibit HMG coreductase to lower cholesterol levels... then??? Anyway, what I'm trying to say that you should take this class because 1) it's really chill - go to lecture or watch the video, plus they explain things on answer sets (they dont just leave you hanging... no surprises). 2) in section, it is taught in PBL clinical - basically if you're premed you get to apply ur biochem knowledge to clinical cases. Finally, a class at Harvard that illustrates the practical applications of the theoretical!!! Anyway, biochem is great. If you don't care much for mechanisms and want a class that will cover it so that you'll have (ideally) a systematic integrated understanding of most of the important pathways, take this class!!! This was my favorite class this semester TBH
The teaching staff is awesome, and the material is really interesting. If you work hard you can get a really good grade - it's one if those classes that actually rewards studying.
Everything is very straight forward.  Kiran is extremely organized and well-prepared.  I think as the class develops, it will learn how to be more about problem solving rather than memorization/scavenger-hunt like psets.  Overall, very rewarding class, and I would suggest taking it.  There was some overlap with Chem27.
one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard
As long as you do your work, this is a great course if you consider taking organic chemistry over the summer
This class teaches you basic biochem in a relaxed setting, and is really great at working around your schedule so that everyone can take it!
This class is straightforward and you will have a better time than if you were in any other biochem class.
This course was a broad survey of biochemistry topics and focused more on concepts than memorization. Kiran was incredibly invested in the course, and although the lectures were not necessarily the most interesting, he and the teaching staff really went above and beyond in trying to help everyone succeed. Section was easily the most interesting part of the course and I found the case studies to be where I really learned most of the material. Overall this is a relatively painless way to prepare for the MCAT and check off your biochemistry requirement.
Don't be stupid and get stuck at a 94% in this class. That means... GO TO OFFICE HOURS AND MAKE SURE YOUR PSET ANSWERS ARE CORRECT. High PSet scores will help you earn the grade you want in this class.
i hope this class is offered again in the spring
Seldom will students have the enriching opportunity of taking a biochemistry class that forces students to apply their learning to interesting real-life patient studies. This makes the class not only stronger in instruction of the material, but also more interesting and accessible.
If you are a pre-med student, you should ABSOLUTELY take this class. Do it. It's exciting and a great class to remind you why you want to go into medicine. Case studies connect the material to actual patients.
easy way to fulfill the biochem requirement but rather boring
Prof. Musunuru is one of the best teachers that you can find at Harvard-- take any class under him and you will not be disappointed.  All the teaching staff for this class tirelessly worked to constantly improve the class and make it the best it possibly could be.  Prof. Musunuru made biochemistry appear easy, not a feat that should be understated!  This class was great- take it if you have the opportunity!
Not challenging at all, but a good introduction to some biochemical principles and an opportunity to experience a case-based discussion section that links biochemical concepts to pathological presentations.
I would encourage anyone to take this course, whether pre-med or simply interested in the biological sciences. For a science class, it is extremely low pressure and very interactive. The teaching staff is incredibly helpful and truly wants students to do well in the class.
This course is great for people trying to fulfill the new MCAT/premed requirements and if the online lectures are still offered next year, this class becomes a very low time commitment in terms of lecture and section time. However, because it's so flexible, it's on you to watch all the lectures and read all the section cases if you want a thorough introduction to biochemistry. Although this course doesn't go into detailed biochemical pathways or chemical mechanisms--very little memorization required!-- I learned a general overview of many different pathways and found them all super interesting to learn about. Oh and the patient cases you discuss in section are cool and are analogous to solving actual medical cases as a doctor.
This is a great class! I HATED biochem (Chem 27) so I came into the semester very apprehensive about having to take this. Kiran is a wonderful professor, and Stephanie is an awesome TF. They tell you exactly what will be on the midterms, are very engaging and make sure section is fun. Plus, they really want everyone to do well! I would highly recommend this to anyone who needs a biochem credit, or wants to replace a less than stellar previous biochem course (like I did).
This class is very well-structured and will likely only get better with time.  It is a relatively painless introduction to biochemistry and the balance of technical science and case studies in section is a great way to learn science and makes the course more applicable.
If this course is still around, take it! It's far superior to Chem 27. SCRB 25 focuses on the forest - what actually happens, physiologically, when I eat too much candy? Chem 27 gets lost in the arrow pushing mechanisms and is generally a dry, un-fun class. But in SCRB 25, Kiran brings cookies! And puts on Colbert during lectures! The class as a whole has a fun, chill atmosphere - not a suffocating pre-med class at all.
its super flexible. the assignment format is annoying.
it's a lot of memory, but you'll feel like it's worth learning; definitely a manageable class even during senior spring
