If you want to learn about RNA or are interested in how it incorporates into the central dogma of life, this is the class to take.
Covers a lot of interesting topics in the RNA field. Great lectures and discussions.
this was the first year they offered the course. john and moran were excellent teachers. if you don't have a lot of background on rna biology, it's okay they will walk you through it. and don't get caught up in all the details because they expect you to only know general/broad concepts. they also picked very interesting journal articles. the field trip to Broad was amazing!
RNA Worlds was a terrific class overall, and professor John Rinn is the nicest guy. I would take this class if you have a strong interest in genetics!
AMAZING class! I enjoyed it so much. John and Moran are fantastic instructors, super helpful, and wonderful people. Definitely a great class to take
lectures are very well presented. this is a class that presents a unique and exciting body of info that will continue to expand in the near future.
If you are at all interested in the subject, definitely take a look!
Interesting and relatively easy class. Sometimes the genome tutorials get tedious, but gives you some insight into how to analyze the genome using publicly available sources.
Phenomenal class! Can't say enough about it  assignments are uniquely fun and interesting, material is incredibly up-to-date and exciting (some of the assigned papers were published by the teaching staff themselves, during the semester even!) John's lectures are a treat and the focus is really on understanding rather than testing. One of my favourite courses that I've taken at Harvard.
It is a great class. The material can be really confusing so go to office hours to clarify. John is an amazing lecturer, funny and captivating. The course is a little disorganized but it is great regardless.
This class is pretty stress-free.  You aren't tested on the material you learn in class, except when you write your midterm and final papers.
The problem sets prepare you for the midterm and final papers, and the TFs are helpful and clarify the paper requirements.
Pretty great class. Fair workload and level of difficulty and really interesting cutting-edge subject matter.
Beware. I liked this course because it was very interesting to me to consider an entirely new dimension of the genome that I had never really thought about before. It really turns the Central Dogma on its head and introduces new possibilities involving RNA in many important biological processes. However, the course is not the most well-organized. Homework can be quite frustrating, and count for a large part of your grade. I felt like I never knew when to stop with my homework and/or whether my answers were correct, and the feedback was scant. There are no midterms/final exams, just two reports where you analyze things about lncRNAs using the genome browser. Low workload, but not necessarily the most exciting/organized class.
You should definitely think twice before taking this class. The lectures are fun and interesting, mostly because John is an amazing teacher. However, you might want to ask yourself what you actually have learned after class - most of the time you will realize that there is nothing you can use anywhere except the very redundant problem sets. The workload is not too high and your grades will be fine, but everything you will learn is worth close to nothing outside that particular young field of study. If you are very interested in genetics and a lot of bioinformatics, then this class might be for you. If you want to learn things that are not highly putative, don't take it.
Great course that teaches a tool and gives interesting stories in the history of science!
The material is EXTREMELY interesting, since it is a very specific niche of research being done, and Dr. Rinn is the leading figure in that area of research. I personally feel that ncRNAs will have a large influence on the world in the future after taking this course. However honestly the organization in this course was quite awful, but this does also mean that the workload is much lower than what it could be. My recommendation to HDRB concentrators would be to take this as a second HDRB class. It is worth the time you put in, and I think you will feel less frustrated if you have another biology course that will is better organized abutting this course.
I really enjoyed this course. Though it was unclear in the beginning how this class would be orchestrated, the format of the class soon grew on me and I really came to develop a deep appreciation for all aspects of the noncoding genome.
This course has very interesting material and has something for you whether you are interested in RNA biology specifically, or just molecular biology in general.
I appreciated that the course tried to be innovative with the idea that we can uncover something new and cool about an unknown lincRNA by looking at the genome browser. However, I was not expecting this course to be as practical as this, I felt like we spent a lot of time troubleshooting genome browser stuff and not enough time learning about RNA biology. I very much did enjoy the lectures on RNA biology, however!
