Definitely take this class! The professor is warm and enthusiastic, the TFs are extremely helpful with pretty much everything, and this is one of the best chances you'll get for hands-on experience with experiments other classes will only describe.
AMAZING introduction to the various techniques used in developmental biology research.
LOVED THIS CLASS.  If you're a hands-on learner looking for a different way of learning than the traditional lecture-exam format, this is your class.
Take this course your senior year if you are a SCRB concentrator and are pursuing a career in research. You will learn a tremendous amount about how to perform some of the techniques that are ubiquitous in developmental biology research. Taking this course is one of the best things you can do at Harvard, without a doubt.
Really fun class. It's cool to do experiments that you learn about in scrb 10. Paola and the TFs really just want you to learn as much as possible which is great. Highly recommended. Also, it was helpful to have worked in a lab before, but you're still alright if you haven't.
The class was a lot of fun and Professor Arlotta and the TFs are very enthusiastic.  It's a great exposure to a set of experiments one is not usually able to perform in a normal lab experience as an undergrad.
This is a really fun, exciting, and interesting class! I would recommend it to anyone! Drs. Arlotta and Lodato are really great and fun teachers; I don't think anyone would be better suited! You learn a lot of cool experiments/techniques that are classical or even quite advanced! Work really hard and be very careful, and you'll get good results that you're proud of and feel accomplished about!
Fantastic course--it is a little easier if you have prior laboratory experience.
This class was a fun and relatively easy way to fulfill a SCRB requirement.  The instructors are interesting and passionate about the work being done
Keep lab notebooks updated! Or at the very least, keep notes on protocols and print out pictures occasionally.
A lot of your initial experiments might not work but when they do, it's a really great feeling. You also learn to do a lot of neat experiments (bead grafts, directed differentiation, lineage tracing, etc.). Though the course felt somewhat scattered in that we were mostly doing a new experiment every week on a new topic, if you save all the emails and take some notes while you're doing the labs (print out the protocols beforehand and take notes on them directly), the lab notebook is pretty easy to put together at the end of the semester. Also, pay attention to Paola's lectures because the module questions are kind of a test of how much attention you paid.
The material is really interesting and its a great opportunity to get hands on experience with experiments that helped define a lot of the most important concepts in developmental biology. Paola, Simona, and Christina were great, they explained everything really well and were very patient whenever we needed help. I would strongly recommend this to anyone with an interest in developmental biology, a desire to try animal surgery, or just someone who wants to try a small lab based class with great teachers.
Fantastic class- I highly recommend.  Paola is an incredible lecturer and cares deeply about the class. A gem of the SCRB department.
Come prepared each and every week. There is a lot to learn and not much time to learn it, so you don't want to miss anything!
This class is fantastic. You get hands-on experience with a different model organism every week, and get to recreate historically important experiments in developmental biology. If you have an interest in developmental biology in a laboratory setting, this course is a must. Also, Paola Arlotta is awesome and so nice and enthusiastic.
If you like working with your hands and you thought the experiments you talk about in SCRB 10 were awesome, this is definitely the class for you. Be meticulous about your lab notebook , it's a huge part of your grade! Also pay attention to lecture, will be important for answering the questions you have to include with your notebook that Paola will give you about two weeks before your notebook is due.
Paola Simo and Cristi are basically your dream team when it comes to teaching. Plus, amazing subject matter! Definitely take this if you get the chance!
This class is fantastic! Generally low stress way to learn a ton, and gain hands-on experience. Very engaging, with knowledgeable and kind staff.
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard - also probably the only course in which I feel I am getting my tuition's worth. Paola, Simona, and Cristina make this course incredible, motivating us to learn a lot while still enjoying all the material. The surgery component of the course alone makes this a must-take course. Stay on top of your game with the notebook and don't do your final project the night before and you're golden. Cannot go wrong with this course.
This was SUCH a great course-- Paola, Simona, and Cristina were all wonderful. The experiments we did were so interesting and there's nothing like doing an experiment to understand the material. The workload was very manageable, but it did require us to come in during the week a few times.
This class is amazing, and the most hands-on course I've taken yet. Every week we do something new which is rewarding and refreshing. I loved the surgeries, they were a really unique aspect of the class. And of course, Paola, Cristina and Simona are the BEST!
This class has been my favorite SCRB course. I think the fact that we focus on the material and the lab and not so much on grading and assignments really let us think about the science behind things as opposed to worrying about writing everything down right and learning it. The course instructers are amazing too!
This class was by far my favorite at Harvard. Although it was sometimes disorganized, the teaching staff made the class such an enjoyable, enriching experience. I learned so much about developmental biology, and I was always excited to talk about what I'd learned in class. Paola is a great, engaging and caring professor.
it's a must take for any HDRB concentrator - or just any bio enthusiast.
THIS IS THE BEST CLASS EVER. THIS IS WHY I CAME TO HARVARd.
This class was the best class that I have taken while at Harvard. It was an amazing opportunity to perform cutting edge science, and work alongside esteemed faculty members.
Most hands-on course I have taken at Harvard! Experiments are nothing like you do in other courses--they're actually from post-2000 instead of 1965 (or earlier).
be prepared for media changes every other day (yes, including weekends) for the first half of the course
Scrb 160 perfectly combines classroom learning with experimental approaches. The papers and the lectures are excellent and the labs are exciting and challenging. The first half of the course is incredibly time consuming (about 5-10 hrs a week spent in the lab) while the second half of the course requires less out-of-class time. The time spent, however, was definitely worth it as the material was relatively new and exciting.
Keep up with your notebook.
Great class to get exposure to research.
you cannot go wrong taking this class.  was without a doubt the most interesting course I've taken at Harvard
If you have worked in stem cell lab then don't take italso, there will lot of after lab hours follow up work to do
Really cool techniques are learned, but beware of the time commitment. Much of the class requires you to go into the lab every day, including some weekends, to check on your cells.
Take this course. You may have to come in on various days throughout the week, but this is a small price to pay for a course that is so well put together and covers such interesting topics. Seriously, take this course.
This course is absolutely amazing. If you're a SCRB concentrator like me and you wonder how scientists conduct the experiments you constantly read about and learn about in SCRB 10, then take this class. Paola and the TFs are not afraid to assign you technically challenging experiments. The TF's are amazing, and you get so much support from this class. Just keep in mind that you will have to change media and do follow-up work after class time, so it's not just the 4 hour per week chunk you initially expect.
the readings and labs are very interesting. keep up with your lab notebook so you don't have to do it all at the end!
This course will not require much of you early on, but be prepared to do a lot of work for it in the end! Start your project early and keep up with your notebooks!
Paola is amazing! If you are at all interested in getting your hands dirty in the lab - this is the class for you. It is unique because it gives you the opportunity to work with many different species of animal. It is well worth the four hours on a Monday.
Amazing course overall. Paola Arlotta is very enthusiastic about the course which just makes you want to work that much harder. The TFs are great, and when you work on labs you work with people who know what they're doing. The tips that they give outside of the protocol will help you immensely. If you're thinking about taking a lab course for SCRBS, this is THE lab course to take. Not only will you learn a lot but you'll realize a lot of the intricacies behind experience.
This class has an extremely strong teaching staff - one that truly believes in educating future scientists. Paola is a one-of-a-kind researcher: not only is she at the forefront of current developmental research, she also cares deeply about teaching undergraduates and that comes through clearly in this class. You'll do a lot of interesting, challenging and rewarding experiments that you'd not have the chance to do at any other school. However, there is more to this class than just Monday labs - you'll have to come in during the week to change media, take pictures, etc. so make sure you'll have time to do that.
Get your hands dirty! Prof. Arlotta and the TFs are really great teachers, and if you rely on your scientific instincts this course will jettison you into an understanding of principles and techniques that you can't get in a lecture.
This is an awesome class. Paola is extremely dedicated to teaching and I thought i got to know her really well through this course. There were some hiccups here and there but that's expected given that it was her first time teaching this course alone. The experiments that we did were extremely challenging but the TFs will help you out.
A great fun way to get lab experience
It is an amazing class that definitely shows you what real-life experiments are like (sometimes, the entire class's experiments would fail).  It is a bit of a time commitment outside of class, especially in the beginning (media changes, picture taking) so make sure you have a good two hour bloc set aside.
It's fun!
Get on the SCRB bandwagon before everyone discovers it - awesome, high profile professors team-teaching tiny courses with huge budgets.  This is why you go to Harvard College.  What a luxury!
There is a high standard for notebooks to be meticulously organized and diagrammatically detailed even for basic procedure. So some people fill in out (even type and paste in all contents) long after the experiments.
This class will take up quite some times during time periods, especially when media needs to be changed everyday including weekends- but it is totally worth it to be able to see development happen right before your eyes. Protocols can seem intimidating at first, but the TFs and professors are there to guide you the whole way.
One of the best courses I have taken, will spend time in lab changing media and taking pictures outside of class
This course offers opportunities to undergraduates available to few other students in the world. The professors are top in their fields, and also extremely approachable. The teaching assistants also devoted so much time and energy to the class. If you want to gain lab experience, this class is unparalleled by others at Harvard. Don't be concerned about coming in to the lab an extra day here and there to change media. The fun you have doing the experiments makes the media changes worthwhile.
This class is wonderful. The instructors are some of the nicest people in the department. I will recommend anyone, regardless of whether you have had prior lab experience. The only warning is that this class requires a lot of time commitment outside the class. So do not get tricked by the fact that it only meets once a week! Otherwise, it is definitely one of the coolest SCRB classes I have taken.
Great course where you will have a chance to do many of the experiments you've read about.
Get ready to do cool things in a lab.
