Great and intriguing class! The lack of grades is a bit frustrating but overall great class!
In its current form, this class is the easiest class I've taken at Harvard. For that reason, I learned virtually nothing. If you're comfortable with that, by all means, but for me, this was a waste of a class.
A good, low-commitment class for students conducting thesis research, this course provides a widely-ranging introduction to the pharmaceutical industry and drug discovery and development process. However, the class is very unorganized which can be frustrating at times.
A great survey course to understand the drug development process, especially from the biotech perspective.
This class is what you make of it. You can literally do nothing, or you can do a ton. There is such a range in the class in terms of education level, interest, and work ethic that your bound to get a diverse group. Some people hate that and some people love it.
This course is all over the place. When I was considering taking it I saw people write the same thing but kind of ignored it because people said the class was easy. I wish I had listened. There were like 2 guest speakers per week with no cohesion between them and I just really felt lost a lot. Also the final project counts for 65% of your grade and you have no idea how you're doing the entire time. However, the guest lecturers were on the whole pretty interesting. Although I wish there had been more of an emphasis on learning different scientific techniques and assays than just hearing guest speakers brag about their companies.
When considering this course, understand that although the course meets once a week, the effective time spent traveling and in-class amounts to roughly 4-5hours. This course, although sometime long, is definitely worth it if you are interested in the science and business side of pharma.
Don't start too late on the news of the week or the project. You will get as much into the class as you put into it. It can be a great light 4th class if you have a busy schedule, but it is held at MIT, so account for travel time.
The lecturers were really interesting and there's a wide variety! Even though it can be a hassle to go to MIT, it's worth it!
The structure of the course is having 2 guess speakers a week. A lot of the speakers just gave science presentations. I think it would be much more beneficial to cut back on these presentations and go over more of the business aspects of drugs development. Very little workload.
very very easy and interesting. taught entirely by guest speakers with no exams or homework (just two assignments all semester). good to balance out a hard schedule (also, it says meant for grad students but don't be afraid! more than half the class was harvard undergrads).
It was really cool because you were learning from leaders in the field, but the final project is kind of a bitch. You can get paired with some randos who don't really seem to care about the project and get stuck writing a 20+ page paper alone.... so its kind of a luck of the draw situation.
Not much work at all - news of the week and final project both were pretty easy, and no problem sets, section, or exams makes for a relaxed class. Good to take during an otherwise busy semester.
You get a lot out of this class per hour that you spend on it. I had a wonderful group project and my group members and I loved working together! Also, Lee Rubin is fantastic.
Worthwhile class. Can be disorganized at time but enjoyable.
This is an interesting and applicable class that's really useful and teaches you a lot without wasting your time on papers/exams. It's very loosely structure, so stay away if that's your thing, but otherwise this is a good class! Similar to 130 but much bigger.
This is a ridiculously easy class, half of the class didn't show up for most of it. The professors are well-intentioned, but what they don't understand is that simply inviting in biotech industry leaders and researchers to talk and not making any assignments or even really require attendance is going to result in disengaged students. All the lectures were discontinuous, and there were no common threads or anything concrete that I took out of this class. That being said, I was exposed to a wide array of the biotech industry and got a sense of all the things you can do in biotech, which makes me more excited about the field from a professional standpoint -- but in terms of anything concrete I learned from the class-- not much. Take it if you want a easy senior class or as a fifth class even.
Light workload, mostly interesting material (if you pay attention to lecture)
Take this! It will change your life.
It's a fair course, but it all depends on your TF.
Great course with very knowledgeable speakers every class!
This is a good class if you're working on a thesis and don't have much time to commit to a SCRB req. The class meets once a week, and towards the later half of the semester, it becomes pretty clear that attendance is 'strictly optional'. I personally found the industrial discussions in the course somewhat tedious and was hoping that we would delve a little deeper into the science behind drug development.
This class has a lot of potential to be really interesting and eye-opening, but the delivery falls short. Both the lecture and the projects are lacking in thoughtfulness and effort on the part of the professors, and there is little feedback or interaction between the students and the professor.

Only take this class if you need to fulfill requirements or if you need an easy class.
This class was a great introduction to the pharmaceutical industry that had only two assignments - a "News of the Week" presentation and a final project and presentation. This meant that the work load for this class was really low, except around those two deadlines. If you're like me and you put off the work until the last moment, it was quite stressful. If you take the time to do research on your project over the course of the semester, you'll be much better off because this class was literally no work on a week-to-week basis. The lecturers were usually very interesting, especially because Professor Lee Rubin pulled in a lot more interesting biology speakers, stem cell labs and start-ups, etc. There's something for everyone who's interested in the drug development process in this class, but if you're not particularly interested in a lecture topic like manufacturing or something it can get pretty boring in class. Most of the time the class was very engaging though.
This class is a topical survey course.  Great course to take while you are working on your thesis.  Very much a grad seminar.  Gives you some fun stuff to think about, but the real value in taking the course is the free time it offers you to work on the assignments.
Great class! :)
This class seemed relatively easy, but grading was not always straightforward. Not a lot of feedback was given to students. I think the course would benefit greatly from adding a section component.
A fantastic, guest-lecture-based course that is thought-provoking and good for rounding out a heavy or interview-filled semester. The onus is on the student, however, to pay attention and get something out of the weekly lecture since there are no weekly assignments or exams.
This class has very little workload and some fascinating speakers. It is also very flexible with attendance! I would recommend it for anyone who wants to learn the basics of pharma.
Very little work during the semester, but lots of work for the final project. You get exposed to variety of people in the pharmaceutical industry and doing lots of research. However, the class has very little structure - take this as you well.
This class was incredibly interesting and had a very seminar-like feel to it.  This class would be great for you if you were looking for something more broad.  You have the opportunity to listen to many different types of speakers, ranging from scientists to the CRO of a pharma company to a healthcare banker.  It was fantastic to hear what is happening in the field and the decision process / processes behind it all.
Participate! This is a fun and engaging class.
