If you're taking this course, you probably don't have a choice. Just brace yourself and get through it.
Once this course is better organized, it will be a great alternative to MCB 52. Covers all the same material, but taught in an experimental design way, much like SCRB 10. Challenging but rewarding.
Unless this course is completely changed, do not take this class under any circumstances. It is hands down the worst class I have ever taken in my life.  If you do have to take it for some reason, unless you have already taken upper level SCRB courses, you will have to go to every single office hours to do well.  It is an incredibly frustrating course and basically ruined my semester.
This course is new, so know that you'll be left without a paddle for exam preparation. Don't expect it to be easy. Ask the preceptors and professors for more sample questions if possible as well. You'll also be a bit lost with the lab at times so email TFs. Be sure to get lecture notes from Katelyn because they're the most accurate portrayal of what you need to know. Compared to my last experience with a new class, I don't feel as if I saw the same response when students asked for more help. Compared to my last experience with a new class, I don't feel as if I saw the same response when students asked for more help. What hurts most is that this class could've been better and more engaging. It had its moments (Kaitlyn's lecture, guest lecture on lncRNAs, some of John's latter lectures on RNAs), but it wasn't consistently a good course.
Very disorganized the first time they ran this, but I have a lot of faith in the preceptor Kaitlyn, who is very dedicated to improving this course.The professors, Rinn and Meissner, are kind of awful lecturers though. I hope they improve.
Avoid this class until it's improved - things are very disorganized
Stay far far away from this class. It was a mess. They were unreceptive and unresponsive to feedback. It was incredibly disorganized and poorly taught. Don't do it.
Unless they significantly improve this course, do not risk taking it. It was very poorly taught and frustrating.
I would not recommend taking this class. All over the place in terms of lecture format and material. Very difficult to follow, and professors were not always clear in their allusions/references in lecture, and so their explanations often fell flat.
SCRB20 was a solid biology course. Given that it was its first year, there were some teething issues with lecture formatting and experimental reproducibility in the lab component, but the general direction the course is heading seems promising if they are able to address these issues in the future. One big sticking point, personally, was the lack of video recording during lecture that made it hard to catch up or review on material prior to exams. Other than that, the course was on par for a biology course and the lab/section component was excellent in that it teaches you relevant skills that you will most definitely use if you decide to pursue research in a life sciences field.
SCRB20 is by far the worst course I have taken at Harvard. It was disappointing in every single way imaginable. Before I go on, I just want to emphasize how great my TF, Cristina, was and also that Kaitlyn (the preceptor) is one of the nicest people I have met. Unfortunately, this did not save the course. First, the lectures were useless. The professors teaching this course are the leaders in the field (especially John) in this field, but the lectures were unnecessarily confusing and unorganized. Second, the lab was also very disappointing. They claim that the lab tries to emulate a "real" life research experience , but this is way too ambitious, and will simply not work in a course setting with a pre determined idea of what the students will learn. The instructions were always very confusing for the lab reports. Prepare yourself to write reports about stuff they never taught you but will nevertheless ask you about. On the first exam, no one knew what to expect (even the TFs, through no fault of their own, did not know what types of questions will be on the exam). Even worse, the course posted practice problem sets for the midterm that were very misleading and not at all representative of the type of questions asked on the actual midterm. I was really excited to take SCRB20, but I'm very sad to say that it's been one huge disappointment after the other. If there is ANY way that you can avoid taking this course, do yourself a favor and do NOT take it. I would even recommend that you take MCB60 over this disaster.
SCRB 20 was in its first year this year, so I guess that means take this comment with a grain of salt... The course seemed organized, but lacked a lot of structural and organizational elements. The grading scheme was not very transparent, and the assignments were graded more harshly than might be expected based on the guidelines provided. Lectures were hard to followread the textbook and ANY notes posted after the lecture. If you liked SCRB10, the exams are very similar in the sense that they ask you to design experiments and analyze data, and do recall + application of material. They're difficult. Try to keep up with the lectures as they happen, and try to review previous weeks notes with the current week, because it was only when studying for the final that the material started to come together. GO TO KAITLYN'S OFFICE HOURS, READ HER NOTES. Put in effort into the writing assignments etc., b/c they're not as easy as they might seem. The class could have potential if the teaching staff finds a way to present the lab tools more clearly before diving into applications of those tools. Shop it and see whether it looks like it's improved.
very difficult class, not much guidance, hard to find materials to study when exams come
This class is constantly giving you work. All of it is graded harshly but nothing contributes more than the other to one;s grade. Make sure you take advantage of Kaitlyn's notes and Zach's notes online. They are what got me through this course.
When I took this class it was in its first year, so maybe it will improve tremendously in successive years. The material is pretty interesting stuff, and you do learn a lot about genetics and molecular biology, but the professors aren't the best/most organized lecturers-- you will often leave lecture scratching your head. They are still putting course materials together for this class, so there is not much substance. The best thing I did was to go to Kaitlyn Choi's office hours, they were a life-saver. Also we did a cool lab with CRISPR/Cas9 which was pretty amazing. But I would recommend letting the teaching staff develop the curriculum for this class for a couple more years before you decide to take it, if you have the luxury to do so.
Do not enter this class unless you are prepared to learn new material on techniques and spend every day confused after lecture not knowing what is going on.
So this was the first year that the class was taught, and it'll probably get better (hopefully).  That being said, this year was pretty terrible - the class wasn't "hard" per se, but there was a lot of busy work that made it annoying and time consuming.  Grading was often arbitrary, at least with the written assignments, and nobody within the teaching staff seemed to really know what anybody else in the teaching staff was doing.  That being said, there's not really any other good option, and upper level SCRB classes are definitely better!
This class was one of my absolute worst classes at Harvard. I hated going to lecture each week and section was just as bad. The grading is totally arbitrary and it's so hard to know what is going on. The only people who are likely to do well in the course are those that have a ton of lab experience. Lectures are impossible to follow. Just know that everything about this class was terrible.
Undoubtedly the most disorganized class I have ever taken at Harvard and possibly the worst class in the SCRB department. Firstly, I want to make clear that I think the efforts of the professors and the efforts of the TF team are worlds apart. The frustrations of this class largely resulted from poorly thought out lectures and little capacity the professors had for making the class material cohesive and accessible. In general, I think many of the disorganization of this class stemmed from the professors being too overburdened with other commitments (tenure talks, etc) to put in thought into the material they were delivering. It very much felt like the TFs were putting in tremendous effort to patch up the gaps in the lectures.Though the material itself is fascinating, the monotony and disorganization of the lectures were barriers to actually enjoying the class. The first third of the class required students to decipher slides made of an assembly of pictures with little to no explanations. The last two thirds required students to decipher hand drawn figures on a chalkboard (again with little to no written explanations/guiding labels). There was little to no cohesion between Alex's and John's lectures - they might as well have been teaching two different classes in the same room.Exams are difficult - save yourself the trouble poring over the grainy audios and go to office hours.One of the only redeeming component of this course are the TFs - particularly Kaitlyn and Geraldine who put in countless hours to answer student questions, write up detailed notes and explanations to the lectures, holding office hours, and doing basically everything the professors should have prepared in advance. Kaitlyn's notes were immensely helpful and pretty much were the reason many people actually learned anything without spending hours to the audio lectures multiple times at max volume to understand what happened in lecture.
It's a new course with many kinks. The teaching staff are great, and there's many resources available online to help fill in gaps from lecture/section. As a premed class that covers basic science, it's not easy, and you'll have to do extra reading/reviewing if you struggled like I did in LS1a/LS1b. There's no weekly psets (at least this first year) but a 5 pg midterm paper, 10 pg final lab report, and a poster. In other words, you'll get excellent science training to start doing summer research, but plan your time accordingly.
While the subject material has great potential, the class itself was a complete disappointment- it genuinely made me consider changing concentrations. The components of the class don't talk to each other- the requirements for assignments are unclear.
Consider this a warning that you will be struggling through this entire class. It is a disheveled unreasonable mess and you'll have to do everything on your own because the professors can't even keep track of what they did and didn't teach on a given day. I can't even begin to tell you all of the things that went badly in this class.
This course was definitely a disappointment. The disorganization from the professors, their uncharismatic lectures, the random grading, the unclear assignment instructions, having a 2 hour poster presentation the day before a 9 am final, the lack of powerpoint slides when students were voicing their desire to return to them after a failure of chalkboard lectures and so on. If it was not for the Teaching Fellow staff, this class would have been even worse. Without the greatness that are the Section Notes that a TF made, the pain that is this class would have hurt even more. Take it only if you have no other option and demand that it be rebuilt because it is a definite failure of a class.
If possible, take it pass/fail, if not, I wouldn't recommend it. This first iteration was REALLY bad. That being said, the material was interesting and by the time the final came around, I felt like I had learned a lot (but mostly through independent study and going to office hours). I think it's pretty impossible to do well without going to office hours and putting in hours upon hours of independent study. Take at your your GPA's risk.
This class is poorly taught and extremely disorganized.
This course is your introduction to higher levels of biology in the context of development. If you like experimentation and thinking rather than memorizing, then this is your kind of course. Don't expect to employ typical study strategies to this course -- you REALLY need to understand the material, but that's what makes this course great.
SCRB 20 was an unnecessarily stressful and annoying part of the HDRB requirements. Granted, this was the first semester the course was offered, but there were definitely times when I truly regretted taking this course. I felt like in the end, I learned a lot about molecular biology, BUT I only did so with the assistance of my AMAZING section TF Zack Smith.  The other section leaders in this course were excellent as well, but other than that, this course was a pain most of the time. First of all, the scheduling was really off so we had a midterm AND our final exam the SAME DAY as another class that many HDRB concentrators take around the same time - PS3. This added so much unnecessary stress to an already stressful course. IN ADDITION, we also had not just a final exam but a final lab report and a final presentation due in the same week. I thought this was a ridiculous amount of work for such a badly managed class. Take this class if you absolutely have to, but MAKE SURE the teaching staff is as good as it was our semester and also make sure that they don't have scheduling mishaps like they did this time around!
SCRB20, in principle, is a good course. The material is interesting and useful to know for experimental biology. The delivery of the material can be improved over time, especially since this is the first iteration of the class. Future versions of the class will be a lot better.
The class needs a lot of changes before it should be offered again. Very little organization and outside resources.
Unless this course improves considerably the next time it is offered, I would recommend with reservations. The concepts in the course - if you sit down and try to understand them well on your own - are interesting and relevant. However, the material is not well presented in lecture and not in an intuitive way. The lab component is bearable, but not well organized either because the longitudinal experiment we conducted had a very low success rate.
This was by far not only the worst course I have ever taken, but the worst course I could ever imagine. The lectures were absolutely unacceptable. The professors were unprepared and made the material exceedingly inaccessible and dull. They just talked about the details of their own research. The lecture slides were completely inadequate and unclear. So they switched over to messy chalkboard drawings without any lecture slides whatsoever, only making things worse. The midterms were unfair, given they were only tangentially related to material presented in class. Studying more was of no use. The final project and final paper were excessive and unclear. Kaitlyn and the TFs clearly tried, but it was impossible to make up for the professors' unacceptable teaching. This class was a disgrace to Harvard as an institution and permanently turned me away from molecular biology. A new course deserves some leeway, but SCRB 20 was beyond was is acceptable for any course. I wouldn't wish this class on my worst enemy.
While most reviews will probably dismantle this course, but I have confidence that the teaching staff will take the constructive criticisms of us first batch of students to make this course much better.
This was one of the more hyped classes of the SCRB department than turned out... not too well.Pros:-Learn about very modern and super interesting biology topics (CRISPR, lncRNA, epigenetics, etc...)-Learn and perform CRISPR design/implementation in lab portion-TF's were great at office hours and helping with understanding material-Head TF Kaitlyn (the only reason why anyone passed this class)-Maybe less painful than MCB60?-Only 1 pset, so low work load throughout the semester-Guest lecturers were very engagingCons:-Professors are really knowledgeable in the field, but are HORRIBLE lecturers (unfortunate but hard truth)-Lecture slides are IMPOSSIBLE to follow-Lecture recordings are IMPOSSIBLE to listen to (terrible sound quality; you literally hear everyone's coughing or sneezing but can't actually hear the professor)-Material is difficult + Little supplementary material-Grading guidelines for essay/lab notebook unclear-Quite a lot of work at the end (~15 page lab report + poster + presentation)-Midterm averages not the best-No one actually learns anything in the lectures (though a lot of learning happens the night before midterms/final)-The two professor don't coordinate lectures well (Once Alex assumed John covered material that he didn't cover, resulting in many confused faces)-Professors DO NOT LABEL their graphs/diagrams/pictures, leading to many confused students/TFs when reviewing the notes-Professors assume students know a lot of things/abbreviations, resulting in most not able to follow lectures-We didn't actually get to use our results for the final report (everyone used the professor's lab's results instead)-Did not actually get to do the "interesting" parts of lab (transfecting the iPSCs, working with embryoid bodes, etc...)Overall, I was super excited for this class thanks to Bill's pubbing and knowing that Kaitlyn was the head TF. After the first few lectures, everyone started to realize that this class might turned out bad, but I still stayed because of the cool topics that would be covered. However, the lectures were conducted so badly that I had a horrible experience for most of the semester. In the end (while studying for the final), I realized that the material was actually really interesting, especially if you enjoy molecular biology. I only wished that the lectures were clearer so that I could have gained more from this class instead of cramming everything at the end.TL;DR - Super hyped class that failed miserably in terms of lecture presentation but still covered really interesting material.
The class was extremely poorly taught. The best lectures were given by the preceptor, Kaitlyn Choi, and any guest lecturer we had during the course. The regular lecturers moved too quickly and assumed too much about the background knowledge we had when entering the class. There were no effective presentations. Either there were slides which only had pictures, and were not useful or the entire lecture was done on a chalkboard, making it very difficult to get any useful notes and it was impossible to learn. Assignments were vague and no rubric was provided so we did not know exactly what was expected of us or how we would be graded.
SCRB 20 is a good molecular genetics course that is definitely an upgrade over MCB 52 and will likely be significantly improved in future iterations of the course. Most especially, the course does a really good job of preparing you for research in the SCRB department, or science in general, by teaching and allowing practice with the CRISPR/Cas system, which could be one of the most important tools in research over the next several years. The course was a bit disorganized and might nag you with all the smaller assignments it throws at you, but the teaching staff is really nice and the grading seemed fairer than in many other pre-med or equivalent classes. If the course doesn't add lecture slides or begin to tape lectures, I would highly suggest going to lecture - it can be hard to follow just a voice recording of a lecture without slides to help you follow along. Also, if Geraldine is a TF again, seriously try to get into her section, she is the most incredible TF I've had during my four years at Harvard.
This was perhaps one of the most frustrating courses I have taken in my entire life. I thought I loved molecular biology and genetics before taking SCRB20. Essentially, the professors talk about topics relevant to their own research (DNA methylation and long noncoding RNAs) rather than actually teaching you the fundamentals to molecular biology and genetics. You leave the class having memorized countless tiny facts about methylation and noncoding RNAs, but barely anything about DNA replication, cell biology, transcription, translation, etc. If you're looking for a solid biology class, AVOID SCRB20 AT ALL COSTS UNTIL THEY COMPLETELY REVISE THEIR CURRICULUM.
This course is a disgrace to the SCRB department and one of the absolute worst courses I have taken. The amount of apathy displayed by the professors with regards to actually ensuring that students understood the material was shockingly high. Lectures obfuscated the material and students often left with no grasp of the material presented. Course materials, especially lecture slides, were almost entirely useless and consisted almost entirely of borrowed images from the textbook or other articles. This dearth of useful course material was made worse halfway through the semester when we switched to a "chalk talk" format, against students' wishes. Expectations for exams were never clear, and only 3-6 practice questions were posted for each exam with which students could prepare. The only silver lining of this course was Kaitlyn, the preceptor. Her personal lecture review notes were incredibly helpful (the only material that students could actually utilize), as were her office hours. The effort she put into this course was amazing, and she is an amazing instructor who enjoys helping students learn. Except for Kaitlyn, this course was a disaster and I strongly recommend that you seek alternatives to fulfill the molecular biology requirement for your concentration.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS! Unless you want to be able to understand nothing in the lectures, feel frustrated, have a horrible TF, get confused by the professors explanations, waste hours trying to do assignments that they then change, etc. Only take this class if you are interested in understanding murky explanations about lncRNAs and epigenetics and random things from the professors labs that are not useful for HDRB intro courses. The professors are not good teachers and mess up often. They do not know the material well.
It is nice studying fairly recent research, but a little frustrating at the same time since many of the mechanisms are unclear.
Do not take this class. I was actually enrolled in MCB 60 before this and had to switch out because of my schedule and because I didn't think the class was taught well, but it was infinitely better than scrb 20. this class has been my worst experience at harvard, and I wouldn't wish it on anyone else. It is poorly organized, stressful and not at all rewarding - much wasted time and I don't feel that I gained anything.
This class was a new course and needs a seriously overhaul! The teaching staff was ambitious when they put the class tougher and added so much but none of the ideas were exceptionally developed. The lectures were by far the most challenging part of the course, not because of the material but because it was so difficult to follow what was going on. Initially there were slides but they had so much information that wasn't even important for the class just a conglomeration of things the professors thought was cool. They then switched to chalk talk...this kept the information more pertinent for the course but the lecture became incredibly disorganized. Don't trust anyone who said they got to perform CRISPR in this class! We primarily learned how to transform bacteria (which was kind of useful) and how to pipette (which was pointless). Creating the poster was kind of fun but the poster presentation was the day before the final which was an incredibly horrible idea and added on so much unnecessary stress! This whole class added on so much unnecessary stress. The only redeemable factor was my TF, who literally saved my life when it came to the class (not that I did exceptional). He spent so much extra time making handout that organized the lectures and made the material understandable. He also spent about an hour and a half going over what we learned the week before. Not all students were fortunate to have a good TF...I was just lucky. Luck can make or break your experience in this class.Overall, and I hate to say this, I actually learned a good deal in this class...despite the efforts of the professors to confuse the heck out of me. Hopefully future classes will learn the same amount without the heartache and pain.
Do not take this class. To be fair, I took this class the first year it ran, so it may improve. But if Alex Meissner and John Rinn are still teaching the course DO NOT TAKE IT. Neither of them seem to care about teaching and the course is so bad because of their lack of ability to teach.
class is very cool and innovative with knowledge teaching staff but the design and grading is poor, lots of random work, and you feel like your grade does not reflect how much you understand in the class - which is the absolute worst thing
Poorly organized, but I think this class has potential to be better. I feel like they grade harshly just so that the average is low, seriously the grades are so arbitrary on the assignments--we get docked off for things that weren't specified in the instructions. Kaitlyn saves this class. Go to her OH. So many things due at finals period--unnecessary work.
I recommend not taking this course. It is poorly taught and disorganized. They were too lazy to make problem sets or practice tests for the students and told us that we had to "learn by ourselves." The professors are extremely boring lecturers who do not want to be there and have no idea what's going on outside of lecture. Although each lecture has a theme, there is no overall progression or theme for units. They just talked about their own lab work a lot. They are more confused at the assignments at office hours than you are. It is the epitome of what's wrong with Harvard courses because the professors are more interested in their own work than the education of the undergrads. The only person holding the course together was Kaitlyn Choi, who is one of the nicest people you will ever meet.The projects and lab work were formulaic and uninspiring. For the final poster, the fact that our methylation data and our gene expression data were for different genes just shows how little they thought out the project. It's sad that they'll probably just change the name of this course and offer SCRB 25 or 15 next spring so that people won't see the Q scores for this course, but keep most of the same professors and curriculum. If I were the SCRB department I'd completely revamp this course and get entirely new people except for Kaitlyn who should stay.
Attend Zack Smith's section, even if you are not assigned to his section.
Be prepared to go to lots of office hours to understand the material and pay attention to the quality of the lectures during shopping week- I suspect they will be much better next year since this was a new course this year.
This class was an absolute mess. From unfollowable lectures that felt like a waste of time, to topics that were out of date and only of interest to the professors, to a lab component that had the potential to be brilliant but failed spectacularly where we ended up using fake data and all making the same damn poster, this class was a colossal waste of my time. I am almost angry that this class demanded so much of us, when it was clear that the professors had spent nearly no time on preparation. If I didn't need it to graduate, I would have dropped it after the first lecture. It was only through the tireless work of the TFs that this class did not end in an uprising.
New course, so instructors are still learning how to teach the course. With that said, learning was difficult because lectures were unorganized and would get sidetracked with research details without explaining their overall purpose. TFs Kaitlyn and Geraldine were godsends and probably the only reason a lot of students made it through the course.
THIS IS THE WORST CLASS AT HARVARD. BE WARNED. I have never felt so strongly about a course at Harvard. This was positively the most disillusioning experience at this school. The material is MESS, the professors couldn't care less about the students - they didn't even bother to show up to the second midterm or to the final. Frankly, it is very disrespectful. The way they used the chalkboard to teach us these concepts made ZERO sense. With only one problem set that was 3 QUESTIONS long counting for 10% of our grade and no practice tests before the midterms or the final exam, there was basically no practice material or questions before being thrown into the firepit of doom on these exams. I have only negative things to say and will never take a SCRB course again. Seriously, never take a new course, and NEVER take a course taught by John Rinn or Alex. Pathetic. They don't care about teaching or they would show up to support their students when it matters.
You will hear many negative things about SCRB20 since we were the first experiment :) The class might have been disorganized, lectures might have been frustrating and overwhelming, assignments might have been too many and too spread. However, I learned in SCRB20 the most valuable things I have ever learnt in any class. I understand the rationale of very complicated experiments like RNA-seq, and for the first time, I had real appreciation of what is the genome and how complicated it is. The fact that more than 80% of students in this class are pre-meds and worry about the smallest trivial thing will really harm the reputation of such a valuable source. If this class was to award pre-meds an A, it will get a 5 q score. Don't take it if you are that kind of pre-med student. If you want to seek knowledge and put the time for it, TAKE IT!!!!!, and I promise you will never regret it.
Wait for the course to work towards better organization and then consider enrolling.
The course has a lot of issues to iron out with it being so new. If you take it, make sure you stay on top of reviewing lectures and stuff, because there are no problem sets or anything to keep you on top of things.
In it's first year, SCRB 20 was an unenjoyable experience. I felt confused during many lectures and was afraid to speak most of the time because the professors assumed that you had prior knowledge what they were talking about. Many students asked for materials to supplement the lectures, but there were not many materials available. TFs were not equal in regards to section preparation- some sections got great notes while others got none.
Don't take it. Unless you hear of some dramatic overhaul and that they are changing EVERYTHING, don't waste your time.
This class is hand-down the worst class at Harvard that I have taken, and taking it has been the worst academic decision that I have made so far. The professors, while renowned in their fields of research, do not understand how to teach a larger class of undergraduates, and concepts are not conveyed in a manner that is accessible or coherent. While the lab material is very interesting and cutting edge, protocols are confusing and not a single person's experiment succeeded in my section. Please do not take this class.
Really cutting-edge exciting material. The professor and preceptor are great, though as with SCRb 10 the exams are difficult.
Alex and John are clearly very passionate about the field, and it's pretty amazing to be taught epigenetics by the two leading people in the field. Lectures are a little dry. The exams are difficult and the problem sets graded pretty harshly, which made the class more stressful than it should have been because the material overall is pretty easy to understand. Amie is absolutely amazing, she put so much time and effort into the course and she is a rock-star!
This class has dramatically improved from what I've heard in previous years. Although I wish I could've learned how to use CRISPR, taking out the lab component made the class bearable. Amie, the preceptor, cares so much and has been so understanding and helpful to the class throughout the semester. The saddest part about this class, however, is that it no longer counts for pre-med biology with lab requirement anymore and this has messed up everyone's schedules now. With both lecturers leaving next year, I don't know who will be teaching this class now but as long as Amie stays with SCRB 20, the class can persist.
SCRB 20 is an amazing class taught by the best in the field. Unfortunately, the course heads are leaving, but if Amie stays, TAKE this class. You really don't have a choice as an HDRB concentrator, but it is a great class. Form study groups for psets.
Even though this class may not be offered next year, I still want to give a shoutout to John, Alex, Amie, and Zack for being such a great group of teachers. They are so supportive and attentive to the demands and opinions of students. The course has some very interesting materials. I really hope this course stays!
The course has significantly improved from the first time it was offered, and the teaching staff does a great job teaching the material and helping students learn. Unfortunately, some of the teaching staff will be changing, but hopefully they'll be able to reproduce this success. The course is a lot like SCRB 10, except different content.
This class has improved a lot since it's first year! The materials they provide are very helpful to the understanding of the course. In addition, there are many opportunities in sections or office hours to improve your grasp on the content, and the tests are overall fait.
This course will likely change with new lecturers, as Rinn and Meissner are departing. Materials for this course are good and show a great deal of effort on the teaching staff's part. Beware that this class is not curved and grading is sporadically harsh.
Do not take this class. It has been the worst class I have taken at Harvard.
I thought SCRB 20 was an excellent class with exceptional instructors and Amie, a great preceptor. I was also lucky enough to get Zack as my TF, and I think that did make a big difference. I really appreciated the content.
This class is tough, but knowing the concepts taught will e useful in the future if you are interested in a career in medicine or biology research.
I don't know what the future of this course will look like, but the teaching staff this year has definitely taken steps to improve the course from previous years. This year we were provided with excellent resources - office hours, review sessions, and weekly notes packets - that made the difficult lecture topics manageable. I greatly enjoyed this course, and if the course continues in the same fashion I think it will be a rewarding experience.
I would avoid taking this course in this iteration. It is interesting class material, but I don't think the teaching team are really behind seeing the course or us succeed.
GO TO OFFICE HOURS and ask tons of questions because the material is very complex and there are a lot of details, and you will be tested on the nuance of all the material in problem sets and exams.
This class is great for SCRB concentrators but for others it may be too much. An interest in genomics is vital for someone to really like this class, but it is a great class despite those reservations. Material is super interesting and applicable.
I know a lot of things are changing in the SCRB/HDRB department, so I would urge future students in this class and in this concentration to please keep up with changes in course policies, shifting emphases on coursework, and always ALWAYS go to office hours to keep up. Other than that, the coursework is always pretty fascinating, so there's never a shortage of cool things to learn :)
Take MCB60 and save yourself the angst and pain of going through this course. While the preceptor is so amazingly dedicated and the professors are so passionate about what they're teaching, this course it not well structured nor well taught and it completely screws its students over after the 5 week add/drop period. Section was a complete joke and mess; it was definitely the most useless part of the course.
I think this course is designed better than other molecular biology equivalents, more rigorously. This probably makes the course harder but more rewarding
In all honesty, this course was one of the worst Ive taken at Harvard. Even though the lectures were somewhat enjoyable, the lab portion of the class was absolutely horrendous. There were two TFs helping run the lab this time the course was offered and there was a high degree of inequality between both the experience level and effort demonstrated by the TFs. It was abundantly clear to the students as well, as after the first section on the first week, half of the students in one section switched to the section the TF who had more experience teaching. One of the TFs provided extensive notes and practice problems to his section students while the other did not, which put one section at a complete disadvantage in terms of preparation for the exams and overall knowledge surrounding the course content.  The worst part of the situation was that there was no acknowledgment by the teaching staff that most of the students had switched sections, which seemed like a complete lack of respect towards the students. Additionally, this year it was offered required three lab reports that made up a total of 25% of your grade. Each lab report was worse than the one before. They all require extensive laboratory background and without having worked in a lab at Harvard, you will feel completely lost. There was virtually no support system for the reports, and one of them even asks for you to perform a novel CRISPR knockout, and the third party grader judges your knockout as if you were submitting the paper to the nature review board. BE WARNED, without lab experience, you will only find stress and anguish in these lab reports, and they will make you hate being a part of the SCRB department. In all honesty, had I taken this course as a sophomore, I would have switched concentrations to MCB or Chemical and Physical biology. The nature of the lab was just awful. To make things worse (yes they could actually get worse), no prelab information was provided weekly, and the first time you saw the procedure you were doing was the day of the lab. This meant that most of the time we were just blindly following a procedure with no knowledge of the workings of the solutions we were using or how they fit into the overall project (which was required to receive a good grade on the first lab report). Professor Meissner did put a lot of time towards the course, and it pains me to speak so critically about it because of how wonderful his contributions were, but there were just way too many structural problems for this course to continue the way it has. Im sure the course may get a decent q guide, most of which will come from students in the section with the TF who goes above and beyond, but that is by no means representative of the future of the course. Once the class goes above 30-40 students, it will have huge structural issues and lead only to more student grief and dissatisfaction, as the quality of the TF you receive will play an enormous role in how successful you are. I hope the course does get better in the future, as the information presented is highly useful and really cutting edge, but if they still require three lab reports worth 25% of your overall grade, run run and don't look back because this class will have you questioning why you concentrated in SCRB, and quite possibly whether or not you plan to continue with research in the future.
SCRB 20 got a bad reputation in its first year, but it's obvious that the teaching staff has majorly overhauled the course to make it more engaging and understandable for students. It was a fantastic opportunity to interface directly with some incredibly accomplished professors, and the subject material is mind-blowing.
The course has very interesting material but is still a little unorganized. The grading is sometimes not fair.
SCRB20 as a class definitely exceeded my expectations going in - the material was well-taught and interesting, and there is a focus on problem solving in the context of the molecular biology which encourages you to apply the information from lecture and makes it a little more exciting, in my opinion. The exams are pretty reasonable and the teaching staff make themselves very available to guide you through the material. Overall, I had a great experience and now have a better understanding of and appreciation for the material!
I wouldn't necessarily recommend this class as an elective, but if you are an HDRB/MCB concentrator or otherwise interested in work in a wet lab/molecular bio it is a good course. The course material is genuinely interesting and the teaching staff is very helpful,  but the assignments are sometimes frustrating, and some organizational kinks need to be worked out (the class is only in it's second year).
This course was great! I know that it received very poor reviews for last year, but it has improved significantly. Alex and John are great! They were on the same page throughout the semester and really cared about our interest in the material and our success in the course. The lab is also really cool, and I have never had a better section than the one I had in this course.
The teaching staff has demonstrated they really want to make this a good class and are willing to put the effort in to improve it. If you need MCB60 or SCRB20 for the HDRB requirement, I would recommend SCRB20. John and Alex are both really fun to talk to and it is awesome to be able to learn about their work. The lab reports feel like busy work and take longer to complete than you expect, but there are only three.
I enjoyed this class.  If you like genetics, it's good content, and the professors are awesome.
SCRB 20 really did change for the better. The organization of the course was very clear from the beginning, the expectations for exams were clear, and the lecture notes were really helpful for studying. Alex and John are both happy to meet with people individually, and Kaitlyn is super helpful and one if the kindest people I've ever met. The material of the course is incredibly interesting and applicable to research, and it is a very natural continuation of what's learned in LS1b and SCRB 10. It's super cool that you get to do CRISPR in lab, and now that they have had a trial run, this semester the lab expectations were very reasonable. Overall the course has improved to the point that I'd highly recommend it!
Easily, without a doubt, this is the single worst class I have taken at Harvard. There are so many structural issues with this class that I do not know where to begin.For one, there is a huge disparity in the amount of care and dedication that each professor gives to the class. Professor Meissner genuinely cared for the students, and it showed in the extensive post-lecture notes, him coming in the evening in several sections before exams to answer any leftover questions from lecture, and even just being simply present during the actual exams. The same cannot be said for Professor Rinn, as he not only had poorly annotated  post-lecture notes, but he would be absent from his own office hours, missed his own review session because he was apartment shopping, and just did not seem invested in the course at all. Regardless of where I end up in my future academic career, Professor Rinn will be no intellectual father of mine.Furthermore, the sections where very unbalanced as one TF would provide extra supplementary materials to his section and since 2/3 of the class was in this section, the other section was at a huge disadvantage. Since there are no PSETs in this class, and since some of the lectures are not annotated very well, the sections are extremely important. The labs are also very poorly structured, and half the time you dont know what is going on because no clear background information or instruction is given, and one is simply following a procedure like a lab monkey, which I guess is training for when you actually start working in their labs. The worst part was that the lab reports, which are 25% of your grade, and are graded by a third party graduate student. This means that the section with 1/3 of the class having the not as good TF was at a complete disadvantage as the grader has no idea of the structural problems present in the class. In fact, in the first week the sections where actually pretty balanced, but half of the students in Juliens section switched to Peters AND NOT ONE MEMBER OF THE TEACHING STAFF ACKNOWLEDGED THIS TO THE STUDENTS. It was as if it never happened, and I just feel that it seemed that no one in the teaching staff gave an ounce of care for their students. Later they tried to do some damage control by giving everyone a cupcake and a free t-shirt, but the reality is, this class has serious problems that need to be addressed and you cant just expect them to go away by giving students free stuff. Overall I am extremely dissatisfied with this course, and I would seriously consider switching my concentration, if it werent for me taking other upper level SCRB classes and SCRB 10. I still find myself wondering how it is possible that I invested my limited time and Harvard financial aid on such a mediocre and dissatisfying class. This class is a tragedy of the SCRB department, and it is truly sad to think that the department that Doug Melton created and nurtured to such great intellectual heights has allowed this class to continue without any true improvement, as it is a disservice to the students
it's a good class, but heavy on RNA. also, the lab reports are way too much work for so little preparation
This was a solid biology class with a great lab component.
I really loved this class, I learned so much!! The professors were great - they were always willing to help, enthusiastic about the material, and extremely knowledgeable (they are the ones on the top of these fields). Take this class if you are interested in genetics, experimental techniques on the cutting edge, and learning CRISPR.
SCRB 20 was great this year - Alex and John are really invested in making it an interesting and well-run class, and they have an awesome teaching staff helping them. Epigenetics is so important and such a rapidly changing field, and I feel that I've really gained a better understanding of that biology as well as how to think about scientific question, from this class. If you're looking for your mol bio requirement, this class teaches you a lot, lets you really dig deep into CRISPR (so cool), and has a reasonable workload.
This course is a great way to learn more about epigenetics and non-coding RNAs from experts in the field, and the topics covered are extremely interesting. Although this course was rated very poorly the first year it was offered, it has been significantly improved, and the course staff is very eager to help students and clarify confusing concepts in the course. The lab in this course is also very well done, as you learn a lot about CRISPR-Cas9 and only have to perform experiments up until spring break. The exams and assignments are difficult but fair, and focus much more on critical thinking and designing experiments rather than memorization. The small class size was also very helpful and created a discussion section/tutorial feel to the course (although I'm not sure if the class will remain small in the future).
They definitely turned this class around. I feel that its in part to the class only being 20 people, but SCRB 20 felt like a family. John and Alex really do care about the class and the lecture slides were well developed and the lectures were pretty cool if you really like SCRB. It was my favorite class this semester.
Do not take this course as a sophomore. The assignments and structure of the course is better handled as a junior or a senior.
