If you want to do work with stem cells in a clinical setting or even do work in clinical research or drug development, this class will be GREAT for you. It really emphasizes on understanding the clinical aspect of stem cell therapies that I think is absent from many other stem cell courses. It also explains how clinical research progresses and the challenges and requirements that each therapy must achieve at each level to be an accepted treatment.
The focus of the course is on how to translate laboratory research to clinical treatment. The field of heart stem cells is still very primitive, and there isn't a semesters worth of material on heart stem cells to cover.
Reasonable workload, great subject coverage, very up-to-date materials. Only drawback is the somewhat fragmented structure of the course, but given it improves, highly recommended.
Grading is rather arbitrary, so don't take the psets as lightly as I mistakenly did. Don't expect this course to be organized and it's hard to know exactly what to study for the midterm.
The course is very interesting. You get to learn about the business and clinical aspects in addition to research biology that most other courses focus on. The guest speakers are also very interesting and are highlights of the course. However, the course is disorganized and the problem sets/exams are pretty arbitrary.
You can learn a lot from this class, but the disorganization can be distracting. I took it after fulfilling my department requirements, and I kind of liked having low pressure. It also contributed some ideas for my thesis.
This course is a great experience if you want to learn about heart stem cell therapeutics from a variety of different speakers in various fields. The nature of this course is to be a little disconnected because of the sheer number of speakers and the fact that most of the time Ken is not present. However, I think it's a unique experience to hear from a lot of diverse voices from the scientific, medical, and related fields. Also, it's a pretty light workload so definitely worth taking.
The subject matter is very interesting, the workload isn't very much, and if the organization of the course tightens up a bit, the course should be pretty fun.
this class is amazing!!!
VERY interesting material.
This course brings in the brightest scientific and business minds in the field, and their knowledge of how research works in the real world is eye-opening and very beneficial.  This course is worthwhile to take for anyone concentrating in subjects from MCB to HDRB to economics to HEB
the concept for this course is really interesting and cool. the first year had major issues in organization, but i hope they'll get better next year. i would recommend the course but not sure how the organization of the course will change. overall pretty chill upperlevel mcb/scrb class.
This is a great course and gives you the opportunity to learn about heart regenerative medicine from the best in the field.
Interesting material, and a very laid back course without many demands.
This class is a work in progress, but the teaching staff is receptive to changes and assuredly will improve this class greatly next time. Take if you have an interest in Cardiovascular medicine and current research in the field.
Take it if you are really interested in the material and in some clinical science.
Definitely have an interest in the subject and a little background in stem cell science.
The course is definitely worth taking.
The great thing about this class is that you are able to learn a lot without putting in too much work outside of class. Beware, though, it is very disorganized.
The class deals with a very current subject in a well-rounded manner.  It hosts different important guest lecturers.  It is not well structured, but it is worth the trouble.
