Great course, low overall workload, but you get the most out of it if you truly engage in the 1.5 hours of class and ask questions.
Great course! Very very reasonable work load plus an amazing, dedicated, laid-back teaching staff. For the final project heed the professors advice and choose an obvious topic. Definitely recommend you take this though if you're interested in aging & drug development to treat disease.
Aging is one of the most interesting fields of biology. This class is definitely worth your time.
Amy Wagers and Lee Rubin have taught this class many times, so it is very organized and the expectations are very clear. It's a very broad topic that will cover a lot of the major diseases and puts aging into an interesting perspective.
Well taught and will provide you with a great understanding of how the human body ages. Also, start the final project early so it doesn't create a crunch at the end, and be sure to see input from the teaching staff. Great project and learning experience.
Stay on top of the material!
Midterms are not terrible. The final project is kind of a pain in the rear. The "psets" are not psets and super annoying because you WILL forget to do them because they are just simple responses. If you take this class, set reminders for yourself. They're so small that they will be forgotten to be done. If you're anything like me, you'll want to pay attention to the presentations. The presentations are where you learn a lot of interesting things not taught in lecture, so focus on that if you are going to take the course - it's an escape from sometimes boring coursework. All in all, the course is a bit of a let down, you do learn a ton of interesting things, but it's like beating a dead horse a lot of times, because we just don't know too many things about the aging process. However, Lee and Amy are great lecturers and their excitement will remind you of why you are a science concentrator - to discover the stuff we don't know about aging (and make these courses more concrete.) They are genuinely really excited about the course material, so even if you end up like me and turn out not to be super interested in the material, you at least have enthusiastic lecturers who make it better. Other than that, in the words of many SCRB seniors, I quote, "it's your standard B+ science course."
The lecture set up can get somewhat repetitive, but the material is very interesting and relevant!
This class provides an interesting background on the biology of aging. However, I think what was a let down for me was the amount of hype put forward by previous students. This is a good class - you will learn new content, and the professors are very friendly. But it is not some life changing course as some students will make it out to be.

The midterms can also be a hit or miss
The class is very informative and provides varying perspectives of aging while posing thought provoking topics both scientific and philosophic.
This class gives a perspective on aging that is quite interesting. It made me think about questions I had never really thought about before. Exams are really fair. The paper presentations were terrifying at first, but they got easier to do as the semester went on. The final project is pretty rewarding if you start early, get help from the professors, and really put the work in (but not an unreasonable amount of work).
Take this course if you're genuinely interested in the scientific basis of aging. Don't take this if you're looking for a bare-bones, time-saver class. You -will- need to study for exams and put in good effort for the final project.
Very little work feedback.
Amy is a rising star in the field, and Lee has experience producing an actual pharmaceutical agent. Take this class if you want to have a real Harvard undergraduate experience.
This course is easy and pretty interesting.  You'll survey a bunch of topics without going into much detail. Think of taking this as an easy science class to balance a harder schedule. 
SCRB 190 is a survey course, so it never really goes into great detail.This  means you won't be working very hard, but you also won't be learning a whole lot. Many of the topics you will have heard of before, and they'll just put a spin on them. So again: easy and fun, but not the right course for you if you really want to gain a deeper understanding of biology.
I found this class very interesting. This is the only class I have taken that actually changed my perspective on a biological concept. I had always thought of aging as an inevitability and not a treatable disease. Also, the workload is highly manageable.
The material is interesting, but the course could be organized better. Amy and Lee are great, though!
This is a great course. The work is manageable and the exams are fair. The professors are awesome!
Best course I have taken at Harvard so far!
Really great class in which you learn a lot about the underlying mechanisms that may contribute to aging as well as the diseases that increase in incidence as we age. The aging farmwork of the course really forms a good base for the different lectures that at time can seem disconnected, but you really do learn a lot. There is also minimal work, but this also makes it hard to gauge how well you're doing throughout the semester and the feedback provided isn't very great.
The professors for SCRB 190 are great and the material is really interesting. Be sure to keep on top of the material presented each week to do well on exams and problem sets.
Really an awesome class. Great teachers, awesome subject matter.
The material is fascinating and both Lee and Amy are great at explaining it. However, the course was too large this year for everyone to be able to discuss the papers in class and I think the course suffered for it. Hopefully they will adjust for that next time around.
This is all-around a very good course. Aging is such a fascinating topic, about which so much is still a mystery, but about which so much is being discovered as we speak. It's amazing that we still don't know the answer to one of life's most fundamental questions: why we grow old and die. This class will expose you to the cutting-edge research going on in the field at the moment, and Dr. Wagers and Dr. Rubin are both personally involved in this research and have a lot to say about it. The workload is very reasonable, readings are interesting, and you will get the opportunity to present scientific papers in class, which is a good skill to have no matter what you plan to do. High-calorie, life-shortening snacks with each lecture are an added bonus. The one problem is the midterm- there was no review material and it was unclear what would be on the exam, and the exam itself was very open-ended and subjective. Students could choose which questions they wanted to answer out of a wide selection, which means that students ended up all taking very different exams. The midterm should be made more consistent and less subjective in the future. Despite that, the midterm is not a huge part of your grade, and I would still highly recommend this class. I was genuinely excited to come to lecture each morning.
Very interesting course. Great dynamic between the professors, and very fun to engage in some of the thinking that goes into treating disease.
Good class, format (lecture then student presentations) gets a bit tedious. The final project takes far longer than expected, so be sure to dedicate plenty of hours to it.
Pay attention in class and participate whenever you understand what's going on! When studying, focus on the key concepts as summarized in the summary slides, and understand why experiment x supports finding y. Ask lots of questions.
I highly recommend this class for HDRB concentrators. This is a really laid-back class that carries the mentality of "the more you put in, the more you get out of it." You learn about some really cool up and coming research and also read some great papers that will expand your knowledge of how aging works and why it happens. Great course, really inspired me and I hope it will do the same for you all.
This class struggles between attempting to be a discussion based class and more realistically being a 40+ person lecture.  Unless this class gets a dramatic reorganizing, do not take.
This course certainly has very interesting material - it covers avery wide array of subjects that all pertain to ageing. Since the field is relatively new, you will not really be introduced to dogmas as much as you will be introduced to conflicting views of how certain aspects of ageing work. The type of thinking this course develops is one in which you learn to question how a lot of biological systems work. The exam is graded quite inconsistently and the questions you choose play a large part in how specific you will have to be. The final project is a lot of work but very rewarding.
This is a really interesting course with great material.  The final project is a great chance to go in depth in a specific area of aging, learn about the drug design/approval process, and come up with a realistic therapy.  Both professors are great and the guest lecturers are very enthusiastic about their fields.  The class is getting a bit large and it can be hard to have discussions.  Still, great course.
SCRB 190 is a fairly interesting and fairly low-work class that is worth considering as one of your SCRB electives. The work for the class is very manageable, with a midterm, 2 group paper presentations (requiring about 5 slides per person), and a group final project (about 5 pages per person). The lectures were also interesting and pretty easy to follow, and the group final project, though time consuming, was actually kind of fun. However, you also should know that participation is a sizable percentage of your final grade (20%), and it's pretty unclear how we're ultimately being graded on that, given that there's no section. I would recommend looking through the assigned paper for that class and trying to come up with a critique of or next step for the project. It might also be worth asking someone you know who took the class how their grade turned out and whether or not they believe the participation component of the course negatively impacted it. On that note, I felt that the teaching staff overall could have done better in communicating their expectations to students and in providing us with resources to help us succeed in the class. We were not told what we needed to do to earn the full participation credit, we were not provided practice midterms (the midterm was fair, but graded harshly for many students) or samples of previously successful final projects. The syllabus contradicted itself, giving different dates and different guidelines for final projects and outlines in different places, depending on where you looked. Still, there are a lot of good things about this class and would probably recommend it. The TFs, though they didn't teach section, were eager to meet with students and groups about presentations or projects and always gave helpful advice. And, as mentioned, Amy and Lee were interesting lecturers and are also really cool people. If the teaching staff made expectations more clear and resources more available, this class would be an awesome one; without those things, it's still pretty good.
Perfect class for students interested in pharma research and drug development. Also great for students generally interested in mechanisms of aging. Be prepared to present a few papers (you'll get a group for that) and start working on your final paper as early as possible. Choosing a topic early will save you a lot of stress.
The course overall is great! At first, I didn't expect the class to be so heavy on the mechanistic aspects of aging and really breaking it down to mechanistic levels often made the overall picture of aging so complicated (which is the point of the class). The topics are interesting and heavy on the nervous system although other organ systems are discussed. The workload is totally manageable with readings of papers for each class. Be sure to come to class prepared to discuss critiques and strengths of the papers read.
Lectures can be pretty boring and impossible to participate in, even though participation is a huge portion of your grade. Otherwise, the course covers interesting material, has great professors, and does not require very much weekly work.
Lectures are interesting but the grading is arbitrary. By arbitrary, I mean the grading sucks.
Aging results from the escape from natural selection .
This class is taught enthusiastically and covers a number of topics that will probably keep popping back up throughout any SCRB student's education and career. Anybody interested in pursuing SCRB research in the future will get something out of this class.
If you haven't heard about this course already from scrb upperclassmen, this is a hidden gem!  The information is incredibly relevant for our generation in understanding aging in the population, and for those of you scientists out there who want to learn how to better read and understand primary literature, the presentations are perfect for doing this in a stress-free environment. Lee and Amy are pioneers in aging research and talking about the creative final project with them (hypothetically treating aging or an age related disease, from bench to bedside) will make up some of the coolest conversations you'll have as an undergrad!
This is a great class to take because you get to learn a lot about drug development and the latest in the field of aging. the instructors are very engaging and it will be very rewarding!!!
Interesting topics covered, great teaching staff, low workload, but seems difficult to get an A.
Professors Rubin and Wagers are great teachers and the material is super interesting. I learned how drugs are developed and why we age (and why its so hard to prevent it). Then again, why spend our time trying to add a few years to our 80-year lives when people in other countries are dying at 60 of preventable causes? Definitely take this class as one of your upper level SCRB courses. Make sure you do well on the one and only test though or your grade may suffer.
Keep up with the readings!
Great survey of important topics in aging. Overall Lee and Amy are great professors who care a lot about their class! The TFs this year were also super helpful. I enjoyed the structure of the class which was about 2/3 lecture and 1/3 presentation in the way that it worked out this year. I had very minimal biology background but am interested in these topics and still got a lot out of this class!
Dr. Wagers and Dr. Rubin are incredible. They're so smart and passionate about what they do. The TFs were also really helpful. The course was super low workload, but the group paper at the end requires a fair amount of time. Super interesting subject material.
Great class, and professors/TFs were fun. The low workload was nice, and made for a comfortable way to learn about the field of aging research. Could be a bit slow at times, though, and the midterm was hard to prepare for.
This class was very interesting and generally not too much work. The material you discuss is very relevant to current stem cell science, and the final assignment to come up with a new therapeutic is pretty cool.
The class was too large to stay constantly engaged.
Overall, the course is very interesting and informative. If you have any interest in the diseases and conditions that arise as we age, this course is a must. However, there are certain moments when you tend to lack some guidance, especially in the final project. In these situations, the professors and the TF are always ready to assist you.
The class is a low time commitment, but you will learn a lot.
Amy and Lee really care about their students and are excited about the class. This was refreshing. The readings were alway relevant and interesting.
This is a great class! Highly recommend anyone interested in disease, medicine, or MCB/HDRB to take the course.
This is a great class with excellent instructors.  Take it!
This is a really solid class in the SCRB department and was quite interesting. No bad TFs, no lab component, just interesting lectures.
Take it, but only if it is offered as a smaller class.
This is a pretty interesting class that integrates a lot of topics from basic biology and various physiological systems and places them in the context of aging. The class is basically structured such that you spend the first half learning some of the basic mechanisms that may underlie aging (DNA damage, apoptosis, various signal transduction pathways) and the second half looking at various bodily systems and what might contribute to aging in them (cardiovascular, neurodegenerative disease, loss of muscle strength and bone density, etc.) I think you end up learning a little about a lot and then placing that information in a new and pretty interesting context. The course starts pretty slowly and feels a little boring at first, so it takes a while to feel engaged. And while not a lot of work is technically required or even required to do well, it takes more work if you actually want to learning something. I enjoyed the course, but I've definitely learned a lot more from others, so if you're choosing between this and something else, think closely.
This is a fascinating course with a low work-load! Take it.
This course was not very interesting, and professors were critical of students ideas.  Not the best learning environment.
This is a great course! The professors are awesome and make lectures very interesting.  Take it!
Really interesting material in a very relevant field. Try to read the papers, but depending on the size of the class it can be easy to get disengaged.
It's an interesting topic, and Professors Wagers and Rubin are very knowledgeable about the field. Lectures are interesting with great take-away synthesis. However, every lecture there is a student presentation component that is really pretty dull. Because of the sheer number of people, it's definitely not the discussion-based class you get in smaller SCRB classes (which I was hoping to get out of it).
The class is great, interesting, and work on the group project early.
Great class to take if you want to understand the major challenges facing the health care system, and the major illnesses this is a great course to take.
Take this class. It's fascinating stuff --- related to all physiological systems in the human body, and some of the most applicable material I've learned here. Lectures (for the most part) are solid; papers read are as up to date as you can get. Exams are fine. Final project takes a while but is fine.
Great, low pressure class that's really interesting. Wagers and Rubin are engaging lecturers and it's clear they both want you to be excited about the topic. Beware the second midterm, it's harder than the first. Otherwise just enjoy learning all about your wrinkly, slow, fragile future! If you didn't go to the gym before this class, you will after.
SCRB 190 offers a comprehensive look into the biology of aging; both Dr. Rubin and Dr. Wagers are not only engaging lecturers in class but also incredibly approachable outside of class.
A great class that unfortunately this year was a bit bigger. Lots of group work which can be good or bad depending on the group. Fascinating subject material.
This was a very fun and non-intensive course that allowed us students to apply knowledge from previous courses to the process of aging.
I low stress, high reward introduction to the aging field.  This year was the first with so many students, and it was clear that the course didn't run as smoothly as in years past when it was small and discussion was more easily facilitated.  I hope that next year they'll find a way to better structure discussion with more people in the class.
I was expecting a lot since I heard good things about the course and about the SCRB department in general.  It was too much of an overview.  They presented a lot of information, but at the end of the day, I don't feel like I learned very much.
Very straightforward and enjoyable class; midterms were manageable, the final project was fun, and the lectures were very interesting.
This class is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. One big reason is that this year there was only eleven students, with two professors and a TF. The teaching staff is not only extremely knowledgeable, but helpful and skillful at leading discussions. This is extremely important because they kept their promise to make the class interactive without chaotic. While some classes that advocate "student-led" discussions often end up to be a waste of time, this class is not the case in any way. The lecture materials themselves are excellent and applicable. When I first heard about the class, I worried that it would be too narrow. However, it turned out that so many of its concepts are relevant to medicines and are actually exciting. For example, I definitely did not know treating aging could be a gateway to treat neurodegenerative and even metabolic diseases. I find myself talking to my family about what I learned from this class more often than any other class. Now to elaborate more on the teaching staff. Dr. Rubin and Dr. Wagers are in many ways different from other stem cell professors because they somehow are able to devote more time to students, inside and outside of the classroom. While I enjoy taking classes with other stem cell professors, these two still stand above others in terms of accessibility. Also, they are the only professors on this campus I have encountered who are willing to bring food for students every class. It has been and hopefully will always be a tradition. Lastly, the assignments and exams are very fair. The quizzes faithfully reflect what we learn in class, and when the teaching staff says "no surprise", they really mean it (unlike the case with many other classes). The group paper presentations, though slightly annoying because there is so few people in class (which means you will have to work on a 15-min PowerPoint group presentation once every two weeks) , is a great way for us to engage deeply in the field. The papers are almost always well-chosen, current, and easily applicable to lectures. Definitely can see that the staff work hard to provide only the most accurate and recent materials for the students. I was actually sad that all three previous classes I have taken from the HDRB department have become in the end somewhat of a disappointment, for various reasons. I am very happy that this last stem class was such a wonderful experience.
Fantastic course, well-taught and well-administered. If you are interested in aging research or anything related to it, the material is fascinating and helps to expose key themes that predominate in the field. One of my most interesting and favourite courses so far.
Interesting class. Great instructors.
very fascinating, you will be surprised how the cellular mechanism and pathway you learned before can surprisingly be relevant to aging in unexpected fashions
Very fun class, you will definitely learn something.
Extremely interesting class, you learn a ton about human aging that is related to well-known biological pathways. Knowledgeable and engaged professors. One of my favorite classes at Harvard!
fantastic materials and professors, very interesting topics. does require consistent reading of literature every week and very frequent presentations
This was a great class that had a very qualified and enthusiastic teaching staff. The lectures were very interesting and the overall set up was great.
the material is very interesting and the class is not too difficult to fit into your schedule
Solid course,good material good professors and very manageable workload. Good overview of aging research
This class helps to address some of the myriad unanswered questions regarding the molecular mechanisms of aging. It covers topics rarely even touched upon in introductory biology courses here and gives one an interesting perspective on the future of aging research.
There are much better courses in the SCRB department.
an interesting review of current research in aging science. Topics covered applicable to many areas of medicine and medical research
This class provided an interesting look into how organisms age and provided several possible different mechanisms that could be responsible. The workload was light.
This course is very interesting and provides a variety of medical conditions and blend of biological approaches. The workload is very reasonable and the course is well taught. It teaches you to problem solve and design experiments to solve critical questions in the field of aging.
Aging research is a really interesting topic, and you'll learn a lot more about what's going in the field
At times the course is poorly organized (for instance, I did not feel like I had a good sense of what would be tested on midterms), but the topics are interesting, the work light, and the faculty great. Also, there's food every lecture!
The course has interesting material, but is more like a series of lectures than an actual course with a defined trajectory.
It is a good stem cell biology class
Do take this course for the great and extremely friendly faculty, and for the chance to study experimental design in the context of stem cells and aging.
This class is fantastic.  The professors are great and you learn a lot of useful, relevant information.
Entertaining lectures, awesome discussions on primary literature and food every class. What more could you want?
The class is a good starting point towards understanding the mechanisms of aging, and would be a key class to take if one is trying to get a general sense of what processes lead to aging.  In efforts for the class to give a comprehensive view of aging, it sacrifices depth in any particular facet of the human body (e.g. skeletal, neural, cardiac).  This is perhaps obvious though as the course structure is not designed to go into depth into a particular subject.  So I would recommended this class to anyone who is curious about getting a general idea of how aging occurs in organisms.
This course was wonderful. The teaching staff is extremely dedicated and helpful, the subject matter is very current and interesting, and the workload is not overwhelming. Definitely a great way to fulfill and advanced MCB requirement.
The course is still somewhat disorganized, but this will probably be fixed in the coming years. Then, this course will become more worthwhile.
