Great class. I hadn't considered the business of drug development something I would be interested in pursuing as a career, but after how much I enjoyed this class I might just have to change that. Well-designed course as well--perfect mix of exams, papers, projects, and problem sets (not too much of any one thing!). I felt like I learned something from each assignment and the final project gave me the chance to delve deep down into a topic I was interested in. Definitely a good pick!
This is perhaps one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. It is intellectually challenging but totally worth it. We learn some amazing things and hear from huge people in the industry. If you are curious about the pharmaceutical industry, TAKE THIS CLASS!
It's a very interesting class and you get to hear from the leaders in drug discovery, but it's also a rather difficult class. The problem sets reach beyond what is covered in class and you don't get a lot of time on the exam.
The teaching staff are all very knowledgeable, and this course is definitely worth taking.
This is a great course with leading professors. You'll enjoy it. The workload is not difficult to manage. If you're on the fence, take it.
This class was very enjoyable and showed another side of the health sector that isn't emphasized as much.  The lectures from scientists and executives at various pharmaceutical companies were always interesting and very informative.  The course itself wasn't too difficult if you paid attention in lecture and did the section readings, but the midterm was a little tricky because there's only one problem set before it, so it's hard to know how exactly to prepare.  Aside from that though, the rest of the course was done well, and I recommend it for anyone with any interest in how drugs are developed and marketed.
Extremely enjoyable course, with a lot of mentally intriguing material to learn. One warning: a difficult midterm awaits you in this course.
There is some amount of work but this was the most useful class I took during the semester
This course represents a rare opportunity to hear the experiences of a multitude of pharmaceutical industry insiders and then build on that experience. It is a valuable course for any student considering a career in the biotechnology industry.
This course is really cool and interesting. You get to learn about drug discovery from several perspectives. You learn not only about the science, but the business, marketing, and a little bit about the legal aspects. The work load is reasonable. I found the psets to be somewhat challenging but very instructive, which is what I think the goal of a problem set should be. Guest speakers are very open to questions and discussion during their talks, and while I am not the kind of person to participate in lecture, I really enjoyed listening to and learning from others' questions and the discussion. Professor Verdine and John (TF) are also really great- they obviously care about the material and the course and enjoy teaching it, so that's awesome. The final paper is definitely the hardest part of the course, assignment-wise so you should plan to start it early. There isn't a bunch of guidance on the format of the paper which could be a blessing or a curse (if you don't have experience doing similar assignments, it might be hard for you to give your paper direction). The section component of the course was very instructive (at least for me)- it definitely filled in the gaps that the lectures left.
Lectures were extremely interesting!
It was really interesting to learn the basics of drug discovery, and to listen to the perspectives of so many different people in the pharmaceutical industry. The material was interesting, but there wasn't too much weekly work, so I would highly recommend this class as a way to balance out a heavy term.
While the class is interesting, I would really only take this class if you want to go into pharma or biotech. It's extremely interesting material, but the nature of the course with bringing in a different lecturer each class makes it somewhat scattered. Also, the TF's weren't very supportive and didn't offer office hours or really return any assignments so I didn't feel like I was able to receive feedback on what I produced.
Amazing class. Take it if you get a chance. You simply will not get exposed to this kind of class in too many places
It's a really interesting class in that it's more of a chance to meet people in industry and learn about their experiences instead of simply reading case studies out of a textbook. It's really interesting and fun to learn about the frontier of medicine.
Amazing material for those interested in biotech.
This class is a fantastic introduction to the pharmaceutical industry. I would definitely recommend it to people interested in industry or even pre-meds who are curious about how drugs come into being. Its strengths include the fact that it touches on the  biology, chemistry, economics, law, and even the politics surrounding drug discovery and design. The majority of the guest speakers are very engaging and are very receptive to tough questions. I definitely got out more from this class than I put in. Because there are only three psets, a midterm, and a final paper, the average week's assignment is to just answer pre-lecture questions. They tend not to be particularly hard, but serve as good preparation for lectures on a given topic. That said, the final paper is no joke, so don't leave it until the last minute.
You get out what you put in. Some lectures are fantastic, many repetitive. Teaching staff was relatively unenthusiastic.
This is the only science class that will give you the chance to learn amazing science from the best CEOs of biotech companies. You will learn science of drug discovery, process of it, business of it, and challenges.
