This class is great! Don't be scared by the length of the class, it goes by quickly and it's fun. It was my favorite class this semester and one of the best I've taken at Harvard. If you hated Ls1b or genetics, this is the class for you! It made me like genetics again! TAKE IT! Plus Kiran and Stephanie are the best!
Hands down one of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard. Kiran's amazing, if he's teaching it take the class. If you're interested in genetics and disease modeling, take the class. If you hate genetics after taking ls1b, STILL take the class. An incredible class, where you learn a lot with not an extraordinary amount of work involved.
Quite a wonderful course. You learn a lot without the materials feeling like a lot.
This class is a hidden gem in the SCRB department. Kiran is the nicest guy you'll ever meet, and he somehow manages to teach you genetics without you really realizing. Miyagi.
This is one of, if not the best class, I have ever taken. If you're even thinking about taking this course, take it!!!
It's too bad this course isn't being offered next year... It was truly phenomenal. If you didn't like genetics in LS1b, this does not deserve any comparison. You will learn about clinical applications of human genetics with particular case studies, cutting-edge technology such as GWAS, genome editing and exome sequencing, and come out with a much greater understanding of how to analyze and interpret the human genome!
Take this class--best class I've taken in my 7 semesters at harvard! Kiran's lectures are really fun and makes the 3 hours fly by--although the lecturing is really only 1-1.5 hours, pizza for .25 hours and in-class activity where you're competing for a prize for 1.25 hours. The psets are totally fair (as are exams), and you can get them done in an hour if you go to Steph's office hours the night before the pset is due. The only hard part of the class was the proposal due during reading period, and only because I put it off till the night before it was due--so totally start on the proposal early--Kiran will even read your first draft and give feedback in that case. This class is what LS1b should be and much more. TAKE THIS CLASS!
This class was probably one of my favorite classes at Harvard thus far. All your life you think that genetics is pea plants and monohybrid crosses. But this class exposes you to a whole new world and gives you an inside look at the cutting edge genetic techniques being used now. Kiran is also the BOSS. He really cares about the students and their understanding the material. With in-class exercises too, the 3 hours just fly by.
Prof. Musunuru and Stephanie are phenomenally dedicated, knowledgeable people, and I highly recommend taking any course they are involved with!
SCRB 150 was a great course that introduced me to a lot of cutting edge research in genetics. Prof. Musunuru is a wonderful teacher and mentor and regardless of the course he is teaching it would be worthwhile to look into it. The course did tend to be a bit on the easy side and I at times found myself wanting a bit more rigor and felt that the class could have handled a larger quantity of information. This may have been influenced by the class structure -- as a once-a-week class without a section, SCRB 150 took relatively little time and was much less demanding than similarly upper level courses; however, the material itself was interesting and I am very glad that I took the course. The final project was a fantastic learning experience -- Kiran walked us through the grant proposal process and the end result was really worthwhile.
The course is fun and not too difficult, but you still learn a lot about a very timely subject. Kiran and Stephanie are great teachers and very approachable. Be sure to start the proposal early and get their help!
Loved this class! Kiran and Stephanie are wonderful and super supportive. They are dedicated to your success. All you have to do is put in the effort. So many of the topics have real world application whether you want to be a biomedical researcher or a practicing physician. I thought the course was great!
This class is very informative, interesting, and reasonable. Take it!
An incredible course in human genetics. The way the course is taught is unique - each 3 hour lecture has lecture, discussion, as well as in-class exercises. Kiran and Stephanie are truly committed to your learning and will make every effort to help you understand difficult concepts. The course materials (primers, papers, videos) are very well prepared and reflect the amount of time and effort that Kiran has invested in the course.
Take this class! The teaching class is the best! Kiran and Stephanie really care whether you understand the material and work hard to deliver it in a fun an easy to understand format. The workload seems light but you learn a lot, not only about genetics, but also about how to approach problem solving. The cases are super interesting and you'll have a great time going through them.
This is a fantastic and outstanding class that will provide solid understanding of human genetics starting from the basic concepts up to the most recent research done in the field. A lot of real human genome data analysis and very interesting case studies
Kiran is an amazing professor who successfully keeps the class engaged for the whole 3 hrs. The subject material is very interesting and the activities we did were interactive and helped us all gain a better understanding of the material. Stephanie, the TF, was also very helpful and was willing to put in as much time as needed to help you succeed. Great class!
This class is fantastic! A great way to learn to apply genetics. Straightforward, clear, interesting. You get out of it what you put into it.
The course is great! Kiran really takes the time to ensure that students understand that concepts and focuses more on the general ideas than really being finicky about the details. The material is so relevant to what is happening in the field of genetics and the flexibility of how the class is conducted overall makes it feel as if you are really directing your education (which is not the most case for some classes). The food during class is a plus and the in-class exercises contribute so much to your understanding! Definitely recommend.
This is what LS1b should have been. It brought back my love for genetics and really allowed me to see the problem solving aspect of genetics. Whether or not your a SCRB concentrator, this course would be EXTREMELY helpful to your future career as a researcher. The earlier you take this in your HDRB, MCB, Chem., HEB, etc. career, the better equipped you will be to understanding the material and methodology in some of your other upper level courses. This course definitely tied together the material in my independent research, along with all of my other SCRB courses taken to date. Kiran as an absolute BOSS, lectures are extremely fascinating and engaging, and you barely realize that 3 hours have passed. The in-class competitions definitely add to the excitement, and the highly coveted prize at the end is definitely one that will drive you to understand the material at a new level. TAKE THIS COURSE!
This was a great and relatively easy genetics class! It is what Ls1b really should be. I would highly recommend taking this if you are at all interested in health research or modern clinical medicine in the future. It was really interesting to see how genetics is applied to real health questions.
I would tell them that this is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard and that it is 100% worth it to take a class with Prof. Musunuru.  This class fosters an awesome group environment and we learned so much, amidst a lot of laughs.
The BEST course in the entire SCRB department. Not only is K. Moose an INCREDIBLE teacher, but the course feels so relevant to research and to the real world. The exercises are so well thought out and interesting that you are excited to do them. I mean, how often does that happen? They are meant to be difficult, but it's as if you are solving a real problem you'd face in the laboratory or at the hospital. Professor Musunuru actually has us doing things that he himself had to figure out! Class also is so interesting that you're excited to go to class. Not many professors can make you excited for a 3 hour long class. AND the pizza is actually good. I don't even know what to say. This class has convinced me to continue to do clinical research as a doctor. If you don't take this class as a SCRB concentrator, or as any bio concentrator, I don't know what to even say to you. Take. This. Class.
One of the best classes I've taken here. Professor Musunuru is very engaging and you will learn quite a few concepts and will be able to apply them to actual cases by the end of the course.
Really engaging class; reasonable workload and you come away knowing a great deal about human genetics up to the latest research being done.
Take this class if you have any interest in determining or better understanding how genetic variations affect phenotypic traits. This class provides access to actual tools and information and is one of the first times which I've ever seen theoretical concepts put into context with real, patient-derived data. Highly recommend.
one of the best courses ever. rejuvenated my interest in genetics. Musunuru is an amazing lecturer and the in class assignments are extremely interesting and practical. workload isn't too bad either!
Take SCRB150!!! Professor Musunuru is AMAZING. He is so engaged and excited about this class. I wasn't that interested in genetics coming into this course, but now that I'm done I am so convinced that everyone who is remotely interested in pursuing a career in science - research or medicine - needs a background in genetics. It is where the field is headed and it is absolutely crucial to understand emerging technologies like genome-editing, GWAS, etc. Furthermore, Professor Musunuru makes this class so much fun. He is so thoughtful about the way he puts together course material and you are guaranteed to learn a ton and have so much fun. The in class exercises are stimulating and engaging - it never feels like busy work as "activities" so often do in other classes. The weekly problem sets were totally reasonable and didn't take a ton of time, but they were really useful in making sure I understood the material. The exams were fairly written and there is a TON of support for the final grant proposal. Great, great class!
This class is absolutely amazing. Kiran Musunuru is a fantastic scientist and more importantly a fantastic professor. He is hands down the best professor I have had at Harvard. He was always willing to meet with students (even on the weekends) and went out of his way to make pre- or post-lecture videos which was a condensed version of that lecture. He also would do things like make each of us schedule a time to go to his office hours to pick up our midterms (if we wanted to pick it up) so that he could go over every answer with us and make sure we understood the right answer. After taking Ls1b I was pretty shaky on genetics and was disinterested because it was taught so poorly (I took it in spring 2012), but after Dr. Musunuru's instruction I feel like I have a very good grasp on the material and I am much more interested in genetics research as something I might like to pursue in the future.
This is an awesome, real-world genetics/genomics class that teaches you up-to-the minute techniques and news related to human disease. Kiran and Derek are so knowledgeable in their fields and did not assume that we knew everything, explaining everything very well but also showing us recent publications and discoveries. Also, this class was one of the better ones in terms of critically evaluating scientific papers and judging their merits based on their study design, results and presentation.
Take it! If LS1B scarred you for life about genetics, this is the class to take to fall in love with what can be a very interesting topic all over again. Filled with real life examples, and gives great insight into science outside of the classroom.
Amazing class. Take it if you like cutting-edge technology, great lectures, fun in-class activities, a reasonable workload, and/or eating cookies.
Take this class! Professor Musunuru is one of the coolest professors at Harvard and you'll have such a great time in the course. Not a huge time commitment, either and the material is really interesting and applicable to other HDRB classes. You also get the chance to write an actual NIH proposal and learn about how the grant process works, which is really great. The assignments and midterms are reasonable and fair.
One of the best science classes I've taken at Harvard. Kiran and Derek are incredibly attentive, thorough, helpful teachers. 3 hour lectures fly by. Material sticks with you--if you're interested in pursuing medicine, this is the kind of stuff you'll be talking about for the next several decades of your career. Don't let this one pass you by
This is possibly the best class I've taken here. You will learn an incredible amount about genetics, but it is in a very fun environment. I always looked forward to this class, which unfortunately met only once a week, and I never got bored during the 3 hour meetings, which reflects on Professor Musunuru's engaging teaching style. The class activities are so fun, and you really get the excitement of discovering something. FANTASTIC CLASS
This class was by far the best science course I have taken here. The course material was interesting and was an introduction to genetics from a modern perspective based on cutting-edge techniques that have only recently been discovered. The professor and TF were both fantastic teachers and easy to talk to. The class was very well organized, and the in-class activities were a great hands-on approach to the topics covered.
Both Prof. Musunuru and the Course TF, Derek, are very knowledgeable and fun to learn from.  This course will really teach you all the essentials you need to know to understand contemporary genetics literature, and do so in a very enjoyable manner.  Don't let the prospects of a three hour lecture scare you away.  You will learn a lot in these three hours.
SCRB 150 is a one of a kind course where you get to engage outstanding professors on a personal level and discuss how genetics is shaping and answering questions in science and medicine.  This course focuses on the cutting edge of genetics research and seeks to provide students with a general understanding of how genetics can be applied to understanding human disease, and understanding which will be invaluable for anyone interesting in pursuing research or medicine.  I highly recommend this course without any hesitation.
It's a good medium level intro to modern techniques in genetics.  Don't be worried about the prereqs, as long as you know high school genetics you'll be totally fine.  Kiran is a pretty good lecturer, though his case studies can drag on a bit.
I absolutely recommend this course. The professors do a great job teaching and really care about the students. The material is also very interesting and relevant (most of the stuff are less than 2-3 years old). If you are remotely interested in genetics, you should take this course!
much better way to meet the genetics requirement than ls1b; may take more critical thinking and involvement through office hours to really understand information, but the material you learn is cutting edge and really rewarding
This was one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard, and by far the best science course. Biology courses like this one are few and far between. It's a small seminar with a great, open atmosphere taught by some of the field's experts, and all of the exams and problem sets are very fair; concepts are emphasized rather than details. I can't say I learned very much nitty-gritty molecular biology, so don't take this if you're looking for that kind of course, but I definitely learned a LOT about cutting-edge genetic methods and how the field works. It's not that much work since you don't have to sit around all day memorizing things like for other biology classes, but it was extremely valuable and interesting. Can't recommend highly enough!
This class is amazing. Genetics was never my favorite subject, but this class made it so interesting and wonderful to learn about. The professors are absolutely fantastic and I loved the seminar-style structure. The professors really put a lot of effort into the class and it shows.
Definitely one of the best biology courses here. A rare chance to discuss the most recent primary literature with top researchers.
The professors of this course are great and genuinely care about the students. The material is interesting and focuses on application of broad concepts rather than memorization of minutia. In the end, what you get out of this course will be more helpful towards your future, whether you are going into research or medicine, because they teach you how to think.
Nice synthesis of science and medicine.  I learned a lot about genetic approaches to questions.
This course provides a solid foundation in genetics. Interesting papers, medical cases, and class exercises will help you understand concepts and tools in genetics such as genome-wide association studies and linkage analysis. Teaching staff will make sure you get the important ideas. Highly recommended for future scientists and doctors interested in genetics without much experience in the field yet.
This class is fantastic. Genetics is a growing and fast-changing field that I never knew much about beyond the basic Mendelian genetics of LS1b. This class taught me a lot about genetics and also a lot about the diseases that are relevant today. I especially enjoyed learning a lot about heart disease.
This class was great. Not only was the topic interesting but it was taught by great professors and also made sure to point to ideas relevant to scientific thinking as well as medical practice beyond the topic of the course. It was not extremely difficult or time consuming but was definitely interesting and fun.
Teaching is fantastic, especially Dr. Musunuru. There are two problem sets, a midterm, a final, and a relatively painless term paper - it's a breeze and very fun.
Students who would like to learn more about current genetics.
This is the best life science class I have taken at Harvard (I've taken a dozen). Kevin and Kiran are outstanding teachers who either have won or will win a teaching award. This is an intimate class in which the professors can get to know who you are. The ratio of (things learned) over (difficult work done) is high. Cutting edge human genetics became very sexy. The topics will be highly interesting for premeds especially. This course breaks all speed records for exams and problem sets returned, all with thorough explanations of what you did wrong (so you know it's completely fair).
Kiran Musunuru, enough said.The way he engages with students and the material - contextualized by actual cases - ranks him as one of the best professors I have had here. Next-gen sequencing is quickly becoming clinically relevant, with implications in drug discovery, pharmacogenomics, and prevention - in other words, the material is extremely useful.With regards to the material, since the field is very new, much of the reading is paper-based, so it's imperative to attend office hours to clarify certain facets of the technology; the second half of the course can be found in any modern genetics textbook.
This course changes from year to year, but gets better each time.
This is great course for exploring the field of genetics in more depth. The weekly reading requirement is fairly light, but the papers are very interesting and the discussions are quite fun. The small group setting also definitely helps make this course enjoyable. Definitely take it if you are interested in genetics and human disease.
This class gives a great introduction to genetic mechanisms followed by how these mechanisms are applicable to genetic research today. The tour to the Broad Institute was also a lot of fun.
I would tell students that a course like this is the reason you come to Harvard.  Great professor in a small class room... enough said.
The course is a good survey of some interesting topics in genetics, and how stem cells are be used as tools to study these topics, but it does not cover the material at a deep enough level.
Take SCRB150 if you want a broad understanding of how researchers ask questions about the genetic causes of disease - from association studies to experiments in mice.  You'll probably already have some familiarity with most of the topics covered in the course, but SCRB150 will present them in a way that focuses much more on experimental science ("how do we ask and find an answer to this question?" rather than "what are the details of this process?").Each week, you will need to read 1-2 papers thoroughly and skim a review article.  Lectures are good - Professor Eggan presents content and answers questions very well.  The atmosphere of the class is comfortable and welcoming.Next year, there will probably be more problem sets of good, thought-provoking questions.  The term paper is a good experience but incredibly time-consuming - you should choose a topic about which you're really excited and get it approved early.  Exams focus on experiments and methods rather than details - questions are fair, but they make you think.
If you like genetics and/or lab work, this class is for you. It is not a traditional genetics class with mindless calculations; you will leave the class empowered to solve the world's most pressing issues in disease genetics.  This was the science seminar class that I had been promised in my freshman year intro classes.
The material is really interesting and practical, and the class is seminar-style. I would recommend this class if you're looking to improve your knowledge of genetics.
A little bit unorganized at times.  You will learn a lot about genetics though.
Great way to get back into genetics post (or instead of) LS1b. Prof. Eggan is very knowledgeable and makes it very painless. The papers are interesting and the classroom atmosphere is relaxed so you will definitely want to participate.
