I HIGHLY recommend the course. Its a very unique and excellent opportunity for students at the intersection of science and entrepreneurship to gain perspectives from professionals in the field. Consists of weekly speaker events (serial-company starters; people from tech transfer offices; consulting experts; entrepreneur-scientists; FDA experts; IP strategy experts, and more) and culminates in a presentation of a semester-long group project (masterminding a virtual biotech/biomedical startup.) If you take the class, I recommend being consistent with weekly group meeting times and settling on an idea, leaving at least a month or more for actually putting together the project so youre not rushed. Also, be willing to wake up early on Fridays and beat Harvard Time (scary, I know.)
I highly recommend taking this course to gain exposure to entrepreneurship and to learn how you can transition your scientific ideas into a business. The course brings in leading professionals in consulting, venture capital, biotech, patent law, etc. The class, though still in its nascent stage and lacking a lot of structure, is really what you make out of it. If you put in the work and come to class enthusiastic and put in the effort to learn about the subject matter outside of class, I guarantee you will leave the class extremely satisfied and learned.
This is an interesting course.  I now have a fair appreciation of what developing a biotech roughly looks like.  The guest speakers were all very good and carried the course.  There are not any assignments aside from the final presentation and paper.  You are randomly assigned into a group and spend the semester with them designing a fake biotech.  This is a very self-motivated class with very little student-feedback throughout.  I appreciated getting insight into the biotech industry, though I don't think doing the final project contributed much to this understanding.  This all said, as the course currently stands, I would recommend it as an interesting senior spring class that will be interesting, allow you to be creative with the science you have already learned, and will not be too time intensive.
I would only take this course if some serious revision is done. It's a great idea in theory, but the group project was a source of stress and not fun. Dr. Rossi is not accessible, nor does he seem very interested in being a teacher. It doesn't make sense to have this as a once a week seminar. The fact that there are no assignments besides the final project sounds like a good idea in theory, but I would absolutely not have taken the class had I realized how disorganized things were.
I think that with improvements and response to comments, this has the potential to be a good course.
Interesting course, but could be better organized.
Great course! Take it! Take it!
It is a good class. I would say as long as the people who choose the class remain of the same caliber...it is very worthwhile because I learned so much from my group members.
This course is a very interesting exposure to the world of biotechs. It will be quite fascinating if you end up having a very good group, which was my case, and will for friendships and cool ideas will come out of the class.
Make sure to prepare questions to section.
You don't get to choose your own groups. It was extremely frustrating, and the class is not well organized.
This course is an introduction to founding companies and bringing science to clinics. It doesn't really get down into the nitty-gritty details of how to do this, but the guest lecturers are great and are the tops in their fields.
Even though this class was at 9 am on a Friday, I really enjoyed interacting with the guest lecturers. Most of them were incredibly insightful and interesting, and made waking up on a Friday worth it. Overall I would recommend the class, but I would caution to take the final project very seriously because it turns out being a lot more work than you initially anticipate.
I really enjoyed this course, although there wasn't much feedback on the midyear written assignment. This course is definitely a must before graduating for any bio student who doesn't want to just be a doctor; consulting, pharma, biotech, legal work, fda regulation, and more are covered in this class.
This class has great speakers and is a great opportunity to take a science course that is truly integrative and applicable to real life!
this is one of the best classes to take if you are fascinated with biotech or pharma industries. you will get a good introduction and hands on experience regarding development of biotech companies
This class is great! It is project-based, with no other assignments, so you have to be prepared to work intensively on one idea for the entire semester. The speakers are interesting and impressive leaders in the field. The workload is relatively low, as long as you make sure to stay on top of the project and not leave it until the very end. I definitely recommend this class!
I learned so much about the scientific world in this class. The access to speakers, the assignment to build a startup. All of these things are daunting but well worth it.
It is helpful to have the pre-reqs and other science classes because it gives you more of a basis from which to come up with ideas. Some of the biotech details could be difficult to understand if you don't have this. That said, everyone in the class was a junior or senior, so that wasn't really a problem.
You'll learn a lot about biotech in this class, and the speakers are all great. It was definitely hard to get started on work early, though, and if you're not the type to work on a long-term project in small chunks over time, you might struggle with the workload at the end of the semester. The TFs were really helpful if you made an effort to ask them questions, but Rossi wasn't particularly helpful
Stimulating in terms of the science, but needlessly frustrating, and almost useless in terms of actually learning the business of biotech.  Got almost nothing out of the guest lectures, which were much too long and dry. No course materials= pretty much no engagement with the material beyond the final project. very little guidance.  honestly, don't waste a class slot with this.
This class is very interesting but not particularly rigorous in the scope of its material or its expectations.
You will learn a lot about the biotech world in this class, but the information will not be handed to you! This is the type of course where you will spend a good deal of time on the project, but the network you are exposed to and lessons you learned about starting a biotech is worth it. Be prepared to put in a good deal of time later in the semester when putting your project together. Do not wait to get started on the project with your group since finding a therapy is one of the most time consuming aspects and you want to speak to industry experts as soon as possible. Definitely take advantage of the teaching staff, they have expert backgrounds in biotech! Before the presentation, try and schedule time to meet with one of the teaching staff members and review the flow of your presentation--makes a big difference.
Great exposure to leaders in the biotech industry. A must take! Truly a unique and challenging course.
You leave the class feeling like you created something! The process can be tricky without the right group members but you definitely form close bonds to the group you work with, The instructions for the final paper was a little ambiguous and the TFs/proffesors expectations were hard to decipher.
really really hard but worth it. if you put the time in, you can learn a lot. but you need to put the time in. I loved hearing all the professionals come in and talk - it was so worth it just for that exposure and to learn more. though... 3 hours is a lot - people can take all the time and it gets craaaazy long.
Great course if you want to learn how to start a biotech company, you will hear from lots of very accomplished people in the field, as well as learn a lot about the topic of your choosing for your group project. If you have a great group, the class is a lot of work, but also a lot of fun!
This class is one of the most independently-driven courses I've taken at Harvard. There's certainly a lot to be gained from the guest speakers but definitely do not overlook the group project (as I'm sure everyone already mentions).
This class seems really interesting in the beginning, but theproject is a pain and its way more of a hassle than it is worth. The teaching staff expects more from you than you are taught. I also wish the class assignment revolved more around the speakers that came in. It made some of the speakers feel really pointless. Finally, I wish Rossi would at leaat pretend that he cared. He didn know when he assigned things and generally just lives with his head in the clouds
Don't graduate without taking this class. It will teach you valuable skills necessary to take a novel idea to market. It's hard work but an awesome class, with an amazing speaker series of industry experts. Very well done.
Overall, this class was a major disappointment and did not live up to its potential.  The format of the course is deeply problematic and must be changed. One three-hour meeting per week where you have one speaker talk at you and flip through slides is enough to make even the most interesting topic painful and unwelcoming. The talks were totally unengaging and unhelpful to the one assignment in the class, the final project. The content and format of this course must be overhauled to be more helpful and relevant to the supposed purpose of the course, how to think more critically about the field of biotech. The one bright spot the course had was the Teaching Fellows. They were very knowledgeable and very willing to help throughout the semester. Their input was invaluable. SCRB130 could have been so much more. Instead, it was mostly a self-guided stumble through the biotech world with the course meetings inhibiting instead of helping the process.
You get what you put into the class. The TFS for Fall '15 (Michio and Jun-Han) were wonderful mentors who provided honest criticism when deserved and helpful support all throughout the semester. Take this class in participate in discussion if you're genuinely curious about the biotech industry and the drug ideation process. If not, honestly, take some other class that asks less of you.
This truly is a one-of-a-kind course. Professor Rossi encourages you to think big while brining in experts from relevant fields to share their stories and key considerations. Lots of self-guidance required but it pays off two-fold in the end!
TL;DR - Great, seminar style, don't leave project to last minute, satisfying final product! - Great course, low work load for the most part (but make sure you set aside times each work to work on your group project so it doesn't pile up at the end, because it will if you don't! Consider yourself warned). Also, if you don't like having to rely on a group this is not the class for you, you must be a good group participate and be willing to listen to other's ideas and/or take the lead if members don't fully step up. This course was great though because I not only learned a fair amount about biomedical entrepreneurship but I learned a lot about myself. I always thought I didn't want to go near pharma because I felt it was corrupt, but I learned that drug development really can be driven by desire to help patients. Basically because of this class I can see myself pursuing a career in drug development if the opportunity arose. Not to mention that each week you have access to a top professional in the field and they are often happy to talk with out beyond that class session to help develop your project. Finally, developing the whole final project is very satisfying if you do it well and if you're working on a disease you care about it's very engaging!
If you think you are at all interesting in going into the biotech, pharmaceutical, or life sciences industries this class is a MUST TAKE.
This is a course that you get out what you put in. The paper and presentation feel like real work, not just an assignment. Overall I highly recommend this course. Just note that if you are not actually into creating ideas for a business this course probably is not for you. If you want to spend time brainstorming how to create the next best biotech this is the perfect opportunity for you
While I learned a lot overall from this class, it was definitely through the project and not the course itself. There is a difference between not holding your hand, as is the professor's reported goal, and not having a curriculum.
This class is a hidden gem! The guest speakers each week were fantastic and were well worth the Friday 9 AM class. Almost 100% of the work you are required to do in this class is for a proof-of-concept biotech company you do with a randomly assigned team of 3-4 people, so your experience depends on who your teammates are. One of the biggest things you can get out of this class is approaching experts/faculty members for advice for your project. The expectations for the final project are a bit nebulous, but you will gain a broad overview of so many areas of biology/medicine/drug development in trying to come up with your idea.
Lectures from industry leaders each week are pretty interesting and insightful, but the project component of the course felt lackluster. Though I'm a proponent of self-guided work, the project provided few opportunities to actually learn. Your team is kind of just left to "build" a biotech startup"without any resources, guidance, or even framework of thinking. Biotech is very much a specialized industry, so as a result, you end up blindly chasing a problem without any feedback to learn. Another danger of this course is that you are randomly paired with a single set of project partners for the entire semester, which can really ruin your entire experience, and you have no say to change that dynamic.
This is very laid back class, but certainly opens your eyes to the biotech field. Great class for people like me who are non-premed SCRB concentrators looking to see what other science careers are out there. Every week, Rossi invites guest speakers (biotech CEOs, life science consultants, tech transfer office directors, etc) to speak about their experience in the biotech field. It's like going to a TED talk every week. There are no psets, readings, or other course materials for this class -- the grade is solely based on a final group project bringing a new biologic/biotech idea to the market. You learn tangentially about patent law, biotech, and new biotech ideas -- but it's not a rigorous class. Think of it more like a seminar. One piece of advice is start on the project EARLY -- it will creep up on you and it takes so much more work building up an idea than you would initially think.
Although it may sound like an easy task to have a class where you are only given one project to carry on throughout the semester, it is actually quite challenging. Be prepared to dig through a lot of literature and think hard. Altogether though, one of the best classes if you want to get a huge return on just going to lecture. Don't be shy and ask questions!
I really enjoyed the experience of the course, but one's experience can entirely depend on the group you are placed in.
It's not stress-free but it's worth it!
This course will surely be improved for the following year. If you are a senior in SCRB and the business of science interests you, this will be a good course to take.
This class was quite interesting and very little work on a weekly basis, but it is highly unorganized. The group project is somewhat daunting without clear guidelines or other assignments. However, I expect that this component will improve with time. I very much enjoyed the guest lectures and found the class quite accessible even though I did not have any background in business.
The course provides an unrivaled opportunity to tie together research science, translational medicine, and business that is not offered in any other course.  The speakers are varied and extremely knowledgeable.  However, the outline of the course resembles that of a start up business, i.e. the isn't one.  You have to be ready to step up, work with your team, and hope that your final product comes out okay.
Be resourceful. Ask a lot of questions. Don't try to do all the work yourself.
This class really exposes you to the differences between academic and non-academic science, as well as how science interacts with business and the government.
The guest lectures in this class are awesome!  There is almost no guidance with the group projects, so make sure you're self-motivated within your group.  Commit to a technology for your company with confidence.  Set deadlines, especially for talking to professionals.  Set concrete goals for each member this week.
This class brings in amazing lecturers and most of the time, they stay for the entire 3 hours.  It's a great, unique opportunity to be able to engage with CEOs, FDA officials, etc. for such a long time and you get to learn a lot from their experiences.In terms of the actual assignment--a final project where you design and plan your own biotech company--there was not very much direction or feedback throughout the semester.  Some of this was due to the professor's desire to foster creativity by minimizing constraints on what you explored and developed.  The entire task of coming up with a novel biotech idea and create a company model from it was also a daunting task, especially given that we did not have previous projects to base our research and development on.  That being said, it will probably be better since the professor has had one run-through of the course.In short, I would recommend the course only if you are willing to put in the time and effort to learn from the assignment and speakers.  This requires genuine interest.  Otherwise, you will likely not get much from the class and it will be a waste of 3 hours during your Fridays.
Very exciting course! For anyone vaguely interested in biotech startups, this is a very interesting introduction.
