It is awesome!!
Terrific teachers, the most wonderful language - Deva vaaNi
Holy crap. Tyler. Tyler is a rockstar and a saint, and you can count yourself SUPREMELY fortunate if you get to work with him. Never have I met an educator so genuinely concerned with the well being of his students, and who would work so hard to ensure that you have not only knowledge but a deep understanding of the material. He is fair and he is not out to get you. He just loves Sanskrit and wants you to too. He consistently went out of his way to provide amazing supplementary materials that make this difficult language so much more approachable. He deserves to be promoted to professorship immediately..
Learning Sanskrit will inform your understanding of the world in relation to language.
demanding but rewarding
Sanskrit is a challenging language to study but the intellectual rewards are great.
James is great! Sanskrit is hard, but 102a really brings the language together. I enjoyed the course's intimate atmosphere and learned a lot.
If you can do Second year Sanskrit, go do it. But make sure you have a good grammar at hand when you go into this class.
The class is great. I couldn't believe how much we learned. It felt great to take our first year knowledge and start use it.
This course is necessary to advanced study of classical Sanskrit documents and literary canon
It's very hard. Sanskrit always is. With Justin is one of the better ways to do sanskrit, especially at Harvard.
very enjoyable, but a step up from first year and demanding
Justin is a great person to study Sanskrit with. His enthusiasm and encouragement create a welcoming class environment.
It takes great discipline and focus, but ultimately, studying Sanskrit is very rewarding
Be prepared to get in over your head. Have multiple sources for looking up words, several different guides to grammar and syntax, as well as any secondary sources that can otherwise help you understand strange forms. Epic is especially tricky since its foundational while its grammar isn't set in stone.
1. Excellent practice with an epic -- hands-on!2. A valuable check-point after beginning Sanskrit.
Provides a good structure for reading, but if you have time, discipline, and a basic understanding of Sanskrit grammar from a first year course you may make faster progress reading by yourself or skipping this level of the sequence and enrolling in the advanced course instead.
