I would say it is a challenging subject with great teachers!
Sanskrit is the coolest language. I took it on a whim, and now it's part of my joint concentration. The department is fabulous, Alex Watson is brilliant, and the TF Ben is incredibly helpful and patient. I highly recommend this course!
I would tell them that it will not be easy and that they need to prepare to put in long hours on the homework, but that they will be rewarded at the end of the year with a really strong background in Sanskrit.
It can be overwhelming and even punishing at times, but if you are willing and able to put the work in, it will give you a very solid foundation in Sanskrit grammar.
This an excellent course. After completion, students will be able to access many Sanskrit texts with the aid of a dictionary or lexicon.
I really refuse to direct it to other students per se...if Tyler is teaching it I'd say take with interest but be prepared to make it 50% or more of your academic life during the semester. Otherwise, if the professor I heard about last year was teaching it or some of the other folks in the department I've met I'd generally say 'avoid.'
See aboveIn order to take this course--given that Sanskrit is inherently a very difficult (while rewarding!) language to master--you have to come to it with motivation, dedication, time in your schedule to invest preparatory hours with a clear and focused head, and the grit not to quit! In the end, the rewards far outweigh the costs--especially with a brilliant, empathic, dedicated, exceptional educator like Tyler Neil--who goes out of his way, not only to teach in every possible learning style, while engaging myriad sensory methods, such as colorful visual images, and recordings of chants and songs and the worksheets and charts that he crafts with astounding creativity.
Sanskrit appeals to a very specific type of student, and I think if you are that student, this is a wonderful introduction to the language.
Probably don't take another language course along with this one, it is hard to keep up.
Prepare to work hard, and learn a lot. You will learn so much by the end of the year. You'll be able to read epic literature, as well as Classical Sanskrit poetry like Kalidasa (well, with some help).
1) This class will chew you up and spit you out. No one warned me, so I feel I should warn you. It involves untold amount of rote memorization.2) The massive amount of suffering you will endure DIRECTLY translates into the proudest possible feeling of accomplishment you will ever experience at Harvard. 3) Dont take this class unless Tyler Neill is TF-ing it. No one will work as hard as he to make sure you understand, and no one will be as patient. 4) Pray.
I would tell students that this is a tough course, and it is necessary to make sure that you are on top of your memorization and work throughout the semester. This is not a course possible to pull off at the very end.
Difficult but great class, with excellent and dedicated teachers.
I took this class for fun, and even though it required a lot of memorization and time spent reviewing concepts, the class was definitely worth it. The teaching staff are super nice, Alex and Tyler are more than willing to meet with you to go over ideas that you're struggling with!! If you're looking to satisfy the language requirement or have spots for an elective and are ready for a challenging but fun year, you should totally shop/take this class :)
Sanskrit is a fun and beautiful language to study. Anyone interested in language will find first-year grammar conceptually ripe. It requires a good deal of effort, but the hard work is rewarding.
If you are willing to do the work, you should take it
If you're at all considering taking Sanskrit, I would highly recommend this class. There's a lot of support and a great community in this class. There's also a lot of memorization required, as in any language class, but the course moves relatively slowly through grammar and concepts, so it is definitely manageable.
Sanskrit is amazing! You cannot go wrong here.
This is a pretty run-of-the-mill classical language course - if you're interested in Sanskrit, and you probably are given that you're reading reviews of the second course in the sequence, you'll come out of it capable of reading some classical texts with heavy reliance on a dictionary. If not, there are certainly easier ways to satisfy language requirements.
This was an overall great course, with both weak and strong points. For starters, the teaching staff really cares about the students and are extremely accessible due to the course's small size. You will definitely learn a lot of Sanskrit by the end of this course. However, only reading and writing, not speaking, are dealt with. There is a weird curve, so you never know what you're going to get, and the exams are sometimes very hard, except for the bonus points. This course could be a little bit more organized, although I'm sure that will come with time as this year was the first year this teaching staff have taught this class. I would recommend this course, but you should know that it can be difficult at times. Tons of memorization also, which is a good (straightforward) and a bad (time-consuming) thing.
It provides very thorough first-year instruction in Sanskrit to the point that one can read some epic poetry by the end of the semester
Do not take as a fifth class.
If you are the kind of student that needs any guidance from an instructor concerning what to study, or if you need some kind of structure to a class so you know how well you are doing or how to best prepare for an exam, then it is better not to take this class.  Even if he does happen to give a clear answer to one of your questions concerning class structure or what to study, he is likely to change his mind when he decides what will be on an exam.  He may also send you a list of vocabulary you "should know" a few days before the midterm or final exam, even though he had said earlier not to focus on that.  He may also say something will definitely not appear on a quiz, and then that week, that is what appears on the quiz (this is possibly due to lack of communication between the instructor and TF).  It is not worth-it to come to them with concerns about how you are doing in the class because they do not know--the TF will tell you to ask Gokul, Gokul will tell you to ask the TF, and in any case, if this semester is like the last one, he will change everyone's grades retroactively to suit what he sees as the ideal distribution of high and low grades.  Last semester he even put everyone (without warning) on a downward grading curve because he gave too much extra credit.  In short, don't try to seek any kind of help or guidance in the class aside from concrete questions concerning particular grammatical points. Whatever grade you get for the course will likely be a complete mystery until the final grades come in, so you should just study everything as much as you can.  Also, if you have difficulty with some concepts presented in the class, it is important to address that right away because you should not expect any kind of review.  He does give some study guides close to the final exams, but by then it's usually too late, and they may not address everything you need to know.  Additionally, in the second semester final, you may be asked to be able to produce sentences from the last few weeks' worth of grammar that was rushed through, even if you had no homework or quizzes involving the creation of sentences since the last semester.  The class is perhaps 90% self-study and figuring things out on your own.
I might recommend they take this class elsewhere, or take a similar class elsewhere prior to taking this class.
