Scheduling a regular time to drill paradigms and vocabulary at the beginning of the term, and keeping to that time, will help immensely.
This course requires a lot effort (especially memorization), but it is certainly worth the effort.
My guess is that Sanskrit probably attracts a niche group of students, but for those who are interested I can absolutely recommend this class, especially if Tyler teaches it!
Sanskrit can be daunting - but Tyler makes this class amazingly approachable and digestable.  It's been very rewarding to see a seemingly-impenetrable language slowly but surely come alive!
This class is a great, rigorous yet well-taught and supportive, introduction to Sanskrit.
This course requires a lot of work, however, the Sanskrit language is a very unique course to take at Harvard. The teaching of this course is great, and really makes the information accessible, however, be warned the homework and assignments do take a lot of time and work.
Ok lots to say. 1) Sanskrit is amazing. 2) It's fiendishly difficult. 3) Here's why. Alex is nothing short of a rock star. He's an absolutely amazing, kind and understanding person...but I don't always agree with his teaching style and here I'd like to explain why as respectfully as possible. Class usually runs like this. Alex with begin by calling on someone at random and asking them to explain some grammatical point that we were supposed to read about for homework. He'll comment on the accuracy of that person's statement, and then move on to examples from the book, but he doesn't really teach the examples. Instead, he asks someone else at random to take number 5 from page 288, read it out loud and take it word at a time, labeling each word's grammatical function in the sentence. This is quite possibly the most terribly boring thing to endure, and I'm not sure if he knows that. Sanskrit is already a pretty dry language since it's not taught conversationally, but there's no need to reduce it to this really dry learning style. It's too lethargic.  When Alex relies heavily on students to explain concepts to the class, things tend to go over your head, information is missed or misunderstood. It would be great if Alex came in and said, "Ok guys, yesterday you read about Gerunds. Gerunds are these things that do X. They're useful because of Y. They're tricky sometimes because of Z but if you do this and that they're not so bad. Why don't we look at an example on the board?" THAT would be amazing! That generates interest, that would help me learn a thousand times better.That being said, Alex is also super responsive to the needs of the class. For example, he sensed that the homework load was too much to handle, and so he just cut the workload in half. Half! That was incredibly perceptive on his part and it absolutely made the class more enjoyable. He's like that. He knows what his students need and he responds accordingly. Don't even get me started on Tyler. He's literally a gift from the Sanskrit Gods. I honestly don't think I could have asked for a better TF for this subject. It actually blows me away how hard he works for the sake of our learning.
It is a tough language but can be fun if you like math. It will lead to a rich knowledge-base of philosophical and spiritual texts.
It's tough stuff, but if you want to learn sanskrit you would be hard pressed to find a more supportive and dedicated set of instructors. Take
Do not take an other language courses at the same time.
this class is a lot of work, and it is well worth the effort!
Very good class for a very difficult language. If you plan to work on Hinduism or Buddhism, you need this class.
Be prepared to work hard, but with Alex there, you'll make it
This course is going to demand a lot of your time. Expect to spend 9-10 hours each week on the written assignments, and 2-4 hours preparing for class. That being said, there's a certain mathematical beauty about the Sanskrit language, so all the hard work is very rewarding! Alex is an amazing instructor who wants to make Sanskrit as fun as possible.
This class is hard, but not as hard as I thought it would be. If you've taken Latin and Greek in high school, you'll be much better off learning all of the noun/verb endings. You start off the semester spending a lot of time outside of class on the homework, but homework gets faster and faster (for the most part) as the semester goes on. The teaching staff is phenomenal, and you learn so much!!!
The class starts off slowly, but once you get past the first couple weeks (learning the script) the payoff is enormous. It's hard to believe - after only three months - the immense quantity of ideas and sentences that I can express in Sanskrit.
It will take up a lot of your time, even if you are someone who is good at languages. The textbook is quite awful, so be prepared to teach much of the material to yourself.
It's a huge time commitment -- only take it if you're ready to fall in love with Sanskrit and pour yourself into the work. If you've taken Latin before, this won't be as bad as everyone says. Still, there's no way around the massive amounts of memorization. Alex Watson and Ben are a fantastic teaching team -- class is always relaxed but efficient. Tests and grading are fair. I really liked the class, so much that I changed my concentration!
I would just warn about the difficulty of the language and suggest this only for people who love to learn new languages, or who really need to know Sanskrit
If you genuinely want to learn the language, this course is very good to take. It is a lot of work but it is rewarding in the end. Also, the professor and tf actually want you to understand the material. They are less concerned with them lecturing and more with you learning. You don't find that much anymore.
It will take a lot of work, but it's rewarding.
difficult but excellent teachers.
I personally enjoyed the class a lot because I look forward to reading Hindu/Indian texts and understanding Hindu prayers, and I thought that the class was very interesting.  The one thing I would tell students that are interested in this course is that it is very important to put in the work to learn the language.  Since there is no speaking component to Sanskrit, it is important to put in a good amount of time practicing vocabulary and grammar rules.  I fell behind at some points, which led to very late nights where I played catch up.  The course is very manageable and fun, though, if you can manage your time properly.
For some, it may be the hardest course you'll ever take, but it is very rewarding.
This course is a commitment. Be prepared to dedicate two courses worth of time. But if you love language, the elegance of Sanskrit will enchant you.
For anyone who really wants to learn Sanskrit, this class is a good one to take -- the professor and TF are really knowledgable and willing to help, and especially if it is more organized next year, its a worthwhile class to take. However, if you do not have much time, do not just take it expecting it to be an easy A -- Sanskrit takes a really long time, and a lot of investment to really understand, so be prepared to spend time on it.
Sanskrit, while challenging, is also fascinating and beautiful and this course is as low-stress and fun as one could wish for.
There is no good introductory Sanskrit textbook, but Professor Patil and Gokul are amazing teachers, and if you work with them you will swim through the massive sea of elementary Sanskrit.
Professor Patil and Gokul are amazing effective and compassionate instructors, among my favorite professors and TFs of my enjoyable 3.5 years here so far. If you want to learn Sanskrit, there is probably no better way to do so in a New England university. However, my course experience was mediocre because there were too many students enrolled in what is ultimately an introductory foreign language class, so shop carefully. Realize also that the class is memorization-intensive, though that should be the case for any intro foreign language course.
This class was well taught and Gokul was a fantastic TF. Perhaps a better textbook is required, but the handouts helped.
Though tremendously difficult, Sanskrit is a window into a world of literature, poetry, aesthetics, and stra largely untapped by Western academia.  The department, furthermore, is extremely skilled at teaching the material and is generally interested in each student's intellectual and personal development.  I would recommend this course to anyone who: (1) wants a new theoretical lens through which to view art and the world that it reproduces (or subverts?); (2) wants to learn about a world that rivaled (and possibly even surpassed) Classical Antiquity in its intellectual, artistic, and religious richness; or (3) has an interest in wrestling with a language whose beauty stems from its logical perfection as well as its alluring difficulty.
Only take it if you really, really want to learn Sanskrit. If you just want to take a class for a foreign language requirement or want to learn a South Asian language, you should probably take Urdu - Hindi. The class requires a lot of memorization and you cannot fall behind on work! Professor Patil is really kind though and will offer you all the help that you need so don't be afraid to ask for help!
