This is a fantastic course and I would highly recommend it as an easy elective for non-concentrators.  the material is fascinating and timely and the teaching staff really cares about you and wants you to succeed.  This class is very easy, so it's tempting to not take it seriously. But if you devote time to it you will gain a whole new perspective on the Middle East.
I had never taken a class on the Middle East and was so happy I took this. This is a great class with themes very relevant to current events in the Middle East and North Africa. You talk about the Ottoman Empire and then move forward to political Islam, authoritarianism, and Arab Spring. I was able to talk about news of ISIS and Iran much more intelligently. However, I will say that lectures can sometimes be confusing. It is hard to know how some of the things that Professor Zeghal says connect to each other. That being said, I would still take this class. The periodic quizzes ensure that you keep up with the themes, so I felt like I would learn despite my confusion. At the end of the class, I realized how much I knew about the Middle East so it was worth it! Mary is a great TF and she and Professor Zeghal were very approachable.
This is a solid intro to the Middle East. If you want to understand a bit more about what is going on in the news, or to study more later on, this is probably a good option. If you can stay on top of the readings, they are very interesting, but not necessary for the course. That said, there may be other seminars or courses that are more thrilling.
Not a hard class, but it could benefit from some revision. It's more on North Africa than the Modern Middle East. That being said, some lectures and materials are relevant and interesting, and I feel that I've left the course with a basic understanding of some aspects of Middle Eastern history (mostly pertaining to Egypt and Tunisia.)
This class provides useful background for students of the Middle East at all levels of study.
Mary the TF is the best.
This course offers a great introduction to the history of the modern Middle East, from the Ottoman Empire to the Arab Spring with a general focus on the North Africa region in particular Tunisia and Egypt.
The professor herself was amazing and really had a strong understanding of the course material. She has a lot of experience in the field and is able to answer any questions about the field. This being said, our semester we focused more on the history and politics of North Africa (mainly Tunisia and Egypt). I do think I gained a good understanding of these regions, but I would have preferred to take a more holistic approach to the entire region and covered more countries and cases.
Engaging in the history of the Ottoman Empire, European influence and the current politics, this course really encompasses the history of the modern Middle East.
this class is cool and relevant
If you're interested in learning about the Middle East in general (without getting hung up on minute details and dates) then this class is great. A wonderful overview of the past couple of centuries. Lays a foundation for further exploration in the field. Definitely relevant to today's conflicts in the Middle East.
The class is not hard but it's very poorly taught. Lectures are pretty bad- Zeghal is smart but rambles on and deviates from her lesson. She does not seem to have any outline or structure for her lectures. Section does not cover much and does not facilitate participation. The class covers more of the facts of history but only in a superficial way and does not really analyze or question them.
This is a great survey course and helpful for anyone interested in Middle Eastern studies. Malika is super nice and an interesting lecturer. She does a great job of picking guests lecturers as well. Come to class as everything you need to know will be mentioned!!
Modern Middle East is overall a wonderful survey course that begins in during the Ottoman Empire and goes all the way through the Arab Spring and the subsequent transitions. If you do not know much about the Middle East other than what you have gleaned from various news sites or headlines, this is a great elective to take without overworking yourself. You should be aware though that there is a significant amount of historical buildup before actually delving into the Arab Spring and present day, some of which gets tedious.
This is a great class! Everyone who is taking it is truly interested in the material, and Professor Zhegal and Mary are a great duo who share a wealth of knowledge. They also really encourage participation. One downside is the highlighted focus on Tunisia and Egypt, and negligence of some other situations. Still, a lot can be derived from the two places to explain other situations. Take the class!
Take very good notes in class.
Professor Khan is a GOD. She cares so much about her students and really wants them to do well. There is definitely a good amount of reading, but it is interesting and discussed at length in class. You can take this class with some or absolutely zero background knowledge in the Middle East. Professor Kahn is funny, interesting and the overall best.
Wonderful course-- Prof. Kahn is AMAZING. Such an interesting, funny, knowledgeable professor who really cares about her students and the way that they learn. Greg is also great, if he is TFing. You'll learn a lot about the Modern Middle East, though perhaps not in the depth that you would necessarily want. Great survey course, and I'm a science concentrator.
This class will transform the way you think about the Middle East, and about society - particularly non-Western society - in general.
This was a great introduction to the Middle East. The professor is very, very engaging, the course is rather fun, and the TF is great. Iran, Israel/Palestine, and Egypt are covered extensively. Saudi Arabia not so much. Also, the final is a piece of cake.
This is an interesting class and is a great way to explore the Middle East, whether you want to continue into more in-depth study or just to get a general overview and stop there.
This is an excellent course to get a broad introduction to the Middle East and the many issues facing the area. I think every student should take this course to understand what is going on the news. Professor Kahn is also a phenomenal woman and so accessible.  She is great to learn from and is always willing to meet so be sure to take advantage of that!
This class is great because it gets you thinking about how various lenses can affect how history is told and interpreted. We are shown to consider Middle Eastern countries as rational actors who weren't/aren't passively being acted on by the West.
Where to begin? I honestly can't stop talking about this class to my friends. I felt that it was an easy A, which may lead one to discount the value of it-- but I learned more in this class than perhaps any other this semester. I read all the readings because I wanted to, not because I felt that I would fail the class without it. Professor Kahn was fantastic, and created an environment that was very relaxed. As cheesy as it sounds, it sometimes felt that we were just all sitting around, talking, joking, and discussing something in a normal conversation, rather than being in a formal class environment. I will actually miss this class!
Take this class!  Professor Kahn is an excellent teacher and a wonderful person to get to know.  She truly cares that her students learn the material and that they learn a useful skill set for future endeavors.
This course is a great overview of the Middle East that will provide you with a basic understanding of the history of the region and the current conflicts. The readings are not too overwhelming or dense, but you will have to be self-motivated if you intend to do all of the readings and want to have a deeper understanding of this region.
This class was pretty interesting. You learn a lot about the middle east, and it's a great introductory course to give you a survey of the subject. Class isn't always the most organized, and some of the readings are better than others.
If you're looking to take this as a requirement, then a) look forward to it (teacher is very nice and intelligent, your classmates will be interesting and interested in this same region of the world as you) and b) do it earlier rather than later (it is very much a broad, introductory course, so it makes the most to take it before other classes in the department so you can have more of a foundational context to put all the more specialized classes in).
You'll get more out of this course if you do the readings and try to draw connections among them, rather than taking them one by one as the course proceeds.
Don't wait until the last minute to do the readings! It's a great course, though, and none of the reading materials are too challenging to understand. Every unit is fascinating and I learned a LOT; I feel like I can hold an intelligent conversation about the Middle East in general now.
This was a fantastic course! As an economics concentrator, I'm not the biggest fan of writing so when Professor Kahn said there were no papers I was sold! Instead we had weekly quizzes which I found super helpful in making sure I actually learned the material rather than just skimming through the readings. The work load is very reasonable and because of all that's going on in the Middle East, many of the classes turned into current event discussions. Overall, great course for anyone interested in getting a comprehensive overview of the Middle East.
TAKE IT. You will not regret it. HOWEVER, do make sure that there is a diverse group of people in the class, because that will really shape your experience in the class. Professor Kahn is also just really really awesome, so you'll want to take a class with her and have an excuse to talk to her.
This is an intro class, and will expose you both to a myriad of paradigms pertaining to the Middle East, and will further show you the diverse ways in which study of this region can be done.
Take it.
A great class to use as an introduction to Modern Middle Eastern concepts
Try making a class about North America (history, cultures, everything) over the past 500 years. That's pretty much what the task of this course is, just for the middle east, and especially for modern stuff. With that in mind, Professor Kahn did a marvelous job of combining various details and stories to give as much of a comprehensive approach as possible.
This is a great course. There is a good amount of reading, but it is very enjoyable and makes for great discussions. Also, Professor Kahn is fantastic and you should take the time to get to know her outside of class if you can.
This course is a great introduction to the Middle East.  A moderate workload is complemented with interesting discussions.
Prof. Kahn is very clear; Bethany is great; the class is well organized. It is a basic intro to Middle Eastern studies. It is not very in depth or nuanced or complex, but it is a good course, and not very hard. It is probably more helpful to take this course earlier, as it is basic.
By its mandate, this course is designed to cover a wide-range of Middle Eastern issues and paradigms for understanding these issues in a relatively-constrained amount of time. Therefore, there is often a sense that the courses opens a lot of questions but never really has time to try and pull out the answers. This can be de-motivating at times.
Ithe is an interesting course if you are interested in learning about historical factors in the middle east and how they have effected the region today
This class is pretty easy and teaches about ME. Highly recommended if you want to learn more about the ME. Could be taken as a fifth class.
This class is precisely what it should be - a good introduction to the issues, ideas, events that have defined the "modern Middle East." The assignments are clear and fairly graded.
If you're interested in the MIddle East this is a great class to take!
The course gives a very extensive overview of the Middle East and really helps you understand the contemporary issues the region is facing. The workload is pretty manageable. Mary is an excellent section leader!
