Be prepared to spend a lot of time outside of class preparing for the class debates.
This course has a substantial workload but you also get a lot out of it. The debates really sharpen your analytical skills and books always spark interesting discussions.
If you are ready for hard work, please take the class. It's an essential first step to learn about Korea.
The class functions as a good introduction to modern Korean history and the important issues involved. As we look at recent scholarship, we are trained to also think in terms of historiography and contributions to the field. The class debate format also allows every student in the class to be actively engaged with the books and discussion.
First and very obviously, Profesor Eckert is a giant in his field - you'd be missing out if you don't study with him at least once while at Harvard, especially if you want to study Korea. But even if you were to disregard this fact, the class is an excellent way to engage with scholarship on modern Korea, and you really get to learn a ton while bonding with your classmates. It taught me so much about historiography and I now feel confident that I can critique and tear open any book. You read one book a week, and sometimes the books aren't that easy to get through, preparing for the debate was very manageable, I thought, and working with other students to engage in debate every week was very satisfying and fun. You only write four very short papers, which are all book reviews, basically, and the workload is therefore very manageable.
This course is an excellent overview of modern Korean history and also the accompanying historiographical debates!
Someone should only take this course if either they have a strong background in Korean history and society or have a lot of experience with challenging writing courses
A great course that teaches you how to understand the construction of others' arguments and how to build your own argument
Absolutely a must if you are passionate about Korean history and want to discuss it with other talented and astute scholars.
Professor Eckert is really knowledgeable, and generally speaking, a delightful person you want to get to know. The seminar is a great way to get to know the professor and the others students, who bring interesting things to the table themselves. It's really lots of reading but manageable workload if you are on top of your readings and engaged in the material. The debate-format of the seminar puts you on the spot-- forces you to really understand the books in order to construe arguments. No final. Just papers, which is sweet. I shall warn you though that it's really about Japanese imperialism in Korea than anything else.
This course is excellent, but pretty weighted to the colonial period and annexation.  This has advantages in that we get to look at a variety of texts that deal with roughly contemporaneous events, but also drawbacks for students not so interested in historiography on this period.
TAKE IT.  Professor Eckert is brilliant, the debates are engaging, and the literature comprises a core of what any serious Korean scholar should be exposed to.
This class requires a lot of work. IF you are not really interested in an in depth look at Korean history, this is probably not the class for you.
Fantastic learning experience! Not to be missed!
The class is a lot of work, but definitely worth it. Debates require lots of prep work, but they're also fun and give you a chance to interact with classmates outside of class.
You will leave this course with an incredible depth of understanding of Korean history, and the various ways in which different historians have interpreted that history.
It is a rigorous and time consuming course, but you get that much out of it.
A great opportunity to learn about Korea, under the guidance of the best scholar on modern Korean history.
It is quite a demanding course, but if you're gone through the course, you will find yourself accumulating good knowledge of Korean historiography.
It's worth doing some preparation for the debates, they were usually quite fun and interesting.
A rite a passage for modern East Asianists.
It's probably better to have taken some kind of Korean, or at least Japanese history class.
This course is great at laying out not the history of modern Korea, but also give a good understanding of historiography. The books are well chosen and offer an opportunity to read new publications.
