This delightful yet intellectually rigorous course seamlessly integrates Korean historical films, serious academic readings and engaging roundtable discussion to enhance students' knowledge of Korean history and historiography. The relatively light reading load and gripping movie screenings add greatly to the appeal of this class to undergraduates who are looking to combine intellectual rigor and fun in their course selection. The idea of using film as a forum to discuss history (rather than aesthetics and cinematic techniques in usual film classes) is also a welcome addition to Harvard's course atlas. Professor Kim's pedagogy holds unique promise in teaching history, and Korean history in particular, because Korean films are and will become sensational in their own right, which not only adds to the course's strong relevance but also demands serious intellectuals to challenge the claims of authenticity and accuracy in Korean historical films.
It's okay even if you don't have any knowledge about Choson Korea, because the class gives a good introduction with an interesting draw-in via films. What you get out of the class depends on how deep you wish to go into the topic - if you read up more outside of the allocated readings you might gain a more comprehensive and deeper understanding. If you are only intending to take this class as an introduction, the required readings and discussion sections will serve the purpose well enough.
YOU MUST TAKE THIS CLASS. This was hands-down my favorite class of this semester, maybe even my favorite class in my two years here. Professor Kim has such an elegant class planned!! The movie selections are thought-provoking and exciting! The workload is light, but you just learn a TON. As someone who is a complete beginner to premodern history, and didn't know anything coming into the class, I was just floored with how much I was able to learn and take away every class, not just about Korean history, but about historiography. Professor Kim is a fantastic lecturer, and I wish she would lecture even more, because everything is interesting and she points to such great questions. I would recommend this class, even if you're not studying Korean history. A great low-risk opportunity to learn a lot about something you might not know about! And even if you're an expert, pose interesting and new questions! TAKE THIS CLASS! It's easy, fun, and you learn a TON.
This is a hidden gem of the EASTD/KorHist departments. The class is structured as a once a week, 3-3.5 hour commitment, with the first 45mins-hr devoted to a lecture, the next hour and a half to a film or historical drama, and the rest to section discussion. The format made sense to me. You can skate by without doing the readings, but that's really not why you're there; with four of the eight students being graduate or masters students who are specifically here at Harvard to study this stuff, it's really in your best interests to complete the short readings and come to class prepared. Overall, this was probably my favorite course of junior fall.
