I would strongly strongly recommend that any progressive-minded student *audit* this class.  Professor Unger is easily the most brilliant orator I've learned from at Harvard and it was truly an honor hearing him speak at lecture. As for the rest of the course, it's not worth enrolling as a full time class.  The work is generally minimal other than six books you read throughout the semester, and the assignments are done very independently and without guidance.  In retrospect I would have preferred to audit this class and make sure that I actually attended every lecture.  Beyond that, it's a necessary class for any frustrated progressive. It will introduce you to progressive programmatic theory, give you a window into a brilliant mind, and you'll be able to say you took a class that Obama took.  Forget Justice -- this is "the" class you should take while you're at Harvard.
The class blows your mind and makes you question all that you know.  By the end of the semester, you'll be able to better defend what you believe in.
Interesting.
Don't expect much in terms of answers or conclusions, but this is a painless and engaging way to seriously consider transformational politics of the future.
Interesting ideas and important course overall. The assignments are very open-ended and allow lots of room for creativity. Overall, though, I found Unger to be rather self-aggrandizing in the way he removed himself from contemporary progressive debate and theory in a similar vein to his own. His lectures, too, left something to be desired. He often answered questions posed by students simply by ignoring them or heading in his own direction--answering a question that hadn't actually been posed, repeating the same core ideas over and over again. Overall, it's a worthwhile class, though I did feel intensely frustrated at points.
If you are willing to listen, to reflect, and to probe, this class will shift your entire conception of our political future. Be prepared.
This course is superb. Take it if you're interested in thinking more about how to improve the world, the role of government and socioeconomic institutions and how to live your life. It's second-to-none.
This course performs its one function very specifically. It is a chance to engage critically with the ideas and persuasive force of a powerful thinker. Nothing less--and I promise you, if you give it half a chance this course WILL engage you--but nothing more. It may contribute to the growth of your thinking, but is likely to contribute only incidentally to the growth of your knowledge.
This course will inspire you to be a social agent in the world.
The lectures are great and provocative, but there's not much else there. Maybe a class to audit more than anything else.
This is a really unique class. You learn a very distinct way of making an argument, but can apply a lot of what you learn to politics today.
I would recommend this course to upperclassmen only, and caution them to pay close attention to the first lecture to decide whether they think they would like it.  If  you're interested in that kind of intellectual exercise it's a great class!
I think that students who are flexible and okay with not understanding what's going on, but just enjoying the experience, will like this class. Students who need to know exactly what is going on at all times, both in terms of assignments and in terms of material, will not at all enjoy this class. It should probably also be said that this is not at all an ideologically balanced class. Professor Unger assumes that the class has certain progressive values, and provides a perspective on how to best go forward with those values in mind. The curriculum doesn't really have room to debate whether or not progressivism is the best or the right ideology, so students who don't share progressive values probably will not enjoy this class.
Anyone who thinks of themselves as a progressive should listen to what Unger has to say. One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Truly life-changing.
Want to expand your abstract thinking about the world, how society is created, why it is the way it is, and what role you play in its shaping?
An original and mind-expanding survey of the future of the left, and the rationale for a leftist agenda.
This class can be exhilirating in the radical proposals it makes for society, but also frustration because it is often disconnected from reality.
I would recommend this class highly, but only to those interested in the subject matter and the history of the Left. For those who are, this is an essential class.
This class is a real experience but is difficult despite a non-heavy workload.
This class will assuredly make you think, but it is frustratingly abstract at times.
This course will make you think about your own thoughts. It is also good to see Unger in action.
This course has been one of the most worthwhile classes I've taken at Harvard. The expansiveness of Unger's vision of politics is manifestly evident, and the vision of progressive politics presented in the course will no doubt have a profound impact on the ways in which one thinks about the world. The second half of the course may seem somewhat repetitive--I suspect that the class might benefit from a reordering of the content--but don't let that or Unger's sometimes-abstruse lecture style discourage you from taking the class.
That it is a rare chance to experience an inspiring academic at the absolute top of his game taking an unusual perspective on commonly taught topics.
It's Unger's show. Something of a cult forms around him.The course is neither gov, nor philosophy, nor economics, but a pastiche of all of them. Some people find that liberating; I found it disheartening, since discussions often lacked rigor. There's a lot of gasbagging and pontificating.I would recommend staying away from the course; other offerings in the gov department would be more useful for thinking up progressive alternatives of your own.
This was by far the best course I have taken at Harvard (and this is my senior spring). Unger challenges your way of viewing the world and allows you to genuinely develop your own, original ideas--something most Harvard classes struggle with. Take it, you will be better for it.
This is by far one of the most interesting and thought-provoking courses I have taken in my four years at Harvard -- I can't recommend the course enough.
very abstract; no need to go to lecture in the 2nd half of the course b/c Prof. Unger basically repeats himself - it's interesting the first time around, but unnecessary to force yourself out to 8 am classes the second time; go to office hours, because then you can challenge ideas and go back and forth more to refine your thinking
It is a pretty convincing argument for progressivism. Lectures are an incredible experience. Unger speaks with conviction, clarity, and rapidity. Daniel did a good job incorporating outside material into section and discussions were authentic critiques of Unger and the current social order. Wonderful class all around. Assignments allow for imagination and are fairly graded.
An amazing course that challenges all your prior thoughts and beliefs.  Be ready to think in depth about everything around you.
Awesome. Opens and challenges your mind, as any great course should.
If you feel inspired by Obama -- or you at least did in 2008 -- please do the world and yourself a favor by taking this course.
Roberto Unger is a visionary, and his course has the potential to change the way you think if you take the time to really understand the sophisticated and creative arguments he articulates. It may be difficult to understand everything he says during the first few lectures, but if you put in the effort, towards the end it will all come together and it's unreal.
This is a great course - it is lacking in specifics but it has changed my whole way of thinking about the progressive agenda and where we should be heading in the future.
This course is a great way to engage your critical thinking capabilities about relevant problems that are impacting the world today. In this vein, the course is a smashing success. It is always interesting to hear what your peers have to say about these problems, and in so doing, your thinking on these issues is sharpened and clarified. However, at times it may seem that a lot of these policy recommendations, upon which the course is based, are empty and invaluable. Overall, however, it is an enlightening academic experience and I would encourage anyone interested in tackling global problems ranging from economic convergence to education to take this course.
Unger is brilliant; his lectures teach you to think outside the box and question orthodoxy. Nonetheless, after two or three lectures he becomes repetitive, and the difference between lectures and books is minimal.
Unger is a fantastically radical political thinker but his ideas are wodnerfully grounded and are always thought provoking.  I found this course difficult, at points, as a Freshman without a substantial amount of background knowledge.  This class did, however, inspire me to be more interested in political philosophy.  Unfortunately you may still have to listen to Laurence Tubiana lecture via the internet, as we did.  Her accent is impenetrable and her ideas do not have the same zing as Unger's.  Jeffrey Sachs is a good lecturer because it's cool to say you were in a class taught by him.  Unger is the meat and potatoes here so if you don't like his style this class will be wasted on you.  If Daniel is still tf'ing, rejoice!  He's a wonderful person and distills Unger's ideas gracefully.
The course is an excellent opportunity to develop one's own thinking - it can be very inspiring and challenging, if you choose to make it that. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard; it challenged me to grow intellectually. Left bias is obvious, but would recommend it even fore politically more moderate/conservative students wanting a real challenge.
This is a great course. Unger is an incredibly powerful thinker, an impressive speaker and presents a set of ideas that are capable of causing a paradigmatic shift in your thought. Definitely take this class if you can and take it early in your Harvard career, it gives you a really powerful perspective from which to see all of the structures and institutions of the world. It will force you to think about everything that we accept as given and will make you grapple with the real challenges of making change and making progress in the world. If you do take it, make sure to take it seriously. You will only get something out of this course if you engage in the debate. Sometimes the content of lectures can seem repetitive but I wish I had tried harder to probe, to really grapple with the reading and to challenge at every step. This has been one of my favourite classes at Harvard and my only regret is not being able to immerse myself if in it more. Take it.
This class is awful, and I would strongly recommend against taking it. By the end of it, you will want to be a hardcore conservative. Unger is basically crazy robot who is completely unable to relate to any normal person; the entire class consists of him standing there basically restating his books verbatim in a manner so technical that everyone is completely lost.  Literally, he just stands there for an hour without pausing, no PowerPoint or anything, and goes on and on stating his radical theses and subtheses over and over again. It's the same thing every week; it's not a course on progressive alternatives but really just Unger's ideasif you're interested in those, read his Wikipedia page and save yourself the time, because he's completely not amenable to anyone else's thoughts but his own even though they're completely off the wall. He also assumes everyone is an expert in his fieldeven though the reason one would take the class would be to learn more about itand has absolutely no idea how to teach or to speak in a manner that students can understand.  Meanwhile there's also Laurence Tubiana, who chimes in occasionally with ditzy thoughts that nobody could understand through her accent, and the ones that could be understood normally made no sense at all. The only reason to take this class, as I assume the reason most people did, was to learn from Sachs, who is great but only bothered to show up two or three times. Overall if you take it just be prepared for a very unpleasant experience with Unger and to end the class not having learned anything at all because he's far too difficult to understand and is completely incapable of presenting his thoughts in an interesting, logical way.
It is a course that you must take especially if you consider yourself on the left side of the political spectrum, and anything close to a social democrat. It has been one of my favorite experiences at Harvard.
That this is a course for those willing to think outside of the box of conventional wisdom, not a hands-on learning of a particular technique.
It's a stunning course.
An incredible course.  Professor Unger, though not perfect, is one of very few courageous thinkers at the University, willing to ask the biggest questions and tackle the biggest problems.  He is utterly uncompromising.  This is the first course I've taken since freshman year that seriously challenged me to think, and I am a senior.
Every undergrad should take at least one class with Unger before graduating. Yes, his ideas are complicated; yes, his lectures are essentially recitations of his books  but you will never again have the opportunity to interact with such a visionary thinker. Seriously, if you consider yourself at all progressive, or are dissatisfied with your experience at Harvard (or if you are none of those things), you will find Unger's ideas fascinating, and you will find Unger surprisingly kind and accessible.It helps to have a political philosophy background, or to know some Econ, since this course is theoretical. But just remember that most people  including the law students  don't really know what's going on either. Do yourself a favor, forego your typical easy Gen Ed or Senior Spring course, put in a bit of effort, and take this class, or any other one taught by Unger. You will not regret having taken the opportunity to learn with him.
This class, especially if taken in senior spring, will inspire and challenge you.  It is frustrating at times, both in content and in structure, but well worth it to have the chance to engage with Unger's argument and program.
If you have taken a course with Unger before, he can be pretty redundant after a point. However, he is nonetheless brilliant, inspiring, and life-changing.
Unger is not the most direct or concise lecturer that there ever was but if you have never had exposure to the politics of the left, this can be a fantastic foray into something new. Do not let Unger scare you away but be wary of expecting a substantial answer if you ask a question.
This class is an easy A, but it is useless information. If you want an easy class, take it, but I was honestly kicking myself for wasting one of my 32 classes at Harvard on this.
Prof. Unger cannot be easily categorized in the traditional political spectrum, but regardless of your leanings you might find the way he looks at problem-solving to be refreshingly original. Essentially he advocates for a type of progressivism that views our current institutional arrangements in the democratic west and the world more broadly as insufficiently limiting in capturing the inherent 'bigness' of mankind, and thus we must innovate with our institutions and the way we think about our relationships to them in order to unleash that 'bigness'. As you can see, lots of high-level and abstract terminology, which can be frustrating, but Pete the head TF breaks them down pretty well in section and encourages you to develop your own visions and solutions to our biggest problems.
If you find yourself wanting a balance to the general stance of most professors in the social sciences here, then definitely take this class. Sure, Prof. Unger doesn't try to be neutral, but it's a nice counterbalance to other less forceful classes. It's all about his thought, but the priority is exciting thought in the student, which is great.
You'll only remember one or two big ideas from each class that you take. The two big ideas from this class are incredibly powerful and eye-opening--namely that the menu of institutional arrangements available to us is much bigger than we believe and that politics can and should have a bigger and more long-term vision than it tends to now. Internalizing those ideas is really cool. But beyond that, it's mostly a lot of re-hashing the same handful of ideas. Readings and lectures get very repetitive, and I think I could have gotten just as much out of the course if it was only a month long or so.
This class really pushes you to think outside the box. Pete is incredible, as is Unger. Definitely take this course if you are interested in the intersection between theory and policy and want to propose new ideas.
First of all, this is not an intensive class. There is very little work and expectations are preciously low. I don't think anyone did much of the reading - it was not clearly helpful for class performance. And that's neither bad nor good! Second, this class is almost identical to other classes taught by Prof. Unger. I took his "Political Economy after the Crisis" last year and this was basically a repeat of that. The nice part is that it means you don't really have to go to lecture. The bad part is that you don't learn anything. Third, section. Pete (TF) is very knowledgeable about Unger's ideas, which is an excellent trait for a TF of this class. But he doesn't really know how to corral a section and he seems very overworked and busy - which is why law students shouldn't TF classes imo! But he was fine. Anyway section is full of people with all sorts of backgrounds - first year to seniors, studying math to art to anthropology. This makes productive dialogue difficult because people want different things out of the class.It's overall quite easy.
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard. It is a fairly easy course and the lectures are mind-blowing. It is that true learning experience you come here for without the drone and unnecessary feeling of most lectures. Unger actually wants you to engage and go wild with his ideas, so its not as if there are wrong answers. Section is also fascinating. 100% recommend without reservation
Professor Unger is crazy smart. He has big ideas that challenge how you think about the world, and his philosophies make Bernie Sanders look like Ronald Reagan. Lectures are basically just recitations of his books and the readings are long and dense, both of which reduce the incentive to actually do the readings. However, without reading the books, the class is pretty hard to follow. If you want to challenge yourself and think critically, take this class. If not, definitely don't.
You have to really like political theory in order to appreciate this course. But if you do, I'd say go for it. Unger has some really cool ideas, and it's awesome to get to discuss what a "utopian" government system would look like.
Professor Unger's ideas are painfully brilliant, and will make you reflect on your views of progressivism (and, I think, would be rather interesting for anyone anywhere on the political spectrum); no matter what, you will have to think about the world. The Gov majors taking this course to fulfill their theory requirement, however, were painfully stupid, and listening to them drone on thoughtlessly in section made me question Harvard's reputation. As a consolation for this pain, that curve: writing papers the night before (less than two hours committed to eight page papers) that were objectively sub-par led to great grades. Hopefully, they'll somehow fix this next year and make this brilliant academic's course a fully academic experience, but otherwise just consider section thirteen hours of your life down the drain in exchange for a thought-provoking class.
This is a good, inspiring course. It will push you to think differently about the world and the bounds of institutional imagination, and was great to take alongside the sophomore tutorial in government because it allowed me to really think outside the box. It's a lot of philosophical work, though -- the readings that are given don't really suffice to understand the theory so you have to go out and do readings on your own. Take this class if you are patient and interested in the progressive cause; otherwise, another class may be better suited.
I've taken/shopped/sat in a number of classes which were recommended as the "best class at Harvard" or something of the sort. This is the first class which properly lived up to the description. Take it not so much for the content as for the professor and the manner in which it will engage you with its ideas. Unger's a genius. One thing, though the themes of the class are discussed pretty much exclusively from the left. Do with that information what you will, but other than that I cannot recommend this class highly enough.
This class is honestly so unique to Harvard, it's worth taking here. A cult of personality essentially forms around Professor Unger, who holds some incredibly radical and paradigm-shifting views about what progressivism, human nature, and the future. Section is also quite fascinating, and aptly led by Oren, who's probably the most involved and energetic TF I've ever had. It's hard to evaluate a class that is essentially advocating the overthrow of higher education dogma, and you might feel frustrated that there's not much to actually hold on to. But if you want to actually open your mind for three hours a week, take this class.
You will never take a course like this again. Nor have you likely ever taken one like it before. It's brilliant.
It's very out there, and you will tune out of the lectures towards the end of the semester, but if you're in to big thinking, it's probably for you.
