It is one of the relatively few government classes that is directly relevant to international politics
Great class. 2 essays a midterm and final.
I enjoyed the topics and discussion. The work was definitely manageable.
It's an extremely interesting topic discussed by a great lecturer, but don't expect the other parts of the course to necessarily match up - the assignments, sections, and exams are not nearly as inventive as the lectures.
It's great material that every government concentrator should cover at some point, but this is not an easy A.
The TFs claimed that the class is not a history class but it kind of is. You do need to know your history pretty well as do current events.
it's awesome
Good, painless class, introduction to foreign policy
It's great if you're interested in Foreign Policy and enjoy reading articles about it.
Doing the readings before each lecture allows you to be able to understand the material better and to actively participate in class
Professor's office hours are chill enough to interview him during them -- which is exactly what I did, and he was cool!
Great class.  One of the best government classes I've taken.
It's a lot of fun, easy, and yet also very educational
Students should take this course because it is a fascinating topic, and Professor Paarlberg is a wonderful and a joy to hear. The reading is very reasonable, and the papers and exams are fair.
Great substantive lectures, fun assignments, and a good tour through the subject.  Definitely worthwhile.
I'd tell them that they should be aware the the papers sneak up on you but you don't have to do too good of a job on them
great professor, very interesting course material, very relevant, engaging
This was Professor Paarlberg's last semester teaching the class, so I am unable to say what the next time will be like. However, if the class retains the general structure without many changes I would definitely recommend it.
It's very interesting material, but it is also very time consuming because of all the assigned reading.
Difficult course, but interesting subject matter. Pass/Fail would be recommended if you're not sure of your theoretical prowess.
TAKE IT!!! you will regret it if you don't!!
Some of the material in the class was irrelevant or boring, but the real downfall was that it was poorly run.
I would tell them Paarlberg does a great job teaching this class.
The material is fascinating, lectures are really interesting, and Paarlberg is awesome.
This class will arouse strong opinions in any student with an interest in politics. It's a great way to gain understanding of how our government makes the decisions it does.
This is a great class to (even as an intro to foreign policy). Paarlberg is a great lecturer!
An interesting class, but highly theoretical. It takes a few steps to apply the theories to current events.
I learned in a very practical way how to explain American foreign policy and to look at different interpretations and figure out why the US does what it does in the world.
Best class I've taken at Harvard!
The course material is great and I'd definitely consider taking it again but pass/fail instead. Non-Gov concentrators like me may find it difficult to catch up to people who have already fully explored and established their foreign policy views.
This is by far the best class I've taken in my 3 years at Harvard.
This class is interesting and if you go to all of the lectures, it is not always necessary to do the readings. Paarlberg is funny and interesting. It doesn't involve tons of work except near the papers. I would definately recommend it!
You could read one compendium of US foreign policy theory and get this whole class. Paarlberg adds very little besides the presence of a nice guy talking.
Although the class is one that reviews the methods which analysts have used to categorize American Foreign Policy strategies, the course is very interesting in that the professor ties each reading to current American Foreign Policy issues concerning Iraq, North Korea, Iran, Palestine, etc. and, this was very beneficial to me since it exposes you to the variety of opinions and "possible solutions" that classmates are coming up with.
read everything and you will be fine.
The class was really fantastic.  Int combined Foreign Policy and American politics nicely and the readings and especially the professor were excellent.
A wonderful and engaging introduction to American foreign policy.
It's practically very useful, in that you learn about all the stuff in the news you feel like you already should know about; but at the same time it's intellectually engaging, and you feel like you're getting properly plugged into the academic discourse of the field.
Take this class.
It's a fantastic course that give a great overview of everything you need to know about American Foriegn Policy.
Professor Paarlberg is a great lecturer, and the class is very interesting and useful.
The lecturer is wonderful. The TFs are a mixed bag.
This is a great class and I feel I learned so much.
Essential to broadening one's sense of America's trajectory in international politics.
Get the paper-specific readings done well before beginning to write.
Overall, this is a very good course for anyone interested in going into extreme depth of understanding US foreign policy. Like all courses, it has its flaws (some of the readings aren't very interesting, and the paper topics were rather restrictive - and it says something that these are the biggest flaws I can think of), but on the whole the course is interesting and provides a very solid grounding in foreign policy. An enjoyable way to fill a concentration/secondary/social analysis requirement or just to learn about foreign policy.
This was a fascinating class! Professor Paarlberg's lectures were almost spellbinding.
really helpful elucidation of US foreign policy trends.
this is a fun and interesting class about US foreign policy and the theories about how it is made.
painless, interesting, and might even change your view of the world...
A great overview of theories of US foreign policy.  Not too difficult.  Ties in well to current events.
I would tell future students that Paarlberg is great, the lectures are interesting, the reading is incredibly light and (depending on the TF) completely unnecessary, but the papers are a pain in the neck.
The class is not difficult if you put in the work.  The grading of the papers is difficult.
Ask Paarlberg for lecture slides or outlines before each lecture!
hard grading
Take classes because of the Professor, not the material.  Take this class in particular because Paarlberg will change your life.  Be happy.
Best lecturer at Harvard.  Funny, smart, and planned to the minute--no time is ever wasted.
Professor Paarlberg is a fantastic lecturer.
Keep up with the readings.
Loved it! current and relevant
Very useful to learn more about current events!
Really interesting class, heavy with paper writing for semester, midterm and finals. Good lectures.
This is a great introduction to U.S. foreign policy, and it covers a wide range of topics (from theory to current events to historical examples, etc.). The course material is extremely interesting and the class overall is very well organized.
Professor Paarlberg is the best government professor I have had while at Harvard.
A very solid class.
This class was  great way to learn about both current and historical American foreign policy events and to look at them in a new way.
easy but didnt get much out of it
It's a cool class. Go for it.
Very interesting class; I would recommend it but would advise being willing to put in the effort to learn what you don't know if you don't come in with a solid base understanding.
This is a terrific class, and the workload is very manageable and actually all the reading is very relevant/exciting. Definitely a must-take course if you're interested in foreign affairs. Paarlberg is a very effective, comical, and interesting professor.
take it.
If you want to understand American foreign policy theory, here's your class. What I didn't like was how the whole semester was a series of presenting theories and shooting them down -- I don't feel like I came out of the class knowing what I believe.
You will enjoy Professor Paarlberg's lectures and the subject matter is definitely engaging.
Professor Paarlberg's lectures are really amazing, the workload is not too heavy, and the subject matter is intriguing and especially relevant.
Great class on the theories, history and nuances of America's Foreign Policy.
Great class, pretty relevant, gives a great understanding of US modern foreign policy
Just remember to always go to lecture.  It is a magnificent learning experience every time.
It's a relatively painless class; just make sure you review before the tests and do the readings pertinent to the papers and you'll be fine. The lectures can be dry, but some of the theories are actually pretty interesting. You'll also learn some about foreign policy.
great introduction to foreign policy and to government in general
Fantastic class, anyone with an interest at how Foreign Policy really works should consider this course.
Professor Paarlberg is a great teacher.  His lectures are concise and engaging.  I find it amazing whenever a orator can keep an audience's attention without the use of slides or other forms of distraction.  He covers a broad range of information while also providing a foundation for the future study of foreign policy.
Paarlberg is a great lecturer, but it would help to be interested in the subject material.
This course really gives you such great insight into current events, explaining what challenges the current administration faces. The weekly reading assignments aren't too long or too short. The paper topics really give you a chance to use and consolidate the different methods of analyzing foreign policy decisions. Prof. Paarlberg is a fantastic lecturer and manages to pack in a lot of material into the one-hour lectures each Tuesday and Thursday without going too fast.
Be ready to PAY ATTENTION in lectures and do lots of reading.
It's a useful introduction to international relations for those with an American politics focus, but don't expect it to be a whole lot more. The awesome lectures shouldn't be the only factor in your decision to take this course.
Really interesting lectures.
This class in interesting and relevant.
This course is a must for any Government student, or any student interested in foreign government affairs.
This class was great.  The topic is great, the professor was great (too bad he is visiting from Wellesley--we should get him, and the TFs (at least mine) were great as well.
The professor is great and the material is very engaging...take the course.
This is an extremely interesting and rewarding course.
Loved it.  Learn about how to think about American Foreign Policy, become a more informed citizen.
Good class with good lectures, just make sure you get a good TF
This course seems disorganized, but is an interesting course on foreign policy and the professor is good.  I would recommend it, but be sure not to expect too much out of this course, it was not life-changing, and the professor can be a bit biased (he tends to present his view and not shed too much light on opposing views) and he likes to bash Bush.
This course is informative and pleasant, but not based in the details of actual foreign policy enough.
If you're even moderately interested in American foreign policy, you will enjoy this course.
Prof. Paarlberg gives excellent "briefing" style, useful, intelligent lectures.
It's very straightforward and manageable. If you keep up on the readings and attend lecture you will do well.
Paarlberg talks slowly so it's easy to take good notes.
This is an immensely enjoyable course! Professor Paarlberg is engaging and excited. I have no complaints about this class.
It is one of the best classes at Harvard and very easy to digest.
Take it!  Professor Paarlberg is great, and the class is a good intro to American foreign policy, and to gov in general.
it is relatively easy and interesting enough
Great introduction to the topic. Painless, interesting, and fun
This course is useful for students looking to get a broad overview of how countries interact. The lectures are interesting and the readings are mostly interesting as well.
Keep up with readings. Many are long, but necessary.
It covers a lot about American politics -- it is much more focused on American politics than international relations as such.
Educate yourself on why things happen around you, get your fix on foreign policy, U.S. style!
This is a great course for learning about a range of issues in foreign policy, as well as the tools and techniques for trying to account for them.
That it is a great class and that being my first government class that I have taken her eit made me wish I had taken more.
This class has very interesting lectures.
Take it.
The course material is fascinating, and the lectures are enjoyable. Yet, the readings aren't a critical component of the course.
Great class.
This class is a great survey course dealing with American foreign policy.  Grading is straightforward and the assignments provide something for everyone.  While the exams do force you to grapple with the course material, the paper options allow students to incorporate their own personal interests and academic pursuits into the class.  Professor Ramirez is warm, welcoming, and extremely helpful.
Definitely take this class to get a great intro to American Foreign Policy. Shawn and Sergio are an AMAZING teaching team. It is clear they truly want to help their students!
This course requires a ton of reading, but it is interesting and not hard to get through.
It is a lot of reading but you cover 200+ years in one semester.
This class seems to be taught by visiting professors, and so is very dependent on the professor for the year. You would do well to shop the class and consider the teaching style of the professor, readings assigned, etc.
Lectures do go to quickly but you can always use the video to clarify things later. You don't need to go to many classes to do well in this course. I went to the vast majority of them but reviewing by looking at the videos was a good strategy. Sergio was incredible. Get him as a TF!
This class convinced me to be a gov concentrator. It's fair in that it doesn't expect you to know absolutely everything about the material.  Rather, you're responsible for being well-familiarized with what history and policy really interests you.  For example, the midterm and final each have eight questions of which you must answer four.  The papers are interesting to write and are graded quite generously.  I often find trouble paying attention in lecture, but Professor Ramirez's lectures are very fast-paced so you have to pay attention at all times or you will get extremely lost, something I liked.  Also, Professor Ramirez likes to bring cookies and coffee and is really just a pleasant woman to learn from.  It's bit too much of a survey course.  Starting with 18th-century American foreign policy and moving all the way to Obama is quite a lot to cover.  I don't feel that I actually learned anything concrete about HOW decisions are made, rather just the theory and decisions that have been made. Sergio is great! He fosters great conversation and really wants to hear what everyone has to say.  He has a certain affinity for dissecting words and looking at their etymologies, which can be amusing but quite insightful.  In the past, Professor Ramirez didn't have lecture slides, but she does now, so don't pay attention to the comments that say there aren't slides!
Amazing course. Workload isn't overwhelming and Professor Ramirez is a great lecturer. Best government class I've taken at Harvard hands down.
The Professor is really nice and tries, but the class is a little bit different.  50% of your grade is writing assignments which have nothing to do with lectures/readings.  10% of your grade is section which also had nothing to do with readings.  Both the midterm and the final are a choose 4 out of 8 questions.  Each answer was either 10 or 15 lines.  The entire midterm or the entire final could have fit on the front/back of 2 bluebook pages...that was a suggested max.  I would not spend the 250 on required readings.  I would spend anything.  You can get the A without it.  When Professor wasn't around, TF's pushed for us to write shorter papers and shorter exam answers.  The Professor could maybe stand to lose the TF's.
Great course. Professor Ramirez and the teaching staff are incredibly flexible, accessible, and encouraging. If you're looking for a course where the teachers actually seem to have a vested interest in your achievement, look no further.
I have never been in a course this small that was so expertly organized.
This is a great class if you're looking for something non-intensive and engaging with regards to international affairs and foreign policy. It will teach you a lot about the main conflicts in which America has been involved and the international relations theories that apply to them. Professor Ramirez is a great lecturer; pretty fast paced which keeps you alert and listening but not so fast paced that you miss things. Readings are numerous but also interesting and generally not too lengthy. You'll find you don't have to read very in-depth or necessarily even read all of the assigned works to understand the main ideas being discussed in lecture or to pass the exams. Exams are super fair and a lot easier than expected.
Easy class. Ramirez is good but caters to the lowest common denominator of students, meaning that interesting theories get simplified and lots of history gets reduced to summaries. Would recommend, but don't get too excited, because if you've taken any IR before, you won't learn a whole lot you didn't already know.
this class was not too difficult, but not the most interesting either
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard. I had no previous exposure to international relations and Professor Ramirez offered a comprehensive yet thorough analysis of the major theoretical concepts, which she tied to history and current affairs. I now read the newspaper with a whole new perspective. The class is very straightforward and if you put the effort in you will be rewarded. There is a lot of reading, but it is not all necessary. I appreciated the flexibility in writing either a research paper or multiple shorter assignments. Sergio was an incredible TF as well!
It's an interesting class but there is a high volume of readings and you will constantly be doing work for the course. The work isn't impossible, but the papers do take a lot of time and effort (if you want to do well).
this is an easy interesting class that introduces you to the basics of american foreign policy
This class was great. Shawn is a very good professor, and you can see her enthusiasm for international relations. It was very easy to follow and was a great way to fulfill the IR requirement for gov concentrators.
Government 1790 is a great class that gives you a solid foundation in American foreign policy, focusing on trends of American foreign policy and theories that help one better under some US action.
Good class if you want to acquaint yourself with Foreign Policy.
Prof Ramirez is apparently a visiting professor, so I have no idea if she'll be around next semester or if this feedback will be relevant. However, if she is still teaching it and you're looking for an easy Gov class in the IR field because you're scared of Walt's class, this is it.That being said, if you're looking for a class in which you'll learn a lot, this is not it. It was basically a US AP History course without much domestic policy. Lectures are a recitation of facts; the bulk of the readings are also a recitation of the same facts. We never really engaged with any theoretical material and never applied it to the facts.
Doing the readings is very important because they summarize the historical events that will be analyzed. If you do the readings, attending lecture is not crucial, but I recommend going anyway.
Gov 1790 is a great course and provides an excellent historical background on American foreign policy
Interesting and easy gov class. I recommend this class as a great survey in the history of American foreign policy. For those who already know a lot about American foreign policy, I wouldn't necessarily recommend, but for those who don't this is great!
This is a wonderful course that introduces you to the basics of American Foreign Policy.
great class
This class is a great introduction to American foreign policy. You will actually learn all of that stuff you never really learned in high school. Lectures can be a bit dry and the volume of the ready is a bit heavy, but it's all rather doable.
I would tell students that the class involves a superficial historical analysis of American foreign policy but does not really require any significant engagement with the themes underlying this policy.
The lectures were informative, but not as good as the section. This had the best section ever. Sergio was great. You should take this class if you're interested in anything about international relations or gov. This class is why I want to be a gov concentrator.
Stay on top of the readings and clearly organize the various theories and terminology that you will learn throughout the course; this will prove to be invaluable to you when you take any of the graded assessments. Always think about the bigger picture, and don't get too bogged down in the details.
great overview of foreign policy in the U.S.
Despite the fact that this class is quite easy, the lectures were intolerably dull, and section was almost worse.  The material is interesting, but it is not presented in a way which does it justice.  I would recommend taking gov 40 instead, unless you absolutely need an easy class.
Sergio's section alone is worth taking the class. Professor Ramirez is charismatic and extremely knowledgeable, but lecture can be a little hard to follow as she jumps around between topics. Section, on the other hand, will change how you think about history. The exams are super fair and straightforward, no curveballs in this class.
interesting material but difficult/ambiguous grading system can make the course frustrating. Also, it is run like a high school class with emphasis on attendance and busy work rather than intellectual development
A very easy Gov class (although you should definitely go to lecture as Prof. Ramirez likes to give pop quizzes). Honestly not the best Gov class I've taken here...the assignments weren't particularly interesting and the scope of the course was too broad. I had very high expectations because I'm interested in the subject and it definitely didn't meet those expectations.
You will leave this course with a better understanding of why and how foreign policy decisions are made.
I recommend this class with reservations - the subject matter is fascinating and you will learn a great deal, but the class itself is less than stellar, and bogged down by unpleasant administrative decisions. The professor is new, and she went the the new-teacher route of banning laptops and providing zero lecture slides. Be prepared to take notes by hand, and go to office hours if you are confused. This class is what you make of it, but it wasn't my cup of tea (and I'm the kind of person who usually loves anything to do with American foreign policy). If you are not feeling it after the first lecture, leave: it won't get any better.
This is a fabulous Government course, with a great teaching staff! Pretty easy but very interesting (which is, of course, the ultimate combination).
The course is pretty easy-- your grade is comprised of a midterm and final grade. However, you learn a lot. I not only learned the history of American foreign policy, but theory and contemporary practice as well. The course is comprehensive, enjoyable, and stimulating.
The class is interesting and well taught. It simply was not that much of a challenge and does not teach much new information to someone with a strong knowledge of American history.
this is a great course where you'll actually learn something. there is a lot of knowledge but not excessive reading and also the exams are very reasonable--so honestly it's great because you really do learn but it's not like way too much work or really hard tests like so many classes here that are either really easy and you learn nothing or really hard and you get your tail kicked but you do learn stuff.
Unfair class compared to other gov classes at Harvard
American Foreign Policy is a very interesting class. It is a lot more interactive than I expected and you have the opportunity to speak up and ask questions in class, which is very unlike many of my other classes (especially ones that are 75+ students). Often the class would break up into little groups, and the professor would have us discuss the topic at hand in the little groups. Professor Kertzer is quite entertaining and is quite approachable (I think he tries to learn everyones name). The midterm was tougher than I expected, as was the essay, so do get to really know the material.
Great intro to foreign policy. The professor is really great and very accessible. This was his first year teaching at Harvard. First half covers the inputs of foreign policy (public opinion, media, elites, etc) and the second half is foreign policy. The second half covered counterinsurgency, civil wars, peacekeeping, nuclear weapons, etc. References current crises & really engages in debates on the solutions to different crises. Since it covers so many topics, it's really more of an intro to each one but it's good if you want an overview of US foreign policy and want to understand the big schools of thought/debates on these topics. If you know a good amount about US foreign policy, you will probably be bored at times.
It is very important to do the readings for the midterm and exam.
Overall, this was a decent course that covered some very interesting international issues in a low stress, relatively low time commitment environment. The tests are rather strange (and aren't like exams in other Gov courses).
The class introduces you to interesting material and makes you think more deeply about American foreign policy, however it is not very well structured. Workload is very fair and lecture can be engaging but there is too much time spent on opinion and group discussion as opposed to the actual material.
First time Kertzer taught it. Needs a ton of work. Very baseline. But, he cares a lot about teaching and students. Create a study group for the readings. Have someone take copious lecture notes. But don't worry if it seems disconnected... the material really isn't connected. He hasn't figured out an arc yet.
Insightful
Not terribly challenging and it's curved as well. Teaches you a lot of interesting things about foreign policy that you otherwise would not know.
Great, low-pressure, intro to foreign policy. Exams are hard! Know your details, and know the readings well. Professor Kertzer is awesome, get to know him (and he'll know your name, I guarantee it, if you talk to him more than twice). Definitely worth taking.
I would only recommend this course if you want to know more about IR theory than application of that theory. There was the potential to dig deeper into recent American policy issues such as the Iraq War, but it never came to be. Also the midterm is ridiculous.
If Professor Kertzer is teaching this class, take it.  He is an awesome professor who is really engaging and humorous.  The course itself is a great survey of American Foreign Policy, and as the only gov class I've taken here, it was quite enjoyable.
Overall, the course is just ok and probably the best choice to fulfill the IR gov requirement. Prof. Kertzer is energetic but does not provide lecture slides or video so if you are not typing away furiously in class or miss that day, you are out of luck. The midterm is also needlessly tricky and some of the questions are subjective to the point that you could really argue for a different answer. I am not interested in foreign policy so I found some of the readings too dense and boring but some units (like media and terrorism) were interesting and had more interesting readings. However, Sergio is fantastic and I wish he had been the one teaching the course! His explanation of the theories are easy to understand and are often funny metaphors. He brightened up this otherwise dull course.
Section isn't the best in terms of discussion and there's no strong integration of readings within lecture
Class just didn't generate enthusiasm. While the background discussed was theoretically useful, most gov concentrators have already touched on all that. Thought we would do a more case-study thing with Syria, Iran, and Russia. Professor Kertzer then tries to be clever with his tests, which just result in headaches and inaccurate reflections of how much the class knows.
The course is fast paced but interesting. The readings are easy to follow but you have to really make sure you can easily recall theories to their authors.
There aren't that many assignments but beware of the midterm and the final because they can have some tricky questions. The class gives you a good sense of overall american foreign policy so you don't have the opportunity to really delve into a particular issue. The readings were interesting and fairly current. Kertzer is a great professor and very enthusiastic.
This is not a traditional government class that you would take at Harvard. The teaching team is definitely helpful and approachable, but the way the course is run and material is presented can be very frustrating. It often feels that interesting topics are made dry in lecture as the professor applies as research method/case-study approach to evaluating the material at hand. For this reason, the material does not feel very tangible and it doesn't feel like we resolve many topics that we talk about. The exam questions go into much specificity which is difficult if you miss a few concepts covered once in lecture. However, there really isn't any busy work or excessive reading with this course which is a huge plus.
The class is taught by an enthusiastic professor, and the material covered is fascinating.
The readings are very dense. Be prepared.
Grading is very hard and sections are seemingly pointless!
REVIEW THE READINGS
This class was horribly unfair. If you expect it to be like another gov class then you are out of luck
This course is a great overview of foreign policy theory, but hopefully they will add more of a focus on current events in subsequent years. Overall very painless.
If you are interested in international politics whether you are highly informed or not about it this is a great course to take to understand fundamentals of international relation theory and then apply it to current issues. Professor Kertzer is a great lecturer who really tries to engages the students and even encourages group discussion during lecture on how to address current international issues.
The exams are extremely difficult
loved it, super interesting and pretty easy, not a lot of work, reading is pretty cool and the class is current
This class is fine if you don't already know anything about Foreign Policy. Professor Kerzter is great, but the class moves fairly slowly and it doesn't spend that much time on current events. That said, it's a very light workload and is a decent introduction to very basic IR/foreign policy theory.
Eh
Interesting class that really is not that hard (all you have to do before the last week is a midterm). Professor Kertzer's lectures are very good.
This is a great survey course in American foreign policy, and is a great starting point for future studies in IR and American government. Professor Kertzer is really great, and lectures are both interesting and interactive.
This is a great course for anyone wanting to learn more about IR and specifically AFP. Prof Kertzer, especially for a first year instructor, did a great job creating a coherent course and engaging lectures. Also, the course doesn't have any textbooks, so that's definitely a plus. On the negative side, the lectures and course readings sometimes seemed a bit divorced from one another, and a lot of in class time was spent on middle school-esque participation activities.
If the course is the same teaching staff and the same syllabus as spring 2015, don't take the course. Especially if you are a junior or a senior and you have taken any sort of gov class before, you will have learned more about these topics in more detail and in a much less painful way.
The material is really interesting and the topics discussed are really cool. Lectures are kind of dry sometimes, maybe that's because Professor Kertzer is Canadian? Just kidding. Lectures are dry but the material is cool.
This course is very disjointed. It had a lot of different units each week and then no real cohesive themes to bring them together. The midterm and final had true false and fill in the blank on random tiny points from lecture or the readings rather than looking at the picture. It was an pretty easy course in that the workload was minimal, but I don't think I really learned from it.
This is a very good introduction to international relations in general and American foreign policy in particular.  Both lectures and sections are engaging (try to get Sergio if he is still a TF - unlike many courses, they actually say in advance which TFs will teach which sections), readings are manageable, and assessments are fair.
Lectures, sections, readings, everything about this course is wonderfully thought out and presented. Professor Kertzer is a very engaging person and is most definitely interested in getting to know you as a person. Just overall a fantastic course and I would definitely recommend.
I did not find this class terribly exciting but you might!  At least check it out.
Prof. Kertzer is great - very engaging in lecture.
Professor Kertzer doesn't believe in informative lecture slides so be prepared to take thorough notes, as much of the final exam consisted of comments he made in class. The readings are just as importantyou should know the authors of all readings plus what their general arguments are.
interesting material but poorly structured. kertzer is passionate but is inexperienced as a lecturer. though he is incredibly smart and knowledgeable.
This class is taught as if all the students are in middle school.  It was a case study in poor didactic methods combined with infantile subject matter.  "Let's divide into 14 groups and each  respond to a different component of the following question:  Is it good for the United States to be powerful?"
If you like international relations, take this!
This is a good class if you like international relations theory and thinking abstractly about current events. As a non-government concentrator, I was most interested in the second half of the class, but found the first part on IR theory to be a bit of a drag. While there are not a lot of readings for the class, it can be difficult to remember the minute details of what each author argued when it comes time for the midterm and final. Readings aren't always discussed in section.
A lot of reading, make sure to go to lecture and take good notes
Easy class, pretty mindless, probably one of your "classic" gov lecture courses where no one really does the readings / is engaged, and exams basically just require you to remember the readings and not really think. Unfortunate because this could be really interesting as a topic.
This class is not worth it. I was hoping to learn something about historical U.S. Foreign Policy or possibly the current foreign policy situation or maybe even the future of foreign policy, but it was so disjointed and surface-level that I don't know if I came away knowing anything that I wanted to. Additionally the tests are meant to trick you, and the lectures involve some very obnoxious group work.
Professor Kertzer is enthusiastic and engaging. Make sure you go to lecture, not only because it is important for the exams, but also because it is always interesting. The professor and teaching fellows were quite knowledgeable and approachable. Overall, a very well taught and organized course.
This is a great class to fulfill your IR requirement or as a Gov elective. The workload isn't bad at all - readings are all pretty short and if you spend a few hours a week doing them you will be fine.  Lectures are engaging and fun to attend and if you put in a minimum amount of effort you get a lot out of the class.  Highly recommend, especially if Kertzer is teaching it.
This is a very enjoyable class. You may not realize how much you've learned in the class until the end but it is very rewarding if you put in hard work during the semester rather than just at a midterm and final.
It's a good class to take if you want to learn more about international relations, and the readings are not too heavy (and free).
The multiple choice questions on the first quiz are difficult to the point of being slightly unfair if you don't think in a multiple choice fashion.
Absolutely take this course! Without a doubt my favorite course I've taken so far. Professor Kertzer is engaging and actually takes the time to get to know his students, and his lectures are very informative and easy to follow. He also doesn't require you to buy any books, which is a blessing!
This class is an excellent way of delving into the ins and outs of contemporary foreign policy. The workload is moderate, and the professor is very engaging.
Loved this class. Do all the readings!
This class is definitely one of my favorite classes this year. Prof. Kertzer is a phenomenal person with a great personality, and made this class that much more fun. The readings were exciting and the curriculum was very well set.
This is a really good IR course! It's well-taught, generally well-organized, and very interesting! It can be tough, and grading is generally tough, but it's worth it!
Kertzer is an amazing lecturer and will keep you engaged during lecture. Actually do the readings because they make up a large portion of the exams.
This class gives a good foundation into American foreign policy. There is some IR theory review and then the first half of the course focuses on domestic inputs while the second half focuses more on global outcomes and concerns. Overall the course is very broad in its approach which can be appealing to some. However, for those who want to deeply engage with a specific area of foreign policy, this may not be the best course. That being said, Kertzer is a great professor and makes an effort to get lunch with his students throughout the semester.  The TFs, especially Sergio, are also great at leading sections and covering material.
The readings are really interesting and the lectures are quite informative. This is a great survey of International Relations from an American perspective. All of the theoretical framework that you need will be taught within the first few weeks, so do not worry if you do not have an IR background.
you have to study for the tests. hard. like actually study. otherwise, it's really fun.
This is a great course for both veterans and newcomers into IR and politics.  It bridges the gap between IR and domestic politics studies very well.  A great preview of everything in the realm of Foreign Policy.
Kertzer is a great lecturer and very enthusiastic about the material! The course is a great overview of IR theory and contemporary policy debates in IR. The first midterm comes up quickly, and it's hard; all the tests are very focused on details. Still so worth it, though, because I learned so much and got a solid grounding in international relations, and got excited about maybe working in international relations one day. If you take this class, definitely look at the advice from previous students, which the TFs will post on the Canvas site.
Start your paper early, try to turn in a rough draft to your TF even.
Absolutely brilliant course. The concepts are well explained, the intellectual discussion is riveting, and the classes are all presented with a certain degree of humour that will make you smile even if you spent the previous night awake while working for hours on your paper.
This class does a great job thoroughly dissecting such a complex topic of foreign policy.
This class is great! It's really interesting, and the teaching staff is wonderful. Kertzer is so approachable and friendly, and really cares about his students.
The exams are a bit tricky and the readings are dry-- but lectures with Professor Kertzer are very entertaining!
great overview of American Foreign Policy, many classic readings
Do the readings and go carefully through the reading guides and lecture outlines to prepare for the midterms and final.
This class is very well structured and the lectures that Prof. Kertzer gives are instructive as well as engaging.It is important to note that the class is not a history class of American foreign policy throughout the years (as the course title might suggest), rather it is a class more on different theories relating to different facets of foreign policy. Overall, I would say the reading load is very manageable with the actual readings being a good mix (not being too dense or too easy)and informative.
The class is terrific even if you know nothing about current events. The good thing is that you learn real stuff in the class, and come out with a wealth of knowledge about what is going on in the world.
This course is really great! Do the readings and pay attention and it'll be a great part of your semester!
This class will not be available next year, so it won't be recommended by me.
Really amazing material with not a whole lot of work
This class treats itself like you have all the time in the world to study for it. Dont take it if you are going to have other high workload classes. Expectations are high for participation (and midterms and essays), but sections are not good (at least Sergios). It isnt a very rewarding class if you have taken a lot of IR in the past, but it also doesnt make it easier, because any answers you give on the midterm have to match Kertzers pretty identically, and his can differ a little from other classes. You also need to keep up to date on current events, and it helps to have a good grasp of history of foreign policy, because you will have to provide some on midterms. This class also doesnt prepare you at all for the research paper; the topics are only tangentially related, and once again, pretty in-depth knowledge of current foreign policy events is necessary to even begin thinking about the topics  I understand that it is a research paper, but you literally wouldnt know where to start and there are a lot of topics so there definitely isnt time to research all of them before you choose.
Don't take this course unless you're deeply interested in international relations and have already taken a course in IR beforehand.
Great class! Professor Kertzer really loves the material and it diffuses onto his students.  Do the readings!
This is a very basic class. Because so much time is spent on drilling the fundamentals, you won't learn a lot about how to think about IR. You learn facts, not theories.
This is an amazing class. I had never taken a gov class and this was the perfect introduction!
Gov 1790 is a very good class for those highly interested in learning about foreign policy. It's a lot of work (and reading), but you truly learn a lot if you dive deep into the material and take the time and initiative to understand it. Prof. Kertzer is a very good lecturer and you'll enjoy listening to him. You'll walk out of the class with a much greater understanding of why the US acts as it does with regard to dictating foreign policy and how the rest of the world has react and will react in the future to our actions. IR framework is fascinating and when you watch the news, you'll find yourself seeing foreign policy in a very different way. Don't expect to get an A, but take this class if you're truly interested in furthering your understanding.
This class if amazing! Kertzer is such a cool guy - funny, smart, quirky, down to earth. The material is upload online free of charge, organized extremely well, and taught in lecture/section as well. The lectures are engaging and make you think about the real world. This class doesn't focus on history but emphasizes theory and applicability to real politics. The tests are fair, and if you study well you should do well as well. I reccommend this class for anyone interested in IR, either for fun or for Gov credit. Honestly TAKE THIS CLASS!!! You won't regret it :)
Take it if you're interested in IR.
This was the best course I have taken at Harvard. The work initially appears overwhelming, but Kertzer has deliberately arranged the course in a way that makes it manageable and illuminating. His lectures are incredible and his reading guides are very useful in showing you what is important and what is not. Having three exams actually makes the course easier, and it leaves you feeling like you've mastered the material.
It's a great class to give you an overview on US foreign policy. I recommend you take it. It's not that hard and Prof Kertzer is great.
This class was very interesting! Professor Kertzer has an awesome curriculum planned and every lecture is really engaging. Great overview of American Foreign Policy. Exams are difficult and require a lot of details so know the readings well. Overall great experience, though!
If you're a gov major looking to take an IR class, find another one. Not because this class isn't enjoyable, because it is, but because the tests are brutal and will hurt you in the end. Overall, would NOT recommend this course.
I expected to learn a lot about American foreign policy, and honesty I feel like a learned a bunch of nebulous theories and terminology instead
