A very useful tool for researchers.
The uses of GIS are endless - in business, policy making, science. If you ever had a research question that had a spatial dimension to it, this class will probably give you the tools to find the answers.
Only take this course if you enjoy GIS mapping from previous course work.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. I wish I had taken it several years ago.
Excellent course! Sumeeta is an outstanding professor. She's very understanding, answers questions directly and promptly, and the labs she designs are very effective in learning advanced GIS. She covers all the basic concepts in a very clear and concise fashion.
Highly recommend if you have data or a project in mind already that could benefit from GIS
Keep up with the labs!
LOVE the content.  Very self motivated.  Sumeeta is incredibly competent.  Try and come up with a project idea early.
Take this class! You will walk away with such tangible skills in map making. Although it is a lot of work, you get to explore your own topics and run your own spatial analysis. Sumeeta is a brilliant professor who is not only super knowledgeable, but also incredibly friendly and approchable.
Take it!!!
Ask Prof. Srinivasan for help if you need it. She can seem a bit distant or severe but she is a great help in many ways.
I felt confused through almost every single one of the labs, but when I went to do the final project it all started to make a bit more sense. Sumeeta is extremely patient and helpful, but sometimes you just have to bang your head on the computer for a few hours and figure things our for yourself. Don't be overly ambitious on your final project. Pick something doable, which will allow you to practice solid skills, with data that is readily available.
Enjoy your time in the GIS lab. Pace your assignments throughout the semester because you're going to want to use the last few weeks (and perhaps even before) to work on your project.
I cannot speak highly enough of this class; I learned a ton, and what I learned was immediately useful in my job (off campus).  I also foresee myself using it in my thesis, and perhaps in other capacities.  Additionally, Sumeeta was very accessible and always willing to help, but she allows you to move at your own pace; I really enjoyed having her as a professor.
