A great class to take to get your feet wet in ethics
I expected something very different from what I got. I think this is a great class for a very specific type of person- a type of person that in many ways, I was not. Are you that kid in Metaethics class who raises your hand to ask a fellow student whether they were confusing semantic differences with conceptual differences? Classroom environment is something you don't notice until you're a fish out of water, and if you're someone who doesn't like confrontation or doesn't like arguing anything until you fully understand what's going on, this class may not be for you. The people who enjoy the class most are the ones with prior ethics and philosophy training and the ones who enjoy that style of debate. If you're interested in getting a broad recap of ethical discourse and learning a lot of new material, this class may not be for you.
Safra is probably the best community I've joined at Harvard. The class makes for great discussions--it was the best class I took this semester. Arthur is incredibly sharp and helps guide the discussion in a productive, effective way. His humor and quirkiness are icing on the cake.
Sometimes hostile atmosphere, but the material is very interesting.
A wonderful course for those with fairly set interests in modern ethical theorizing.
It is a fantastic class with a fantastic professor and fantastic discussions.
Take this class and you will join one of the best communities I've been a part of.
Assuming that you're part of the Safra Undergraduate Fellows program (congratulations!), you'll be required to take this class. The readings are quite a bit of fun, although they can be long, and the course covers a lot of ground in terms of the sorts of questions people are asking in contemporary political philosophy. The class discussions were quite lively, and Arthur (and his many diagrams) does a good job of clarifying concepts/providing examples/steering the conversation.
Great class! Highly recommend the Safra Fellowship, it's a great way to learn how to think and write about normative questions, and a lot of fun to meet other students and Harvard associates who work in the field.
Since one is first accepted into the Safra program then made to take this class, recommendations of this sort don't possess too much persuasive power. But, as far as my general comments on the class are concerned, I thought the class was marvelously taught with incredibly interesting topics and texts and a wonderful, engaging, and intelligent teaching staff.
This is one of those few classes at Harvard in which you have a great interaction/exposure with an amazing faculty member in a small setting (10 students).
If you have any interest in ethics and have taken the required classes, then I would apply. The Safra Center provides a great community, Prof. Applbaum is incredibly knowledgable and approachable, and the class is very manageable in all. I learned so much about ethics, and am glad to have had the opportunity to write a 15 page philosophical paper with so much support.
Try to chat with current Safra fellows if you're thinking of applying! Ask if the Safra Center can direct you to someone with interests or a concentration similar to yours.
The Safra undergraduate seminar is a major academic undertaking and seriously rewarding. Be prepared to read all 60-80 pages of philosophy every week (more than it sounds). Ensure that you start developing your final paper topic early and have a very clear understanding of your philosophical questions and the process for answering that question. Your classmates will know a lot of philosophy, and that can be intimidating and confusing, but don't be discouraged.
This seminar has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard. This intellectual community provided the space for conversations that challenged me in helpful ways.
The Safra fellowship is a great opportunity for people who are interested in ethics. This class is a great way to sharpen you skills in ethics and to get a start on your thesis.
The material covered is interesting and the readings are very well-selected, so that the reading load isn't overwhelming but you still learn a lot. The classroom environment is unlike most sections at Harvard, in both good and bad ways - it's going to challenge you and make you think harder than most courses, but it's also going to be a somewhat hostile environment (both in that Arthur will push you to defend your beliefs and in that he'll set students against each other). Try to get to know the other students outside the classroom - the Center does a good job selecting an interesting group of people in the cohort, and knowing them as people will make the class more enjoyable.
The recommendation number is a little weird because of the nature of the fellowship and course. But, I would highly recommend both the fellowship and the course. The fellowship is an incredible opportunity to work with and hear from amazing, smart people. The class really challenges you in a good way, and Arthur is both really smart and a great professor. I enjoyed my experience in this class, and feel like I am leaving a lot more curious than when I began, which is always a good thing.
The course is a helpful dive into the questions of political philosophy and ethics.
The curriculum and class structure will be more dogmatic than anything you've taken before, but you'll learn a ton from it.
You can have a lot of fun taking this course, but talk to previous fellows first before enrolling to get a sense of what it's like and if you'll get something out of it.
