I would recommend that this course is advertised to first-year graduate students as a means of developing research interests.
Do some background reading if you don't know anything about the post-Soviet space first.
Be prepared to support your argument in class
This course is definitely effective in terms of improving knowledge of the region and the most prominent contemporary political/economic/social developments therein. The briefs are aimed primarily at improving students' ability to describe these developments concisely, so if you are looking to go into an academic or non-academic career field related to the region, the course is a good option in either case. Moreover, the inclusion of guest lecturers is very effective for refining one's understanding of specific policy issues. However, if you are searching for a more traditional academic course with a final term paper, this may not be the most appropriate option.
Be ready and prepared for class every day. There is no room for not paying attention or skipping the readings. There is a consistent and fairly heavy workload, but the payoffs make it worth it.
This is a difficult course, but Alexandra is a good instructor and will help improve your writing.
Get ready to do a lot of work! But it's completely worth it.
You will benefit so much from having Alexandra as a mentor. Just give the course everything you got and be ready and willing to take feedback and criticism.
This course is a great mixture of political science and public policy. This is like an HKS class in FAS - practical and informative without being too performance-based.
Though it is a very demanding course, Professor Vacroux invites excellent speakers to discuss the materials covered.  She spends a significant amount of time revising and providing feedback on papers.  This class makes you think.  If you are interested in the topics, are eager to learn, and want to improve your confidence in discussing these topics and writing on them, I highly recommend the course.  By far the best course I have taken to date.
A really good and rewarding course for anyone interested in getting a strong background in various key issues in the post-Soviet region. But, be forewarned, it requires a fair amount of reading and involves writing short (1500 word) essays weekly.
