Great class to learn about Indian political history and contemporary political issues - covers all of the relevant questions.
It's a lot of reading, but a generally engaged and enthusiastic class (the professor and students alike). A worthwhile experience for anyone interest in India or the developing world.
This class was really interesting, the workload was reasonable, and I learned a lot!
good lectures, but poor conveyance of what is expected in section or in papers
Great lectures, a lot of reading, but you can get by without it.
amazing course, great teaching
Excellent lectures and informative readings, along with a manageable workload
If the class is better organized next time, it will certainly be more enjoyable and more useful. Prof. Singh is an excellent lecturer and very open to feedback. India enthusiasts and people interested in the developing world can benefit from the content of this class.
Enjoyable course with much interesting material.
I would make sure that they know that the midterms are graded harshly.
Be prepared to learn a lot and enjoy every minute of it. Also, you'll get more out of the class when you participate!
This course is thorough and effective at giving you both a macro and micro view of Indian politics, but you have to be willing to work hard.
This course gives out a lot of really interesting material and, if you're looking to understand the politics of place you've never encountered before, then this class will give you a lot of the history and social contexts which inform the politics of India. Professor Singh is an energetic and passionate lecturer, but the course is long (anticipate sleepiness for at least 20 minutes of the lecture, regardless of how interesting it is) and wasn't really that well arranged administratively. Frustration was a common feeling when it came to feedback from the TFs, the course schedule, the - at times - unnecessary amount of reading, and understanding the criteria for grading. That said, you will learn a lot about India's place in the world today and how it has come to that point socio-economically and politically. It's a very comprehensive course, and at the very least you'll enjoy the ride (even if you're not quite sure where you're going...)
The readings are far too long and complicated to realistically complete and the grading is done very strictly and unfairly
While it provides a great introduction to Indian politics and the lectures are very enjoyable, I would not recommend taking this course unless the assignments change. Too much of an emphasis is put on very, very brief answers for the response papers, the midterm and final (think ten pages max to answer two essay questions for the final). And the essay questions are complex, so the extremely limited amount of space given makes it hard to answer them fully. The breakdown of grading also makes it difficult to know how you are doing in the class because the really high emphasis on a short take-home final is not typical to most government courses. Little guidance is provided in preparing for the final. There is no grading rubric available, so if you are concerned with grades, you may find the explanation provided in feedback after-the-fact to be frustrating. Unlike other courses in the field, students should know that they will primarily be graded on what they leave out rather than what they choose to focus on in their (brief) essay answers.
An amazing class!A great introduction to Indian politics even for those of us who knew very little about it coming in.
Take this class. It's one of the best Government classes that Harvard offers.
It was phenomenal.
If you're looking for an interesting lecture course that is not exam heavy, this is a must-take. Every lecture was stimulating and in the end, you'll leave with an extensive knowledge about a fascinating country. The lessons learned from this class will go on to help in studies of almost every other political structure or situation.
Get involved in class discussion!  It's the best way to develop, analyze, and formulate ideas and understandings of Indian politics. Professor Singh provides plenty of opportunities for engagement and participation, so take advantage of them.
Professor Singh is fantastic!!
This was one of my favorite Government classes I've taken at Harvard over the past four years!
This is the worst class at Harvard. Should be deleted. Forever. Horrible teacher - does not care about students. Be prepared to fail.
This was a really fun class, and Prof. Singh was awesome, but be prepared to be put on the spot in lecture and section, and it helps if you have some knowledge of India or south Asia already.
This class is a must take! You will not regret it and you will learn so much. Singh is inspirational.
If you think you may be interested in India at all, this is a wonderful course to take, even if you have no background knowledge. I learned so much about India's history and how it stands in the modern world. Professor Singh is wonderful!
great, not too hard, so interesting. also, really easy to get to know prof serna (though I didn't take advantage of this quite as much as I would have liked)
It seems like a fairly easy course since all of the work is take-home, but it depends on your TF. It is not hard to end up getting a C or a B on a paper that you felt proud of. Beware.
Take this class if you are at all interested in the subject matter. It is an amazing class about India.
It would be worth it to take the class if you're interested in learning about growing democracies. There are many interesting qualities India possesses in the global context.
This class is interesting but you have to stay up on the reading to get anything out of it
This class left me fascinated with India! Everything we discussed was so interesting, and I quickly learned how Indian history and politics is related to America, England, Pakistan, China, etc. Prerna is a fun and engaging professor, too. Definitely take this if you want to learn more about India and its politics!
This a great course, Prof Singh is really intelligent and an amazing lecturer.
This class provides a truly phenomenal foundation of Indian history since independence. You will perhaps never find such a coherent analysis of Indian political and civil history.
Fun
great class. truly interesting and you will learn a lot about a place that you may not know much about
If you are willing to do the amount of reading given, this course is extremely rewarding and you learn a lot about India from a great professor.
Excellent class on every level.
This is a great class, I'd absolutely recommend it. Professor Singh is great, and she'll make you fall in love with the subject.
Politics of India is one of my favorite classes at Harvard. The material is fascinating, and incredibly relevant, as the course focuses on modern India. Lectures were fast-paced but incredibly interesting and I enjoyed the readings. Reading was heavy and it was important to do the readings for the take-home exams (essay format) but nonetheless very enjoyable.
Politics of India was an extremely fun class.  Professor Singh was able to inject humor into the lectures, which made it even more fun.  The course material was also interesting because India has gone through so much politically since independence.  The readings were also engaging and got me thinking more about the current situation in India.  Overall, the teaching staff for this course was great!
This is a great class to take if you are interested in gaining a comprehensive knowledge of India - politics, history, culture, etc. I do think you have to be interested in the topic to enjoy the class though. Prerna is a great lecturer, though there are a good number of guest lecturers. I took it as an elective as a science concentrator and learned a ton! Recommend with enthusiasm. Not so easy, but worth it.
Professor Singh and the TFs have a pretty liberal bent, FYI
As a senior with a government secondary, this class was the first government course I truly enjoyed. Lectures were super interesting and not too theoretical. Professor Singh is a very engaging, encouraging professor and made the material extremely accessible. I wholeheartedly recommend this course!
Definitely take this class if Prerna Singh is teaching it.
WARNING: THIS CLASS IS NOT WHAT IT SAYS IT WILL BE.I was at first very excited about this course, but this excitement diminished as I realized that the actual structure of it was frustrating. First off, the lecture does not need to be 1.5 hours. Secondly, 3-4 page papers, the essay of choice, are not nearly enough to discuss course material nor evaluate a student's understanding of the subject. You are more frequently judged on what you do NOT include in the essay than what you do, which is unacceptable considering that there is barely enough space to even begin to discuss a topic - grading is erratic at best. Furthermore, they tell you to "develop your own prompt" but do not provide any insight on how to do this. There was a lot of "we're going to give you creative power!" but not a lot of support when students asked for it.The course also does a poor job near the end of establishing chronology. The class starts off well with it - it seems more like a history course, even - but then you realize that IT's NOT ACTUALLY A GOV COURSE if it's so history-oriented. Then, when it goes into actual Gov-material, it treats it with a week (2 lectures) and moves on. I feel like I would be better at explaining Indian history than Indian governmental institutions.And the last of the many criticisms that I have on this course that I will include - the final was poorly planned. 1 week to write two essays on two different subjects? Really? It was inconsiderate of the fact that students had other essays to complete. Give us more time if you're going to assign two essays. Or just give us an exam.Mainly, I found the way that the teaching staff approached student learning to be disrespectful. TFs seemed to use the excuse that they had their hands tied - well, untie them! You create the course. Be more receptive to student feedback. Looking at Q scores from the past, these concerns about the course HAVE been raised in the past. Why hasn't there been change yet?
Take this course! Professor Singh is an engaging lecturer and the topic is fascinating. I would recommend taking Gov 20 first as that class provides a basic understanding of Comparative Government - something I found really helpful for this class.
It is a very good class - you learn a lot about India.  However, the papers can be challenging to write for anyone who is not accustomed to writing political science papers.
There seemed to be very few warning signs about this class. It starts off well, and indeed, it's not as though any lesson is a bad one. But the logistics of this class could torture you:First off, the class structure is odd. It starts with 6 weeks of chronological history, then it jumps into political science arguments for the rest of the term. Even if you're good with both, the jump will throw you, and your grades around the halfway point will certainly reflect that.The readings are not particularly helpful. Guha is great, but the coursepack readings are generally a loose collection of introductory chapters. Not a lot of meat, but a high word count that you're expected to understand.The short papers, though they don't count for much, are also strange assignments. The assignment is this: write a paper about Indian politics-GO. What's more, you only have three to four pages to write a convincing argument, and as past reviewers have noted, you're harshly graded on the elements of the course that you couldn't fit into them.Then the final itself. A whopping 45% of your grade, this one's a real doozy. You're expected to research and craft two prompted essays in a week, but half of that week is before reading period even begins. Basically, unless  you have no other assignments, this will eat through your reading period.I really think that Professor Singh, Emily and Adi are good, intelligent people with a lot to share, but their talents do not lie in laying out a smooth class.
Professor Singh is great. Lectures are engaging and the material is always very interesting. The class is well-structured and you are able to get a good overview not only of Indian politics but many aspects of social, economic, and cultural life as well. Many great lecturers too. This class is great, take it!
It is very educational but sometimes hard to keep up with.
It's awesome.
This is a course worth taking if you're interested in seeing how political theory intersects with (and is complicated by) the real world that is India. Professor Singh is a great lecturer and is committed to this class, and you will enjoy every minute.
Great course if you are interested in India. Professor Singh is one of the best professors I've ever had.
This is a great crash course in Indian government and politics in a comparative context.
I learned so much in this class. The professor and TFs clearly care about the material and did a great job teaching about a very interesting subject. This class is both interesting and rewarding.
I took this class on a whim, and it was my favorite class this semester. Prof Singh is an incredible and animated lecturer. If you have any interest in India whatsoever definitely take this class!
I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS COURSE. Professor Singh is an incredible lecturer and very accessible. She is so knowledgeable and she made class interesting and fun. She made an effort to learn names and encourage participation. I learned so much, and now I can really appreciate how interesting India is in terms of political science. A GREAT course for gov concentrators, but also for anyone looking to take a gov class. There's a fair amount of reading, but the articles are really good. Emily was an incredible TF. Professor Singh and the TFs make an incredible team. It has been the BEST course I've taken at Harvard.
The professor is a great lecturer.
Fantastic class, but response papers are not really response papers, be ready to really be writing 2 regular papers, a takehome midterm and final. Also, make sure you have a really clear sense of how a government paper structure is before you write anything. But Professor Singh's lecturing makes all the writing worth it--a fantastic elective to take.
A engaging, provoking, and manageable course on South Asia. Sheer Genius!
Eh.
Great class - somewhat of a hidden gem amongst government classes. Some sweeping generalisations with lectures and things you hear, but there's always discussion time at the end of each lecture where people challenge some assumptions made by the professor. The teaching staff are great (Emily in particular), and can be very helpful if you're an underclassman/still dabbling your way through government classes and writing papers. Take it if you: a) want to take a good, reasonably easy gov class; b) have any interest or want to learn more about India; c) are a senior and need a good class that isn't too taxing, but isn't a joke either
Really covers topics well, interesting course material
This class is really solid.  Singh is an awesome lecturer and the coolest part is that she knows everyone in the class' name!  Definitely take it if you are a gov concentrator or if you have any curiosity about India.  It is a really solid overview.  Decent amount of writing so definitely check out the syllabus before signing up.  Some of the reading for the class (Guha) is really awesome!  Overall, put it on your shopping list!
A good class, really gives you a good picture of post-independence India. It doesn't really get very deeply into theory until towards the end, though, so you should probably like history (and not know much about Indian history after independence).
This class was a great introduction to Indian history and culture as well as an amazing exploration in to what makes democracy work and how countries approach developmental problems.
This class is absolutely wonderful. Prerna Singh is an amazing lecturer and has very good powerpoint presentations, and she is extremely accessible outside of class. She is also very open to feedback and very honest, and she really cares about her students. The TFs are also great and foster really nice discussions, and the class is also not too taxing. If you're looking for a relatively easy and fun class, definitely take this! You will also learn a lot about Indian politics and culture.
This course will give you important insights in one of the most important nations in the future. Excellent course!
Professor Singh is absolutely excellent, you should definitely take this course
Highly recommended! Professor Singh's lectures are always great, and the reading isn't TOO much to handle. Would, however, suggest that those who are considering taking this class have a background in either Gov 20 or some other introductory comparative course, as you are expected to draw on sources outside those which you read in class when writing essays.
cool class, will learn a good deal about indian politics, professor gives great lectures
Take this class if you are interested in India! You learn about a variety of issues facing India today, and you get a good sense of India's political history from Independence onwards. Professor Sigh's lectures are quite thorough.  There is a lot of reading though, so If you aren't interested in India, stay away.
They make the class more difficult than it actually needs to be, given the material that is taught (much of it is Indian history). While the class is very interesting and Professor Singh is an incredibly compelling lecturer, there is quite a lot of writing required (2 short essays ~4 pages, 1 midterm of ~10 pages, 1 final of ~10 pages) and they grade it pretty hard.
This is undoubtedly one of the best classes at Harvard. Professor Singh is the best lecturer I have had to date, and section was really helpful.
just take it. Professor Singh is an amazing lecturer who keeps all the students engaged.
You will learn a ton about modern india.
This is by far my favorite Gov class at Harvard (I'm a senior). I feel so lucky to have had Professor Singh as a teacher because she is so engaging and her lectures and well-organized and interesting. I never looked at the clock once during class (except when we had guest lecturers). If you've never learned anything about India in your classes and have even the smallest interest in South Asia, I highly highly recommend this class. India is a fascinating country from a political perspective and every Gov concentrator should have some basic familiarity with the region. I can't emphasize enough that Professor Singh is one of the best professors in the department, on par with Levitsky. I'll miss this class very much.
Professor Singh is a very engaging lecturer who could spark anyone's interest in Indian politics. With a little effort, you can easily get to know her as she is very keen on knowing her students. The readings are pretty manageable and the material is interesting so the one hour and half doesn't seem as long as in other classes.
This is an excellent course about India! Professor Singh is a wonderful lecturer and is great at taking and answering questions. The topics covered are from a range of subjects dealing with issues of developing countries. I was excited to attend lectures. The papers are very well graded and allow you to explore a variety of topics of your choosing. I highly recommend this course.
A fantastic course if you're interested in learning about India!
This is a fantastic class. If you are interested in India, it is a must-take
This is a wonderful class! The lectures are really great, the assignments reasonable and interesting, and the workload is not too much. Professor Singh is so great and really accessible. One of my favorite classes at Harvard by far!
The requirements are painless, but it can be difficult to do well because the expectations of the teaching staff are high.
