The material is extremely interesting and relevant, and Prof. Tingley is a great lecturer.
This class presents a really cool way to look at international relations (through domestic politics).  I feel like I learned a lot and found myself applying what I learned in 1782 to other gov. classes.  Tingley's a pretty good lecturer but sometimes lectures can feel a bit dull.  Was really interesting because we applied what we were learning to the wave of democratization in the middle east.  I'd definitely recommend as a way to fill the foreign politics requirement.
This course will really effective how you view the domestic political situation because you come to realize that politicians and domestic actors are dealing with so many pressures that are not exclusively coming from within the national arena, but from the international stage as well. There is so much strategy, bargaining, and coordination that must take place, it is truly eye-opening!
Pretty solid class for the IR requirement.  Easy grade
Read current events and keep up with the news.
Worth it if you are strictly interested in IR, although it often feels convoluted without a clear message. There is some disconnect between the lecture, readings, and section components.
All in all, the course wasn't difficult, and provided a range of models for issues in international development. Be forewarned, though, you might come out disillusioned by the nature of political science, which tries to put rigid metrics on events that are not rigid in the slightest. The sections were extremely unhelpful, and you don't learn much from lecture beyond what's on the slides. But in the end, if you want a basic overview of international relations, this might be a better choice than Gov 40.
I would tell them that if they are looking for a challenging course that delves into substantive issues at great length then this course is not for them. If they are looking for an introductory course that covers a lot albeit it only superficially, then this is it.
This course provides a solid foundation to IR at both theoretical and practical levels. Prof. Tingley does a great job of linking course content (even theories) to modern-day events, such as the unfolding revolutionary movements in the Middle East. There are few assignments (2 policy memos), but a fairly significant amount of reading each week. If you're looking for an IR-subfield class within the Gov Department, definitely take this class instead of Gov 40.
lectures tend to drag on sometimes, the material in itself is practical and interesting. Tingley is enthusiastic with the material and its refreshing to see a professor who is still enthusiastic about his work
You do need to go to lecture, if only to listen to Tingley's jokes and to make sure you sign the attendance sheet. Yes, there's really an attendance sheet.
This is a great class. Professor Tingley is really interesting and the material covered is fascinating.
Great overview of different factors at play- however, it's hard to know what your standing is in class because there are not that many assignments.
Fairly laid-back class.
This course will be interesting to those interested in international relations! I took it when it was a brand new course so I'm sure it will get even better next year. Professor Tingley is highly enthusiastic and an effective lecturer, although lecture is mostly 'lecture' and class participation is often 'forced'. Form a study group to do all the readings as it's not necessary to do them all yourself with lots of detail.
Go in depth and know how to write a good policy memo.
This is an interesting course that is relevant to current events. It can be a bit of a random draw as to how interesting any given lecture may be. There is a lot of international relations and a comparatively smaller amount of domestic policy. It is okay, but it isn't a class I will leave here remembering much from. The TF's are knowledgable, but have different interests than the course so the course goes in 95 different directions depending upon whom you are taught by in section. 3 out of 5, I guess.
My favorite part of this class was learning about the kind of studies that political scientists conduct.  The first half of the class feels largely superfluous to someone who has already studied international poltics, but one you get into the more subject-specific readings (trade policy, foreign aid, etc.) the class becomes more interesting.  In general the theory we read takes a rather cynical view towards politics, assuming that the highest (and sometimes only) motivation of leaders is to stay in office.  At times this kind of mentality becomes very frustrating.
The material is interesting, but the lectures are boring and the class isn't very engaging. It may just be the fact that the course and structure are new, and it could be a good course in the future. But it needs major changes before that, so only take it if you have a really strong interest in the material.
A great introduction to foreign affairs!
This class provides a broad introduction to topics in international relations. I would encourage future students to take it, but to really try to keep up with readings because it's very easy to fall behind on them. In addition, knowing basic economic theory and american foreign policy is very helpful in the second half of the semester.
The lectures are drawn entirely from the readings. Doing both is honestly not necessary. Professor Tingley doesn't add anything to the lectures that is not covered in the readings.
Pay attention in the first 4 weeks as the concepts learned then are the foundation for the rest of the course. All the rest is clarification and examples.
If you are concerned about your GPA, it is difficult to do well in this class: truth. If you aren't so much concerned about your GPA, this class will help ncrease your current events/global affairs knowldege, especially if you haven't yet taken an international relations class at Harvard. I probably didn't do so swell grades-wise, but I learned some stuff about foreign aid and trade to keep up a conversation (Y).
This is a challenging course, but incredibly informative - it covers the interesting intersection between domestic politics and international relations, over a variety of subject areas!
This class is okay, but with so few IR options to choose from in the Gov Department it is better than other classes like Gov 40. Many interesting topics were covered and I definitely learned a lot about general IR theory as well as trade.
Great class! Professor Tingley has a lot of enthusiasm about the subject, is hilarious and the subject matter is extremely interesting!
