This is a wonderful course with an incredibly knowledgeable teacher, and you will come away knowing a lot more about China and the field of political science. It was too heavy on the political science for my taste, and the workload is perhaps unreasonable, but if you have the time it's definitely worth the effort.
This is an excellent course for gaining a better understanding of the political atmosphere in China, becoming more familiar with the major political science and comparative politics literature being written on China, and learning to relate the Chinese debates to broader debates in political science.
The course requires a fair amount of reading and it is more oriented to the field of political science as it is applied to China, not necessarily an overview of the field of China within political science. The discussions did not focus on the themes raised by the book, rather they discussed the books themselves and the author's effort to address a theme.
This class is a lot of work, but worth it if you are really interested in China and would like to continue doing research there.
This course provides excellent exposure to Chinese politics methods and theory.  It is rigorous and constructive -- I came away with a better understanding of the field and now want to continue studying Chinese politics and its relation to comparative politics.
Even if you are coming from a non-Poli Sci background, this course is worth it. Don't be thrown off by the first few weeks of class, which has lots of comparative political science literature.
A good class even if you're not sure you want to go into China studies.
This is a very demanding class. However, this is highly recommended. The class greatly enhances the understanding of China in comparative politics context.
Just take it, if you want to do China studies.
If you want to understand contemporary China (in whatever ways), you must take this course. The instructor is not a typical political scientist who only cares or understand politics from the state level and up, but a historian who understands resistance from the grassroots and so on.
They will find it challenging and time-consuming but very rewarding.
The reading load, while occasionally oppressive, is interesting and applicable. Completing this course feels like a major accomplishment and a highlight in my graduate studies.
Students with serious interest in conducting research on Chinese politics should not miss this course.
A very difficult class, but well worth it if you go through with it.
This was probably the best seminar course I have ever taken, either as a graduate or undergraduate student. It was incredibly well-structured and well-designed to cover the gamut of Chinese politics while also drawing deep and extensive connections to the broader field of comparative politics (like a comparative politics field seminar and a Chinese politics seminar rolled into one). And Prof. Perry is an excellent discussion leader and instructor whose insights into Chinese and comparative politics and ability to elicit active and constructive engagement from students made this class a refreshing and invaluable learning experience.
The reading load for this course is quite high, with two books required per week. That being said, the discussion from classmates and Professor Perry regarding the canonical political science literature was invaluable.
This course is demanding but very rewarding -- you will learn twice as much from this class as most other graduate seminars. The best designed and taught graduate seminar that I have taken.
Prepare well.
This is one of the best courses at Harvard. It is both challenging and interesting. Professor Perry is the ultimate expert and leads the most productive sections.
Phenomenal class.  Prof. Perry is an excellent teacher who cares very deeply about the subject matter--and it shows.  Highly recommended for all PhD students in any social science discipline with interest in doing research on China.
This is one of the strongest courses I have ever taken, pedagogically or content-wise. Professor Perry is exceptionally knowledgeable, an outstanding seminar facilitator, and a careful critic of texts, including students' work. If you like to be challenged and pushed in a fair and intellectually stimulating way, I cannot recommend this course enough.
This class is a very good but very time consuming seminar on Chinese politics.  You should take it if you are interested in seriously exploring recent scholarship on Chinese politics and placing it in comparative perspective.  You should not take this class if you are not able to commit an extremely high percentage of your week.
This is the course that will help graduate students to approach research from a theoretically rich and empirically vigorous perspective.
It is excellent, take it!
