This class was really helpful in understanding the current issues that face East Asia in addition to the history behind these issues. As an expert in this field, Professor Johnston presented complex concepts in an easy to understand and fascinating way by incorporating his experiences and research. This class was very manageable work-wise and, other than readings, has few assignments throughout the semester.
This class is dense, tries to cram in a lot of information, and is quite high-level for an undergraduate government course. If you have a serious interest in East Asia or international relations, maybe you will enjoy it, but I do not think this is a class I would recommend to a curious friend that wants to be introduced to a new and interesting topic.
Good professor and teaching fellows coupled with an interesting subject.
This class was amazing -- the Professor, Iain Johnston, is one of the best in the field and knowledgeable. Our class had about 30 students, so he was very willing to take questions at the end of class. He's also very approachable outside of the classroom!
A great course to understand IR theory, its applications, and East Asia better. Prof. Johnston and Boram lays everything down crystal clear, and they are both super accessible outside of the classroom. Great class overall.
This is a good introduction to East Asia IR. Even if there's some topics you already have some surface level knowledge about, Professor Johnston offers more nuanced perspectives than you may have encountered before. It's also a good course if you haven't been asked to think from a political science perspective or  learned about different IR theories and would like to do that in relation to East Asia.
I thought this was a fun, pretty easy overview of basic IR theory in an East Asian context. Professor Johnston is a solid lecturer and the material was interesting.
This course covers a lot. Professor Johnston is nice and knowledgeable. Definitely take it.
This class helps understand a key and fascinating region of the world that everyone should know about. It puts current events into perspective. Professor Johnston is an amazing lecturer, is very accessible outside of class and cares about students. You should definitely take this class!
This course is fantastic. East Asia is such an important and relevant part of the world right now, and understanding the way East Asian states interact and decisions are made is so interesting. Professor Johnston is so knowledgeable, and the TFs were great. I highly recommend it!
Gov 1760 provides one of the best possible overviews to East Asian IR through the lens of contemporary political theory - you learn not only about a wide variety of regional issues (from war and conflict, economics and trade, and environmental protection), but also a serious of different analytical, conceptual frameworks for assessing them. This course is about how we can interpret history, trade, and geography as independent variables which predict systemic outcomes. It makes theory far from scary, but rather approachable, relevant, and a way of writing down on paper dozens of assumptions about how the world works which we make in our heads every day. Moreover, Johnston is an outstanding lecturer with a careful understanding of the field, and often keeps the class appraised about current events (expect daily emails with links to the latest news!). His lectures are super organized with the key themes explained well on the slides, making note taking relatively easy. His passion and commitment shine through.Be warned, however - the reading in this class is VERY heavy, and although there are no quizzes, you can't get by with just skimming. Examinations require you to cite key ideas from the authors, so if you do the work, you'll do just fine.
this is a good introduction course to East Asia, combining theory and application. It provides an overview of history, current foreign relations, economics, and interstate cooperation and competition.
This is a great alternative to taking Gov 40 because it is in a much more intimate setting and the workload is not as intense. The course provides a basis of international relations theory that can substitute Gov 40. Also focusing on just one region makes learning theory much more palatable, and personally, enjoyable. The section component really connects the readings and lecture content while also applying the ideas to real life events.
