Despite some inconveniences such as problem sets, great way to learn R, LaTeX and basic regression in a fairly comfortable environment.
This class is a great introduction to linear regression and to empirical work in social sciences more generally. Definitely should be required for everyone doing empirical work.
A decent introduction to regression analysis and coding in R.
Some experience of R is crucial if you don't want to waste 20h/ week coding and debugging in R. Some knowledge of American politics is also recommended.
This course is difficult if you do not have extensive statistics or quantitative methods background; however Matt is an excellent lecturer and works very hard to tailor the class to the needs of the students.
great teaching and section work by matt, dana and anton. not sure if the material that the instructors were given to teach in the course was great for a single class, but i would recommend that you take it because you will see this stuff down the road.
Great teacher who can make stats. seem doable and I dare say, fun, even for ppl. with virtually no experience with the subject matter.
Take this class if you want to get a good intro to econometrics class, if you want to fresh up on your intro stats knowledge and / or if you want to learn R. But beware that the workload is way, way, way to high!
Some homework assignments are a lot of work, but the course is very applied and excellent for learning the material
It's definitely a solid amount of work each week. Remember to start the psets early! Professor Blackwell is a very funny and chill guy. He wants the class to be as good as possible. One of the two TFs was great, the other was pretty awful. Fortunately, I don't think the bad TF will be here next year.
the assignments take a long time...but you will learn A LOT!
Most grad students in the government department don't have a choice in taking this class, so my recommendation probably wouldn't matter one way or the other. For students who don't have to take it, I'd say they should take it if they have a really strong need to do or understand quantitative research using linear regression, but they should be prepared to spend a lot of time and will frequently find themselves confused if they don't already have a strong math and statistics background.
Be prepared to spend more time on this class than any other.
1) Be prepared to work long hours.2) Don't fall behind -- go over the readings/lecture notes every week, and before starting the assignments.3) Don't be afraid to ask questions.4) Don't worry if you don't understand everything.5) Buy and read the Wooldridge text.  It is clear, easy to follow, and provides excellent conceptual background.
The class is good, but spends a great deal of time on the statistical prerequisites for regression and not enough time on how one can implement the techniques fully (especially with regard to finding data etc).
If you are a PS grad student, you can't avoid it, and this is a problem. Since the class has a monopoly, it probably isn't the best it could be. If you are not a PS grad student, make sure you know what you are getting yourself into before joining.
Be prepared to work really hard and long hours!
Challenging and time-consuming but you'll learn a lot
If someone is interested in learning the most basic principles of the statistical methods approach in political science, and is fairly confident in their math and computing abilities, and realizes what a time commitment is involved to learn (indeed very interesting) material, then I would recommend this course without hesitation.
this is a useful class, but only if you already have undergraduate econometrics training, otherwise it is difficult to follow, particularly in the beginning.
Very useful course but difficult and time-consuming.
Students taking this class should expect it to take a great deal of time.  The tools are well worth it, but it is not going to be a cakewalk.
Unless you are required to take this course as a member of the Government department, I would try to find a more intuitively taught statistics course. I do have a better understanding of quantitative methods than I did at the beginning of this course, but I think I could have achieved the same degree of learning with a lot less frustration.
Since it is a requirement for most of you, be prepared for much frustration.
It's hard to say whether this is the best introductory statistics course at Harvard, but I can't imagine one that's more work. If you have a choice whether to take this course, carefully look into other stats courses across the university before signing your life away to Gov 2000.
It is a tough class, tons of work, very painful at times. But in the end I feel that I really learned something that is not only interesting but also useful down the line.
Take only if you're really interested in the material, but it was useful and practical.
Very challenging course though it is thorough and helpful once finished.  Sometimes hard to see the value at the beginning, but it's more apparent by the end.
This class is useful only if you want to take further, more advanced classes in statistics. I don't plan to do so, and I don't feel I learnt as much as I should have in an intro stats class: I learned perhaps too many techniques, but I'm not 100% confident with the basics of interpretation. My opinion is that this course tries to cover too much - and it succeeds only in areas that are useful if one wants to take further classes. On its own, it's not very helpful.
Be careful, this class will steal all of your attention and jeopardize your other classes.
Complaining won't make it any easier or less time-consuming, so just be open-minded and you'll learn a lot.
It's a requirement, and you don't want Jim Alt after you.
Obviously, it would depend. I did learn a fair amount from this course, but sheerly by virtue of drowning in the material. If you've got a good quantitative background, I'm certain this course would be a completely different story. However, for someone in my position with the choice of taking it or no, I would have to recommend against. The crushing workload cut into my ability to do other classes and was a constant mental drain.
Don't take it unless you really need to.
The quantitative methods sequence, so far, seems among the best reasons to do  graduate coursework at Harvard.
This is a self taught class.
If you wish to learn R, this is the course for you, but if you want to learn enough about statistics to understand basic social science research you may you probably are not going to get that out of this class.
Class was definitely manageable and not at all like the horror stories I'd heard in previous years (impossibly hard, time-consuming, etc.)  I actually think the class could have stood to be a little more challenging.  It's a requirement, so take it, but if you really want to get a lot out of the class, put in extra time doing the reading.  And don't rely on groups.
An excellent, if sometimes challenging, way for those with limited quantitative background to get to grips quickly and confidently with material that is essential for political science research.
Just when you think you might die, you survive and eventually, you become addicted to it. You start thinking you might actually like this statistics stuff.
It doesn't really matter since it's required.I would tell future students that the key to doing well is having a good study group that is willing to take the time to make sure everyone does well.
Don't be scared...this is not the living hell its made out to be!
It's a good course - you'll work, but you'll learn a lot.  After years of editing, this course really helps you get right to the core of PoliSci stats ... at least at an intro level
get serious with R, it is a good software!
I would say: "This course will be a very bad experience and you will get very little out of it.  But it's a requirement!  So take it."
An excellent class for understanding basic OLS regression.  Does an excellent job of covering use in the field, potential errors and diagnostics.
The concepts we learned were useful, and in the end, I learned a lot.  But the material was not presented in a way that made it possible for me to learn it efficiently.  It required an enormous amount of time outside of class for me to properly absorb the content of the class.
A fairly solid introduction to statistical principles and computing techniques, but frustrating at times.
You have to fill a stats requirement, and this is a fairly painless way to do it. The concepts can be abstruse, but the work demanded of you will be reasonable.
Unless you have a very could ability in statistical methods or at least math or economics, I would be wary to take this course. The R Code, the pace of the course, the problem sets: it's a huge time suck. And at the end of it all, it's not clear you learn enough about statistics itself; really this is a methods course, a crash course intro designed to get you ready for GOV2001. It is being inflicted on many students who are not going to take GOV2001. STAT110 should be a pre-requisite, and the fact that this is a departmental requirement should be dropped.
If you don't have a background in statistics, proceed with caution.
I'd recommend either not taking this class, or waiting until your 2nd or 3rd year of graduate study to take it, unless you intend to do quantitative political science in the future. If the latter, and you don't have much background in this stuff, I'd recommend hiring a tutor to help you get through the material efficiently, if you find yourself struggling. There are a LOT of graduate students around who have done the course before, so don't waste your time worrying if you don't really understand what you're doing. Also, here is some advice I wish I'd had before taking the class: Print out the lecture slides before class and take a pencil to make notes directly on the print-outs (including the answers to the questions Adam sets in class). This is much more useful in the long term than following along on your own laptop, thinking you understand what's going on in lecture, and only discovering you're a bit iffy on the logic behind it all several days later...
Be prepared to spend a lot of time on this class. Study groups are vital.
This course equips people with the tools, however it is an unclear presentation of statistics.
Take this only if you have time to devote around 20 hours a week to a course. It's very rewarding in terms of knowledge gained, but only if you put in the time.
This course will give you a strong base for understanding linear regression. It will be Thought it will be tedious, you will benefit greatly from the information you will receive.
Learning this material is really important, but I can't recommend the class itself.  I thought one smart choice I made was recognizing that I'd better learn the tools as quickly as possible, so I didn't fall behind.  People who didn't make the choice at first to devote the time to understanding had a much harder time.
Adam Glynn is an awful teacher.  He is clearly a brilliant man and a terrific scholar, but he is a terrible teacher.  He speaks in math not English.  So you take a class that is simply trying to do too many things and you have it being taught by a man who simply cannot teach.  Furthermore, to have this be the first introduction for Government PhD students is a true stain on the Government Department.  We do not learn methods, we do not learn theory, we do not learn how to how to contact research, we simply learn why the downfall of Political Science will be at the hand of Statisticians. We learn that Harvard is more committed to making sure we learn quantitative skills (although not from this class of course) than actually contributing to the world in a time where our Government continues to fall us.  For many, this class was a rude realization that the paradigm of Political Science that we have studied and the ideals that inspired us to pursue a PhD at Harvard's Department of Government were simply false.
Good foundational class if you're interested in understanding or using statistical methods, but to get something out of this class you should have a basic knowledge of multivariate calculus and linear algebra as well as some knowledge of probability.You may find this class to be difficult / not be able to get much out of this class if you lack those math fundamentals.
This course will definitely give you a solid background in quantitative methods.  I wouldn't take it unless you are genuinely interested in the topic however.
You will work your ass off, and you will spend way more time on this than anything you're actually interested in. Unless you're interested in statistical analysis of political science, of course.
Harvard deserves better.
This course is a good way to learn how to use R, and to get a basic understanding of statistics for political science. If you are looking for a deeper understanding of statistics or dislike the computer programming aspect, don't take this course.
If you're interested in studying mainstream US political science, this class or an equivalent is a necessity. If you're a theorist and they change the system so as not to force you to take it, I wouldn't bother, as learning R is of no use to you whatsoever and your time will be better spent elsewhere.
If interested in stats/regressions, I would suggest that fellow students explore similar courses offered in other departments.
A great way to learn how to use R.
Only take it if you really need to learn the material.
You'll learn a lot about statistics and coding in political science research. I started with no knowledge and can now run basic regressions easily.
Covers the basics well as well as common applications to research
I absolutely learned a lot from this class and I now feel very competent in R, which is honestly a great feeling going into the workplace. However, although the class starts off with a very manageable workload, the problem sets get quite a lot harder toward the end of the semester. I wouldn't take this class as a fun elective but I doubt the class is at much risk of that.
If you're an undergrad without a statistical background, you will find this course challenging. It's fast-paced. The workload will be considerably higher than other undergrad courses on methodology. Because this is a 2000-level course, there is very little of the usual pampering of college kids (dropping lowest grades, extra office hours, review session, etc.). You will be on your own.
The problem sets take a lot of time
If you want to do any real research, this is a great class that teaches you how to work with real datasets to replicate real studies. Very practical. The last few weeks of the course are much more intense than the first weeks, so be prepared for a sudden increase in amount of time required.
This class takes a lot, a lot of time if you do not have a background in R coding.  Schedule your other classes accordingly.
It's tough. You have to go in knowing that you are going to struggle. But, this is one course where if you put in the work, you'll see results. Sure, that work may be 30 hours in one week on a problem set, but it's ultimately worth it.
This is a great introductory class for getting the basics of regression and OLS. For people who have seen or worked with data already, however, a lot of the material is mainly review.
If you don't have experience with linear regression, this course is a good but non-technical introduction.
If you've taken introductory regression classes before, then besides picking up R you may not get a huge amount out of the class.
I highly recommend this course to people who plan to conduct quantitative research in political science and are not yet well-trained in quantitative methods. Matt and the TFs are really great and all course materials are very detailed and useful.Basic understanding of probability theory and statistics and some coding skills would greatly reduce the difficulty of the course. Even if you have no experience in R (just as I did), you should not worry about it too much, for the course would provide step-by-step instructions.
I'm not sure it was the right decision to take 2000 instead of 2000e, as Matt urged theorists to do
