Reading list not crafted with the particular intention of helping students to prepare for General Exam.
I'd recommend it to those interested in American politics or those preparing for the general exam.
It helps to know a little about game theory, and it helps to be able to read some of the more quantitative American politics papers (Erikson; Ansolabehere, Rodden, and Snyder, etc)
It is a good overview of the subfield.
This is a good overview of American Politics, and as such requires a lot of reading.
A great course providing a broad overview of major themes in American politics.
The reading load is quite heavy but to be expected given the material covered. The final paper proposal was a useful chance to "try out" a research idea that you might be contemplating.
It's a good class--see my comments earlier.
I would highly recommend the course.
Get ready for American Politics Bootcamp!  You will learn how everything works (or, at least, how a bunch of professors from over the past 60 years think everything works).  It may be like drinking from a fire hose, but you will emerge being able to say something about everything in American Politics.
This is a very useful way to gain exposure to the key pieces of literature that are critical within the field of political science.  This seminar is designed for individuals who have a genuine interest to be exposed to this literature and take initiative in the learning process. Individuals who are expecting any sort of hand-holding or lectures on this material may find it frustrating or more difficult to learn the key concepts and theories.  Alternatively, if you dislike talking in class, this is not the course for you as each person is expected to contribute. Weekly meetings are true to the seminar design (e.g. no lectures, just discussion).  There is a lot of reading on a weekly basis, thus it may be wise to balance this with courses that are not as reading intensive. Feedback is not always pro-actively given but always available upon request.
I wish I would have taken this course at the same time as GOV2000.  I would have been much more comfortable with the theoretical plane on which GOV2000 operated if I was reading about studies by real, live social scientists at the same time.
Great discussions, interesting readings, thought provoking professors. Definitely a hard but fun class!
This course provides an excellent survey of every important aspect of American politics.
Class seems to be geared more towards first field Americanists and will be less satisfactory for students taking it as a second field class.
This is a course that ATTEMPTS to survey the literature in American politics; it does a better job surveying the literature in some topics than others.
Flexible class and you can dig into your interests. Taking it with Steve was great because of his broad understanding of the field.
