This class is a great way to get to know Theda Skocpol - she is supportive, incredibly knowledgable and all around force in the Gov department. Look through the syllabus before you enroll - if you are interested in the material, take this class.
This class was one of the best I've taken at Harvard so far. Seminars are always high-value because there's a lot of discussion, a lot of reading, time with a professor, and you can't get away with just cruising. You'll work hard if you want to have any respect for yourself, and you'll get a lot out of it in return! It has been an amazing experience to have a two-hour discussion with Theda Skocpol and a group of intelligent peers once a week. Professor Skocpol is very knowledgeable and experienced - she has an encyclopedia's worth of facts in her head and she uses them well in discussions. She has also written books about a wide range of topics, which is rare for a professor (at least according to my experience here so far). She also makes jokes in class, which is a lot of fun because she makes astute observations and she clearly loves political science. At the beginning of the semester, I was overwhelmed by the syllabus, but I am so glad I took the plunge. And at the end of the semester she invites us all to her house for strawberry shortcake and a discussion of our research findings! This is the kind of experience that makes Harvard what it's supposed to be.
Start your final paper early; it will make the process so much easier.
This was a very good class with interesting readings and discussions.  There is a lot of emphasis on the research project, so be prepared to put substantial work into that.
This is a great class for anyone who wants to engage in serious conversations and conduct serious research. You can do what you want with the projects, but they take you down unexpected avenues. Professor Skocpol is also an excellent resource throughout the course, as is her assistant, Abby Peck. Get to know both of them early and please, do the readings.
A great class! Professor Skocpol is at the top of her field and it shows - it's a huge honor to be in such a small seminar with her and you will learn a lot. You do need to have a strong interest in American public policy and politics, though, as otherwise the material may quickly get dry. The term paper, while daunting, is well structured and Professor Skocpol provides a lot of help throughout (start early!).
do the reading!! it's a lot, but it's really interesting and useful for designing the final paper
This is a great course with very informative material. Learn to skim the reading or else you will sink under the "entire book" assignments. Skocpol is surprisingly available to you and makes it a point ot be in touch.
I really enjoyed this class - really great readings, great professor, great final project. Discussion, however, often lagged. There was often little direction and discussion was often interrupted by a handful of students asking unrelated questions. However, the course overall was thoroughly enjoyable and deeply rewarding.
This course is incredibly interesting and, frankly, eye-opening. It is a rigorous course that requires a lot of reading and dedicated research, but the rewards are significant. You come away feeling like you have learned a tremendous amount about an important issue. In addition, completing the final project will give you a sense of pride at having conducted a not-insignificant amount of independent research.
This should be one of your most demanding/difficult classes on your course-load. Professor Skocpol is an excellent person to learn from and she will make you a better student of American government as long as you put in the work.
Take this to do an independent research paper, not to get anything really out of class time. Skocpol is great one-on-one when discussing your paper topic - but in general the seminar is just for her to tell stories, not really teach us anything. If you go in with that expectation, then you won't be disappointed.
This class has a lot of strengths. The opportunity to work with Professor Skocpol is obviously remarkable and exciting (she lives up to the hype in terms of knowing an enormous amount about everything), and it introduces you to literature on a quite important and prescient topic.
Theda Skocpol is a great instructor and really cares very much about teaching. This is a great way to get a headstart on your thesis in a lower stakes environment.
Working with Professor Skocpol is a really great opportunity and if you're interested in writing a thesis in American politics at all, this is a great seminar to begin as a jumping off point. The discussion section of the course is really dependent on the composition of the class and I've heard from previous years of classes that they had a better discussion than what my experience was.
Learning from the best of the best, real OG Theda Skocpol. She is kickin' it with some hard truths about our current political and economic system. They be so intertwined that its sad bro. TAKE THIS CLASS WORD OUT
I enjoyed this class for reasons beyond the fact that I was interested in the topics we discussed. I appreciated that our class discussions covered both the findings of studies as well as the design of studies, making us better evaluators of what we learn. Class discussions were always lively and it was fascinating to hear about these topics from Professor Skocpol and my peers, who were quite well-read. The final paper was definitely a challenge, but you get plenty of time to work on it, and it is a pretty educational and fulfilling experience, especially since Professor Skocpol encourages us to think big with our topics.
Great course. Theda is amazing and really knows her stuff. I think this course could really benefit from a conservative counter-viewpoint because Theda and most of the students who take this class will be pretty liberal. Not a bad thing but it would be interesting to hear the other side's argument.
I would highly recommend taking this class!  It offers great insights into a highly relevant topic-- inequality.  It also gives you a deeper understanding of political science research and is great preparation for a thesis.  Prof. Skocpol leads great discussions and is very generous with her time in terms of meeting individually to discuss the research prospectus and paper.  She even invited us to her house toward the end of the semester for presentations on the final project.
Though the readings are long, this class is well worth it. If you have any interest in inequality in American politics today (no matter what kind of inequality), you have to take this class. Professor Skocpol does a great job of giving you both a contemporary and historical background in inequality and she invites everyone to dinner at her house at the end of the semester. It's not often that you get individual guidance on developing your research from one of the top academics in the country. I strongly encourage you to take the class if you have the opportunity to do so!
Professor Skocpol is amazing.  First time I've been to a professor's house in college.  Amazing topic, that is coming up in the news more everyday.  Skocpol really has an eye for good research questions and resources, so listen to her and you will not be led astray.
This is a wonderful course! It's definitely a lot of work, but Prof. Skocpol is top in her field and makes considerable time for her students. Highly recommended!
I enjoyed this class immensely. If you're interested in current political debates and public policy surrounding inequality, take this class. Professor Skocpol, despite being a high profile professor, is very accessible and engaged in the course. Class discussions and the reading material were stimulating, and working on the final research project was rewarding. My peers were the best part of the class. The seminar attracted motivated students who contributed to class discussion and who pursued ambitious research projects.
If you are interested in inequality take this course. I learned so much about a range of topics. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. And I got a head start of my thesis which is really exciting.
Fantastic and educational seminar, though perhaps a bit of a liberal echo chamber at times. Prof. Skocpol is brilliant and passionate.
This course is absolutely phenomenal! You learn so much about American political and economic trends from the 1970s onward, and you learn it with one of Harvard's leading experts on all things political. Professor Skocpol, though intimidating with her demeanor and her prestige, knows how to lead effective and eye-opening discussions. Although she will never take it easy on you, she will teach you far more than you expected about trends in inequality within the U.S. 10/10 would recommend!
Really no reason not to take this class
This is a great seminar with the chance to work in a small group with a professor who has done significant on the ground research. If you're thinking of writing a thesis in gov, this would be a great class to take to help that process. I took the class as an elective in the gov department as I had already taken two other undergrad seminars and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
This is a challenging, fascinating, and rewarding course. If you are interested in the topic and also excited about devoting a substantial amount of time to a research paper/project, this is the course for you!
