great introduction to the ancient and medieval philosophical canon. complements the social studies 10 curriculum very well and the readings are all very fascinating to read. highly recommended.
Professor Tuck is awesome
I would highly recommend taking this course in the future if Professor Tuck teaches it again; his lectures offer an unmatched breadth and depth of knowledge, engaging with the full history and context that underlied Ancient and Medieval Political Thought. This was my second semester with his lectures, and I hope to find more.
Take this class with Professor Tuck! He is supremely intelligent and knows the material really well. It may sound as if he is just spouting off random historical facts but in actuality he is giving some deeply original readings of these texts. Breathtaking stuff actually. But the key is you have to understand that this is what he's doing. Let's just say there's a reason a cohort of Social Studies lecturers took time out of their lives each week to audit this course.
Difficulty should not avert you. As the ancients would say, "ta agatha kopois ktontai". If you wish to obtain a thorough background in political thought, this is a class for you. If you are not so interested and you take this as a Gen Ed, seriously consider PASS/FAIL.
You should sincerely consider taking this course. Fantastic material, and Richard Tuck is brilliant.
The course material is very interesting, but be prepared to read A LOT.
You will rarely find a better instructor than Professor Tuck, and it would serve you well to study under him in this or another course before leaving harvard.
It's a difficult course, it's unstructured, and lectures aren't really helpful in understanding the texts.
Only recommend if you are very self-motivated with readings.
This is a great class. Professor Tuck's lectures are captivating, and the topics and authors covered are of enduring significance. It is fascinating to dive into these works and to realise how much they have shaped intellectual history and how much the questions they raise continue to frame our reflection on politics today. Everyone interested in political science - irrespective of the subfield they wish to specialise in - should take this class at some point!
Under Professor Tuck's brilliant guidance and with the help of extremely capable teaching fellows and other students, this class gives you an ideal chance to read and interpret seminal ancient texts that have played a huge role in shaping the way people have thought and acted throughout history. In the class, you read Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, and other ancient authors, dissect their worldviews in section, then learn in lecture the context in which these ideas were formulated and the way they have affected history. Don't get me wrong, this is a difficult class. Readings are hard, lectures are complex, and sections are demanding. If you don't have any theory backing, this probably isn't the place to start: reading theory requires a certain way of thinking, and it's hard to learn that way of thinking on the fly when you're reading Plato and Aristotle. Still, for those who have theory backgrounds, who are willing to put in the work, and who want to learn these authors both for their own ideas and for the impact those ideas had on the world, this is an excellent class. I highly recommend it.
Be prepared to do a lot of close reading!
Take this class, it will make you a better human being.
Anyone who wants a solid foundation in the politics of Western Civilization must take this course.  You read great books by great authors, you gain access to an insightful teaching staff more than willing to help you through the material, and you get an opportunity to challenge your thoughts on a host of fundamental questions.  Do take, and enjoy!
The lectures and the readings for the course are really interesting, but the final examination might be slightly too challenging.
Mansfield's lectures are wonderful, but not always very easy to follow. Be prepared to spend time outside of class figuring out how things fit together. Nevertheless, this class has a very good reading list and brings up some important political questions.
Strongly recommend this course for those genuinely interested in engaging with the ancient political philosophers with the most respect and least bias from modernity.
if you want to practice government or law you have a responsibility to know the foundations of western political thought.
For those looking for an exposure to political philosophy, there are better courses offered at the college, such as Gov 1061 or SS 10. For those looking for ancient thought specifically, a more targeted course would probably yield much better insight.
This class is mostly focused on history, even though it might seem like there is a greater emphasis on philosophy when looking at the syllabus. I enjoyed it, but it has potential to grow by focusing on philosophical discussion. Grading for papers was a bit harsh and unjustified.
This class was much harder than expected. On paper the workload looks fairly heavy, at about 150-200 pages per week, but appearances deceive, because those pages were chock-full of dense and detailed philosophical material. Skimming didn't help. The essay prompts were so detail-oriented and fine-distinction-demanding that I felt as though I had to read every word. To top it all off, the grading felt rough. Perhaps I am being too harsh. This class's workload felt lighter than that of Social Studies 10, and its grading felt kinder than that of SLS 20. I think what tripped me up is that I expected this class to be fairly easy. So my message to you is: don't be fooled!-this class is hard.
Excellent first pass at ancient and medieval political philosophy
The readings for this course are very interesting, but a background in philosophy will make the course more understandable and enjoyable.
If you want to truly understand some of the great works of ancient political thought - Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, etc - this is the class for you.
This is a great class! It made me realize how interesting and relevant the ancients can be for problems we think about today. I also found the texts themselves fascinating, even though I hadn't expected to.
This course was such a disappointment. The lectures were not exactly interesting, and while Professor Garrett did highlight main points, he failed to provide a unifying development of conceptions of the citizen and state over the centuries we study. The section with Joe was useful in  dissecting arguments, but the grading is extremely frustrating. Joe's grading system makes little sense with what Garrett outlined. Find your ethical reasoning/Political Theory course elsewhere.
This course covers an excellent selection of theorists, and Professor Garrett both knows his stuff and makes the readings interesting and accessible. Well worth taking - even if political theory isn't usually your thing.
A solid class, neither phenomenal nor bad. if you're just looking to satisfy electives you might want to shop around. Prof Garrett is very nice and you do get a good overview.
Make sure that you talk over the paper topics and your ideas with TF well in advance.
This course has accessible lectures and readings with a good introduction to ancient and medieval political philosophy. The downside of the course was the assignments, which sometimes provided very broad, subjective topics and were graded very harshly based on criteria that were not made clear beforehand. Some of the grading policy concerns were addressed by the end of the course, so once these details are figured out for the future, this course should improve considerably.
This class was excellent.  It was straightforward -- all we did was read great texts and discuss them.  This simple structure allowed us to really get into the texts.  Professor Garrett was terrific -- a skilled lecturer and a passionate teacher.
This is the best way to get a good basic understanding of the ancients.
Challenging but can be very rewarding with proper degree of time and effort.
Take this course to acquire a very deep understanding of ancient political philosophy. Be willing to try and decipher very difficult texts and be proactive in reaching out to the professor and TF.
This course is choiceworthy.  It offers you new ways of thinking about the world and the self which could potentially allow you to improve either or both.
You're gonna work your ass off, but it will be worth it.
While the readings for this course are quite interesting, the essays and exams are incredibly challenging, and almost require a complete memorization of the many texts assigned during the semester.
Don't get scared by the notorious grading policy of Prof. Mansfield.  There is so much to get out of this course.
A lot of reading, but synthesizing the material is a rewarding process.
To prepare questions ahead of time and press the professor on the points he makes in class.
Tough course, boring sections and a ton of reading.
Of course Mansfield is an old man who says old fashioned and often offensive things. He does know his stuff and beside his sexism and so forth he has some interesting points. The TF I had, Rita, was truly excellent, very dedicated to giving you feedback and knew the material impeccably. Probably the better of two classes I had in the material (Greek philosophy).
This is the greatest class at Harvard and Professor Mansfield is the greatest man I have met at Harvard so far.
Tuck is an extremely engaging lecturer with a very unique take on every major thinker in the ancient world. Even if you've already taken 1060, I would sit in on these lectures.
professor tuck is great, and he introduces students to these great works of literature with an enthusiasm and eloquence that makes the class a great choice for a moral reasoning core.
Be prepared to do lots of reading and to be able to say intelligent things about the reading.
This class is not as difficult or work-intensive as many others. It is fun and a good supplement to other, perhaps more rigorous philosophy courses. It gives solid exposure to early topics in western philosophy.
Its one of the best classes one can possibly take at Harvard. Don't miss the chance.
Readings aren't that interesting, but if you're into it then it's very good.
For the most part, don't expect anything life-changing from these philosophers. There are lots of weird and antiquated theories about right and wrong and knowledge and government, and I think this class is more for learning about the origins of Western thought rather than instilling some sort of philosophy about the world.
Professor Tuck is incredible-- I am trying to find more classes that he is teaching.  The class gives an excellent grounding in political philosophy as well as ancient and medieval history.
Lectures are excellent, you cover some of the core canon of political philosophy...
The material covered is diverse and interesting, and gives a great picture of the development of political thought.  The lectures, readings, and sections all work in harmony to provide a great picture of the history of political philosophy.
This is your best option for Moral Reasoning (which won't matter soon since the Core is giving way to the oooh-look-at-how-different-I-am . . . psych! General Education curriculum).
For those enthusiastic about the material--the course introduces it thoroughly and insightfully. For those not already enthusiastic about the material--this course is very likely to change your attitudes.
You should read these books, they're really important and you'll understand philosophy better.  Ask a lot of questions in section too to make sure you get the most out of it, don't save all your debates to the last few days before the final.
Provides a good overview of the development of Western political theory in ancient and medieval times.
too much reading
This is an excellent way to learn about one of the important threads in making our modern culture. Also, you learn about the only atheists we know of outside of our own historical moment!
you'd better like reading some philosophers of very dubious intellectual merit
get ready to read lots and not understand much.
keep up with the readings, it's worth it!  I regretted it when i didnt.
Professor Tuck is among the best lecturers I've had during my time at Harvard, and he makes lectures seems more like casual conversations than a chore. Sections and readings were a bit unstructured but if you can handle it, this class is amazing.
It requires a significant amount of reading, which actually has to be done to succeed. THe readings are dense, so take the class only if you are prepared to put in the time for the readings.
An essential introduction to Western thought, but taught at a high level; a hugely enjoyable way to fulfil an MR core
This is one of the most rewarding courses in political philosophy. Please take it and take it with a good professor who talks about the course content.
Although I definitely don't regret taking this course, I took the course as a Moral Reasoning Core, and it would be hard for me to recommend it to someone else looking for a Core class, since most Core classes are nowhere near this difficult.  However, I would recommend this course as a way to gain a solid understanding of ancient philosophy and as a way to experience one of Harvard's more infamous professors.
Go to see your TF and expect low grades (like C's and B's and definitely no As).  Those grades' conversion to your final grade is less clear, unfortunately.
This class is really hard, the lectures are terrible because it's impossible to remain awake and pay attention, or follow because Mansfield does not give real outlines.  The texts are not interesting unless you love Ancient Medieval Political Philosophy.  The only saving trait for this course are the good teaching fellows.  Also, 90% of the class comprises of white males.
You have to be sure to keep up with the readings and the lectures so you don't get lost in the overwhelming amount of material.
If you want to be a real college student, take this course. If you want simply float through life and have bad ideas stick in your brain for the rest of your life out of pure laziness, opt out.
Be prepared for some epic reading.
This is a demanding course, but is a thorough treatment of foundational texts in political philosophy.
mansfield is a great lecturer and the reading is great, though no one does it and the course lets you get away with it
Be ready for a ton of work.
Grapple with the readings, participate in section, pay attention in lecture, and your perspective on the world will become more nuanced.
This class is more of a course in intellectual history than it is one in government. Take this class only if you are interested in learning about the stale origins of political thought, not if you actually want to learn about how to think about political philosophy. Oh, and by the way, you'll probably leave the course with a certain amount of pity and disrespect for Mansfield.
Not for the faint of heart, but definitely worth the work, and do-able.
The class has really great material, but is structured in a way that forces you to skim over all of it and leaves you with just a Sparknotes understanding of it (or, if you're one of those lecture attender types, a Sparknotes AND a Harvey Mansfield understanding of it). It doesn't really give you enough time to let you develop your own opinions on the material. There's also too much work and the final is absurd.
You literally cannot lose. If you take it with Professor Mansfield, you are studying under a great scholar of political thought. If not, you can consider yourself truly educated in general and about the foundations of the West, for you will have read widely in the Greco-Roman part of the Western canon
The material is great. Professor Mansfield, not so much.
As the term progresses, there is more and more reading with little external incentive (except the final) to actually read it. Self-motivation is key.
A worthwhile look at the Classics for a person of any concentration.
THE Q GUIDE IS MISLEADING. THIS COURSE IS VERY HARD and the prof is NOT THAT GREAT as everyone thinks. I FELL ASLEEP EVERY LECTURE.
If you've never been exposed to the classic thinkers before, get ready to think hard and probe deep. It'll be a challenge keeping straight all the authors' views on law and justice and other big ideas in your head, but it gets better with more review and time.
It is a difficult class with a large amount of reading--large in the sense that you must read all of it in order to do well in the class and to appreciate the concepts being discussed.  Professor Mansfield encourages a very close reading of the texts, which provides a very interesting way to try to dig out meaning, but it can be cumbersome, and requires discipline.  I would encourage having a background in political philosophy before taking this class.  Sections can be very painful and lectures equally boring, but despite this, if you make it all the way through the class, you come away feeling like you've accomplished something and having learned a new way to read important texts.
It's kinda hard..
If this were based on only the first two and a half months, I would have said "recommend with enthusiasm". That said, I still recommend the reading with enthusiasm.
If you can do the reading and you find the discussions engaging, by all means take this class. If you aren't interested in the material at all, fulfill your requirements with a different class.
Take it. Especially if Mansfield is teaching it. He's friendly, accessible, uncompromising, and brilliant. I've learned more in this class than any other.
This course presents one interpretation of classical philosophy.  There may be others, this may not be the best, but it is substantial and influential and worth having as part of your education.
Forget your fear about the grades and have fun with the classics!
Mansfield's lectures are vague and don't meet shared standards of clarity and rigour. Take a few weeks, read the Strauss History of Political Philosophy...read something by Stanley Rosen or Harold Bloom...all of these people and works will introduce you to Strauss and the ancients without subjecting you to the stupifying nebulosity of a Mansfield lecture.
Prof. Mansfield is by far the most brilliant, interesting, challenging and rewarding commentator on the Great Books which no educated person should ever leave college without having read. For that alone, his two-course survey on political philosophy should be taken by all with even passing interest in the field, and any Harvard student who desires a true liberal education. The TFs as well are not the run-of-the-mill dull and inept grad students with no solid grounding or interest in the subject matter. Students gain equally from lecture as from section the sense that the interpretation and close study of these texts are cornerstones to the life-long project of education.
This class is a great intro to the subject area and will give you an in-depth look at the primary thinkers of the time.
Very good class with a hard professor and difficult material. But worth it if you do all the work. And be sure to keep up with the reading!
Come and hear a crusty white guy discuss crusty dead white men for one and a half hours.
Exellent Professor and readings.
Anyone interested in political philosophy or philosophy in general should shop this class.It will be an ideal introduction and give you a good foundation to understanding.
The readings are interesting, but there is a lot of reading and you must read it thoroughly.  Mansfield's lectures are sometimes interesting, sometimes rambling and convoluted.  I would only recommend the course to sometime interested in political philosophy.
