This course will change your approach to every other government class you take. Professor Norris is brilliant, put in the effort it's worth it.
Professor Norris is great at answering questions. Don't be intimidated by the scope of the arguments that she requests you make. When taken seriously the assignments really do make you a better writer and give you a better grasp of the topic at hand. In other words don't b/s but do your best.
Gov 1109 provides a good survey of comparative theory.
You get into this class what you take out of it. I did all the readings, but it was clear that all my classmates did not. While reading everything wasn't absolutely necessary to do well in the course, it's what made the course much more rewarding for me. Also, Prof Norris is a huge asset she's written 45+ books on this topic during her career and she's one of the most renowned international constitution experts. But she's super down to earth and not intimidating, so it's easy to participate. Definitely a good class if you're interested in thinking about how to make large scale societal change in a short time frame.
This class was fairly easy and it wasn't necessary to do all the readings, but you have to do a lot of outside research for the two papers.
the second half of the course is actually about whether or not democracy is good at achieving things, sort of like Gov 97. and by "comparative" it means you'll read articles about the institutions with examples of countries, not that you would study different countries as a foundation.
Although the material covered in this class is interesting and you will get a good overview of different institutional choices available to policymakers, the course is somewhat unstructured. The writing assignments are very broad and the prompts are difficult to address within the page limit given.
Really interesting class with a great professor if you're interested in the material.
If you found institutions interesting in another course such as gov 20, then you will find this course as a nice way to go into a little more depth on the subject
It's a good class and well-taught, but frankly after having taken Gov 20, it did not broaden my horizons hugely. I would still recommend taking the class, especially for someone with a keen interest in institution-building, but not if the goal is to open a whole new world of perspectives on comparative politics.
TAKE IT! The course is an excellent introduction to comparative institutional design--a truly enthusiastic and dedicated Professor, manageable workload, and creative assignments.
You will like this course if you are very interested in constitutional designs. Be aware that it is not an easy way to fill the gov comparative politics requirement.
Take this class if you really liked Gov 20.
If you are the least interested in comparative politics and want to know more about formal political institutions and their effects, this is the course to take!
