Good introduction to Shakespeare with a political bent.
If you want to take a Shakespeare class, take a Shakespeare class in the English department.
An excellent chance to study Shakespeare in a non-stressful, non-flooded-with-super-intense-english-majors environment.  The professor is a treat, and you have a chance to write papers on any topic that suits your fancy, making this one of the best classes at Harvard.  It's a shame that it is taught by a visiting professor.
Keep an open mind!
This class has nothing to do with politics. If you like Shakespeare, I would highly recommend it. If you like to learn about government, I would not.
You really need to read the books.
Good intro to Shakespeare, kind of like an English class
Don't be fooled by it being offered in the Government department. It's an English class.
I would recommend this class to people that really enjoy looking at Shakespeare's works closely.
It is enjoyable.
good teacher but if you are just looking to learn the play, could probably get that from another course.
this class was very interesting and a different way to fulfill the gov theory requirement.
amazing!
This is a great way to read the classic Shakespeare plays with no stress and a GREAT professor to help you get through them.  GREAT WAY TO FILL GOVERNMENT THEORY REQUIREMENT!!!
Great course to take if you're looking to satisfy gov theory but are done with all of the other traditional/boring theory classes.
This class had too few requirements, making it easy to skate by without doing any work until the final. I had high hopes for this class that were unfortunately not met.
I really enjoyed this course and thought the lectures by Professor Cantor were quite phenomenal. We covered a wide range of plays, including: Richard II, Henry IV Part 1 and 2, Twelfth Night, Midsummer Nights Dream, The Tempest, and King Lear. The lectures were an hour and a half long but were very entertaining, and Professor Cantor provided amazing insight into the plays. Unfortunately, he is a visiting professor and probably wont be teaching here next year. However, if he does come back within the next few years, and you have the opportunity to take this class, check it out! Assignments for this class included 2 essays (with very interesting topics, and if you dont like the topics, you have the chance to pick a topic of your own) and a final exam.
Was a super interesting class. Always wanted to learn more about Shakespeare and this class did exactly that. Also learned a lot about political theory, particularly the natural state of human nature and politics.
If you can stay awake during lecture, you will learn a lot.
The lectures are a little long, but worth it! I really loved this course and would definitely recommend it. It seems like reading one play a week is a lot, but you really can read a play in a day. The topic is different from your average political philosophy course since your studying Shakespeare as a political philosopher even though he was a playwright. Really great course!
One of those rare courses that are a genuine privilege to take.  If Paul Cantor comes, jump on the opportunity to watch him engage with Shakespeare.
Might seem like an easy way out of political thought requirement for Gov, but it can be really boring and I found myself actually wishing we were reading at least some traditional political philosophy alongside the Shakespeare plays. Cantor's lectures are brilliant--if you can pay attention. No visual aids and very little for structure to his lectures, so it can be pretty boring and difficult to pay attention for 90 minutes. Especially since he prefaced the course by saying no questions...
Spend a lot of time on your essays because you don't get any other grades.
I took the class pass-fail and really enjoyed it.  I wasn't under a ton of pressure to read all of the plays or make it to every lecture, but the class was a great chance to have a political framing of Shakespeare plays, and just to read some great plays.  At times, the framing of the class in terms of politics is difficult to bring into all the plays. At times, the political points seem watered down and basic, which was frustrating for a government major.
This is a great class to take if you don't have a lot of experience taking political theory/philosophy classes and also want something unique and different than what's normally offered in the department. I had never looked at Shakespeare's plays as such in-depth political commentary and it was really interesting to build on that throughout the year. Coming up with a new thesis for the essays can be a bit challenging, but working with the plays' quotes and themes prepares you well for the final exam.
A great course to fulfill your political theory requirement with. This might have been my favorite gov course. It almost makes me wish I concentrated in English instead of Government actually. Definitely take this course if you are debating between the two. You might even be swayed to go into English.
This is a great class if you want to better understand Machiavelli or the differences between the ancients and the moderns. It's also a great class if you just want to study Shakespeare. Professor Cantor has really great insights into the plays we read. Additionally, the class has a pretty light workload--you only read one play a week.
The material is certainly interesting, looking into shakespearean from a Machiavellian or Platonic point of view. Lectures are an hour and half, which is long, but usually manageable. The course is graded fairly and the coursework not to labor intensive. Make sure you read the plays as they are being taught, otherwise you won't get anything out of the class. The final is difficult because of the dreadful quote IDs. You can read each play twice and still not get all of the IDs.
exactly what a college government course should be
Though the concept of the class is good, the actually execution is kind of questionable. I think sometimes it was a stretch to say there were certain political concepts in, say for example, love comedies. Nevertheless, reading Shakespeare in the context of gov and for gov credit was fun.
What a great lens through which to study Shakespeare! What fun!
Not the most stimulating material if you are looking for a government course! And the pace of reading required is frenetic!
This is a fairly easy and enjoyable class to take to fulfill the gov theory credit, and Professor Cantor really knows his stuff on Shakespeare and politics!
This was one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. It's a very unique offering in the Gov department - honestly, it feels more like an English class - and the discussions can be a lot of fun. The course has also significantly colored how I look at many of the books, TV shows, and movies I come across; the themes we discuss are very widely applicable.
This is a pretty interesting class if you want to read a good play a week and do some thinking about the intersection of theater and politics. Sometimes the connections to politics feel forced and it ends up a straightforward english class. The lectures have a lot of good material if you can keep yourself engaged for the full 90 minutes.
It is a very do-able and very interesting class.
A great class! Focuses on some great plays, and connects them in ways I had never seen before. The reading is fantastic so the work flies.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading Shakespeare's plays and Professor Cantor gave incredible insight in his lectures. The range of plays and the the political lens through which we viewed them was very unique. However, it was impossible to stay focused throughout the 90 minute lectures. Professor Cantor rambled at times. I enjoyed writing the two papers, but the quote identifications on the Final exam came out of left field. I wish we had been better prepared for that aspect of the exam. Overall, I would recommend the class (especially to fulfill the Political Theory Government requirement) but it wasn't as enjoyable as it could have been.
Very interesting class and a lot more interesting than a lot of the other political theory classes. Also worth it to read a bunch of Shakespeare. The essays are a lot of fun to write, the TFs were really fantastic as was section. The final exam is unnecessarily difficult, however.
This class is really interesting if you are looking for a unique perspective on Shakespeare plays. Just know that there is obviously a lot of reading involved, and that the class is a lot of work.
This class is a lot of fun, IF you actually read all of the plays. Though it's listed as a government class, it is at its core an English class with little emphasis given on politics. The reading load is pretty light, with one play every week and a half which comes out to roughly 100 pages of verse, which is nothing compared to other political theory courses. I highly recommend this course if you're looking for an alternative way to fulfill the government political theory requirement or want to read some great works of Shakespeare!
Make sure you do the readings and go to lecture, because the lectures ARE NOT posted online.
I wanted to take it for the opportunity to read these Shakespeare plays, outside of the English department. For the most part, the class met that promise, although there was one person in the section who was precisely the type of person I had hoped to avoid in studying Shakespeare within the government department.
INCREDIBLE course! I wish, for the students who did not have the chance to take this course this semester that Harvard would bring Professor Cantor back again and again to teach this much-needed subject! It was great for teaching about people in the context of Government and also excellent for adding to the Well-rounded "culturedness" of undergrads.
This course offers a fascinating way to look at Shakespeare. However, although the lectures are interesting, they are too long and at times, rambly. Section is what I enjoyed most about this class.
Interesting course. You get to read a number of great works. Lectures are painfully boring though if you're not extremely excited about Shakespeare. They're also 90 minutes long which is unbearable; they should just be an hour long.
I would definitely tell them that it isn't as discussion orientated as one would expect.
What a wonderful class! I will never look at Shakespeare the same way again. Incredibly interesting and dynamic lectures. Reading 8 Shakespeare plays may sound like a lot but it takes about 2 hours to read each of them so the reading is INCREDIBLY easy compared to the rest of the gov department. If this is offered again please take it. You will not regret the experience period.
If you really like Shakespeare, this is a good course for you.
Be prepared to read all of the plays multiple times. While the essays are manageable, the exam really tests your intimate knowledge of the plays.
Super fun! Must take if you love Shakespeare!
It's a great chance to combine politics and English. You'll be surprised at the deep political commentary and criticism Shakespeare has inside his plays. You may walk away finding political undertones in everything from now on too
Professor Cantor is brilliant and he sheds interesting light on each play. Yet his lectures are unorganized and without structure, especially considering that multiple lectures cover each play without any division in topic between lectures. Lectures are also long and a bit boring.
Lectures are a bit dry, but it's worthwhile to read a lot of Shakespeare's famous works. Professor Cantor definitely knows his stuff.
The lectures are tedious to sit through but if you are able to sit and pay attention you can glean some very interesting information.
I took this course because I thought it would be a fun and interesting way to fulfill the political theory requirement. In a way, the course was fun and interesting; in other ways, it was frustrating, tiring, time consuming, and did not fairly evaluate the hard work that it demanded throughout the semester.
This course is not offered very often, so take advantage of it when it is available.
I would highly recommend this class for anyone who likes Shakespeare, politics, or (like me) both.  I am a Gov. concentrator and have always loved Shakespeare but had not really thought of him as a political thinker before taking this course.  I would especially recommend this course if Prof. Cantor returns to teach it! His lectures are great and he is very accessible outside of class.
The material is so interesting that you won't mind going to section and the hour and a half lecture goes by so quickly with his immense knowledge of Shakespeare and everything else. Professor Cantor is brilliant and a phenomenal professor! You can't miss this class!
