Class is a lot better if you do the readings and can participate, for lecture involves a lot of student participation. Other than that, very chill course with little commitment. I recommend it, especially if it fulfills a requirement.
This is a good introductory class to theory of international relations, and the case studies of the UN and the IMF are really interesting.
This course is remarkably easy. It is also very superficial and rather boring, which is a shame given how interesting the subject could be. You will spend a lot of time in lecture hearing the same ideas over and over again.
The format of this class is great! I love writing response papers, so it wasn't too challenging. Also, you actually learn a lot about institutions and international affairs.
This is an easy class. You will only get out of it what you put in.
This class is absolutely fantastic. I loved how this course was very broad and talked about many different international institutions like the EU, IMF, and UN. The lectures are very entertaining and interesting. Professor Genschel does a great job and encourages debates in class from time to time. Take this class.
A cool intro IR class that isn't too much work but is really interesting! I really specifically liked Professor Genschel though, and since he was a visiting professor I'm not sure if it will be as good without him.
Very painless way to fulfill the IR requirement for Gov.
Do well on the papers and you'll be fine. Keep up with the readings.
The lectures are well-structured as is the course overall. It begins with theories on the state and international organizations then follows with applications to the UN, IMF and other specific international institutions. Sections generated some stimulating discussions, and the papers were somewhat challenging but enjoyable to write.
Very interesting topics, I think 1 hour of lecture would have been enough. The paper assignments were really good, manageable and interesting. Jason was also a great TF who broke the concepts down excellently. Probably the best IR option.
Keep up with the readings and you'll enjoy it. If you don't it's easy to get lost.
Not a hard class - only 3 papers - but interesting material.  Not many concrete answers either, mostly just discussion on how international organizations work and their relationship to states.
great readings, got a lot out of the class by doing them
Take a class with this professor before he leaves!
This course gives you a great understanding of how international institutions function and how they have developed over time into the organizations we see now.
This was the first time that this course was offered so it wasn't thoroughly structured yet. However,  Professor Genschel is very interesting and enthusiastic and funny so the lectures were enjoyable. The readings were also manageable and thought-provoking, and section discussion was especially helpful in narrowing down the main concepts and challenging the claims made, as well as learning about IR theory in general.
The course was a very easy introduction of international relations.
Interesting class
Be prepared to discuss issues in classs
This course does not require that much reading however the papers are graded very ambiguously. The lectures are very boring and hard to sit through but the material is easy to grasp.
This is a great class. Professor Genschel is a really good lecturer with a good sense of humor. The paper topics are interesting and not very difficult if you've done the readings and put a little effort into it. There was only one required reading per week and it was always 30 pages or less, plus it was usually pretty interesting. The TFs were very good and very knowledgeable. I don't know if Jason will TF the class again, but he was one of the best TFs I had in the Gov department. The lecture is an hour and a half, and it tends to get a little boring in the last half hour.
This class is a wonderful class if you have no background in IR. The workload is light, the professor is amusing, and the TFs actually seem to care. There are no exams. The essay prompts are interesting. The class is easy and can be interesting if you care enough to put some time into it.
The readings for this class are pretty interesting, especially for the first 2/3 of the course (general concepts about international institutions; analysis of the Security Council). The last 1/3 is on the IMF, which is a pretty boring topic unless you're a fan of econ/financial policy. Lectures were pretty hard to follow, and I rarely got anything out of them. They also were totally unnecessary to do the assignments. Readings were far more useful to understanding what was happening in the course, and readings were to be cited in assignments, so they were both more helpful and more required. I would recommend this if you PLAN to do the readings. If you're not going to do the readings, don't take it, because you won't learn much as compared to other classes where you will learn even if you don't read.
Very good introductory course to international politicsNo prior knowledge of material requiredNot a lot of coursework - fairly easy and enjoyable class!
Do not take this class unless you are sure that the topic of international institutions interest you!
I really enjoyed this course because it gave me great insight into IR theory and how to apply it to the real-world!
Great introduction to IR
This course won't change the way you see the world, but it will give you the ability to think critically about the nature of the international system and the institutions put in place to protect security and negotiation. Minimal workload, few readings, good lectures. No real complaints, but don't expect this to be the course that revolutionized your understanding of government.
This class had interesting aspects. Restructuring this class would make it a lot better. TFs and professor are very knowledgable. Fairly laid back class but it was focused on political theory and less on international institutions which is not what I thought I was getting myself into.
