Take this class!! This is a great class to take if you have any interest in Latin American political issues and how the U.S. relates to this. Even if you don't, you'll learn a ton about the region and about political science in general. Of all the government classes I've taken, this one has had the best discussions. It is a lot of reading, but extremely worth it. You have a lot of freedom to write about what you want for the four papers over the course of the semester. Completely worth the time you put into it!
Highly recommend this class! It is one of the most enjoyable government seminars to take and the work load is spread throughout the course in an appropriate way rather than being clustered towards the end of the semester. Professor Dominguez is engaging, knowledgeable and passionate about the topic, and really makes the two hours worth of class much more interesting.
If you are interested in Latin America or US foreign policy in the slightest absolutely take the course. Only take the class if you feel really excited about it because if not you're taking another student's place from the lottery who would probably love to be there.
This was hands-down one of my absolute favorite courses at Harvard! Professor Domnguez is an incredible seminar instructor who involves everyone in the discussion, generates effusive enthusiasm, and surprises you with new lessons/takeaways from each of the readings. The readings were well selected and always interesting! Although of course lengthy, the texts we were assigned to read shed great insight into US-Latin American relations. Some prior background in Latin American politics or US foreign relations is helpful but not required. Professor Dominguez also did a phenomenal job including all students and really creating an environment of constructive dialogue, where students could learn from their peers. Even when not everyone did the readings -- inevitable, given the amount of readings assigned -- Professor Domnguez still kept discussion alive. He also tells remarkable stories! Overall, this class is an absolute "gem" at Harvard. I highly, highly recommend it!
This is a wonderful seminar in the Government department. If you are interested in learning about a breadth of topics in the relation between the US and the Latin American region, then take this class! There are four papers throughout the course, which I found much better than a final 30 page paper as it allows one to analyze and grapple with more topics during the course. These papers also help in class discussions as students come more prepared to discuss readings. More importantly, the course is taught by Professor Dominguez, who is very devoted to undergraduate education. He provides extensive feedback on assignments, hosts a weekly lunch, and starts each course with academic advice. Hands down, one of the best courses I have taken at the college.
Do not miss a chance to expand your knowledge of Latin America in the environment most conducive to discussion at Harvard.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard! Professor Domnguez is absolutely amazing, and you will learn a ton about U.S. foreign policy and Latin American relations. However, if you don't have much interest in these issues, this might not be the class for you, since much of the class involves delving deeply into specific issues or case studies.
Take advantage of Prof. Dominguez's lunches and availability. He's super smart and approachable. Also, ask him about advice on writing a thesis.
This class is phenomenal! Professor Dominguez is a top-rate scholar and such an approachable person who is really deeply invested in your growth over the course of the semester.
This is one of the best classes out there and Prof. Dominguez is amazing! The sections are very engaging and the two hours of class really fly by. If you are interested in Latin America or really enjoyed Gov 1295, this is an excellent course to take.
Great class! Lots of reading, intense students, and a very intelligent professor. The course is demanding but if you are interested in the topic, you will learn a LOT. Also, Prof. Dominguez is the best. He offers to eat lunch with his students once a week and really gets to know you. The students in the class are really ambitions, which makes the discussions really fruitful. The papers can be tough, but Prof. Dominguez is very helpful!
Take this class. Prof. Domnguez is excellent. He teaches you how to think, not merely what to think. There is a lot of reading, but it is manageable and the Professor is flexible.
An excellent course for Latin America scholars, who want to engage in high level discussion with a wonderful professor committed to mentoring, teaching, and the undergraduate experience. Cannot recommend enough!
This class is spectacular. Professor Domnguez is an unparalleled teacher who genuinely takes an interest in his students. If you take the class, use your time with the professor wisely to take advantage of his advice and also just to listen to his incredible stories and knowledge about Latin America and the world. No need to feel intimidated. In class discussions are based closely on the readings, and you can often feel lost or awkward if you haven't done close readings for the week. Reading well takes a lot of time. As a humanities concentrator, I found the papers especially difficult. This class is about foreign policy, not about social issues per se; you're challenged to think about structure and forced to label patterns. Overall, I feel enriched and incredibly more knowledgeable about Latin America having taken this course. Writing this at the end of the semester, it's intellectually gratifying to have taken this class with such a brilliant professor and to have pushed myself to think in [dehumanizing] ways I may not have otherwise. It is, as well, a massive amount of work, so be prepared.
If you are willing to put in the hours, this course is a chance to work one on one with a top professor.
If you have any inkling as to how the United States have Latin America interact, you should absolutely take this course. Prepare to read a lot, but the vast majority of the texts are really engaging. Do take notes as this will help you enormously when you write your papers.
I would tell students to get prepared to learn about how inequality (among other governmental problems) was perpetuated in Latin America and most importantly, how the United States was complicit in perpetuating and exacerbating these problems.
This is a really great class.  There is an intense amount of reading, but the collaborative environment makes up for it. If you don't get to a reading, chances are others have.
This is a fantastic course and taking it is an opportunity you don't want to miss. Make sure you have time in your schedule for it, because it is certainly not easy and if you do any less than your best for Professor Dominguez you will be unhappy and wasting your and his time. I learned so much from this class and he is a wonderful professor and mentor - can't recommend it highly enough.
Great class that focuses on foreign policy from US and Latin American perspectives. There are several essays and a nontrivial amount of reading but it's an engaging enough class to make the work worth well it
This class is incredibly interesting, engaging, and relevant. Professor Domnguez cares a lot and gives thoughtful feedback. He makes a huge effort to get to know the students through lunch in Leverett every week and very flexible office hours. The readings were very broad and allowed for a great overview of many different topics related to US-Latin American relations. That being said, I found that in class we generally just regurgitated the readings and I would have liked to engage in more critical thinking and discussion.
This is hands down the best course I have taken at Harvard! All of the material is extremely interesting and covers every single aspect of US-Latin America relations. Moreover, Professor Dominguez makes sure readings and corse topics are relevant today. You not only learn tremendously about the history of US-Latin America relations, but how it applies to present day circumstances. Professor Dominguez is simply amazing!! He is so passionate about Latin America and it is truly an honor to be able to spend time with one of the greatest experts in the field and with someone who has made such a large impact on our university. Moreover, he truly cares about his students and makes an effort to get to know them. I really enjoyed his weekly lunches in Lev and loved being able to attend dessert at his house.
If you are interested in Latin America, taking a class with prof. Dominguez is a must, and this is his most especial class. Take it.
Please take this course if you want to study under the best foreign policy scholar this university has to offer. In addition, if you want to take a Gov 94 with a man who truly cares about the wellbeing and success of his students, you might want to at least shop this course. Professor Dominguez takes the time to have lunch with students on Wednesdays in Leverett; take advantage of this time to ask him about his life, which has been fascinating! 10/10 would take again if I weren't graduating.
Dominguez is an absolute expert in EVERYTHING Latin America. If you are interested at all in ANYTHING Latin America, this class is the one you MUST take. I had been extraordinarily anti-US before taking this class. While I still do not fully agree with the American empire's tactics towards Latin America, I now understand how the US government works. I have a much more nuanced view of Latin American and US relations. It's not all black and white! For this awareness, I am incredibly grateful. Every single week, the readings were incredibly on-point. In fact, the class covers a surprising amount of ground in the few months you have from the Nicaraguan Revolution to NAFTA. Additionally, the papers are spread out and therefore you learn incrementally rather than cramming. The course is incredibly well-taught and Dominguez uses a particular style of teaching through questions that makes every day feel exciting. Dominguez is also incredibly personable and includes the opportunity of lunches in Lev with him!
While a variety of different topics are covered in this course and the readings are interesting (although lengthy), at the same time the professor gets off topic/off the readings that although you might complete a significant number of the readings, occasionally what is spoken about in class will not be particularly relevant to those readings. In regards to assignments, having 4 essays interspersed throughout the semester is rather nice as there is not one large final paper due at the end.
This class is the best, the material is the best, and Professor Dominguez is the best. He manages the discussion well and does a great job of getting everyone engaged in the conversation. Make sure to take advantage of Leverett lunch with him, and don't just talk about politics and the course material - he's a joy to talk to about anything, and has a lot of wisdom to impart. This class is also one of the few at Harvard that intentionally covers many viewpoints, as opposed to being one-sided. This class is definitely what you make of it, and if you were smart, you would make the most of it.
TAKE IT! This course is exceptionally rigorous and one of my all-time favorites from Harvard undergrad. Professor Dominguez fosters lively discussion in which all students are expected to participate. He is enthusiastic about supporting students in office hours and through weekly lunches in Leverett House. If you have interest in Latin American nations and their relations with the USA, this is a MUST take class. Particularly helpful for juniors thinking about writing a senior thesis since he gives little talks at the opening of each class either about how to approach senior thesis planning / writing or life itself. Leave yourself plenty of time to write the papers--they are demanding but are certainly worthwhile intellectual endeavors to better understand the assigned material.
The reading is definitely on the heavier side, but it is a once in a life time course. This is the one class at Harvard that will make you the *expert* (for an undergrad) in LatAm foreign policy. The readings are fascinating and diverse. You really get to pick what you want to study since you don't have to do all the readings every week.
I cannot encourage people more enthusiastically to take this course. Professor Dominguez is definitely a tough grader, but you will have a truly incredible opportunity to get to know him - he makes himself more available than any professor I've had at Harvard.
This class is a comprehensive exploration of U.S.-Latin American relations, but be aware of the amount of reading required and the degree to which the essays are completely self-directed. You will get as much out of the course as you put in.
I would tell students that it's a phenomenal way to learn about Latin America and engage with one of the best professor's I've had here at Harvard.
