EXCELLENT EXCELLENT EXCELLENT class. It is a ton of primary source reading and quite intense, but if you are interested in American history and government, this is a must take. This class was a real education and changed the way I think about the founding of the United States. Professor Nelson's lectures are informative and entertaining, and reading Common Sense, The Federalist Papers, and more is great.One reason why this course was so strong was the TF, Adam Lebovitz. I don't know if he'll be the TF in subsequent years.
This is one of the most interesting and engaging courses that I have ever taken. It gives you a totally new view of the American Revolution, and the ideas of republic and representation that underlie it. It is a ton of reading, but it is all worth it in the end.
You don't read a single source written after 1814. This is tremendously rewarding and more than a little difficult. You'll come away from the class with a deeper philosophical understanding of what America means, based on the contemporary debates that helped form it. Teaching was top notch, too
You will really enjoy this class if you are interested in tracing early American political theory - just be sure to stay on top of the reading
if you are ready to do the reading, then you will get a lot out of this class
Be prepared to read.
One of the most challenging courses I have taken. Extremely rewarding.
probably the only time i will ever say "hard class but worth taking"
Great course, great material, great lectures; reading load is large and dense, though, and I probably wouldn't have taken this class had it not been pass/fail for me. The material in the class is particularly engaging / awesome because it's the only(?) class offered on the theory behind the American Revolution. Lecture are taught in Holden Chapel, and Professor Nelson explains the significance of that choice; it's pretty cool to hear about the 18th century events and debates that happened right on campus where we walk around every day. Really neat stuff, but just watch out if you don't want to do a ton of reading about people arguing the semantics of of what is a republic or  what counts as representation etc etc.
This course might not ever be offered again (I think they mentioned Prof. Nelson is publishing his book about the topic soon), but if it is and you have an interest in American political philosophy, take it. You'll have A LOT of reading, and you won't get to all of it--if you do, get a life--but it's great. Nelson's lectures are wonderful, and TF Adam Lebovitz was perhaps the best teacher I've ever had.
A great course: readings were very interesting, assignments are manageable, and Prof. Nelson is one of the most brilliant young professors at Harvard. The location of the course in Holden Chapel adds an additional sense of history that really makes the material "come alive" in a number of different ways.
This is without question one of my favorite classes that I've taken at Harvard. I learned a TON, and the teaching was really tremendous. But it's also super hard. I took the class P/F and I still had to work quite a bit. If you're willing to put in the time, definitely worth taking the class, but I would recommend doing it P/F -- takes away the stress and makes it more fun.
Lectures with Nelson incredible. Section with Lebovitz even better. Hands-down one of the best classes I've taken here at Harvard. I walked away with a better understanding and appreciation for American and British political thought and the theoretical foundations of everything that we take for granted in our political systemfrom the American Presidency, to our bi-Cameral legislative system, to the opinions and ideas of America's political founding fathers.
This course is a once in a lifetime experience and you must take it. I don't know how else one would get this story and this level of in depth analysis of the revolution elsewhere. The readings are definitely stiff but also doable. If you do not have one other reading intensive course you should not worry about the reading's scale. But there is no doubt that it helps to do all of the reading. The passage identification comes naturally if one does all the reading. I have never had a class this amazing.
First off, only take this class if you are really dedicated to the material and if it is something that you will come in intending to do all the readings.The work load is heavy, and at times you might have 200+ pages of reading a week, but, having said that, the readings and this course are amazing, and you actually get to read many of the pamphlets that shaped the days leading to, culminating in, and after the American Revolution. Eric Nelson's lectures are exceptional, and do not be intimidated by the midterm or the final. As long as you do all the readings, both are fairly doable, and I could not have picked a better class to fulfill the political theory requirement for the government concentration.
Only take it if you're seriously into government and political philosophy. The readings are dense, but they're worth pushing through. The major themes and ideas in the course are fascinating.
It's a really interesting class. Just make sure you don't fall behind on work, because the midterm and final periods will really hit you then. I'd go over the lecture notes after he puts them up and maybe take notes on each person's position so you have a good outline of what's been said.
Be prepared to read a LOT and think critically and analytically. This is hands down the best course I've taken yet at Harvard. Professor Nelson is flawless - smart, funny, and cares about his students (also has a great sense of style). The readings challenge your most basic assumptions about the United States and its Constitution. The wide range of prominent thinkers that are covered in this course will enhance your understanding of the key issues that led to American independence and the ratification of the U.S. Constitution. I would highly recommend this course to prospective law school students and people interested in political theory. That being said, there is a LOT of reading in this class and most of it is extremely dense and long-winded. Exams are not bad as long as you don't fall behind on the readings.
While reading thousands of pages of 17th and 18th century political philosophy is definitely a lot of work, there is a real payoff in this class.  It does a great job of examining and explaining the major intellectual debates driving the American Revolution, which enables you to gain a higher understanding of what the Revolution actually was.  Super interesting, and well-taught, course.
Take this course if you are interested in the very historic understanding of the early ideas influencing the US Constitution. The readings (all primary source 17th and 18th century English pamphlets) are very difficult, but the teaching staff (all great) provide a helpful overview of each one by the end of the term. This course does not include much of what you would expect from American Revolutionary history.
It's challenging, but ultimately very rewarding.
Professor Nelson is a great lecturer, and the material provides a genuine understanding of the American founding. The reading is heavy and entirely primary sources, but he breaks it down and provides helpful analysis during class.
This class changed the way I think about the American Revolution and the forces that caused it. Reading only primary source documents can be difficult, but it allows you to get into the spirit of the time and the minds of the founders. Professor Nelson is a fast-paced, knowledge spewing lecturer and I would come out of every class filled with new ideas (and 3 pages of notes). The only downside to this class is its grading structure- with only a midterm, a final, and participation, most of the intense work is done within two weeks. Having papers due on the same day as exams made for a slightly unpleasant week, but the material was so interesting and the professor so engaging that this class is worth taking even with the difficult grading structure.
Lots of reading, but manageable. Prof. Nelson is such an engaging lecturer and makes the material interesting for anyone. I was never a fan of American history or political theory until this course.
This class took a subject with which I felt reasonably familiar (the American founding) and made me think about it much more deeply and from a different perspective.  Prof. Nelson is a great lecturer and very passionate about the course material.  The readings (all primary source material from the founding period) can be intimidating at first, but you'll get better at extracting the key points from them after a few weeks.
This class is incredible. Though tough and with a ton of reading, its manageable and fair. It's also super interesting, you'll learn a ton from this class and Professor Nelson may be one of the best professors I've ever had (also the best dressed)
the nature of the reading is difficult but Prof. Nelson does a lot to rectify this in the lectures. He makes it very easy to understand.
Don't worry about the workload -- form a study group and it will be easier. This class is highly worth it if you want to learn about what our political founders were debating and thinking as they headed towards independence and then drafted our Constitution. Should be a must-take for any American. The primary sources are really interesting and Professor Nelson and the TFs do a great job synthesizing them and emphasizing the important points in lecture and section.
Gov 1074 is a fantastic class for those who need to take care of their political theory requirement and are interested in the philosophical underpinnings behind our country's founding. Professor Nelson's lectures are compelling and crisp and the readings are excellent. Though there is a lot of reading (several hundreds of pages each week), all of it comes from primary sources and is worth your time!
The course is really rewarding by the end, but the readings are difficult and numerous, and the grade breakdown puts a lot of pressure on both the midterm and the final.
This class is the perfect mix of Gov-style theory and American history-based content. Be prepared that this class has a SIGNIFICANT amount of reading, and it's all primary sources. If you're a straight up Gov major, this class might seem extremely Hist/Lit focused, but personally, I extremely enjoyed it. Section is great for understanding the readings and picking out the important excerpts. Lecture is EXTREMELY important - I can't imagine how far behind you would be if you ever missed a lecture. Prof Nelson is a young superstar - one of the youngest tenured professors and graduated summa from Harvard, PhD from Cambridge - so understand that he knows EVERYTHING about this topic, and you would do well to meet with him even once to get to know him and make sure he knows you're serious about the course. PRO TIP: Buy his book, The Royalist Revolution - many parts of his lectures seem to be drawn word for word from parts of the book (lol) and it's extremely helpful when you're writing the take-home essay portion of the midterm and final. Also, it's generally a fantastic book! This class is exactly what it's advertised to be - about the history of political thought in early-modern Europe and America - no, it does NOT just focus on American history - so if you have background in early modern European history, you will be well prepared. This is a serious course, but you will get a LOT out of it if you take it seriously!
The material is really interesting but the reading can become overwhelming at times.
lots of reading, but worth it
An exceptional class that challenged my previous conceptions about the political thought of the Founding era.
Lots of readings, lecture is very straight forward.
Its a tough class, with a lot of reading, but has really interesting material.  If you are interested in the American Revolution or American history, this is a great class.
Don't be intimidated by this class! The only week-to-week work is reading which, yes, can be quite dense, but Professor Nelson explains the readings very well in lecture and they're also reviewed in section. The midterm and final require some intense preparation but the grading is fair, and the quotes chosen for the IDs are straightforward - no one is trying to trick you. You'll read pieces of history that every American should read, and gain a new and different appreciation for the ideas on which our country is founded. One of the most rewarding and interesting classes I've taken during my four years at Harvard. No busy work and a fascinating subject. Professor Nelson is brilliant and a wonderful lecturer. Take this class!!!!!
This class was fabulous - Professor Nelson is one of the brightest teachers at Harvard, which is saying a lot, and both TF's were very friendly and capable. You're going to learn a ton about the American Revolution and the English Revolutions, read the most influential pamphlets and letters of the period, and, most importantly, come away from the class with an opinion about an incredibly formative era of our nation. Be ready to read up to 200 pages of 18th century writings a week, which is rough, but it'll be worth it.
Be prepared to read!
The most enjoyable way I could have imagined fulfilling my gov theory requirement. Professor Nelson constructs a fascinating narrative around American history.
This is easily the hardest class I have taken here, and I question whether or not I actually enjoyed it. The material is interesting, but I am not sure if taking the course would be any better than getting Professor Nelson's book (which I haven't read, but it seems like it covers much of the material the course does). If you think you'll enjoy reading primary sources, I would ask you to make sure that you do before you take this class, because that's all you'll be doing.
Lecture is VERY helpful and VERY engaging!
This class is a lot of work and mass amounts of readings, but a great one for anybody interested in American history or politics during the time of the revolution. Lectures are detailed, interesting, and relevant, and the professor/TFs understand that there are a lot of difficult concepts and readings and are available outside of class. You need to put in the time to do the readings in this class, but you really come out of it with a new perspective on the American government.
Amazing material, well taught, but too much reading
Keep up with the readings each week and take good notes while you're reading. Also, pay attention in lecture because that's where all of the answers to the midterm and final come from.
There is a lot of reading for this course, but it is set up well so that it is not overwhelming when it comes to the exams. It is also very interesting- I learned a lot I never knew about colonial history.
Be prepared for a lot of reading of primary source documents from the period. The professor is young, energetic, and very knowledgeable about the subject-- he also brings in interesting guest lecturers.
This class was fascinating! Anyone interested in American government, or democracy in general, should take this class. I found it really interesting, and I have such a better understanding of how our government was created.
Beware the insane amount you have to read every week and the fact that you have to turn in an essay on the day of the midterm/final.
It's a good class if you engage in the readings and lectures, otherwise the material is pretty useless.
This course is definitely a gem, and offers materials that are rarely studied.  Professor Nelson is an incredible lecturer, and someone any government concentrator should take a course with before they graduate.  You just have to be willing to do the reading and work hard.
The course was not well taught, but it does contain a  primer on a lot of interesting primary documents that are central to American political history. There is A LOT of reading. So much so, that you just won't be able to do all of it so don't try. Determining what you're going to read vs. what you aren't going to read early in the week would be helpful to you.
IF they change the format of the course (the 2 papers due on the same day as the final worth 50% of your grade was INSANE), the course is interesting, and a good option for a theory requirement, especially for people who like history but not so much theory
Although the reading is heavy, the material is fascinating, and watching the evolution of American political thought was a joy.
Reading the primary sources is challenging, but it is rewarding to understand the words behind the American Revolution.
Don't take this class if you want something easy to sleep through; putting the effort in, though, will be very worth your while.
Get ready for the reading.
be prepared to do a lot of reading!
It's a lot of reading.  Plus, the final exam requires that you write two papers at home, plus study for passage id's; that's tough
There is a lot of reading, some of it more dry than others, but the ideas were very interesting
No matter how perfect this looks for your schedule I promise you that there is another course you would enjoy more. Go back to the guide and look again. Seriously.
