I would recommend this course fully and without reserve. Professor Rosen and Jacob were an excellent combination, and I learned seventeen times more in this course than any other philosophy course I've taken. Be warned, however, that Professor Rosen, while an excellent lecturer, is a very scattered lecturer. Following can be difficult, and it sometimes took me several passes through my notes (I essentially transcribed Professor Rosen every time) to get a grasp at the material. The section was a beautiful supplement to this, however, and any student willing to work hard to grasp the material will find themselves rewarded and, ultimately, well-versed in the German Idealists.
German Idealism is an absolutely fascinating tradition of thought, and one that anyone interested in philosophy or political theory should learn from. This course was a great way for me to delve into works by Kant, Hegel and the many thinkers who fell in between them. I would, however, say that the lectures are not always focused on going over the main themes and arguments of the texts, rather focusing on intricacies in their interpretation and history.
This is an excellent course for anybody interested in philosophy and the German philosophical tradition in particular.
Be ready for very challenging material. Philosophy courses are never easy but this course is both very challenging and enjoyable. German Idealists established a core base for modern political, social, and aesthetic theories. Read a lot and enjoy.
Anyone interested in German Idealist philosophy would do well to take this course. It is helpful both as an introduction to the material and a way of thinking more deeply about very complicated, important ideas that have had a major effect on later thought.
For students hoping for a serious and comprehensive introduction to German Idealism and, more generally, for a better understanding of the relationship between the Enlightenment and Romanticism in the modern West, this is a great class. Students should be interested in immersing themselves in the material (rather than engaging it only at a shallow level) and in taking it seriously in its historical context (rather than simply picking and choosing what might seem to have some contemporary interest or relevance).
This course is an excellent introduction to the German Idealists in general and to Hegel in particular (it de-mystefies him by showing where he's coming from). But Rosen's lectures, which present an independent argument, address themselves as much to a higher-level as to a lower-level student of German Idealism.
This course is a great survey of thinkers who students would be unlikely to study elsewhere. Also, it presents concepts like freedom in intricate and highly interesting ways.
I would recommend this class to anybody with an interest and some background in philosophy. It covers material that is really foundational for lots of later work and it is interesting in itself as well.
The period of German idealism is very tough to begin to study. This course will help, but it is only just a start. A lot of the work in the course will therefore be independent: the readings are extremely hard generally, and you must work through them on your own, since the lectures are designed to give a general overview of themes, not textual analysis in any detail.
Great class. The readings are great, and you should defnitely be engaging with these thinkers if you want ot be a serious philosopher. I obviously couldn't do everything, but even the bits I did will be very helpful for my thesis/future etc.
Excellent, congenial professor who is good at handling questions and willing to take on inter-disciplianry studies.
If you want to understand the logic of freedom in the modern sense, you need to understand the arguments of the German Idealists. This course offers one interpretation of their arguments from a very brilliant mind. At the very least, you'll walk away with a clearer understanding of what the German Idealists were trying to accomplish with all of their abstruse writings.
This course is alright if you want to be acquainted with this period of the history of philosophy. Unfortunately, Professor Rosen's perspective isn't the most thrilling and he presents these philosophers in a very conventional, rationalist way.
This class is an excellent introduction to a very important movement in European philosophy. Wonderfully organized and brilliantly taught, it is definitely one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
Be ready to grapple with some dense texts, but, in the process, uncover some sophisticated and fascinating viewpoints.
This course will be a weekly struggle (in the best sense possible), and consequently very rewarding. Taking notes is essential, there is really no way to make up this material after the fact. The authors dealt with are extremely powerful thinkers, and while Professor Rosen does not necessarily give the clearest or most structured presentations, his insights on the matter more than makes up for this deficit.
There is a lot of reading but it's incredibly rewarding if you can get through it.
An excellent introduction to German Idealism; I would highly recommend it to German concentrators.
A good course if the material is of interest to you coming in. Would probably not be nearly as appealing if you are merely interested in taking a philosophy or political theory course. This is probably the only course in the university to cover parts of the material.
The class is full of nerds. So if you aren't a nerd, check before enrolling who is taking it with you. Be aware it may turn into a boring nightmare, where people talk in full seriousness about the pure I positing itself as self-positing.
It's worth taking the course because of the excellent exposure to absolutely riveting material.  Professor Rosen is not always successful in explaining things with absolute clarity (this may not be humanly possible), but he is committed to teaching, and is expert in and a lover of the material covered.
You won't find another opportunity to read this group of thinkers with a Professor of this caliber.
