Take this course if you are genuinely passionate about electoral systems.  The course does not allow students to deviate far away from the strict rules and workings of electoral systems, which can be frustrating.
If you are interested in learning about different systems and different countries, definitely take this course! Professor Smith is awesome. He is really helpful whenever you are confused and he is incredibly knowledgable about elections.
Electoral systems are such an important part of the political process that are too-often overlooked by political scientists. Professor Smith does a great job engaging the class and giving a surprisingly broad overview of the subject matter.
This course requires a significant interest in the details of electoral systems. It gets exceptionally repetitive. I would not recommend it unless you are interested in applying the same themes over and over again to different countries. That being said, you are unlikely to get an understanding of these themes unless you take the class. Best option would be to audit the course.
Really awesome class. Interesting material [but not too much work to make it unenjoyable] and Professor Smith is great!!
Prof. Smith is very chill. Class is very student driven, but the information is very applicable gov concentrators and is very interesting.
Excellent combination of theory and case studies
Great class, and Professor Smith is extremely knowledgable, helpful, and kind.  I will say that it's important that you are actually passionate about electoral systems, as the class became kind of repetitive and boring for me after a while.
Great class, very worth taking.  Highly recommend.  It was fairly relaxed and I looked forward to it every week.
Professor Smith is very knowledgeable in the subject and makes sure we learn a lot. This is probably the best Gov seminar among all, definitely recommend!
This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard! Professor Smith does a great job of ensuring that you learn the material and stay engaged during seminar. The grading isn't a piece of cake but isn't harsh either- participation is a major chunk of your final grade. If you're interested in comparative electoral systems at all, take this seminar!! I looked forward to it every week.
If you are interested in the subject, you should absolutely take it.
Very interesting material, very knowledgeable professor.  That said, niche nature of the topic can at points feel limiting.
Just close your eyes and choose this course
This is probably the best class I've taken at Harvard. Professor Smith is remarkably knowledgeable about the topic, the discussion and topics are fascinating and there's the perfect amount of reading each week. This is probably one of the only classes where I enjoyed writing the final paper. Definitely take it if you get the chance.
Gov 94im is a great way to learn about the political systems of countries across the world and how different electoral systems function. The readings are straightforward and informative and Professor Smith is incredibly knowledgeable about the subject. If you're interested in the impact of electoral systems on politics and governance, take this class!
An interesting, though not too tough, seminar. Make sure to pay lots of attention and do all of the reading at the beginning, as doing so will make the rest of the course very easy on you. Also, doing every single page of every single reading is not at all necessary - introductions, first sentences of each paragraph, and conclusions will work if you are ever pressed for time. Make sure to take your time and work very hard on your final paper.
