This class was a mess. Two two-hour classes (a lecture and a section) were a less than ideal format for the material. Having an 8-10 AM section on Thursdays was awful, especially since it was only at that time because they apparently didn't want to bother with a second section, so they had to go outside the regular class hours to get a time for "everyone" (although sections were frequently under half-full as a result of the early start). There was only one regularly scheduled hour of office hours a week, despite the difficulty of the material. The teacher and TF created an environment where I didn't feel comfortable asking for help or clarifications in class; we would regularly get comments like "Well, you *should* know this already, but okay...". Didn't do handouts for things like large project, leading to vague and confusing instructions for a large percentage of the grade (plus confusion on deadlines; some weren't assigned until they just decided to have it due it the next week). Left last year's iSite up, complete with problem set answers, creating a huge disadvantage for those of us who chose not to use them, as the class was more or less graded competitively (also, from what I heard, they reused every pset and answer key from last year exactly, word for word, or pretty close). Assigned a problem set due the Wednesday before Thanksgiving, while not planning on being available to help in between its assignment and due date. Forgot to send out midsemester class evaluations for feedback, and didn't realize it until the last lecture. To make up for it, they had us give face-to-face feedback as a group, and argued with each criticism they were given. Most undergrads were taking the class reluctantly to begin with, and were unsatisfied with the end result. I would definitely advise not taking this as long as Horacio is still teaching it.
Both the Professor and the TF are really charismatic and engaging. They definitely make it easier to understand the material.
If you want to learn formal modeling and its application in political science, this is the place to start.
Be ready to work a lot and make sure you review calculus before you take it.
This course was a good, no-frills introduction to game theory.
This is a difficult class, but you'll really learn a new way of thinking from working through it.
I would recommend this course to students who already know some game theory and have some experience working on problems. I would not recommend this course for a beginner, even though it is advertised as such by the Gov. Department. It is actually pitched at a considerably higher level. If you are at a higher level though, than this may be a great course for you.
The course could be improved (as part of an improved graduate curriculum that didn't require a single course to cover so much material and cater to students with such diverse backgrounds), but even with its faults I think it is a course that most political science graduate students should take.
The course material is by nature extremely difficult, but the reward is that you could come out with an improved understanding of formal models in political science papers (with, at least, an understanding of the basic equilibrium concepts and refinements that play prominent roles in models).  The professor's lectures are aimed to an audience with a high-powered level of knowledge so beginners will find the course fast-paced and demanding.  However, the professor is available for help on a regular basis, which certainly helps students progress through the semester--do not plan on relying on the textbooks and class lectures alone to learn the concepts.  This course requires a lot of work, discussion, and thinking outside of class and office hours.
If you want to be a formal modeler, you should take this class.  If you just want to become a conscious consumer, it's not worth it.
Game theory always seems very difficult at the beginning, but stay calm and you'll learn a lot!
It's taught in a way to prevent students from getting lost or falling behind.
Why would anyone who wants to become a serious social scientist not take this class is beyond me. The most cutting edge political science departments have it as mandatory, and in my humble opinion it should be mandatory here as well.
Just go with the flow--if you don't get the material, sit on it for a bit and keep trying rather than giving up.
To future students: I wish I had simply taken the EC 2020 sequence. I audited the first semester of it, and really didn't find it very difficult. Also, the lectures were very well prepared and the TFs seemed committed to doing whatever is necessary to help students learn the material. In general, I think people left the course with whatever game theory knowledge they came in with. I think many people left discouraged, and doubted whether they would take any additional coursework in formal theory.
If you don't know the material, you won't learn it from scratch here. If you already know it, why take the course? To be fair, however, professor says that one often has to see material numerous times before one becomes comfortable with it.
Somewhat more than an introduction - start making use of office hours immediately or it will be easy to get very lost.
Challenging but worth it.
Jim is an excellent instructor.  He makes this course excellent.
I didn't feel there was much teaching going on, just solving specific game theoretic problems, and I don't feel like I can go much beyond the specific problems we covered.  Also, this seems to be at least as much of an economics course as a political science course, I would have appreciated more of a focus on political science.
If you have no background in game theory this is probably not the class for you.
Sadly Jim won't be teaching it.
Jim Snyder is an excellent professor with a clear knowledge of the field that far surpasses any other.  His lectures were packed with material and interesting applications, primarily to American politics and economics.
Very challenging, but also rewarding.
Not an easy course, but not too time-consuming either; good for establishing basic literacy in game theory.
Difficult but rewarding.
This is a difficult but very rewarding course, and you will learn a lot about game theory and its political-science applications.  Snyder's monologues are occasionally priceless.
