Justin is absolutely fantastic as a one-on-one advisor and does a great job of leading class discussions in very productive and interesting directions.  The readings for the class aren't really the focus, nor are the papers - it's all really about your interpretations of larger immigration sub-topics and your end-of-term research topic.  I'd recommend the course if you think you might write a thesis on migration issues, as this is a good jumping-off point and will allow you to critically engage with the nuance of your topic.
Don't take it. Please, please don't take it.
Immigration is an enormously salient issue today, and this seminar allows you to delve into the aspects of it that interest you the most.  Professor Gest is an excellent facilitator of engaging discussions; you will not only learn a lot, but have fun doing it.
Great Class discussions, innovative learning techniques, grading is difficult - but Justin will help you improve. Really the best Gov Seminar out there.
This is a very engaging and well-taught seminar. The workload is very manageable but relevant. The people who took this class with me were very passionate about the topic, so the seminar discussions were very rewarding. Also, Justin Gest is a great teacher and really cares about his students.
Justin is upbeat and approachable. You'll enjoy him and his unique teaching exercises (such as speed dating) and he also brings in fascinating guest speakers.
You will learn A TON about the topic of immigration if you take this course. Justin is very engaging and the field trips and guest speakers we were introduced to gave us great personal insight.
If you have taken courses in immigration before, the first half of this course will merely be a review.
Get ready to have a favorite professor!
If you are even a bit interested in immigration, take this class! Professor Gest is a wonderful teacher, the material is fascinating and relevant, there are guest speakers and field trips, and discussions are always very fun! Two hours of class time flew by every week.
If you're genuinely interested and passionate about immigration, you should take this course. Just be forewarned that the professor makes inappropriate jokes that will at times make you VERY uncomfortable, and he's also a harsh grader. Although even though he's a harsh grader, he does give detailed notes on your papers (He actually gives so many to the point that it passes grading and enters editing markup, so that may or may not be annoying to you) .
Be prepared for the work, but it's worth it.
This was the best class I've taken thus far at Harvard (I'm a junior). I would highly recommend it to any gov concentrator or anyone interested in immigration issues. Professor Gest has a unique focus on teaching that fosters real discussion, brings the classroom to the real world, and is also extremely approachable, fun, and friendly. If you do not get into the class, you can also take Sociology 175, which uses the same syllabus, but I definitely recommend the seminar.
do the reqadings, particiapte in class, spend alot of time on the essays
Professor Gest rocks. Extremely enthusiastic, very helpful, creates amicable atmosphere, really interested in his students and their progress. Also, the whole course seems to be very well put together in terms of readings, assignments, field visits (when Your essays are due, You go on a field visit - this I find very clever), guest speakers.
Take it. Justin's incredible, fascinating material, terrific discussions.
Definitely attempt to do some of the readings during the week because the section becomes that much more fun. Also, only take this class if you are actually into immigration. Taking it merely because you want a junior seminar it will become boring to you rather quickly and the 15 page paper is a lot of work. I enjoyed the class and tried to make it what I could by thinking of things I am interested in with regard to immigration.
Take this class if you are even slightly interested in immigration! JG (Professor Gest) is one of the best professors I have had at Harvard. He is a tough grader and this class is no walk in the park. Overall, a worth your while type class.
This has been my favorite class at Harvard. Professor Gest is engaging, always makes time for his students and his classroom had an open atmosphere where I felt comfortable sharing my opinions. The material is interesting and there is freedom to focus on weekly readings that interest individual students.  The guest speakers and field trips enhanced and brought the material we read to life. I definitely recommend this class to people interested in discussing migration with fellow students.
Incredible seminar. Gest is excellent as an instructor both in immigration politics and in writing well, the subject is fascinating, and I consistently looked forward to going to class. Cannot recommend highly enough.
