G.E.M.
This was such a great class! Highly highly recommend. Professor Harrison and Angie are so approachable and helpful. If you put in the work you can do very well! Also the lectures and material was interesting and I felt as though I learned a lot.
A very laid-back class that gives you the ability to criticize survey methodology and make your own survey as well. While the class is easy, it can get a bit repetitive and very boring at times, since many classes cover very similar material.
Professor Harrison is extremely passionate and knowledgeable. A really cool class with practical applications.
Gem and a half
I think this class is one of the best I've taken at Harvard, and I'm not a Gov concentrator. The material, although some of it seems 'self-explanatory', will help me be a more educated researcher and consumer of content. Definitely a great elective to take.
This class is helpful not only for professional purposes, but also general life skills: I did not know how to read and interpret survey data until taking this course.
The class is a bit boring but not difficult and if you engage with it enough, very rewarding.
This class is extremely easy and also has some interesting subject matter. The lectures are a bit dry and take away from any interest that one might have in said subject matter.
This course is awesome - I don't think there's any other way to describe it. The material is incredibly interesting, lectures are interactive, and Professor Harrison and Angie cared so much about the work that we were doing in the course and were always more than willing help out. I would recommend this strongly to anyone who is every thinking that they will look at a survey or an analysis at any point in the rest of their life (so... basically everyone). It's incredibly thought provoking, and it forces you to think through possible issues in surveys. The class prepares you well enough to do a survey critique of a national poll done by someone like USA Today, and you can just find so many issues with what they did wrong. It's incredible. From a return-on-time perspective, this class is probably the best class I've ever taken at Harvard. Don't expect to have to sink 10 hours per week into this class (about 3-5 hours outside of class will be good), but you will take a ton away. Cannot recommend this class more highly!!
This course provides a great combination of overview and in-depth knowledge of survey and survey research topics.  I would highly recommend this course for anyone who may use surveys or survey research in their careers.
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE. waste of a harvard semester. seriously -- not worth it at all. the material is really rudimentary & boring. professor tries, but is really frustrating. you get absolutely no valuable feedback along the way, and so your grades feel really arbitrary. i don't think i learned anything in this class that wasn't common sense that you probably should've known anyways. class turned into three hours of surfing the internet every week. STAY AWAY.
It's very useful and well-designed, but it's not the most exciting class ever.
This is the most boring class I've taken at Harvard.
Lectures get a bit tedious but the material is valuable.
This course is a very low time commitment, but the material is dry and lectures are not engaging. In addition, grading is very sporadic with little explanation. While it is an easy way to fulfill a requirement, be prepared for an uninteresting semester and probably not an A.
Survey methods is pretty intuitive, so honestly I dont feel that I learned very much. The professor and TF are both very sweet, but lecture is incredibly dull and pretty much everyone is just reading their email or on facebook. The project component of this class is it's saving grace, but I would not recommend this class.
Great, easy to manage course to learn about survey research methods. The project and final paper can take a bit of time.
While it is not the most interesting course I have taken, it was an easier way to fulfill a concentration requirement for Statistics.
Professor Harrison and Tess are great! Take it if you are interested in learning how surveys are conducted. You won't regret it!
Keep up with the vocabulary and you will do great.
The course is centered around an in-depth, interesting project, which was pretty cool to do. However, the lecture component is very dry.
GOV 1010 is a unique class in that you are able to learn about survey creation and implementation during lecture and then turn right around and try it for yourself. It is definitely important to have a good group, as you'll be working closely with them on most of the assignments. A great concentration course!
This class is a lot of fun. You conduct a survey with a group. We were lucky this year to have very motivated teammates, but otherwise I would suggest choosing reliable team members. You spend much of your time in this class working with your teammates outside of class, so it is important that you trust everyone in your group. The class component is great because it is basically a seminar.
This is an awesome class for numerous reasons. 1) Chase is great, clearly an expert and passionate about survey methodology, and he is incredibly helpful and understanding. 2) It's a small class and you work on your survey project in a group so you will actually meet new people and get to know them. 3) If you're a stat concentrator, this is a pure gem. And it really is incredibly useful and relevant to the concentration. You should know about how data is gathered. 4) Despite the low workload, you will learn so so much.  The reason I didn't have to spend much time outside of class was because class itself was actually useful and relevant to the assignments; it wasn't useful drivel being spurt out at us like most class lectures. 5) You will never look at a survey (or data) the same way ever again.TAKE IT. (especially if you're a stat concentrator)
This class is great! It's one of those great courses where you learn a lot but the workload is very manageable, as your work is directly related to what you're learning. The readings are also very easy to follow and informative while not being too dense. Chase is a wonderful teacher and really takes the time to work with each student. Couldn't recommend this course more!
This class will provide you with real skills in survey design. You will think critically about claims that you see in articles, and question every survey that you take from now on. It's a great class!
This was a great chance to learn more about survey research methods by actually creating and distributing a survey. It also really opened my eyes to the flaws in a lot of student-created surveys that are distributed to Harvard students.
