This class is challenging in that it places you in a mixed learning environment, where students range from graduate students to working professionals. There is a huge variation in age and experiences in the class, which makes classroom discussion particularly interesting. It also challenges you to synthesize the material in ways that are relevant to you and your own interests. My favorite part about this course was the way it allowed me to see the structural and educational inequalities in the immediate classroom setting, especially in regards to privilege and race.
Whew. Very very social justice-y, even compared with the rest of Harvard. Opinions that aren't ultra-liberal are barely tolerated, and people leave class and whisper about how conservative and offensive others were when they were just voicing their opinion (I was not one of these conservative people, just a disappointed onlooker to the gossip). Other than that, though, I thought the subject matter was super interesting and the teaching fellows were AMAZING. I met some really cool, passionate, and smart people through this class.
This class is extremely difficult and, at times, not very engaging.
Poorly run, teaching team spends too much time navel-gazing, not the class for people who really want to make intellectual progress about educational justice.
You will learn a lot about education inequality in the United States, and have many opportunities to express your views and learn from others. The class is very interactive and case study based, which can be great. However, it can also flounder as a certain group of students often drag conversations in a very unproductive direction. Frankly a far-left view of social justice became far too accepted, making it very hard to have serious conversations. Other than that Prof Levinson is great and the assignments are pretty relaxed. Except intensive classes however.
If you are simply interested in educational issues, then this course might be an interesting one to take, but if you are a philosophy concentrator, you might need to consider carefully. The course attempted to involve philosophical issues in education, but (1) the discussions are not sufficiently clear to allow constructive dialogues and (2) resources in moral/political philosophy are not effectively employed. The teaching team is friendly and helpful, but you might feel like not learning much from the course.
This course connects broad theories and ideas about values like justice, fairness, and equality, to problems and dilemmas in education practice and policy. By writing a case commentary, connecting a case study discussion, and ultimately writing my own case study, in addition to having class discussions, I was able to consider these values more deeply and from a variety of perspectives. The teaching staff does a good job of making sure no two days are ever exactly the same by mixing up discussion and other small or large group activities during each class, and they also take the time to explain why they decided to do what they did. Beyond that, there are so many interesting students to learn from who have a variety of professional backgrounds who take the class and who bring unique perspectives to discussions. It was sometimes intimidating being an undergrad in the class, but in the end I learned so much more about my own values and ways to engage with people who may have different values or different expressions or interpretations of the values.
The course is challenging and thought provoking. You get a lot out of every two-hour class and walk away with some belief of yours challenged. The dynamic of a large course can be really difficult to navigate and the teaching team was definitely struggling with how to deal with 60 students. But overall, got so much out of the course. The more time and energy you put into the readings and assignments, the more you get out.
Educational Justice is a spectacular class for students interested in thinking about ethical dilemmas in education. Fits well with Social Studies concentrators interested in education or people who just want to think more deeply about these issues in general. Meira is a wonderful professor, very accessible outside of class, and generates a lot of enthusiasm for the subject. Would highly recommend!
5Excellent course, 100% recommend
Be sure to work especially hard on the assignments in this class. Work early, particularly on the final project.Meira and the rest of the teaching team are spectacular! Would highly recommend.
