It's a really fantastic experience to work with other students in a political simulation and with an excellent professor who makes an attempt to get to know you.
One of best classes I've taken at Harvard. Certainly the most practical class I've ever taken. Don't be intimidated by the simulation! It's intense, but it's very fun.
This was one of the Harvard classes I will always remember, because of the simulation.  Plus I loved the chance to actually get to know my classmates.
Simulation is awesome.
The bottom line with this course is, you get out of it what you put into it.  Those who throw themselves into the simulation with enthusiasm will find the class to be one of the richest, funnest, and most fulfilling courses taught at Harvard.  I took more pure pleasure from this class than almost any other I've taken in four years here, and will recommend it with considerable enthusiasm to my underclass friends.
It is pretty easy and very fun; it often doesn't feel like a class, and definitely not a burden. You will make a ton of friends in this class, including with the professor.
It's a great class, but be ready to work during the simulation. That's no cake walk if you actually want to get something out of the class. If you want to, though, you can coast and not really do anything, or learn anything.
The simulation is extremely time-consuming, but a good experience overall.
Try to get as involved as time permits to get the most out of this class.
very hands-on, interesting, great professor, very funny, entertaining, learned a lot!
Awesome class to take if you are interested in government or politics.
Take this class if you like talking talking talking and you are resilient, with a sense of humor.  King is unexpectedly tough.
One of the best classes at Harvard.  You actually get to know and like the people in your class.
This class is fun and very interesting.  Probably one of the best if not the best I've taken at Harvard.
Take this class your senior year.
Take it.
It is a great course to learn about the Congress but it is not an academic look but a more realistic look.
Be prepared for this class to take over your life. If you want something that will teach you a lot (mostly outside of class) about politics, and your peers, it's a good class for that. be prepared to show interest and be very involved.
the simulation is one of the most thrilling things i have ever experienced, and spending so much time working on class issues outside class made my days brighter.
This class is truly one-of-a-kind at Harvard. For political junkies, this class should be #1 on your list of "must-take" classes during your time here at Harvard. Running around making political deals, writing bills, interaction with parties, the press, and lobbyists, and all the other details of the simulation were so fun that this class often seemed more like an extracurricular than a required course.
I would recommend the course to students who are willing and excited to devote a lot of time to the simulation. It is what you put into it.
You get out of the class what you put into it. Its not super academic, but you learn some very useful life lessons in the class.
Just let it flow.  The course might seem cooky at first, but it turns out to be one of the best classes you'll ever take at Harvard.
The simulation is an interesting experience; good if you like Model Congress, Model UN, that type of thing. It can also take over your life though if you're not careful, and students are sometimes too hard-core and instrumental.
This course is amazing. It is the most fun I have had in a Harvard class. The chance to really interact with other students and learn by doing is an opportunity not to be missed.
This class is more then just a class, it is an experience that teaches you things you cannot learn anywhere else or in any other setting.
Be ready to politick -- it is the best way to internalize the lectures.
It's a lot of work. Bet it's all worth it.
The simulation is basically the whole class, have fun make noise, etc.
It's a fun class, but be prepared to meet with your peers outside the classroom to get things ready for the simulation.
This class is awesome.  Every lecture is fun, and professor King keeps it interesting constantly changing it up.  I loved the simulation, and section was great too.
Don't do it unless you love it and enjoy lectures. attendance is key and the time commitment is high!
You have to take this class.  It is an experience unlike any other you will have at Harvard.
This class heavily weights the simulation of Congress. For those who like classes where the expectations are clear (papers, problem sets, tests), I would not recommend this course. For those who like untraditional ways of learning, I would recommend it.
A truly once in a lifetime opportunity. Take the course only if you're willing to dedicate time to the simulation. The more you put into it the more you will ultimately learn. If you are remotely interested in understanding the structure of the US Congress, how bills really get passed, or in human nature and politics, then take this course.
It's really what you make of it and you don't have to be in the Dems/IOP clique to do well- just don't get intimidated.
Your grade depends on effort.
It requires a lot of work but is fun at the same time.
If you are considering a career in politics, it would be advisable to take this course.  It was a very interesting way of getting to know people who are interested in the same thing and learning how Congress operates.
TAKE THIS CLASS.  This is an absolutely amazing class.  Definitely one of the best classes that I've taken at Harvard.  It really teaches you a lot about human nature and how to deal with people.
It's intense, and can get personal in the simulation. Thick skins and combative spirits will do well.
This course is better for freshman and sophomores, who likely have the time and energy.  Also, its best for underclassmen in order to make friends and meet people in the concentration.  The course requires a lot of time outside of work that you don't expect.  Even if you say you won't fall into, everyone does.
I urge you not to take this class.  It is a farce, and I have never regretted anything more in my entire academic career.  I nearly had a nervous breakdown last year related to stress, and I would still repeat that experience over taking this course once more.
Takes a LOT of work outside the class in terms of networking with people
This course is unique for Harvard because of the simulation component.  While the politics and occasionally unpleasant self-revelation that this entails may not appeal to the sensitive or faint of heart, I would advise anyone with either an informal or professional interest in politics to take this course.
Enter the real world.
Get actively involved in the simulation and you'll learn a lot
I already tell my friends about this course.
You have to be a certain kind of person to enjoy this class. The simulation can be intimidating and stressful for people who do not want to put themselves out there and act like a politician. This is not your average Gov class.
IT IS SO MUCH MORE WORK THAN YOU THINK IT WILL BE!!! The readings and lectures are largely irrelevant, and it might drive you up a wall. If you're looking for a different class, then you're in the right place. But just have fun- don't take it too seriously.
An excellent class, but only take it if you have the time to devote to it outside of class as well as a strong enough interest in the subject matter.  Not for the light-hearted.
I am sorry this course is not being offered next year.
If only David King could teach it again. This class is exactly what we wish a Harvard course would be: different.
While this course teaches a great deal about Congress and our government, you will walk away learning many important life lessons.
The course is dry in the first half but so interesting in the second half. It says a lot about your personality. It is difficult to determine your grade based on work in the traditional academic sense. And it requires a lot of work outside of class, meeting with people to make deals, etc.
Be prepared to talk and to meet a lot of people. Be passionate about an issue and know it very well.
If the course still includes peer-evaluations, avoid it like the plague (if you care about your grades). If it doesn't have peer evaluations, definitely take it, it will be one of the best courses you have ever taken.
it is a GREAT class, but it is very time intensive with respect to the simulation. If you enjoy the simulation you will have a blast. Otherwise, it may seem cumbersome.
This class can get personal, take up a lot of time, and can reveal things about others/yourself you may have not wanted to know.
a lot of fun, but you have to work hard and put yourself out there if you want to do well
Though the simulation can be rewarding, to do "well" in it, you will have to sacrifice your other coursework.  I would only recommend this course to students who are very interested in being a politician themselves, not to those who just want a better understanding of the legislative process.
This class was a fascinating social experiment that really enlightens you about the way our Congress works and you make a lot of new Harvard friends, but the workload and social strain it places on you are incredibly intense.  I was only taking three classes this semester, but it felt like I was taking five.  I myself am on the fence about whether the really neat experience was worth all the effort.  I think you need to be a certain type of student and social being to really thrive in the course, and you need to love competition.  If that's you, then I recommend with enthusiasm; if it isn't you, then I would "definitely not recommend."
Be prepared to spend A LOT of time if you want to do well in the simulation.  It is a second life.
There's no other course like this one, and you'll never have another chance like it to pretend you're in Congress. I don't know anyone who's indifferent about this course -- it's a fun thing to involve yourself in. I know I learned a lot.
While the information is extremely interesting, the simulation portion of the course is extremely cutthroat and time-consuming. The directions for what is to be done aren't entirely clear at all times, either. It is an extremely time-consuming course, and only worth taking if you're really interested in the subject matter or very competitive.
be ready to spend a lot of time outside the class to meet and talk with other students involved in the simulation. Sometimes, it can be overwhelming, if you take it at heart.
peer grading is a big part of the grade, as is participation. if you can't put effort into the class don't take it
TAKE IT, but only if you're willing to put in the effort to get into the simulation.
Be prepared for the intensity of the simulation.
This is more of a social class than an academic class.
be involved (but not overly involved) from the beginning
This class is awesome! If I could take it every year I would. You'll come away with new friendships, new skills that are applicable to the real world regardless of future career (can't say that about calculus), and a new found respect for our representatives in Congress. They have the hardest, yet most rewarding, job.
It's really fun but be prepared to spend A LOT of time outside of class meeting with others in the simulation. Don't volunteer to be a lobbyist or a journalist.
It's a lot of fun and unlike any other class you will probably take at Harvard. That being said, it's not for everyone, and people should be willing to meet outside of class time and have enough time to be vested in the simulation to really get the full gist of the course.
be prepared to spend lots of time out of class politicking
While this class if technically about Congress, it's is really about human nature and how people build power, coalitions, and support.
it's probably the only chance you'll get in college to do a simulation, and it is well worth the time and effort put in! you see your classmates as fellow colleagues, a whole different light which shows how they interact w/ others
Only take this course if you are willing to invest in the simulation.  Once you jump into the simulation, it is a lot of fun.
be prepared to be in class with 150 ambitious IOP junkies who all think they are going to be the next president of the united states
it was interesting but not as great as the hype makes it sound.
Don't take it.
Take it for Dr. King
Ballin'!
This is the worst course that I have taken (and, hopefully, ever will take) at Harvard. Although it may sound like fun and seem to be well-designed for the first few lectures, it will ultimately be a complete waste of your time.
This can be a great class, but it is not for everyone. Think carefully about how much you love the concept of a simulation and whether that is something you would do well with. This class requires a deceiving extra amount of time outside of class to spend on the extra simulation stuff such as caucuses and lobbyist meetings.
This class absorbs your life completely.  It is an extraordinary experience that gives you a great view of how political life works.  Institutional government classes, like this one aren't particularly academically rigorous or interesting, but the social and psychological dynamics of the simulation are an unbeatable experience.
Only take it again if David King is teaching it.  Take his Kennedy school class (PAL 210) instead of whatever College course they create to replace this.
Gov 1300 is a phenomenal learning experience, but you will end up spending exorbitant amounts of time on the simulation (so be warned!). There is a significant psychological component to the course, and if you run for leadership positions, you may expect to be publicly scrutinized quite harshly. Don't take anything that happens in Gov 1300 personally!
Fasten your seatbelts.
This class provides you with an amazing experience, but my one recommendation would be to make sure you know what you're getting into beforehand. Make sure this is the kind of class you'd enjoy.
It's fun!
Awesome!
This class is unlike any other offered at Harvard. It emphasizing getting to meet your classmates and is not just full of boring lectures. Definitely a highlight of my Harvard experience. However, be warned--some people take the class too seriously.
I really enjoyed this class. The covered material is really interesting, the assignments were actually fun to do, and sections were run well. Overall, I would recommend this class.
Boring, unhelpful lectures. Assignments are redundant, but have useful lessons within. Easy, but you won't learn a whole lot. Might be more helpful to read some reports on trends in Congress.
It's an extremely low-key, low-time commitment Gov class with a heavy Stata component. Professor Snyder is extremely nice and the preeminent authority in the field, but (maybe it was the 10am class time) sometimes lectures could drag a bit. Section usually focused on the problem set for that week with a bit of discussion, typically about some really interesting articles. Research paper at the end is somewhat brutal, but overall a painless Gov credit.
Chill course, lectures are a little dull especially because they don't have much to do with section or assignments.
Great class that teaches you a lot and is extremely interesting. It's one of the only gov classes I've seen that actually uses stata. The PSETs are fairly stress free, and the TF's are awesome.
It's a good course - lectures are interesting, you'll learn how to use stata, and it'll make you think about Congress in a more analytical way.  It's not a huge time commitment, which is nice if you're taking 5 classes or a couple tough pset classes.
This is an amazing class. Professor Snyder's approach to the study of government is really interesting and refreshing. You will walk away with a much better understanding of how Congress works and a working knowledge of the program Stata, which is extremely valuable. The assignments were honestly fun to do. Could not recommend more, a real gem of a class that everyone should take at some point.
If you aren't familiar with Stata, stay away. If you're good with Stata, this course is relatively easy.
This is a very low-stress way to learn about interesting patterns in Congress and how to use stata. The final project uses original research questions and forces you to use the stata skills you have learned in class for research purposes. It's a great skill, one very different from the essays you write in most gov classes. Also, the p-sets are low stress and a nice balance to other reading-heavy govs.
This is a really great class, probably one of the only good quantitative classes in the Gov department. The problem sets are a good amount of work, but definitely doable. I learned a lot, and I'm really happy I took it.
Although you might not be doing too much theory, it's really interesting. Some things from the course are taught in high school government classes, but it's really the statistics/ coding experience that makes this class great. If you're looking to learn how to make figures and charts, this class is great
great way of looking at gov
If you are interested in congress at all, this class is very interesting!
If you enjoy data analysis and statistics, you might like this class. It's incredibly easy if you know a bit of Stata, and it shouldn't be hard even if you don't. The final paper can be tough if you don't have a topic that you are passionate about researching, but other than that this is a good class that is pretty easy and at least moderately interesting.
Good intro to the complexities of Congress and some basic statistical analysis with Stata (though don't expect the equivalent of Gov 50/Stat 104/etc.) Put in some time on the final project, it can be really interesting if you give it some thought. Also, Prof. Snyder, Daniel, and Pam are all fantastically accessible and helpful to students!
This class is a gem. Lecture is good, but not necessary. Section is incredibly helpful. The teaching staff is really happy to support you. The PSETs are fair--not time consuming, not too hard, but definitely make you learn and think. The final project is enjoyable, and the teaching staff is happy to support you.
Only do this course if you have a strong itch to do quantitative work. You won't take much more than knowledge of stata from the class.
Excellent course.  Quantitative, but not too difficult if you have never used Stata before
Lectures and section are near-pointless, but working with stata in this context is valuable for government concentrators.
You get out what you put in.
I would tell future students that it is a great class for an easy A, but not the best way to motivate yourself to truly learn about Congress.
Engaging class with interesting course material and a great professor.
Really great class for anyone who is concentrating in Economics or Statistics but is also interested in Government
I enjoyed this class tremendously. I learned about how the institutions and influences have changed over time to create the legislative body we recognize today. It is a well-taught class and is invaluable to anyone who wishes to understand how Congress does (or does not) get things done.
You don't have to do the readings and the projects are interesting, though time consuming.
The course was fun - Professor Ansolabehere is very accessible, and it's very low key. On the downside, the material in lecture can get boring sometimes.
FYI this is not Gov 1310 - no cheating scandal here. Prof. Ansolabehere is well-known in the field and is a shining personality. The class itself is not difficult as long as you put in the work on the two capstone assignments (decade report and final paper), but plan in advance. Readings are totally optional. Just sit back, relax, and enjoy the spectacle.
This was a phenomenal class for those who are interested in the ins and outs of Congress and legislative research.  This level of hands-on experience is hard to come by as an undergrad, and to work alongside Professor Ansolabehere was extremely rewarding.
This course is great! Professor Ansolabehere is very enthusiastic about helping students. He takes pride in the class, and it is evident that he wants each student to have a great experience. In addition, the course gives students a great opportunity to explore potential research/thesis topics. Take the course; you won't regret it.
Being a student in this course was an extremely rewarding experience.  In the first half of the course, the class constructed an unprecedentedly extensive database of Congressional legislation.  In the second half, we were able to select a topic that we wanted to explore further and perform research on that subject.  Although the lectures did not relate much to the research we conducted, it was worth attending class just to listen to Professor Ansolabehere.  I acquired invaluable research skills from this course, and I look forward to applying what I learned in future courses.
Amazing class that gives an excellent overview of the United States Congress with an excellent lecturer and super interesting material. Has some very cool independent projects that let you take charge of learning!
This is a really fun class, and a great opportunity to analyze American historical politics through the lens of congressional action.
If you want to take an amazing class, take this one. Both of the TFs were exceptional and Professor A is a great professor. This class is a must for anyone concentrating in Government.
It's two research papers (10 pages and 20 pages) and little else. You won't get a ton out of lecture.
