doing the readings ahead time
These two professors are brilliant and equally inspiring- do the readings to get the most out of the lectures. In the weeks when I didn't do the readings, I felt like I'd missed out.
This course is not appropriate for graduate students. It presents a highly simplistic and one-sided account of a rich and contested field of study.
This class was amazing. You learn about the economic and political progression of African states, which have absolutely fascinating histories and the most corrupt governments. Bates and Robinson are THE experts of African development, and it is interesting to see the two teach the class and switch off giving lectures from day to day, each with a slightly different opinion. Brett was a great TF. Just be warned: many people in the class are there to fulfill requirements and don't care about the material, dragging down the enthusiasm of the class as a whole. If you read the papers (2 per class or so, not bad) you will get a lot out of this. The professors are not really involved beyond lecturing, and the class is just two exams and section participation. It will change your whole perspective on how societies develop.
Very unstructured and I still don't know why Africa is the way it is today.
Its interesting material but hard to piece the knowledge together.
lectures were disorganized at times, but the material is interesting, section was useful and you learn some pretty cool stuff along the way
Definitely really interesting, they cut down on the number of irrelevant readings. I would absolutely take this if you are curious about African poverty and the reasons behind it.
Honestly, did not enjoy the course. It lacked structure and focus and I feel as though it failed to answer adequately the over arching question "why is africa poor"
I would take this course if (1) you want to study why Africa is poor, (2) you have a general interest in how institutions (or lack thereof) affect economic development. The course itself does not tie in very well, but if you keep up with the material you will learn a lot of somewhat disconnected theories.
1/2 the lectures are great, 1/2 are not. The material is complex, and much more politically/economically theoretical, but it's interesting and very relevant. Doing the readings or at least having good summaries is imperative.
Be prepared to do the reading. Try to work in groups if possible. I would really think twice before taking this again as a science student.
It was an interesting course but for a grad student it was pretty broad.  It would have been better to take something that wasn't lecture based and that had more depth.
very interesting if you like Africa and/or development. Take it because the professors are pioneers. The sections were good, the exams are not difficult. The reading is not overwhelming, and not too heavy on theory. There are interesting case studies.
Not a lot of assignments but a lot of reading.  Interesting class but a little disjointed in terms of structure.
This was a really great way to learn about African governments and institutions from a bird's eye view. I thought this was great even though I have no gov background because I still felt like I learned a ton.
interesting topic matter, not terribly well taught.  5 questions determine your grade.
If you're interested in the topic it's an interesting class but not especially exciting.
a basic understanding or interest in economics would be helpful; also a basic understanding of african geography, history and or politics would be helpful as well
Great material if you want to travel to Africa.
I took this class in the spring because I was in Bate's fall class The Politics and Economics of Development. I loved the fall class and wanted to have Bates in the spring. But the spring class was terrible compared to the fall one. TAKE THE FALL CLASS. There is a lot of overlap but the fall class is more interesting and better structured.
I did not like this class. You will learn a lot about Africa. However, this class is probably not the best way to do it. First, grading was VERY harsh! Honestly, this has been the most harshly/ridiculously graded class I've had at Harvard. The material was not hard to understand, but the graders were somewhat unreasonable in assigning exam grades. It was humorous how silly it was. I would not take this class unless the professors are different. Professors Robinson and Ichino are lovely people, but the class always had a negative/condescending vibe. I would suggest taking a different course if you are interested in Africa. I hope it will change in the future, but it was a negative experience this semester. It's interesting material, but hard to enjoy.
Do NOT take this class unless you are actually interested in the material, this class is very difficult. Especially do not take it if you are using it to count for Econ, there are better courses out there.
Only take this course if you have to. It seems like  regurgitation of information and requires too extensive an understanding of African history and political frameworks.
The lectures are amazing (and very necessary). Seriously, go to lecture, otherwise, the readings will seem daunting.
A tour of Africa's people, their history and current societies, the good and the bad.  A rare insight insight into Africa and how to think about its challenges.
This course has interesting material and a rigorous approach to understanding politics and economics. Professor Robinson is an eminent member of the field and taking a class with him is very interesting. That being said, the course is somewhat disjointed and is fairly easy to simply sit through without necessarily learning much.
I would most definitely find a different class within the Gov department.  Lectures were often confusing, difficult to connect to readings, and inconsistent.  Section was sometimes okay, in which we would connect the week's readings and themes to the broader ideas of the class, but often simulations and current events presentations were ineffective.
Only positive is that it's about Africa. Class is totally disjointed. Readings are unnecessarily long. Section is an absolute pain. Ichino is awkward and rude.
If you are really interested in Africa, it gives you a great overarching idea about how the politics and economy operates and is why it is.
Interesting material, but the lectures are poorly formatted and run. TFs were great and gave the best lectures. Midterm was fair, final was not as a means to punish those for not attending lecture.
An interesting class, especially those for people without a background in Africa. Lectures can be a bit dry at times. Not much economics at all, though, so don't expect that.
I would recommend this course only if Professor Ichino is teaching it next time it is offered (it's normally Bates, who was on a sabbatical this year). I preferred her lectures to those of Professor Robinson, which presented his own views on contested topics as the 'correct' answers, and often meandered into unnecessary comparisons with British history (I had some knowledge of the area, so they weren't lost on me (though they didn't help either), but I feel like they didn't help most of the class at all). There seemed to be two narrative threads going through the course: one was 'Why is Africa Poor?', which Professor Robinson covered, while the other was the post-independence political development of Africa, which Professor Ichino and the guest lecturers dealt with. I would recommend this course just for this second thread, which honestly makes ploughing through the first bit worthwhile. I also recommend forming study groups to get through the readings - it's probably the only way to keep up with them.
Unless this class undergoes some major structural changes, and is no longer taught by Inchino or Robinson stay clear from this course. Inchino, though a brilliant scholar and writer is NOT a good lecturer. This was best reflected by the attendance of her lectures which dropped from almost full attendance at the beginning of the semester to less than 10% of the class enrollment by the end of the semester. Robinson, although better than Inchino as a lecturer, was guilty of sometimes deviating from his lecture topics and materials to the point where he was only able to cover less than half of his lecture materials for the day. Quite frankly, I'm not even sure where to begin with the problems that face this class. Perhaps a lot of the problems with this course stems from the fact that it attempts to cover FAR too much information about the political economy of Africa in too little time. Future professors and TFs for this course should seriously restructure the course material of this class by first of all focusing on what they consider to be the main focal points of the modern political economy of Africa, and then possibly emphasizing those points through a case study approach of specific African nations. Given the diversity of political and economic experiences for the 55 distinct nations on the African continent, it is simply unreasonable to attempt to cover every single region and experience at once. Therefore, maybe this class instead could be divided thematically by regions instead so that one part of the course would focus on the unique political economy of West Africa, then Central Africa, East Africa, and Southern Africa. In short, this class needs major structural reform b
lots of information to keep track of
I would recommend this course for gov concentrators or anyone who is really interested in Africa and the complexity of the problems occurring there today. I would not recommend this course to anyone who doesn't fit in those two categories.
This class is poorly organized, I would not take it again.
It's covers a lot of subject matter and you do come out with a better understanding of African politics, but it seems disjointed and the enthusiasm (of both the faculty and students) is lacking. I found myself really frustrated with this course even though I was really excited to take it initially.
The course requires a lot of work, but also does not offer much clarification. At times you feel like you are learnings bits and pieces of information but that's it.
-very interesting course with great materials and very accomplished professors; however, the problem is that for some reason a decent number of students who actually take this course do not really seem to be that interested/involved/do not do the readings; thus, the section component is fairly unsatisfactory in a sense that if one really wants to learn a lot, it won't be from attending sections, where the majority of the students didn't do the readings, are not even able to read 'their' notes (for they are a part of study group and they don't even bother to read the notes that others prepare for them in advance), and are not really able to analyze the materials critically - TFs themselves are fine, it is mostly about the students
Take it only if you are really interested in Africa and political institutions. Do not take if you want to learn about solutions to African poverty.
This course can be a bit dry at times, especially Ichino's lectures.  If you don't want to learn about Africa don't take it, it really isn't an econ course at all.
Make sure to do the readings - since the class is only a midterm and a final, it's easy to not do the work, but the readings help a ton on the exams. And go to class! Boring sometimes, but the lecture slides aren't particularly helpful
If you've an interest in the political economy of Africa, or in development economics, the College does not offer you much. GOV 1197 is a serviceable opportunity to learn the subject matter from the perspective of an economist, sociologist, and historian all at once.
If you are interested in learning more about Africa, take this course. If you think you are going to get away with not doing your readings etc, you are wrong. The econometrics aspect of the course is fascinating but not compulsory.
This course is not easy. You have to keep up with very dense readings. It is useful to have some sort of background knowledge about Africa because many students in the class do, which likely will skew the exam results
Great subject matter, really interesting and enlightening course.  Loved learning in this course.  But it is not very organized, lots of reading with exams focusing on random parts of it, the sections were brutal, and Ichino is a strange one.
Robinson is a better lecturer than Ichino. It would have been nice if there had been more time for some questions in lecture. Section was very intense (actually expected to do all readings for a Gov class? What?). There were no papers and the exams were graded quite harshly (assuming that the final grading was similar to the midterm).
Africa is not a country!! But this class shows you way more than that. If you are interested in the developing world, African politics and international development, this is the class to take. Very interesting and intellectually stimulating!
Requirements were not alot but subjective grading and not that interesting of a class
this is an unexpectedly difficult course. the course load is heavy and the grading system is arbitrary. i would not recommend taking this course, especially if you head into it thinking that it's an easy,basic introduction to African politics.
too many readings but that's the gov dept's life. interesting content but not cohesive and sometimes Robinson comes off as a colonialist apologist, i.e., the readings are really skewed
It only has a midterm and a final so sometimes it is difficult to motivate yourself to do all the readings.
read for section you will be tested on your knowledge
Bates and Robinson are awful lecturers...it's actually impossible to stay awake and engaged during class. It's also a very disorganized class, we didn't study the continent in any logical order. We kept trying to generalize things to the entire continent, but when there are 54 different countries, that's impossible. I didn't learn nearly as much as I had hoped to. Additionally the course requires a hefty amount of gov knowledge, which as an ec-concentrator, I didn't have. Jon Wiegel, the TF, was the only saving grace for this course.
This course is basically what you would expect from a developmental economics course.  The lectures are not very engaging and many of the assumptions/assertions are quite problematic.  The course attempts to make many generalizations about the entire continent based on weak statistical evidence. The TF was the saving grace of the course.
For anyone interested in African development or development in general, this course provides you with a good basis on the theories of the determinants of development and why some nations today are developed while others aren't.
This is a course that challenges your worldview of Africa and gets you thinking critically.
This course is great because it is both an economics class and a government class. Robinson is a superstar. Unfortunately, he is headed to Chicago, so this class may not be worth it in the future.
Jonathan is great. Heavy reading load and confusing progression of topics. Maybe they will organize it better in future years.
This course has incredibly fascinating material, but the readings can be dense and the lectures can be a bit difficult to sit through. I learned a ton of things, and feel so much more educated on the topic of Africa which is great.
Cattle for days
If you are interested in learning about Africa's development from a historical, economic and institutional perspective, this is it! While some knowledge of basic econ terms would be more helpful to understand the material, it is not a prerequisite on its own. The professors have a wealth of knowledge and are great people to know outside of class.
That which you get out this course is really a function of what you put in. This is a good course, but it's really not worth taking unless you're willing to put in the time to do the readings and think critically about the course material. It would easy to skate by, but you would only, I think, be cheating yourself.
Keep the bigger ideas of the course in mind and keep up the work through the semester. When exams come, it would be really useful to already have notes on readings and such. Take time to extract ideas and keep the readings in the context of the debates/topics of the course, otherwise they can seem random sometimes and it may be hard to see the reason you're reading them. Remember case examples for essays! Participate in section - just put in the work and you will really enjoy the course, especially if you're interested in development work.
I would recommended taking this class only if you have a keen interest in Africa or political economy in general. I would suggest that you avoid if simply looking for an "easy" class, as the readings can be quite a bore if you have no genuine interest otherwise.
I thought this was a very fascinating class and enjoyed it quite a bit. Professor Robinson and Professor Bates have different approaches and beliefs, but its interesting to hear from them both. I dont know in what format and form this class will be held in the future, but I thought the material is quite rich, and therefore, do shop this class! The assignments for the semester included a midterm, final, and weekly reading responses.
This is a great class! Bates and Robinson are very knowledgeable and Jon is an awesome TF. The class structure is very straightforward and the topic's super interesting.
Two of the biggest names in political economy are teaching but sometimes lecture is very unstructured. They often skip over slides, run out of time or speed through material. The class overall is structured pretty poorly as the syllabus was often changed by swapping lectures, eliminating readings, many times with only a few days notice if so much. Big up-side is material is relatively easy, reading not too bad, only one midterm and one final. Finally, Jon took up a lot on this own and is really great for section. Section made this entire course for me.
It's a really great course and quite informative. Bates is kind of a slow lecturer, but not terrible. All in all, very interesting and worth taking.
This was definitely my favorite class I've taken so far.
Bates and Robinson are fantastic lecturers, and Jonathan's one of the best TFs I've had. The topics we discussed in and of themselves were interesting, but its these people who make them come alive through their passion. I came in knowing next to nothing about the history and growth of the African continent, and I left with a rich understanding across multiple dimensions - I learned the history of specific nations and the continent overall, cultural evolution, social dynamic, economic policies, military involvement, and more. I think both individuals with no background on Africa and those with a lot will both get something meaningful out of this class. I was fortunate to have section with members of the latter group and I learned so much from their perspective. There are a few logistical things I think will be improved upon in future iterations of this course -- more clearly defined topic areas, better feedback on weekly response papers, more interactive section and class activities. But overall, this is an interesting and engaging class that will change the way you understand the interaction of economics, politics, colonialism, statehood, and growth in unique contexts across Africa.
Pretty easy elective if you're interested at all in Africa or international development
Parts of this class were interesting, like Robinson's lectures, but the class was pretty bad. The readings were so boring and often had very little to do with what was covered in lecture, and the discussions of the readings in class were very superficial - there was little debate. The TF, Jon, was good, and genuinely cared about the material, but I would only take this class if you are genuinely interested in political economy or if you want to know more about random cases in Africa - like Sierra Leone, CAR, or South Africa, which are covered in detail.
This class should probably be reorganized. It's mostly painless, but it can get needlessly confusing and boring at times.
Course is good, there is a decent amount of reading and weekly responses for section that force you to keep up on the work.
Jon is a great TF! Be prepared for lectures though that are difficult to understand unless you've done the readings ahead of time.
Great to count for ec
If you are really into political economy and African history, you will probably like it. Otherwise, maybe avoid this class as it quickly becomes boring. Both profs are great in their field and good lectures, but not the best.
It's a really good class and pretty painless. Bates and Robinson are both really great professors.
make sure you read
You can learn a lot from this class, but to do so you must make the effort to piece together the different components of the course, that is, lecture, readings, and section, because the themes and ideas that this course intends to convey are not readily apparent.
some of the reading before the 1st midterm is rather pointless but it gets better. Also don't miss Bates' lectures. His powerpoints are useless.
This material is fascinating and worth studying, although the class was quite disorganized in its first year.
The class  raises interesting issues and readings, but that the professors lectures were not too helpful and had trouble being cohesive. also that they needed more assessments.
Very easy course. Bad lectures, too much reading
do the readings
One of my favorite classes here.  If you have a genuine interest in these issues/in Africa you will get a LOT out of it, address very interesting theories, and look at things from many perspectives. Lectures and sections are both very good.  Do the readings!
unsatistfactory answer to the question: Why is Africa so poor?
The subject matter is exciting.  But the course is really poorly organized and the readings are uninteresting to say the least.  They actually just assigned the ENTIRE 232 page Economic Commission for Africa 2008 report for one class' reading.  And it was irrelevant.
If you're interested in the subject matter
Excellent. Integral in understanding Africa and the developing world.
Your interest in the topic should be very high to take the course.
If you want to learn more about Africa than take it. But it is not necessarily a good class.
Be prepared to tackle readings whose relevance to the larger thematic picture is not inherently clear. Find the relevant readings and focus on them. That being said, you can skim a lot for this course.
Every Harvard student should take a class about Africa during their time on this campus.  This course provides a solid overview of the continent, and provides interesting insight into some potential answers to the crucial question of "Why is Africa Poor?"
This was definitely not one of the better courses I have taken at Harvard. Professor Bates's lectures were very disorganized and sometimes I could not tell what he was trying to say. There weren't any assignments in which I got meaningful feedback (no papers, response papers, and only a few comments on the midterm exams). The lack of assignments contributed to student apathy, and going to sections where clearly few people did the reading was a bit disheartening. There was too much reading (The entire report of the 2008 economic commission for Africa was part of the assignment for one lecture)and most people just stopped doing it.I came into this course super-excited about the subject matter, and I can't say that I left with such excitement.
there isn't time to read everything - choose what you read carefully and read efficiently
An excellent way to learn about Africa's history and current situation from two of the world's experts, who approach the subject from a rigorous intellectual angle, rather than Caroline Elkins's "blame the white man, praise the black man" style
It really breaks down the question as to why Africa is poor and opens your eyes to the reality of how Africa got to where it is today. It also allows you to see the individual countries that make up the continent and how each have their own individual reasons for their current states.
not much work, but still incredibly interesting.
Course is essential for anyone interested in engaging with Africa at any level.
Bates' lectures were terrible.  Otherwise it's a pretty good class.
Very interesting topic, not taught well by professors
You can learn everything about Africa from this class.
it's a great introduction into an interesting subject that is not commonly discussed. if you're intrigued by the material/subject I think you will appreciate the course for what it is trying to examine.
I thought it was a good class as an introduction into african history, economy, and political structure if you haven't taken classes in that field before.
If you're are interested in Africa's development
go to class! for bates' lectures definitely print out the slides and take notes on them.
Great class. Robinson is amazing.
A background knowledge of Africa is necessarily a requisite but helps significantly. I did not have much knowledge coming into the course and loved it nonetheless but felt behind at times
best part of the course is jonathan, the TF. if he is still doing it, the course will be manageable. the course is disorganized and the readings are useless except for knowledge of the thesis.
Really cool class to take if you're interested in finding out a bit about the politics and economics of the African continent. You might find it a tad reductionist if you're looking for more in depth treatment of any single aspect of the Political Economy of the continent.
Not to many assignments and the material is interesting.  I would recommend it. This class is really helpful for anyone who wants to study Africa because you get a fairly complete picture of the history which can be helpful in your other work.
This course is very interesting and covers a wide range of issues in and opinions on Africa. Jonathan is a great TF and connects with the students.
This course was interesting to get a better understanding of why Africa is the way it is today. Overall it wasn't too difficult, just a midterm and final which were both essay questions and graded fairly. Bates is not a good lecturer though, so it can be tough sitting through those.  Lecture itself is not that interesting or important, you could probably get the information solely from the readings and going over it in section. It was also a little disjointed and hard to follow but overall I am glad I took because I better understand how colonialism and slavery actually impacted Africa and what the region looks like today.
Take it if you want to learn a lot about African history and politics. Be warned that the class is very very unorganized.
Take it! Best gov class I've taken thus far.
It was a great class to get exposed to the most recent literature on the political economy of Africa. One piece of caution is that I don't feel like I ever got the big picture but only got bits and pieces.
