This is a very informative and well-taught course.  Readings are manageable, tests are fair, and the teaching staff is great.  Overall, I would strongly recommend this course.
Amazing class. Very chill and manageable but you will also learn SO MUCH. The first half focuses on modern Chinese history, and the second half you learn about the workings of Chinese government. If you have any kind of interest in Chinese history or politics, this class will be a good time.
Prof. Wang and Jingkai have been some of the most knowledgeable teaching staff I've had here! Readings are also not overwhelming and certainly add a lot to your understanding (very well-selected) but it's also possible to do ~50% of them, go to lecture, and still learn a lot. It's sort of half-history, half-"political science," which is especially helpful for this particular subject...but also means that there's something for everyone! Final research paper a really good opportunity to explore something about China you wouldn't otherwise have a chance to.
This is a great class that demystifies Chinese politics and history. TAKE IT. One of my favorite classes at Harvard. Prof. Wang is very knowledgeable and gives historical context that makes the material memorable, with a great sense of humor too. You learn a lot without realizing it, and the exams are fair. Be warned though -- there's both a final exam and a final paper.
This course was really well taught and stimulated my interest in government.
Professor Wang is an engaging lecturer who has a great sense of humor but also makes listening to lectures pretty fun as well as easy. This class is one of the gems of the government department. Most government classes I've taken have been pretty complicated in terms of navigating the material, but the way the material has been broken down in this class makes retaining the information easy to organize in your head and retain. I actually learned so much more from this class than I expected going in, and this class was easily one of my favorites this semester.
EXCELLENT COURSE, PLEASE TAKE THIS!!!
If you are interested in learning more about modern Chinese history and politics and how they affect China's current situation, then this is definitely a great course to take. Professor Wang is extremely intelligent, and Jingkai is a very knowledgeable TF, so they make a good team. The reading can be heavy at times, but it often helps to supplement material from lecture and section. I definitely feel like I learned a lot about China and can better understand its current place on the global stage.
I really enjoyed this class. Yuhua is great! He really cares about what he's teaching. Lecture was never dry or boring. Yuhua is also super funny and his jokes really lighten up the class. The first half of the class is Learning the history of China and the second is about the actually governance of China. I would really recommend taking if you are interested in China or just need to fufil the gov requirement for an elective. Low stress- most things are just straight forward. Also Jingkai is so amazing. One of the best section leaders I've had. The final paper is 12-15 pages and topic questions are super flexible. One thing I don't like though is having both a final paper and a final exam in the class but should be doable. TAKE IT!!!
TAKE THIS CLASS. I've never learned so much in one semester, and the material you cover is really essential to understanding modern China. You'll read news headlines in a new way and realize how shallow a lot of talk about China is.Professor Wang is a gem. He's a great lecturer (keeps you enthralled the whole time) and a nice person. Workload is pretty light. Readings are substantial but not necessary. One tough feature is the combo of an exam and 15-page paper at the end of the semester, but you'll find yourself enjoying these more than expected because of how much information you've already learned.Recommend as an introduction to China in a general sense (history, government, and a little bit of culture).
This is a great class and not too much work, and you definitely are able to gain a lot of knowledge about a broad set of issues in China. However, if you are looking for a more rigorous class and want to read a lot of political theory, I would not recommend this class.
Very interesting subject matter, and Yuhua Wang is a great professor in lectures and outside of class. Jingkai is also a very smart TF. Some people are scared to take it because there's a final exam and a final essay, but I think it's overall worth it. If you have some ancestry in China, it is especially interesting!
Prof Wang and Jingkai taught this class incredibly effectively. The content was fascinating and the way it was taught was clear and unique. I don't think there's another place you could learn this information elsewhere to the same extent. You don't need any background but you come out of the class with such a better understanding of China and, more importantly, how to think about China!
If you're interested in learning about what led China to its present-day "democracy" from the late Qing (1850s) up until the present-day take this course. I only knew very little about China from my history courses but this course intimately looks at the events that have shaped China and how it emerged as a major power in the last few decades.
