Opportunity to do novel work
It's a good class, but not really as challenging as a 'capstone' course should be. It likely prepared most Gov students to do moderately competent empirical work, but I don't think it prepared students who want to do serious empirical work very well for future courses.
I would tell them to prepare ahead of time by refreshing their math skills and learning some R on their own. Also, I would tell them to have several possible replication articles and data ready prior to starting the course.
One of the best courses that I have taken in Harvard
1- Learn R before you come to class and prepare yourself for a heavy workload.2- Choose a paper for replication that you have an a priori idea of what was wrong with it. NO descriptive papers, just a paper with an apparent flaw.3- Don't take the class if you do not have a good partner. The load is so heavy and if you end up working on your own, your misery is tripled.
This class gives a very solid understanding of the most common statistical methods and integrates that understanding in the whole process of scientific inquiry.
- This class takes 20-30 hours per week on average. Do not take unless you have a light course load and are prepared to be very frustrated. I had a strong quantitative background going in but no R background which was a big handicap.- You will learn some useful tools (and if you already know R you will learn even more). But given the work you put in the gains will not be commensurate.- If you are interested in the material, audit the class/ watch the videos online and then learn Zelig.
The replication project is by far the most important and most useful part of the class and will take up the most time, but is a chance to get a lot of helpful feedback regardless of the level of experience one has with statistical research. Not the best course to learn statistical models, absolutely the best course to practice using them.
This class requires a tremendous time commitment--20-30 hours per week or more--but the techniques you learn (including the R programming skills) are very worthwhile if you plan to do quantitative social science research in your dissertation or career.
This is one of the most useful classes I've taken at Harvard so far -- but be warned, it will become a major part of your life!
A difficult but rewarding course
Gary's approach to statistics is not perfect, but makes much more sense than the standard, so you should learn the big-picture of statistical inference by  taking this course.
This course is hard as hell, and you will spend many lonely, miserable hours wondering whether you will pass and how you could ever be so confident in your abilities that you thought taking it course was a good idea. That said, the material that you'll learn (assuming that you do in fact learn it) in 2001 is some of the most enriching and most useful that you'll come across in the department, and the final replication project really is a great way to do things. Gary's one of the top three instructors I've had, and he and the TAs did a superb job from start to finish. I recommend it highly--don't let the workload, etc., get you down or scare you off.
Homework is heavy
Fantastic class, even for those with a lot of previous stats training.
If you are a Gov graduate student, not taking this class probably means a loss of at least a few hundred thousand dollars of expected lifetime earnings. If you are not a Gov grad student make sure you know what you're getting yourself into -- this is meant as a direct continuation of Gov 2000, R and all.
You will be exposed to several different kinds of statistical models for use in political science, but the exposure is quick and if your other major with statistics has been Gov 2000, mastering these models will require more work after the end of Gov 2001. You will, however, learn one type of model very well (the one you use in your replication paper).
The replication project is very difficult; however, I learned to teach myself how to do things followed by how to correct all the mistakes I made along the way.
Even if one knows a lot of the material in the class, it's worth it for the paper exercise and the implementation of statistical techniques.
Great lectures and an interesting assignment, but badly let down by the sections, which in a course of this nature are crucial.
Anyone who has the opportunity to take this or any other course offered by Gary King would be a fool to pass.  By far the best econometric class I have taken in any department
That it is an excellent way to cover a lot of quantitative material very quickly and that the replication project will equip you well for practical research. But it is hard work and a lot of the material is difficult.
Be prepared to struggle with R for the first month if you don't already know it, but definitely take this class!
It's difficult, but worth it.
Be prepared to work hard. How much you get out of this class depends entirely on how much you put in.
I would tell students that this is a good introduction to a wide variety of models and how to implement them, but to really understand the models, a different class would be necessary.
Know R before you take this class, or be ready to spend lots of time learning it.
Just what I said already - those looking to do quantitative methodology, take this course. Those looking to spend the next 50 years loading up datasets and knocking out models, maybe take one of the courses that uses Stata in another dept.
it opens a door more than it gives actual tools, one needs to take more courses if they really want to use the stuff correctly
This course is amazing, and Gary King rocks.
Hard course and a lot of work, but you learn quite a bit.  (You also learn how to use a programming language)
It's a difficult and very time-intensive course, but very rewarding.
If you ever have the opportunity to take a course from Gary King, take it.
This course will help you in learning how to present and analyze data. It will not necessarily help you in gaining intuition about the methods, and you will not examine statistical concepts very deeply in this course.
all gov students should take this class
It's an excellent way to practice producing real research that improves on the current state of the field.
This can be a great class provided it returns to its past format. If the style of this year's course is maintained, seriously consider alternatives.
This class is incredibly helpful, especially if you take the replication paper process seriously and start planning early. Be ready though for a significant time commitment. Even before you start on the replication paper, watching the lectures out of class adds at least two hours each week to your workload.
Very helpful in terms of learning methodological skills.
The class is worth it, but it is incredibly time consuming, so know what you are getting into.
This course is very time-consuming, but I learned a lot.  Also, though there is a lot of work, except for the replication paper, it is not too difficult. Furthermore, I learned more from the replication paper assignment than I think I've learned from any other major paper that I've written at Harvard and it was certainly more empowering than any statistics exam or set of problem sets I've had in other quantitative classes.   Gary King is a god among men and I'm very grateful that I got to meet him and interact with him.  His TFs will happily give you all the help you need and they are extremely knowledgeable.  People from all over the university and with all levels of preparation take this class, which I think makes it more interesting than the average Harvard statistics class.  On the other hand, friends I have who already have a lot of statistical experience told me they found this class to be too easy.
Take if you want to use quant methods...of course. Wish I had taken a year later once I knew what I wanted to focus on.
That it is a work intensive course but extremely valuable for anyone who wants to pursue quantitative analysis in an intelligent manner in their work.
It's a maxi-min course: tries to teach the maximum amount of useful applied research methods with the minimal amount of pain and suffering along the way.
Hopefully by the time you take this course, it will be taught in-person by a prominent methodologist (and, I hear, excellent teacher): Gary King.  But if it's still being taught via last year's video lectures--run!
Well taught, interesting. As well as introducing "cutting edge" methods also really helped me clarify/deepen knowledge of basic Quant101 type concepts in a helpful way.
I think that if you are looking for a mathematically rigorous approach to applied statistics, this is not the course for you. However, hard work and interest in going beyond the basic assignments can be very rewarding. Also for those want to move away from classical econometrics there are many interesting alterantive approaches to causal inference.
Don't expect to have a strong technical grasp of the models you learn. Expect to become a practitioner, not a skeptic.
This is an intensive and fruitful course!
For the PhD students, this class is a great introduction to many quantitative methods.  However, do NOT take it if you have no previous experience in R.  Also, do NOT take it unless you have (very recently) had a thorough stat class that uses linear algebra.
You will live in the computer lab when you take this course.  Be prepared to put in enormous hours to keep up (and you really want to keep up, otherwise it will be impossible in the end).  I am so glad it's over so I can sleep again, but I would take it again in a second. It's a very valuable course for anyone looking to understand methods of analysis in a much deeper but also very practical way.
If this class was not essentially required for Gov PhD students, I would recommend that they take a different methods class on the same topics.  I would recommend this class more if it was reverted to the structure of the class in previous years.
Take this class if you really want to understand both the cutting-edge and the fundamentals in statistics.
Less useful for those hoping to go more in an Econ/policy analysis direction than those hoping to do quant. political science.
The course is beyond excellent and structures the research process. More than anything, invest in the replication project, but don't be too concerned with ultimately producing a replication rather than original work.
Highly recommend for those without R experience or beginner in Statistics.  For those with Advanced R / Statistics, would highly recommend to audit / sit in lectures esp. latter 1/2 of course
If you are interested in understanding maximum likelihood, this is a good class for you.If you want to understand the methods in a paper you like, and then improve upon them, this is a good class for you.Don't take the class if you don't have a lot of time.
This is an excellent class to take for graduate students from many departments. Professor King's class is in high demand and there is good reason for that. I would suggest having some probability or statistics before this class so you can get the most out of it (classes along the lines of Govt 2000 or Econ 2110).
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. Don't quibble and just enroll, you will not regret it.
If you take the time to really develop the deep understanding of the methods presented in this class, you'll come away with powerful tools to be able to critique/evaluate empirical methods in almost any discipline.
Gary is a great teacher who has built a powerful, self-contained curriculum with the infrastructure (read: quality TFs and course materials) to support it.
for the replication paper assignment, choose a paper where data and code (or at least cleaned up version of data) is already available. otherwise, this can be quite a headache.
put some time in up front learning R and Latex basics and you will be rewarded later in the semester. Also, Lyx = Latex with training wheels. Try it.
It's perhaps the best way to learn about statistical modeling.  It's extremely accessible.
A great course. Make sure to start the replication assignment early and make sure to choose good people to work with, otherwise writing the paper can be a nightmare.
This course is an amazing follow-up to regression analysis and a must for anyone who plans to do data analysis in their career or research. One of the most practical and enjoyable quantitative classes I have ever taken.
Gary is a phenomenal teacher who is deeply committed to the intellectual progress of his students.  He very carefully choose his TAs to embody that ethos.  This class has helped thread together all of the statistics classes that I've taken, giving me a more profound understanding of quantitative methods.  Thanks to the entire teaching team!
Take the course if you feel R coding is relevant for your research.
You can do better by taking econ metrics sequence / stat 200 sequence if you don't mind torturing yourself with proofs or possibly (but have not taken personally) MIT sequence in poli sci. Unless you must take a class with Gary King for some imagined reason, avoid. That being said, if you can get a copy of assignments, do them - some are pretty useful.
This course is a lot of work, but you will come out of it with a good understanding of many analytcial techniques.
Problem sets take a long time, so be prepared to spend quite a few hours doing them each week. Go to section since you don't learn how to solve homework problems in lecture time
It's amazing. A lot of work, but definitely worthwhile.
This is a really engaging course and you will definitely learn a lot. I felt like the professor over-promises a bit though. You definitely learn a lot about maximum likelihood but I'm not sure if that has made me significantly better at quantitative methodology.
It is an incredible amount of work but definitely worth it!
Equips you with the tools for conducting rigorous quantitative analysis. A bit challenging, but worth every minute devoted to learning the material.
Definitely take this class if you are in the gov department. If not I would probably just take classes in the stats or econ departments.
This will be one of the best academic classes in the entire world. Those who take it become not only adept in but also very comfortable in using any quantitative tools they may encounter in their research career. Prof King and the TFs also give very helpful advice for your future research
Just attend the last few weeks of class where you learn matching and imputation.  The other stuff doesn't really seem to matter, short of being able to recognize different regression models.  You will still just eventually run them via some canned package.  And while it's possible that you will one day come up with your own models, this class doesn't teach you how.
A wonderful introduction to Prof. King's method of approaching quantitative analysis. Prof. King is an enthusiastic and engaging lecturer. However the course does not comprehensively cover advanced quantitative methods, it is really about MLE. Well taught and generally well organized, with an interesting final project.
I would say that this class is definitely valuable if you want to have a more powerful understanding of how to design statistical analyses and read or interpret other researcher's statistical modeling.  I would also tell them that the pacing of the class is a lot slower than I anticipated.  I felt like we spent the first 30-45 mins of class going over course and assignment logistics; or spent it to gain a very marginal understanding of something that would take 5-10 minutes in a more traditional lecture-question format.
expect a wide range of topics to be covered but not in great detail
This class is a blackhole of time and effort, but like a metal melded from the fires of Mordor, you'll come out stronger than ever before.
This course is a great capstone course or bringing together different statistical pieces. The organization needs to be stepped up: it is utterly unreasonabe that every week a new piece of disjoint software needs to be installed without apparently being tested at all. Severalhours a week were wasted fiddling with software quirks (not o do with statistics but with the many tools for interaction)
This is a great course if you are interested in learning about non-linear models.
Try not to let all of the web-based stuff get in the way of learning something.
One of the most important classes I have taken in my grad school career.
Unless you have a passion for poisson distributions, consider taking something more useful.
Take this class, even if it means not taking another really promising class!
This is a more conceptual course designed to change the way you think about statistics, as well as teach you how to use R. Be sure this is what you want before you take the course.
This class requires a lot of work, but you can learn a lot.  It uses lots of technology and is a great place to learn from classmates who are statistical whizzes.
Great for learning how you should really be presenting and analyzing data. Moreover, a great resource for learning basics of likelihood framework.
This is not a class for most undergrads. It is very difficult and self-directed and the final paper takes an incredible amount of work. Keep in mind that most of the grad students in the class have fewer classes and extracurricular commitments and therefore are able to devote more time to the class. If you decide to jump in the deep end, the TF's are your greatest resource. Molly and Jen are absolute saints and will help you out of anything.
Good overview of MLE, learned some R. However: almost all use of technology in this course is *HIGHLY COUNTERPRODUCTIVE.* Learning Catalytics does not promote effective learning, and just takes time away from lecture time. Everything from video assignments should be moved into the live lecture, and replace learning catalytics. NB annotation tool just distracts from reading, and makes commenting, rather than learning from the readings, the focus. Assignments vary in difficulty, and their difficulty should be evened out: Early assignments were too easy, while later ones may have been too time-consuming. Replication paper assignment seems unrelated to what is taught in the course.
It's a very good course but it's on you to put the effort in to get the most out of it. Knowledge will not be spoon fed.
make sure the rest of your schedule can accommodate 2001, it can break you if you don't manage it well.  But if you do manage it, it can yield amazing results!
This is a great class for learning both theory and application of moderately advanced statistics. Gary is a great professor.
It's a good course. It's not as good as I expected. However, it provides access to a number of important statistical procedures.
This is an amazing course for those with a very strong background in stat and poli sci. Also, knowledge of R is pretty much a prereq, otherwise you'll spend the first couple months of the course pulling your hair out over the programming.
Do the homework thoroughly, actively use the section and lecture R code as a reference to guide you, and learn how to use R if you didn't already know it.
Most students probably will take this course automatically, because it's required or it fits in the methods sequence. It's a good hoop to jump through. It's probably good to say you took a course with Gary King. Your replication paper may give you a valuable piece of research or the start of one. It may not. This seems like an important course but it isn't guaranteed to be a good course. A lot of that depends on luck and skill in picking your replication topic and the decisions of the instructors on how to modify the course, as it seems to change each year, largely in terms of its learning technology focus.
I'd say it's a great class but you have to make it your top priority to take full advantage of it. Doing it halfway might be more frustrating than anything else as you will catch a glimpse of fascinating questions but won't improve enough to deepen your understanding of them.
If you do this, you have to do all of the sections and readings and understand it all.
I wish I had taken this class rather than BIO201, BIO210 and BIO211 at HSPH. This is a foundational class that I would recommend to any aspiring social scientist who wants to back up causal claims with quantitative evidence or give clearer quantitative descriptions.
Very good class that covers a lot of material quickly. Requires a substantial time commitment.
This class will give you a good overview of a bunch of techniques, and detailed overview of matching and imputation, with a focus on causal intepretation.  The course-work and time requirements of the course are substantial though!
Just go try to replicate a paper. You'll get most of the benefits of this class without the huge hassle.
The teaching staff is wonderful - Gary is a very engaged professor who really cares about teaching, and the TFs this year (Molly and Jen) were absolutely amazing.  The TFs would respond daily to emails sent over the class list, were very patient in office hourss, and were really dedicated to the class.  You learn a lot about different methods and models and get to put what you learn into practice with the final replication paper.  A lot of it is up to the student to make sure that he/she really understands the intuition going on behind the methods and models - it would be easy to just slide under the radar and not truly understand the concepts deeply.
You get to take a course at Harvard with Gary King - what a treat!
Be absolutely sure you're comfortable with the pre-requisits.
Excellent class, difficult though
This is a fantastic course for anyone who wants to use regression analysis in their research. It will not only teach you the theory and practical aspects (coding in R) but also enable you to produce an original research draft by the end of the course. Gary King is one of the best professors I've ever seen - a very warm, helpful, inspiring teacher and an expert creating the cutting edge of the field. You will learn from him not just the theory, but the problems in the methodology in modern research papers and how to address them. His lectures are fun and interactive and full of experiments. Both TFs were outstanding - by far the best I've seen in my gradschool courses. Sections are very helpful and include both code and theory examples. The replication paper was a very helpful exercise - we learned how to replicate and finally expand or find an issue and improve a paper published less than two years ago in our field of interest. That exercise really did help us get on track for a potentially publishable paper with coauthors from class and was a great asset of this course. I enthusiastically recommend this course! That said, take the course only if you have at least one prior course in regression analysis (like Gov 2000) and be prepared to work hard - you will only get a lot out of it if you do work hard and consistently.
Lots of work, but you learn a lot, both practical and theoretical things
Prof. King's lectures are great at building statistical intuition. My only concerns really rest in the Canvas interface, which is used to assess student work. Sometimes, students will obtain correct answers, but, due to variation in their algorithms, their solutions won't be accepted by the Canvas system. Overall, dealing with the Canvas system often takes just as much time as writing the code needed for the problem set itself.
If you want a crash course in quantitative political methodology, this is the best possible course. You'll be pushed, but the work is worth it!
Gary King is the best. The problem sets are hard, but it's important to learn from your classmates.
Do NOT take with Econ 2120, in addition to Econ 2020. Choose one or the other, and preferably, delay 2120 until year 2. You will not have time to focus deeply on courses.
Tough class, but worth it.  You get a lot out of it and Gary is a very good teacher
This is a great class but it very much reflects the vision and approach of a single professor.  If you don't enjoy his approach or teaching style you will probably not be happy in this course.
The replication project is an excellent experience for grad students, and Gary's approach to research is incredibly useful.  However, your success with the project and the amount you learn seems highly dependent on your group members.  Lecture does not always feel sufficiently connected to what you are assessed on--be prepared to attend section and go to office hours.
Find a good group to work with and the class becomes greatly enjoyable and a fabulous learning experience.
this is an amazing class. so many students from all parts of the university take it and gary king is a legend in his field. gary is probably one of the smartest people you'll ever get to talk to. that being said, if you are an undergrad, be sure you have a VERY solid pset group to work with because some of these pset can take an incredibly long time. however, it is all worth it because you learn so much and the project at the end is very cool.
Stat110 is very helpful; auditing or taking Stat111 at the same time is very helpful (the two courses line up).
Fun and useful, take it!
I learned a lot from this class and it was taught well. The course has obviously been refined over quite a few years so it is well organized and optimized for teaching the material. It is geared towards supporting future academics in their research, however, you will take a lot away from the class even if you don't plan on entering academia.
Take this from someone with a quantitative background and interests, but it was my favorite course of the semester
This is a great course to learn the essentials of maximum likelihood statistical methods and how to implement them (and produce cool graphics) in R. The course requires a decent amount of time, both for the problem sets but especially for the replication assignment and final paper. I recommend enrolling with friends so you have a good study group and paper team.
This class is a life changing experience! It is tons of work, but it is really worth it!
If you want to do really well (gradewise) in this class you will need to put in a ton of work, largely working out coding problems, but you can get a lot out of it even if you don't master every single thing.  This is one of the three or four best classes I have ever taken in any subject.
I loved this course. It was hard but really well-taught. If you want to do applied statistics, this is an extremely valuable course to have under your belt. The more time you can devote to it, the better.
It gives you the gist in addition to many tools.
This class is useful as a 'topics in quantitative methods' course, but should not be considered to be as part of a sequence offering comprehensive treatment of the diversity of quantitative methods in use in the field.
Very dynamic class. A lot of work but a large learning potential.
Go and take quant II at MIT if you want to actually learn something
Most versatile statistics course I have taken.
If the Gov Department never revamps their methods sequence, take this course so you can do the replication paper.
The best methods course I have ever taken. Inspirational teaching and brilliant TFs. Covers an astonishingly broad range of quantitative methods. Replication project is an amazing opportunity to apply what you learn in practice. Will be helpful for many graduates pursuing quantitative research in social and medical sciences.
course was great for understanding MLE but strayed from the emphasis on identification seen in econ and elsewhere
This class is very useful for understanding how maximum likelihood and logit models work in social science literature, which is an essentially necessary endeavor. Further, it helps with experience in programming in R. The final project is also useful in getting you to think about your substantive field of interest and how improvements can be made in statistical analyses. However, sometimes the material can be confusing, and it can be hard to follow along.
This is definitely one of those you-get-out-what-you-put-in courses. You can get by with little work, but I definitely think it is worth investing the extra effort to really understand what's going on. There are a lot of really cool things that you can do with tools you are introduced to in this course.
Takes you beyond an introductory understanding of stats. Excellent resources available through course.
Great Enthusiasm.Great Lectures.Great People.Great Times.Follow the King!
This is a fantastic course if you are in the social sciences. Make sure you've done some coding in R before you get there, or you will end up spending most of your time on that component of the course. It's also fairly advanced in terms of pushing the limits of more traditional methods and generating new ones. But these methods might not make much sense to you if you're not already pretty familiar with the "traditional" ones. I would recommend taking GOV-2000 first.
Get familiarized yourself in R programming before taking the class
You will gain considerable insight in quantitative methods, but be prepared to work hard for it.
The course is a lot of work, but it provides a great outlet to develop statistical tools that can be applied to research. Also, learning R is very valuable.
If you have to choose one applied course in quantitative analysis, this would be it. Professor King's classes were often the highlight of my week - both for the content and his style of teaching.
It is very useful if one needs an overview of many important methods using MLE and GLMs
I definitely learned a lot in this class, but I feel that much of it went over my head. Lectures were often hard to follow, and the readings rarely made class material more clear.
In hindsight, I should not have enrolled in this course and simply watched the lecture and section videos on Gary King's website, and done all the readings (which were excellent!) That would have saved me from having to do the problem sets, which I did not find were a good use of my time.
Absolutely worth taking, but be prepared to allocate lots of time to it.
For all cross-registered students: wait before dropping.  The first problem set is extremely difficult, but if you are willing to work hard in this class, getting to write the replication paper will make it worth it.
This is a great course! You get to learn methodology from a really fantastic professor, do interesting problem sets, and collaborate on a really in-depth final project. Take it, even as an undergrad! Be sure to budget enough time for it, though.
This class basically has two parts.  One, the replication paper assignment, is very helpful for anyone looking to do empirical research.  The other is more or less a grab bag of statistical topics, some of which are useful but do not have much of a unifying theme.  I would recommend taking the class for the replication paper, but be warned that there is a lot of busywork (multiple weekly comments on the readings, a problem set and an "assessment problem," multiple assignments related to the replication paper).
This is an amazing course. I am much more confident in my statistical abilities, particularly in translating statistics into quantities that are meaningful. I also have a much better understanding of stats in general. I came in with NO knowledge of R and was able to survive. It is a lot of work, particularly if your are new to R. Nonetheless, this is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.
so incredibly useful!! knowing R beforehand is very helpful
It  depends on who I'm talking to, and what they are looking for.
I would tell them that if they're looking for a good overview, this is a reasonable course to take.
Make sure you have a solid foundation in R before taking this course, but if you already have it, it's a very good course.
