This is a course focused on debating hard questions about war. This class's great strength is that it attracts a group of students who are considerably more dedicated to the subjects they study than your average pool of Government students, making debates genuinely exciting.
Although this is really challenging course, I have definitely learned a great deal about the topic. Both Professor Rosen and Tyler do a great job of presenting the content/topics, but it takes a lot of self reflection and outside research to fully understand the ethics in war. The debate setup of this class was an interesting and highly enjoyable one, but as expected, it was a lot of work during debate weeks. If you want to learn a thing or two about ethics in war, then this class is a must take!
Take this class. Professor Rosen is one of the best professors at Harvard. He is both an expert in his field and an excellent teacher in that he cares about his students learning and succeeding. With this course, you'll not only gain knowledge of the field of ethics and war, but also (especially if you never did debate) experience arguing and speaking extemporaneously - which may be two of the most useful and translated skills one can learn. Again, take this class.
Since this was the first year the class was taught, it was kinda disorganized. Rosen is an amazing prof though, so it is bound to get better.
Prof. Rosen and Tyler Jost are awesome and the course was great in theory, but the debate format wasn't perfect and sometimes turned into nitpicking or talking past one another. The debate topics and readings were generally interesting though. Also, there were some students in the class who knew a lot about the military and weaponry and stuff and the class felt more geared towards them as opposed to people with no IR experience.
This class teaches you how the way experts approach questions about ethics in war through excellent lectures, a debate format, and a great teaching staff.
One of the finest courses offered at Harvard. Professor Rosen will expand your perspective and force you to think about the way war is and should be fought. The debate style of this class will test you more than any exam could. Not for the shy, closed-minded, opinionated, or blindly anti-war.
The class is phenomenal in its complexity and the moral quandaries it forces you to face. There are no concrete answers to any of the questions posed in class. If you're looking for a class in which you gain an understanding of your OWN views on how war should be fought, on what is right and wrong in war, then this is the class for you. If you want someone to tell you how they think things should be, you probably won't enjoy this much. The more work you put into this class, the more you will get out of it. The class changed the way I think about war, and I think it changed the way I think as an analytical person in general. But I also put more hours into it than most people did. So it's up to you. Either way, though, it's not easy and can make you question things that you thought you knew were true.
