It can be a lot to keep up with and the grading is pretty difficult by Harvard standards. That being said, the material was really interesting and Frieden is a great lecturer. The topics in this class are important to understand for pretty much everyone, and reading the news is a lot more engaging because I now have the requisite background information to understand how politicians make decisions about monetary policy. I took this as an elective and it was certainly not an easy A class, but I would definitely recommend it. If Ranjit is still a TF make sure you get him, he does a great job summarizing concepts in section.
This course is a great introduction to IPE. You cover a lot of material and if you engage with it, you'll learn a great deal by the end of the course. Prof. Frieden is an incredible professor; his lectures are amazing and he is the most approachable professor I've had at Harvard. I loved the class and would recommend it to everyone.
Not as difficult as some people make it out to be. The lectures are great and the material is very interesting. Prof. Frieden is also super friendly and approachable and obviously cares a lot about teaching. Essays and exams are pretty straightforward as log as you pay attention in class and answer the prompts. The readings in the Frieden, Lake, and Broz book could get kind of dense, but it easy to get by just skimming those.
This class is a good introduction to the topic. The readings are diverse and interesting, and I feel like I have a solid understanding of IPE coming out of this course.
If you want a broad understanding of the mechanics and politics of trade, development, debt crises, and other international economic topics, this course is perfect.
This course is a great survey into the study of International Political Economy. Professor Frieden literally wrote the book on IPE and he is so enthusiastic about the subject that it's impossible not to be enthusiastic too. He is also funny and really nice! 

Lectures are interesting, if a little repetitive of the readings  and cursory, if you already know a lot of world history and economics, then they can be a bit boring. 

The teaching staff is excellent. My TF was amazing! He was super funny and dedicated and I learned a lot from him!
Contrary to what peers told me and what past Q guides suggested, this course his hardly impossible. Perhaps it demands slightly more work than other gov courses, but I found the expectations to be perfectly reasonable. More importantly, this class is extremely informative. Unless you are already exceedingly well-versed in economics, this course will make you a more informed human being. Suddenly, economic news will begin to make sense. Professor Frieden is a good lecturer and cares about getting to know students. Ranjit was a very good section leader.
This is one of the most valuable classes you may take in understanding how economics really works when politics is factored in. You learn about why and how the global economy has progressed to the way it is today, and that is a perfect tool for exploring its future.

The class doesn't ask much of you. Readings can be heavy, but the assignments are few, though require thought. Definitely don't sweat the small stuff; major concepts are the things you really want to care about.
Graded fairly but pretty tough. If you are not familiar with economic concepts there is a bit of a learning curve, but it is still super interesting. I feel smarter after taking the course.
Great course.  Very doable workload, Professor Frieden is great.  Papers are annoying and just require you to spew information.
it's a waste of time and should not be qualified as a course at Harvard.
It's good if you like the readings and get a good TF.
Very interesting class but not easy.
The course itself is fine, but the Professor was rather uninspiring.
If you are interested in IPE, take a different course.
The lectures are great, but the sections make the class terrible.  Great class to audit, but it is not one to take.
Unless you are really interested in the material and have some background, I would avoid this class. The material is interesting, but the difficulty of the assignments makes it a very frustrating class
TAKE THIS COURSE! I took it as an elective, and I am so happy I did. It isn't necessarily an "easy" elective, but it's incredibly interesting and well taught, and you come a way knowing a lot more about the world. Regardless of whether your background is in gov, ec, or neither, you will learn about things from a whole new perspective. Additionally, Frieden is an incredible lecturer and teacher. I highly recommend.
This is a wonderful class whose workload is quite manageable, lectures are never dull, and the overall material is very interesting.
Lecture can be dry but it is incredibly interesting content. What you learn in this course is useful, intriguing, and meaningful in the world that we live in now and will live in going forward.
Really fascinating and important material that I would strongly recommend to anyone with a interest in international economic matters and IR. The readings are pertinent and almost always interesting, though there is a lot of it and you HAVE TO KEEP UP. This class is all about whether you can keep up with the readings and lecture material, and there is an enormous amount of ground covered, which becomes apparent when the final rolls around. Professor Frieden is personable and one of those guys you feel like knows literally everything about the world. Ranjit is a good TF - he's friendly and you will really come to appreciate the fine job he does at reviewing crucial concepts and  summarizing the readings when the final comes up.
If you are interested in this course and you are not an economics concentrator, just become an economics concentrator. If you like political science, that is not much of an indicator of how interested you will be in this material.
You will learn a lot, but be prepared to get a B. This is not an A for effort class--it's all about delivery. If you are not specific and perfectly on target with your answers/essays, you will not get an A--simple as that. That being said, if you don't care about grades and want to learn about the international political economy, then taking this class will accomplish that goal.
The lectures are a bit dry, but you do learn a lot about the subject and leave the class with a greater understanding of modern international political relations and economies.
I know that the Q scores from previous years were good, but this course was terrible. The professor was very nice and seemed as though he really wanted to help and get to know students. My issue with this course was mainly the TFs. The head TF was frantic all of the time and the other was terribly boring and unhelpful. During the review sessions for the midterm and final they literally argued about what to include in ID terms and essays. How are students supposed to know what to do if the TFs can't even agree on what they want? The 1.5 hour sections were entirely too long, and the readings were excruciatingly difficult to get through. Maybe I was expecting something different from this course, but this was one of the worst courses I've taken thus far.
Great class for understanding the domestic and international framework for today's Political economy
The topics of the course are extremely interesting and useful. The assignments themselves are not too difficult but the methodology of the midterm is a little bit confusing and could potentially lower your grade, so make sure yo understand it! Nevertheless, the course is very well taught and provides a good mix of theory and historical examples.
Great course that covers a lot of fascinating and relevant topics like the financial crisis. The readings are pretty manageable and Professor Frieden is a great resource if you're interested in economics/finance and have questions outside of class.
This an interesting class where you will actually have to put in the effort, to get by even relatively well (especially with harshly graded assignments). Which means at the end of the day, you will learn a lot. And that's great.
This is a highly difficult course. Don't take it without a background in Economics. Frieden is a wonderful professor, but he has a very old school idea of grading -> basically, he seems to revel in the fact that few people earn A's or A-'s. The TF's were some of the worst I've ever had at Harvard. Beware if George is still the head TF.
The teachers told us several times that they intended to make this course difficult. I think that resulted in arbitrary grade deflation. I still learned a lot from the class as someone who hasn't had really any background in economics or government. Overall, I was glad I took the course.
this is the course for anyone interested in development economics, economic history, and the problems of globalization. really a course to teach you how the world works
I did not find this course very difficult as I was able to not do all the readings and still do okay. It will take you through much of international political economic history for the past few hundred years (including world trade, etc).  Professor Frieden seems to care about the class too, which is nice.
This is a good class, it is just important to attend the lecture and the readings in order to enjoy the class.
I found this class to be an amazing growing experience.  However, beware, it is a lot of work.  The readings can be dense and the lectures usually don't have visual aids so you really have to strive to pay attention.  You will learn a lot about the international political economy. If you're interested in an intersection of economics and government take the course.
It's not a tough course in terms of assessment as long as you listen to the lectures and do an adequate amount of reading. But if you want to get the most out of it, you'd better have a genuine interest in IR and IPE and read more than required.
Professor Frieden is one of those professors here at Harvard that sees himself as a crusader against Ivy League grade inflation. If you want to learn a lot and are also willing to take a hit to your gpa, then take this class. If your gpa can't handle it, then avoid this class like the plague.
This is not a light workload class but the amount seems about right and you do learn a lot.  Would absolutely recommend if you are interested in the subject.
Excellent introductory course in IPE. A fair amount of reading but not overwhelming and structured in a way that makes the course material both interesting and relevant.
If you think that you're interested in international economics, then this course acts as a good introduction to this area from the political perspective, which is distinct from the economic one. That being said, if you have had any experience with either economics or basic international trade politics, some of this course will seem like review.
I thought this was a great course, and I highly recommend it. It is not just a basic Gov course about voting patterns or other typical political science. This course incorporates a fair amount of macroeconomics, and you really learn how the world economy works. If you pay attention to this class, you will really begin to understand the international political economy.
This is a great course that combines economics and politics.  Really thought-provoking, gives you a broader view on historical and contemporary issues of great importance.  It is not easy, but if you have taken ec 10 and you can write well you'll do fine.  One of my favorite courses at Harvard! Highly, highly recommend!
Take this class if you want to open a newspaper and understand everything
This course is helpful for understanding current events and historical events from an economic perspective.  4.5 hours a week is a lot, but it is a reasonable class.  The whole teaching staff is very approachable.  They grade fairly tough.
It's great, you should take it. Professor Frieden is awesome, and the content is interesting.
This course is great! Professor Frieden is an amazing lecturer, and you will come away from the course with a strong understanding of the field of International Political Economy. Definitely a must-take for anyone interested in the intersection of politics and economics.
Prior exposure to economics is exceptionally helpful, but you don't need anything more than a general understanding of microeconomics (supply and demand, etc).Stay on top of the readings. The curve is standard for the gov department, and you can get an A if you try.
Provided both a historical, empirical, and theoretical perspective to IPE. Could not have asked for a more comprehensive look at issues related to international political economy. HOWEVER, beware that the grading is arbitrarily difficult. No reason to give out such low grades on something as straightforward as IDs on midterms.
This was hands down my favorite class of the Gov department and one of my favorites in college. It is well-organized around 4 perspectives of political economy, which helps tremendously with understanding the time periods, phenomenons, and concepts that were taught. Professor Frieden is an excellent lecturer (if you've taken Levitsky's courses, imagine those lectures but with fewer sports references) and knows everyone by name. He helps foster an environment where people are comfortable asking questions about anything, and is clearly very interested and engaged with his work -- which translates well into the same for the course and his students. Depending on the TFs, sections are amazing as well, but that's not guaranteed for future years. This is a great course for anyone who wants to understand the patterns of economic development and the foundations of debt crises, recessions, etc and how the world works in general.
You will be learning a lot from the class! Take the class! make use to use the readings.
interesting class, but pretty repetitive.
Great intro to IPE, which if you're looking to get into Gov is really useful. However, lectures and readings can be pretty boring and hard to get through. Takes a fair amount of effort.
This course was amazing. Professor Frieden's lectures are ALWAYS interesting and he generates an unparalleled enthusiasm for the class. The TFs are readily accessible and are experts in the material. A+ course.
Prof. Freiden is super friendly and practically knows all his students by name.. plus he has the eyes to see when a student is confused during his lecture.
Absolutely take this class if you want to know anything more about how the world works and/or if you want to understand better all the frenzy that's been going on in international finance these days. Professor Frieden is the best - even though it's a moderately-sized class, he knows everyone's names and how each person is doing in the class; he's also one of the foremost scholars in the area, and it's just great to hear from him during lectures, etc. Great TF's as well!
This class is a great introduction to a field, IPE, that many do not know exists. Professor Frieden really knows his stuff, and is extremely dedicated and passionate about the material. However, the first half of the course is, in my opinion much better than the second half. It felt as though the course sort of lost steam a little more than halfway through. The pace slowed down, the new topics seemed to be more like rehashings than actual new material.
Tough class sometimes, but great material. Frieden is great, TF Hye Young is great.
Gov and Ec concentrators would probably find this course more easy than others. Lots of info to absorb. Rigorous application of readings for papers. Excellent professor who cares about you and will make the effort to know your name. No lecture slides - just a lot of verbal info to absorb. Keep up with readings. It's hard to do the papers without knowing the readings. Strict grading. But overall, I feel that everyone should take this class. Vital information - knowing about the interaction between politics and economics. Changes your view of the world. So glad I took this class.
This is a great class that engaging with contemporary political and economic debates. You get a wonderful base in IPE that exposes you to finance, trade, development, etc. and connects them through a theoretical base. Professor Frieden is wonderful too. What this class doesn't do is challenge you to develop your own argument. Try and do all the reading- its very rewarding.
excellent class that gives a really comprehensive teaching about international economics and politics. it is rigorous but very fair and if you do the readings (or at least skim them) you will get much more out of the class. if you are at all interested in international development, I highly recommend this class, as we spend a fair bit of time talking about developing countries/ why some countries are poor, etc. You will come out with a much better understanding of debt crises and the financial sector. Hye Young is a phenomenal TF and her sections are a great complement to lecture. I learned so much in this class and highly recommend it for people willing to put in the work
Really excellent way to learn about the political economy.
This is a good overview course and the professor knows the material very well. It is lacking, however, in discussion around the implications of many of the topics in modern day life.
Very interesting course; significantly more engaging than Ec1010b. You will learn a lot more about applying current economics to whats happening the news than in any Ec course. Professor Frieden is an awesome guy and lectures were solid. However, the grading is much more strict than other comparable classes so don't expect more than a B unless you're a superstar.
I absolutely LOVED this course. Professor Frieden is AMAZING and so approachable. The lectures are interesting and the organization of the course is fantastic. You will gain such a great understanding of International Political Economy. The course uses the four perspectives of IPE to examine historical events, something which helps facilitate a greater understanding of these events and makes learning the material logical and effective. DEFINITELY take this course if you have an interest in government, economics, and/or the intersection of the two at an international level.
One of the three best classes I've taken at Harvard (am senior). Perhaps is even the best. If you have ANY interest in economics or government, or intend to go into law, business, policy, or frankly just want to work in this global economy, you must take this class. Prof and TFs are all amazing people.
The course provides a broad and detailed overview of the concepts of International Political Economy. However, the lectures get stale and dry rather quickly, the assignments are a pain and exams focus largely on reproducing the material covering. Take if you have a keen personal interest in IPE, but be warned, not the best class Harvard has to offer.
Good class, bad papers
Frieden grades pretty tough, it's a fairly interesting class. Too much emphasis on ec 10 principles.
I loved this class! Definitely consider taking it. You'll learn a lot.
I enjoyed the course the only problem is that it was very historical and it did not challenge you to think fo the subject in a different way but rather to know what took place.
Great class! The lectures are fascinating and professor Frieden can answer any question you can possibly have. If you have interested in the topic, or in the interaction between government and economics more broadly, this class is a must.
This course is somewhat like the second semester of Ec 10 with concrete historical examples. This course is absolutely graded fairly. Also, the readings are very interesting and worth completing. I would advise that students keep up with the readings by doing the weekly study guides that are provided on the course website. You will get as much out of this course as you put into it. Also, I would advise taking good notes on Professor Frieden's lectures. Although his lectures are somewhat difficult to follow and can be boring, notes on his lectures are invaluable for essays and finals/midterms. Lastly, I wouldn't advise anyone to take this course if they're looking for something that is debate-oriented or that presents controversial views. Professor Frieden stresses taking a "positive" view on everything so much of what is presented in this course is factual and it is somewhat like a history of international political economy course in that sense.
this class is really great. you will walk away being able to explain most of 19th and 20th international trade history. Professor Friedan's lectures are great and super informative. expect a lot of reading and somewhat dense theoretical concepts
This is an absolutely fantastic class if you're interested in the subject matter--and since many are interested in both economics and government/political science, it's great since a course is available at the intersection of the two. The workload isn't crushing, and the assignments are all fair. Lectures are interesting and the material really is relevant--you'll be a more informed reader of the newspaper and thinker about broad economic issues and how they relate to the political arena (Euro crisis, financial crisis and regulations, etc.)
Only take this course if you are very comfortable with macroeconomics and have written government papers before.  There is no room to learn/grow and you will get no help.  If you are a junior/senior and have taken gov and Ec classes go for it.  It's interesting stuff.
Humanities students: beware. While this course ultimately teaches you what you need to know going into the "real world" after academia, the material is divided into four perspectives which are non-comprehensive yet are de facto treated as such by the teaching staff. Grading is harsh, especially if you don't follow specific guidelines. However, the course is full of material that is -- dare I say it -- necessary for any human (let alone Harvard graduate) entering a 21st century economy. If you're scared but still interested, check out the Oatley book on the syllabus; most of what you learn in the course is replicated there.
This was an extremely interesting class and I learned a lot. However, it is also very difficult--you have to not only keep up on your readings but really remember details from them (almost like a history course but with economic facts and analysis as well) for the finals and mid-terms. Papers are graded hard and classes are long. Not a very good class to take to just fill any IR, but certainly good if you are willing to work hard to know the subject!
Take this class if you like economics and government, its a great introduction to the intersection of these fields.  Frieden is great but the TFs leave a lot to be desired.
This is not a hard course in terms of work required, although it is graded quite harshly. However, it is definitely worth taking as Professor Frieden is a leader in the field and a fantastic lecturer. If you go to lecture, you will come out of the class having really learnt something about the international economy
Extremely applicable to the current economic crisis and Professor Frieden is a great lecturer.
If you're interested in international economics, this class is a must. Professor Frieden does a great job of connecting the material to current events and is a great resource if you ever have any questions. Also, the reading load is very manageable and the section leaders are very helpful.
This is a very interesting course that I would recommend. It is an intersection of political science and economics, which means that it gives you a very different perspective on issues than a traditional government course and proposes some really powerful ways to look at the world.
This class will teach you a great deal about how international trade works in a much more accessible way than one would initially expect.
Difficult course. You'll learn a lot about international political economy, so if you like trade relations, go for this course.
This is a great introductory class to different topics in the international political economy. Frieden is a great lecturer, and his lectures always tie into the readings, but are never repetitive--and full of interesting details and anecdotes. Readings are quite manageable. It was a little hard to figure out what the professor/TF's expectations were for the essay and midterm, but neither was graded terribly hard.
This class is great, but be sure to make sure you have the time to do it because you need to do the readings in order to do well on the essays and midterms. You only have from Wednesday to Monday to write the essays, so make sure you have time to do it.
It is very interesting, but the only way you will get something out of the class is by doing the readings. Make sure you do the readings!
Very clearly taught.
The assigned readings are incredibly useful!
A great class with interesting lectures, easy papers and tests, and light but relevant readings.
Try to keep up with the readings and go to lectures, they are very useful.
I would tell students that they would receive some high quality teaching whilst covering a lot of good material. The lectures are enjoyable and the subject matter grows on you as you realize how relevant this is to how we all individually analyze the world. They should be prepared to do the readings, otherwise they would not be getting the most of the course.
political economy is one of the most fascinating aspect of political science. All the reading materials covered in this class is very well-selected. I took this class with a genuine interest. However, essay that this class expects is quite different from other essays that you would normally submit for other government classes, and the first essay grade was very generally low. I got my lowest essay grade for my three years at Harvard in this class, and Professor Freiden is very intelligent, passionate professor but I wouldn't deny that he is quite strict. (Well, expect to see a econ professor not a gov professor)
A lot of readings
This class is a hidden gem. The subject matter would appeal to students with such ranging interests as international development, finance, and politics. The professor and the TF's will not coddle you and they are very serious about the material and their work but they are willing to help you succeed and learn the material.
Recommended if you are interested in the subject matter. Not an easy class, grading can be tough.
You will learn a lot in this course, but don't expect it to be easy.  Professor Frieden will expect a lot but he will also give a lot.
Great course! Learned a lot.
Good readings and a chance to hone your writing skills but the lectures and section are not super exciting.
While it says the class has no pre-requisits, it does. You need to know basic economic concepts, and be well aware of general political trends. Because i had none, i struggled with this course, but looking back on it, it certainly gave me a better understanding of why things are the way they are globally.
Professor Frieden singlehandedly made this course great. He is an engaging lecturer, is accessible in office hours, and is an overall great guy to talk to and get to know. He is so incredibly knowledgeable about the subject and clearly projects his passion on his students. It's infectious. The assignments are a bit tough (one week to write two 7-10 page papers on some tough topics, twice during the semester) but are definitely worth it. I have learned more from this class (ie from Frieden) than any other single class here at Harvard - by far. This class is totally worth it. The only downside to this course was that Sam is a brutal TF. His grading is harsh, sure, but he is not engaging in section and even though the content of what he is saying is often decent, it's hard to pay attention to him for much more than a few minutes. Frieden more than made up for this, and this is still a fantastic, worthwhile course, but when the sections are an hour and a half long, it's something to consider.
Professor Frieden is a great professor
This class is amazing. Professor Frieden is the coolest professor. He is a fantastic lecturer, the best I have ever had. The material is super relevant and interesting. You'll never be bored.
This is an excellent class for getting a political scientist's perspective (less quantitative, more rooted in understanding the decision-making process guiding various individual and societal actors) on the key economic issues of today - globalization, economic development, international trade. This class is not curved to the same degree as many others are, but if you do the readings and spend time working through the take-home essay assignments, you'll have no problem doing very well. Professor Frieden is passionate and very accessible outside of class - he loves getting questions and is willing to answer almost anything that students throw at him.
Take it! This course is great. One of the few genuine overview courses at Harvard. I feel like I understand what has happened and is happening in the IPE, and I have the tools to understand why things will happen once they do in the future.
The material is super interesting and will be useful down the line, but a better organization of sections and assignments (clearer and more fairly graded) would help a lot.
If you are even mildly interested in political economy, take this class. You'll come out of it not only more knowledgeable but also more passionate about issues concerning the global economy. In addition to being a prominent scholar, professor Frieden is also a great lecturer and teacherI believed that by the second week he knew the names of all 30+ students in the class. The workload is manageable (although probably heavier than the average government class), and the essays are straightforward.
This class is fun. However, it is purely from a neoclassical liberal perspective, which much irritate you on different levels on different topics. If you are all for that, then by all means don't miss out.
The class is great for learning about the various terms etc. when it comes to the international economy, and it gives a great overview of the arguments regarding globalisation from a western liberal perspective. Falls a bit short when it comes to covering a broader spectrum of opinions, and the assignments are a bit dull.
Take this course if it really interests you and go to it during shopping week. Reminder, it is not the easiest class at Harvard but it is one of those revolutionary Harvard courses that makes you think about how the world works. In addition, you get to be taught by a professor willing to make contact with undergraduates.
Take this course especially if you have never taken an economics class! You will learn so much but be prepared to go through a lot of material. Frieden's lectures are always entertaining.
This is possibly my favorite course I've taken at Harvard so far. The material is interesting and Prof. Frieden is infectiously enthusiastic. The assignments are reasonable and build on the material well. This isn't an easy class, but if you're interested in economics, government, or both, this is definitely a course I strongly recommend.
Prof. Frieden is very enthusiastic, I really enjoyed going to his lectures.
If you're a serious Gov concentrator take this course. I'm surprised that this course isn't more heavily attended. There is A LOT of reading, however by the end of the course it will prove very rewarding. I took Gov 40 which was good (and one of the textbook's authors is Frieden BTW) but this course took things a step further. If you truly want a good understanding as to what political economy is and a good look into the past few centuries (mostly 20th century) and how our societies turned from mercantilism to present-day globalization take this course.
This class is hard, no doubt about it. But I don't think that there is another class at Harvard that as complexly covers what economics means in a real world sense. More economic based courses like 1010a (while also great) will give you theory, this one is all about the application, how does economics work in a practical sense, which is something most students should know.
This course is very helpful for gaining an understanding of how economics and international relations are related. It goes over topics like debt crises, fixed vs. floating exchange rate regimes, developing countries, international institutions like the WTO and IMF, and trade liberalization. It does more than explain what happened - Professor Frieden puts a big emphasis on understanding why the international economy works the way it does based on various factors. After taking this class, you can easily pick up The Economist, read it cover to cover, and understand just about every article. This course is very interesting and you will be an informed citizen who will be more interested in engaging in politics by the end (assuming you put the effort into it, of course).
Very interesting class. A lot of the content is just good to know as a world citizen. Prof. Friden is clearly a genius and an excellent lecturer  seamless and interesting lectures. Papers and exams can be graded more harshly than you may expect, though, so beware.
Professor Frieden is the coolest.
Alright, let's set the stage: imagine you're a tree, living in the backyard of a suburban house (AKA going to Gov class) when a middle-aged man (Professor Frieden) and his nephew (your TF) move in. At the time that they move in, you're just a wee little sapling (you are ignorant about International Political Economy). You tell yourself that you've got a lot of potential to grow into a big tree (learn stuff), but you're not sure about this new man and his nephew and you don't know how well they'll be able to water you (teach you).But, to your pleasant surprise, the middle-aged man waters you every day, and he waters you very well. You drink it in happily, reveling at how little rainwater you have to try to collect with your own roots, because the man is practically doing your job for you. You find it tremendously easy to keep your roots and leaves happy.But all is not peaches and roses in this backyard. You see, the nephew means well, but he simply can't water you in the same way as the middle-aged man. You know he's doing the best that he can, and so you can't really complain, but you can't help but find his watering to be, quite frankly, a little bit lacking. And the middle-aged man sometimes holds you to such high standards! You've heard that in other backyards, house owners inflate the sizes of their trees, but this middle-aged man seems to take pride in not inflating your size. But by the time the middle-aged man and nephew finally move out, you realize that how much you've gotten from them. Though you didn't realize it while they were watering you every day, you think back to when you were just a wee little sapling and realize you've slowly grown to be a fully fledged tree. Now that the middle-aged man and nephew are gone, you think back fondly to the wonderful, productive times you shared. You hope that the middle-aged man and nephew continue to water many, many trees, and that all of the trees of the world never tire of drinking in their water.
Grade very hard.
This class explains many of the things you always wanted to know about the world.  Really!  Take it and you'll see!
It is a very interesting class, and what you make of it.  Professor Frieden is great, and the class is very well organized.
This course is really interesting and relevant to current events.
This class is a great introduction to the study of international relations from an economic perspective. I highly recommend it for those economics concentrators looking for a class on the real-world application of economic theory, or to government concentrators who want a more complete understanding of the effects of the economy on politics.
The class gives a strong introduction to IPE.
Amazing, extremely helpful and accessible professor! Good, useful content. Difficult, but definitely worth taking.
The quality and importance of the content makes up for occasional deficiencies in teaching and readability of materials.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time reading difficult articles and only 1 min. in section mentioning its title, author and what he meant. The essay are graded very harshly; you are likely to do better in the midterm. Due to the fact that the lectures are recorded, it is ok not to go to class every day, but your grade will only be hurt if you don't end up watching every single lecture that you missed; the course is very fast-paced.
Fun, and relevant if you are willing to work hard.
Great class for people interested in both government and economics.
The material is important.
That it is graded hard (=grade deflation), and people need to have a strong background in government in order to do well in this class at least without having to study *really* hard to fully understand and keep track of all the material.
That they should be prepared to receive a grade below their average when the material learned might not truly be worth it.  Sections were not good and lectures not mind-blowing though useful.
Having some familiarity with economics is helpful but not necessary. The idea of economics and politics influencing each other highly interested me.
Lots of reading, but interesting material
Be prepared to work hard and have a positive attitude, and you will get a lot out of this class. You will learn a great deal about the history and mechanics of the international political economy, as well as many of the most pressing issues and modern developments confronting the field of IPE. Make sure and go to Professor Friedens office hours; it makes a world of difference to get to know the professor in any class, but especially this one, because Frieden is so helpful and enthusiastic. If he knows your name and basic interests, he does a lot to help engage you in the course. A word of warning for those considering this course: It is relatively difficult for a government course, and you shouldnt take this class unless you have a background in macroeconomics. A background in international relations is also very helpful. However, the difficulty of the course shares a significant and positive relationship with the rewards derived from taking it, so I definitely recommend the course.
Will learn an exceptional amount of material about global economic perspectives in an exceptionally short amount of time.
This class is a good, in-depth introduction to the concepts of international political economy. Professor Frieden is very straightforward and explains things thoroughly.
Heavy workload and tough grading, but  very interesting and worthwhile
Don't take this class as a core. This is a horrible idea. Gov and Ec concentrators would probably appreciate it more.
Although it may be a challenge (and is most certainly not an easy A), it's well worth the challenge!
Lots of reading, but you don't have to do it all to succeed in the course
